04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Excise duty on petrol cut by Rs. 5, diesel by Rs. 10||The Government on Wednesday finally bit the bullet on runaway fuel prices and slashed excise duties on petrol and diesel by Rs. 5 and Rs. 10 per litre respectively, citing the need to help farmers for the rabi crop, ease inflation and give the economy a consumption boost. Following the Centre’s excise duty cuts, most BJP-ruled States followed suit by cutting their fuel taxes, ostensibly with an eye on bringing fuel rates below Rs. 100 a litre. Gujarat, Karnataka, Assam and Tripura, among others, promised a Rs. 7 per litre cut in State levies for both diesel and petrol, while Uttar Pradesh announced a tax cut of Rs. 7 per litre on petrol and Rs. 2 per litre on diesel. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said the prices of petrol and diesel would be reduced by Rs. 12 and Rs. 17 per litre respectively. While pump level prices are expected to cool off effective Thursday, they are likely to remain close to or above the Rs. 100 a litre mark for petrol in most places. The Centre has urged the States to ‘commensurately reduce’ the Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to give relief to consumers. Even if the States don’t act, the actual amount of VAT levied by them on fuels is expected to reduce immediately because they levy varying tax rates on an ad-valorem basis, or simply put, as a percentage of the fuel price after central excise duties are levied. Oil industry officials said the estimated price for petrol would reduce from Rs. 110.04 to Rs. 103.97 a litre in the capital from Thursday, from Rs. 115.85 a litre to Rs. 109.98 in Mumbai, from Rs. 106.66 to Rs. 101.40 per litre in Chennai and from Rs. 110.49 to Rs. 104.67 in Kolkata. Similarly, diesel prices are likely to soften between Rs. 11 and Rs. 12.50 a litre in the four metropolitan cities. The Centre had been levying excise duties and cess of Rs. 32.90 per litre on petrol and Rs. 31.80 per litre on diesel. For context, the central excise duty on diesel was Rs. 3.56 per litre in 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/excise-duty-on-petrol-cut-by-rs-5-diesel-by-rs-10/article37332913.ece
04 November 2021||TIRUCHI/THANJAVUR,||Heavy rain lashes nine districts in delta region||Heavy rain continued to batter several parts of the central region, especially the Cauvery delta districts, on Wednesday. With several places receiving incessant rain for a few hours since early morning, a holiday was declared for schools in all nine districts of Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Karur, Pudukottai, Perambalur and Ariyalur in the central region as a precautionary measure. Farm fields flooded In Tiruvarur, the Vettar river bank at Ukkadai hamlet breached after the rainwater drained into the waterway from the agricultural fields in the surrounding villages on Wednesday. Hundreds of acres of agricultural fields in Pulivalam, Kidarankondan, Kattur, Senthamangalam, Maangudi and Nadappur located around Ukkadai hamlet were reportedly submerged due to the incessant rain that lashed these areas on Tuesday night. As the rain continued on Wednesday morning, the water that had stagnated in the fields were drained through the Ukkadai hamlet fields into Vettar flowing through the hamlet. Thus, the banks of Vettar and the road abutting the water way were breached, sources said. On receiving the information, Revenue and Public Works Department officials rushed to the hamlet to take stock of the situation and take steps to prevent further erosion of the river bank, sources added. Tiruvarur District Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan and MLA Poondi K. Kalaivannan inspected the breach and assured the people that it would be plugged soon. May help crops The rainfall was widespread, inundating some low-lying areas across the region. However, the rains were expected to be largely beneficial to the standing crops, especially in the rainfed areas. Malaiyur in Pudukottai district and Peravurani in Thanjavur district recorded very heavy rainfall of 167.40 mm and 165 mm, respectively, in the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. Wednesday. The following is the chief amounts of rainfall recorded in various parts of the region during the same period (in mm): Nagapattinam 128.60, Perungalur (Pudukottai district) 114, Labbaikudikadu 110, Eraiyur 104, Manalmedu 101, Agaram Sigur 98, Pattukottai 90, Nagudi 80, Manjalaru 79.20, Tiruvarur 78.2, Panchapatti 75, Palaviduthi 70.1, Nannilam 66.2, Mayiladuthurai and Annavasal 64 each, Perambalur 63, Thiruvidaimarudur 61.80, Senthurai 58.6, Sirkazhi 57.80, Navalur Kuttapattu 56.40, Kudavasal 51.4, Kumbakonam 51, Ariyalur 50.4, Gandharvakottai 50.20, Ponnaniyaru Dam 49.80, Adhiramapattinam 49.50, Musiri 46, Mannargudi 40 and Tiruchi Airport 36.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-lashes-nine-districts-in-delta-region/article37333055.ece
04 November 2021||Vijayawada,||A.P. to raise SCS, bifurcation issues at SZC meeting||Andhra Pradesh will raise the issue of implementation of the A.P. Reorganisation Act-2014 and its demand for Special Category Status (SCS) at the Southern Zonal Council meeting to be held under the chairmanship of Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Tirupati on November 14. A decision to this effect was taken at a preparatory meeting convened by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy here on Wednesday. Dues from Tamil Nadu The Chief Minister also instructed Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma and other officials to include in the agenda issues such as recovery of money that Tamil Nadu owed to Andhra Pradesh in the construction of the Telugu Ganga project, execution of the Polavaram project, and power sector dues amounting to Rs. 6,300 crore. Asset distribution He said the other issues that should be highlighted were the freezing of the government’s fixed deposit accounts in various banks, the steps needed to remove the irritants in the distribution of assets of the unified State of A.P. between the successor State of A.P. and Telangana, and the Civil Supplies arrears to be recovered from Telangana. Another issue the Chief Minister wanted the officials to raise was the Krishna River Management Board’s decision to bring the Jurala project under its purview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-to-raise-scs-bifurcation-issues-at-szc-meeting/article37332907.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Covaxin gets WHO’s emergency use nod||India’s first indigenous COVID-19 vaccine, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, was granted Emergency Use Listing (EUL) by the World Health Organization (WHO) on Wednesday. Covaxin is a whole virion-inactivated vaccine against SARS-CoV-2, developed in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology, Pune. It has been granted EUL for use in persons 18 years and above, over two doses spaced four weeks apart. However, no recommendation has been made for use in children, and available data for use on pregnant women is insufficient to assess safety or efficacy, the WHO said. The EUL is a prerequisite for the COVAX initiative in vaccine supply, and allows countries to expedite their own regulatory approval to import and administer COVID-19 vaccines. The move is expected to ease international travel for Indians who have opted for the vaccine but experts say that this would be subjected to countries clearing Covaxin through their regulatory processes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covaxin-gets-whos-emergency-use-nod/article37332902.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||Five persons killed in separate road accidents||Five people were killed in separate road accidents in the State on Wednesday. Four persons were killed in an accident that took place at Errapahad in Tadwai mandal of Kamareddy district in the afternoon. According to police, the car they were travelling in lost control and hit a tree. While two persons died on the spot another two succumbed to injuries while undergoing treatment at a hospital. The deceased were identified as Jagan (45), Srinivas (52), Anand (28) and Shashank (5) belonging to Yellareddy and Pitlam. The bodies were shifted to government hospital for postmortem. Tadwai police registered a case and are investigating. A woman farm labourer was killed and 15 others injured after the tractor-trolley they were travelling in overturned at Vallabhi village in Mudigonda mandal in Khammam on Wednesday morning. The incident occurred when an over speeding tractor-trolley carrying around 25 farm labourers turned turtle in the middle of the road near Vallabhi due to alleged rash driving. The driver of the tractor-trolley allegedly fled the scene after the accident. A woman farm worker, identified as Anitha, 38, of Mangapuram Tanda in Nelakondapally mandal, died on the spot. At least 15 other labourers, mostly women, suffered injuries. Three critical The injured workers were admitted to the District Headquarters Hospital in Khammam. The condition of three of them is stated to be critical. The farm labourers, hailing from Mangapuram Tanda, were on their way to Pedamandava village in Mudigonda mandal to work in a cotton field, when the incident happened. The sudden death of Anitha, who ekes out a living by working in agricultural fields, left her family members in misery. A gloomy atmosphere descended on the village following her tragic death a day ahead of Deepavali festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-persons-killed-in-separate-road-accidents/article37333131.ece
04 November 2021||KHAMMAM,||Two AR constables among five held for ganja smuggling||A ganja smuggling gang allegedly comprising five members including two Armed Reserve (AR) constables was busted by the Khammam urban police here on Wednesday with the arrest of two members of the gang. Acting on a tip-off, a police team was deployed for patrolling to keep a tab on the movement of suspicious elements in the early hours of the day. The patrolling party apprehended two bike-borne men near Pakabanda Bazar and seized five kg ganja from their possession. The duo, identified as AR constable Konda Sateesh, a resident of Cheruvubazar in the town and P Venkateshwarlu, a farm worker of Pallipadu village in Konijerla mandal, were arrested, police said. Sources said that an AR constable of Bhadradri-Kothagudem district allegedly handed over the illegal consignment of five kg ganja, purchased by his close relative of Thodithelagudem in Karepalli mandal, to Sateesh recently. Sateesh and Venkateshwarlu were nabbed while allegedly trying to deliver the illegal consignment to a person, sources added. Student also involved  Police are on the lookout for the AR constable of Bhadradri-Kothagudem district and two others including an engineering student allegedly involved in the ganja smuggling racket. In a statement, the Khammam Assistant Commissioner of Police Anjaneyulu said surprise checks are being carried out to curb ganja smuggling as per the instructions of Khammam Police Commissioner Vishnu S Warrier. He said all those involved in illegal activities will be brought to book and stringent action will be taken against them as per the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-ar-constables-among-five-held-for-ganja-smuggling/article37333134.ece
04 November 2021||New Delhi,||DUSU challenges university’s decision in HC||The Delhi University Students Union (DUSU) has moved the High Court against the university’s decision to consider only Class XII marks for the admission of students from Kerala State Board, which determines the grades by combining marks of Classes XI and XII. In its plea, DUSU said it was approaching the Delhi High Court against the “arbitrary, irrational and unfair conduct” of the university authorities, who have “violated” the fundamental and legal rights of innumerable students. It said that in terms of consistent policy, certain State boards, including the Directorate of General Education (Higher Secondary Wing), Government of Kerala, give combined marks of Classes XI and XII on the marksheets. The petition said Delhi University has, for several years, correspondingly incorporated provisions in its admission bulletin stating that in cases where State boards publish marks of both Classes XI and XII, the merit of students shall be determined on the basis of the consolidated marksheets. However, in the admission process for 2021-2022, DU has “unilaterally and arbitrarily” decided that students would only be required to fill marks of Class XII, the plea said. ‘Colleges objected’ “When the admissions began for the sessions 2021-2022, colleges raised and conveyed objections with regard to marksheets containing scores of both Classes XI and XII,” the plea stated. The plea added that initially, the university directed that such cases be kept on hold; however, within a few hours, the admissions office circulated an email to colleges asserting that the Admission Advisory Committee has decided that only marks of Class XII shall be considered. The High Court will hear the petition by DUSU on November 10. The admission process at DU began on October 1 with some colleges asking for perfect score for their most sought-after courses. Students from Kerala State Board managed to grab most seats with 100% marks. This led to protests by students’ groups against DU’s admission policy. The university released its four cut-off lists on October 31 but most of the popular courses are already closed for admissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dusu-challenges-universitys-decision-in-hc/article37333042.ece
04 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Nine lakh left in the lurch as LIFE Mission sputters to a halt: UDF||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) walked out of the Assembly on Wednesday stating that the State Government’s much touted LIFE Mission housing scheme for the poor had sputtered to a halt. Seeking the leave of the House to move an adjournment motion to discuss the issue, Indian Union Muslim League legislator P.K. Basheer said some nine lakh indigent families had applied for the scheme. ‘Publish final list’ However, the Government was yet to process their applications and publish the final list of beneficiaries. Moreover, it insisted that only ration cardholders need to apply. The proviso excluded many low-income families without land or home or ration cards from the project. The mission had emerged as the sole agency to provide housing for the needy. It undercut the traditional role of local bodies in the sector. Moreover, it also insisted that local bodies divert their funds allocated for housing purposes to the agency. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the mission was against the principle of decentralisation. It selected beneficiaries via software developed by the Information Kerala Mission (IKM). Local bodies had no say on which families should benefit from the scheme. ‘Cash-strapped Govt.’ Mr. Satheesan said the Government was cash-strapped and it had no funds to set apart for the mission. Hence, it delayed the scheme by postponing the selection of beneficiaries. The Left Democratic Front had fallen short of its target of providing one lakh houses to the poor every year. Minister for Local Self-Government M.V. Govindan said the mission had not diminished the role of local bodies. The Government had allocated Rs. 1,037 crore for the mission and it hoped to raise a loan of Rs. 1,500 crore via HUDCO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-lakh-left-in-the-lurch-as-life-mission-sputters-to-a-halt-udf/article37333167.ece
04 November 2021||TIRUNELVELI,||Flood alert issued along Tamirabharani||Tirunelveli district administration has issued flood alert to people living along the Tamirabharani and in low-lying areas to move to safe places as the river has a possibility of flooding with heavy inflow of water. In a statement, Collector V. Vishnu said the district was getting widespread rain in the last few days after the onset of north-east monsoon. Major dams like Papanasam and Servalaru were on the verge of overflowing and water released from these dams had led to swelling of the Tamirabharani. Besides, water released from Gadananathi and Ramanathi dams would also confluence into the Tamirabharani, which could lead to flooding. The Collector also appealed to the people living along the river course not to bathe or go near the river. People could call the flood control room on 1077 or 062-2501012/2501070 to alert officials to any rain-related problems, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flood-alert-issued-along-tamirabharani/article37333263.ece
04 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||52% eligible people fully vaccinated in State||More than half of the eligible population has been fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in the State as of Wednesday evening. As many as 2,08,58,836 (52.8%) persons out of the total 3.95 crore eligible population (as per the Central government) aged above 18 years have received two doses of the vaccine, according to the Cowin portal. Over 3.31 crore (83.8%) received at least one dose of the vaccine. A total of 5.40 crore doses were administered in the State so far. During the past three days, over 7.14 lakh doses were administered, including 1.73 lakh doses on Wednesday by 2 p.m at 2,156 vaccine centres. Cumulative tally Meanwhile, the State reported four more COVID-19 deaths and 326 infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The cumulative tally and toll reached 20,67,255 and 14,386. The number of active cases came down to 3,898. For the first time in seven and a half months, the active case tally reached below 4,000. During the past day, 466 patients recovered taking the total recoveries and recovery rate to 20,48,971 and 99.12%. The test positivity rate of the 37,985 samples tested in the past day was 0.86% and that of the 2.96 crore samples was 6.98%. Guntur reported two more deaths while Krishna and Visakhapatnam reported one death each in the past 24 hours. Chittoor reported 68 new infections followed by Krishna (47), Nellore (45), East Godavari (44), Guntur (37), Visakhapatnam (21), West Godavari (19), Srikakulam (18), Prakasam (17), Kadapa (5), Anantapur (4) and Vizianagaram (1). No fresh case was reported in Kurnool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/52-eligible-people-fully-vaccinated-in-ap/article37332866.ece
04 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Illegal affiliation’: HC asks SVU to explain in 3 weeks||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, comprising Justices Ahsanuddin Amanullah and B. Krishna Mohan, has directed Sri Venkateswara University (SVU) in Tirupati to file an affidavit in three weeks making clear its position on the charge that it has given affiliation to 134 unqualified private colleges in Chittoor district. The petitioner, B. Doraswamy, a journalist based at Nallepalli village of Chittoor district, contended in a PIL that SVU had provided affiliation to unqualified colleges in violation of Rule 9(1) of the SVU Statute, UGC Regulations-2018, and G.O. Ms. No. 14 dated February 13, 2019. Appearing on his behalf, advocate J. Sravan Kumar said the matter warranted the constitution of a special investigation team to find out whether SVU had committed the irregularity purportedly under pressure from some political bigwigs. Consequent to the grant of illegal affiliation, the colleges had gained undue advantage of fee reimbursement under ‘Vasathi Deevena’ and ‘Vidya Deevena’ schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/varsity-gets-3-weeks-in-illegal-affiliation-case/article37332855.ece
04 November 2021||Vijayawada,||HC orders protection to 4 candidates in Gurazala||A single judge bench of the A.P. High Court consisting of Justice Cheekati Manavendranath Roy directed the Gurazala urban police Station House Officer (SHO) to provide adequate protection to four persons who wished to contest in the upcoming election for the Gurazala Nagar Panchayat to enable them to file nomination papers upon the submission of written representations by them to the SHO in person and through an e-mail to the State Election Commission. The judge ordered that the petitioners K. Venkatesh, K. Gnanamma, S.S. Nazimun and Shaik Hameed should give details of the persons who allegedly threatened them to prevent them from filing nominations, to facilitate necessary action. Justice Roy said in his order that the four persons sought to contest the election but some people had been threatening them with dire consequences if they filed nominations and even attempting to prevent them from doing so. The police should, therefore, give them protection, he ordered. According to N. Srinivasa Rao, advocate for the petitioners, a representation was given to the SHO on their intimidation by rivals and it was mailed to the SEC on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-orders-protection-to-4-candidates-in-gurazala/article37332908.ece
04 November 2021||Bengaluru,||15% surge in gold sales in Bengaluru||Gold traders in the city have reported a 10% to 15% surge in sales both in value and volume in the last one month, a trend mostly seen by the entire trading community that comprises over 50,000 jewellers in the city, according to industry watchers. “Gold suddenly has become the new currency for many people as they slowly come out of the pandemic. The customer profile has rapidly expanded. Earlier, it was mostly traditional wedding customers and families, but now youngsters, pensioners, and the elderly are showing interest in investing in gold, a trend the industry hasn’t seen,” observed Dinesh Pagariya, former director, Jewellers’ Association,and MD of JJJ Jewellers in the city. According to Mr. Pagariya, the business has recovered to better than 2019 levels for most jewellers in the city as gold is seen as the most reliable and growing asset class, and more so after the pandemic.  Confirming the trend, Ravi Kumar, president of the Jewellers’ Association, said, “Business is coming back, it has picked up momentum, and we expect it to continue beyond the current season.” On what is driving the gold rush, Mr. Pagariya said fixed deposits in banks were not yielding any decent interest, the stock market was extremely volatile, and most ordinary investors got overwhelmed by the way the securities market behaved. “This made gold a reliable, safe, and fast-growing asset class. For instance, a gram of gold was Rs. 3,500 during Diwali in 2019 and now, it’s hovering around Rs. 5,000, which is well over 40% growth. No other investment gives such huge returns today, other than gold,” he added. In fact, most gold merchants were expecting a poor customer turnout and lower sales this season. However, surprisingly, the markets saw a reversal of trend, according to traders Chickpet and Basavanagudi. “Once the pandemic hit, we were certain that the demand for gold will deplete, and the market will never recover. This sudden recovery has surprised us,” said sales staff at a leading city jewellery store. Deepu Antony, marketing head at Jos Alukas, said gold sales were witnessing a significant uptick in Karnataka, in terms of the number of footfall, enquiries, conversions, and sales volumes. “People are out to shop. We are witnessing a significant momentum in sales in all our outlets in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Udupi, Puthur, and other places in the State. Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh seem to be ushering in the recovery of the retail gold market for the entire south while Kerala and Tamil Nadu are yet to warm up.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/15-surge-in-gold-sales-in-bengaluru/article37332937.ece
04 November 2021||New Delhi,||Despite bail, long road out of jail||While Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan is finally out of jail after paperwork delayed his release on bail, not everyone is that lucky. A number of undertrials have to spend weeks or even over a month in jail despite securing bail as they either cannot pay the surety amount or are stuck in procedural matters such as address verification, or simply due to minor errors in documentation. This is in spite of courts repeatedly stating that once a bail order is given, the release should be quick. Lawyers say the delay in release of undertrials is an attack on their constitutional liberties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/despite-bail-long-road-out-of-jail/article37333038.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebration of lights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/celebration-of-lights/article37333040.ece
04 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Water supply likely to be hit in city today||Water supply in the city is likely to be affected on Thursday as the main pipeline supplying water from Thumbe has suffered a damage near Adyar Katte. Water supply in Surathkal, Kottara Chowki, Pachchanadi, Panambur, Car Street, Kudroli, Bolur, Kodialbail and Hampankatta may be affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/water-supply-likely-to-be-hit-in-city-today/article37333273.ece
04 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Rs. 7 cut in State||Following the Union Government’s decision to reduce excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs. 5 and Rs. 10, respectively, the State Government late on Wednesday night announced reduction of State’s sales tax on both petrol and diesel by Rs. 7 each, effective on Thursday evening. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who took to Twitter to announce this, said that both the Union and State Governments have offered a Deepavali gift to the people by reducing fuel prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-7-cut-in-state/article37332938.ece
04 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||Temples now get funds: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the previous Governments in the State were spending public money on constructing boundary walls of kabristans , while his Government was spending the money on reconstruction and beautification of temples. Mr. Adityanath was speaking in Ayodhya during the Deepotsav event. He said those who loved kabristan invested public money on such places. And those who love dharm and sanskriti are using the money on the uplift of religion and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/temples-now-get-funds-adityanath/article37333224.ece
04 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||65 is upper age limit for key PSU posts||The State Cabinet which met here on Wednesday decided to fix the upper age limit for key posts in public sector undertakings (PSUs), autonomous/ statutory bodies and corporations at 65. This would be applicable for the posts of Managing Director, Secretary, Director and CEO. The rules and bylaws of statutory bodies would be amended for the purpose. The meeting also decided to amend the ‘payment milestones’ in the agreement between the Kerala State IT Infrastructure Ltd. and Bharat Electronics Ltd. for the K-FON (Kerala Fibre Optic Network) project aimed at providing Internet connectivity to 30,000 government institutions and 20 lakh households through the transmission and distribution facility of the Kerala State Electricity Board. According to the revised norms, 70% of the bill amount will be given for each ‘point of presence’, with the remaining 30% to be given subject to the completion of all milestones as per the request for proposal for the project in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/65-is-upper-age-limit-for-key-psu-posts/article37333189.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Festive goodies||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/festive-goodies/article37333191.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Customs officials seize 400-year-old Vinayaka idol||Chennai Air Cargo Customs has seized a 130 kg brass Nrithya Ganapathi idol, which is said to be over 400 years old, even as it was about to be exported from a house in Kancheepuram. This is the largest idol seized by the Customs so far. After receiving information, officials began checking the export consignments and discovered the 5.25 ft tall idol. Investigation revealed that an exporter from Chennai had sent it to Kancheepuram to treat it based on the requirements of his client and facilitate its smuggling abroad, said a press release. ASI officials called The Customs called the experts from the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to examine the idol. After taking a look at the iconographic details of the idol, the experts from the ASI said the idol could belong to the Vijayanagara-Nayak period and would be nearly 400 years old. The idol exhibits fine details and it was created adhering to tradition based on ancient techniques; since the idol shows some wear and tear marks, the experts noted that it could have been in use for a long time. “Nrithya Ganapathi is regarded as the 15th among the 32 different forms of Ganapathi. This form of Ganapathi is seen mainly in stone sculptures and paintings and metallic form of Nrithya Ganapathi of this size is considered rare,” the release said. The seized idol is not registered with ASI under the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/customs-officials-seize-400-year-old-idol/article37332989.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Centre has given more funds to T.N.’||Union Minister of State for Fisheries and Information and Broadcasting L. Murugan on Wednesday accused Chief Minister M.K. Stalin of mis-stating that the Union Government had delayed sanction of funds to the State under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). At a press conference, he said the Union Government had sanctioned Rs. 1,361 crore to Tamil Nadu, as against its demand for Rs. 1,178 crore, and the funds were allocated on Tuesday itself. The Union Minister of Rural Development assured the State on October 27 that the funds would be released in a week. A copy of the November 2 letters of allocation of funds, made in three separate disbursements, was made available. The funds were allocated to the State by the Ministry of Rural Development for the implementation of the scheme and for clearing the pending liabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-has-given-more-funds-to-tn/article37332969.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM calls for door-to-door vaccination||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held a review meeting with senior officials of districts with low COVID-19 vaccination coverage. He urged officials to plan micro-strategies to improve coverage. He called on health workers to carry out door-to-door vaccination drive. The meeting included districts with less than 50% coverage of the first dose and low coverage of the second. The Prime Minister interacted with the District Magistrates of over 40 districts in Jharkhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya and other States. Urging the health workers to reach every house with the passion of “ Har Ghar Tika, Ghar Ghar Tika ” (vaccine at every doorstep), Mr. Modi asked them to go in the spirit of “ Har Ghar Dastak ”(knocking on every doorstep). “Now we are preparing to take the campaign to each household,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-calls-for-door-to-door-vaccination/article37332900.ece
04 November 2021||GUNTUR,||Oppn. leaders join ‘maha padayatra’||The ‘maha padayatra’ launched by the land owners from Amaravati against the move of setting up three capitals in the State passed through the main roads in Guntur on Wednesday. The protestors, who made a night halt at Bandlamudi Gardens on Amaravati Road, marched through the main roads before taking lunch break at Nallacheruvu. They ended the yatra for the day at Pulladigunta village after covering 14 km. Several leaders of the TDP, the BJP and the Congress took part in the padayatra. TDP leaders T. Sravan Kumar and K. Sridhar extended solidarity to the walkathon. The Guntur police made security arrangements. The protesters raised ‘Save Amaravati’ slogan as they marched on peacefully. Meanwhile, TDP leader P. Manikya Rao said the YSRCP government had been harassing the farmers by foisting cases including the ones booked under the SC/ ST Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oppn-leaders-join-maha-padayatra/article37332909.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebration of lights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/celebration-of-lights/article37332911.ece
04 November 2021||New Delhi,||Central teams rush to States hit by dengue||The Union Health Ministry has rushed high-level teams to nine States and Union Territories — Haryana, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir — reporting a high caseload of dengue to support them in public health measures for control and management of the disease. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya held a review meeting on the dengue situation in Delhi on November 1. He had directed that the Health Ministry should extend help to all the States and U.T.s having a high incidence of dengue cases. A total of 1,16,991 cases had been reported by the States and U.T.s across the country, said a release issued by the Ministry. The statement added that a significantly higher number of cases were reported in some States in October as compared with the corresponding period the previous year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/central-teams-rush-to-states-hit-by-dengue/article37332914.ece
04 November 2021||BENGALURU,||Dravid appointed India Head Coach||Former India captain Rahul Dravid has been appointed as the Head Coach of the senior Indian men’s cricket team, the BCCI announced on Wednesday. Dravid takes over from Ravi Shastri, whose term ends after the ongoing ICC T20 World Cup. Dravid was unanimously appointed by the Cricket Advisory Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dravid-appointed-india-head-coach/article37332939.ece
04 November 2021||HUBBALLI,||Paddy will be procured under MSP, says CM||In the wake of demand by paddy growing farmers of the State, the Government has decided to purchase paddy under MSP, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said. He said that the officials have been directed to begin the process of registration of farmers after Deepavali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/paddy-will-be-procured-under-msp-says-cm/article37333103.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Air quality in Delhi drops to seasonal low||A day before Deepavali, air quality has dipped to a seasonal low of 320 — or the “very poor” category in the National Capital Region. Despite a spike in instances of farm fires from Punjab and Haryana this week, they aren’t a contributor to the poor air quality, according to meteorological analysts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/air-quality-in-delhi-drops-to-seasonal-low/article37333039.ece
04 November 2021||MYSURU,||Forest Department foresaw landslips||The Forest Department had foreseen the repeated landslips being reported on Chamundi Hills and had advised the government against any major road widening or development projects. Sources in the department said that a report was submitted to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/forest-department-foresaw-landslips/article37333308.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Palestinian PM calls for Indian support||India can play a stabilising role in West Asia by maintaining cooperation with “all related parties”, Prime Minister of Palestine Mohammad Shtayyeh has said. In a statement issued after he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday in Glasgow on the sidelines of the COP26 summit, Mr. Shtayyeh said India had a historic tradition of supporting the rights of the Palestinian people and that its technical support should be “parallel to the political support”. “We look forward to a well-established and distinguished Indian role in Middle East [West Asia] based on the historical perspective of India’s foreign policy, foremost of which is supporting the Palestinian people’s right to self-determination and the establishment of an independent State of Palestine, with Jerusalem as its capital,” Mr. Shtayyeh said. He said India’s role in multilateral organisations required “strenuous efforts in cooperation with all related parties to achieve security and stability in the Middle East and West Asia”. The meeting, though on the sidelines of the global summit on environment and climate change, is of significance as it comes soon after the four-day visit to Israel by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar. The visit was commented upon widely as it excluded a trip to the Palestinian territory. The Palestinian leader pointed out that India had an important role to play in international affairs due to its growing profile. “We are ready for all forms of cooperation with India which is serving as a non-permanent member of the Security Council for 2021-22 and was re-elected to the Human Rights Council for the 2022-24.” The comments can be interpreted as subtle messages for support on multilateral platforms. In recent years, India has broken the tradition of supporting Palestine at the U.N. In 2019, India voted in favour of Israel at the ECOSOC (Economic and Social Council) to deny observer status to a Palestinian organisation named Shahed. In June, India abstained during the voting on a resolution calling for investigation into Israeli actions in the Gaza Strip at the Human Rights Council which drew strong protest from Foreign Minister Riyad Al Malki who wrote a letter critical of India’s abstention. Mr. Shtayyeh, who attended the COP26 summit earlier, made headlines for saying Israeli occupation threatens the Palestinian environment. Threat to environment “We are here to tell the world that the Israeli occupation is the most critical long-term threat to the Palestinian environment,” Mr, Shtayyeh said while reading his comments as the leader of the Palestinian delegation on Monday. Mr. Modi also met his Israeli counterpart Naftali Bennett on Tuesday before leaving for New Delhi and invited him to India to mark the 30th anniversary of the establishment of formal diplomatic ties. Technical backing Mr. Shtayyeh appreciated India’s financial and technical support. “This support must be parallel and complementary with the political support of the Palestinian cause and in a manner that guarantees the implementation of international legitimacy resolutions.” The meeting between Mr. Modi and Mr. Shtayyeh is the first between them since February 2018 when PM Modi visited Palestine months after he paid a visit to Israel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/palestinian-pm-calls-for-indian-support/article37332818.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP meeting to review bypoll results||The BJP will be getting into a huddle on Sunday for the long-delayed meetings of the party’s national executive, and top on the agenda will be the Assembly elections next year as well as a review of the just-concluded byelections which yielded mixed results for the party. The meeting will last from morning to mid-afternoon, and will be kicked off by BJP president J.P. Nadda’s address to the executive, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivering the concluding address. As COVID-19 protocols are in place, only national executive members who live in Delhi, national office-bearers of the party and Union Ministers who are members of the national executive will be asked to be present in person, while those outside Delhi have been asked to join virtually. A day after the mixed results of the byelections to 29 Assembly seats and three Lok Sabha seats across 11 States, BJP leaders admitted that in the case of Himachal Pradesh at least, where the party lost all the seats it was contesting, a review into the causes of defeat was important and was going to take place soon. Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur, himself an MP from Himachal Pradesh, speaking to news agency ANI said in Dharamshala that, “the Himachal Pradesh will call a timely meeting, discuss people’s mandate and look for reasons behind it. Learning from it, steps will be taken to make necessary improvements so that the lotus [the BJP’s electoral symbol] blooms again in 2022 [when Himachal Pradesh goes for Assembly polls].” When pressed for the reasons for the party’s loss in the State, Mr. Thakur refused to pinpoint any one reason, while Chief Minister Jairam Thakur had pointed to high prices being a contributory factor. Local factors “It’s too early to say anything. Results came in different States of the country. The BJP won all five seats in Assam, we won in Madhya Pradesh, won one out of two seats in Karnataka. Every State has its own local issues for bypolls, every party brainstorms over it, we will do it too,” he said. A political resolution, likely covering issues such as the farmers protests over the three controversial farm Bills, the vaccination programme of the Government and the situation in Jammu and Kashmir will be debated and passed during the national executive meeting as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-meeting-to-review-bypoll-results/article37332832.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Private jets fly out of COVID turbulence||Luxury travel on private jets has surpassed pre-COVID levels, according to two of the biggest airports in the country. There are now more first-time users and international trips, and demand has outstripped supply of planes to such an extent that many frequent fliers unable to get aircraft at the time and place of their choice are considering buying their own jets. The number of chartered flights at the Delhi and Hyderabad airports has been showing a steady increase every month since June 2021, when the second wave of COVID-19 started to wane. The Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi, which has a dedicated terminal for business jets, saw between 910 and 980 departures and arrivals per month between June and September, indicating an increase of 10% to 22% from the figures for the calendar year 2019. The Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad recorded between 74 and 110 departures and arrivals per month during these four months, which is an increase of 10% to 54% from those in the corresponding months in 2019. Leisure travel “Leisure travel is essentially the driver for the increase in chartered flights contributing to more than 50% of the trips. This is followed by corporate and election-related flying,” says a spokesperson for Bird Group, which oversees operations at the business jet terminal in Delhi along with its Swiss partner, ExecuJet. “Earlier, private jets were looked down upon by certain corporates, but now they have become more acceptable in boardrooms and at management levels for flying their team principals in the interest of safety and efficiency,” says Kanika Tekriwal, founder, JetSetGo, a private jet operator. Concerns over health safety during the pandemic has also led to the emergence of a new class of people willing to splurge on air travel. “There is a whole new customer segment that has been introduced during the pandemic and this includes those who could afford to but didn’t fly private because it was considered a wasteful means of luxury,” Ms. Tekriwal says. She says they are here to stay. International trips In a fillip to the sector, there are many more international trips than before because of restrictions on commercial passenger airlines. These rake in four to 10 times the money a domestic flight would earn — a return flight from Delhi to Mumbai on an eight-seater plane costs Rs. 10 lakh, a Delhi-Dubai return flight on a 13-seater Rs. 40 lakh and a 12-seater for London up to Rs. 1 crore. And, there is no let-up in demand. “With offices reopening, many who were until now opting for staycations every month are looking at two-week-long holidays at the end of the year. We are getting a lot of interest for the U.K., the Netherlands, France,” says Sachit Wadhwa, co-founder at BookMyCharters, a private jet aggregator. “Demand has exceeded the supply as leisure travel is being planned well in advance for December and January,” he says. The demand has been so robust that Mr. Wadhwa’s company is expecting to clock in four times the revenue it saw pre-COVID. “These are from actual bookings, but enquiries are 12-15 times the number of calls we received pre-COVID. This is the reason why we are also adding to our pool of available planes.” But Mr. Wadhwa and Ms. Tekriwal aren’t the only ones planning to add to their fleet. “Individual customers and corporates who are frequent flyers are looking at purchasing their own machines because of availability issues. They may not get the aircraft of their choice when they need it, so I may give them an upgrade or a downgrade. So, they are exploring the option of purchasing planes,” says Mr. Wadhwa. “Two or three business houses have approached us and we are helping them with financial structuring,” says Vishok Mansingh, CEO, Vman Aviation Services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/private-jets-fly-out-of-covid-turbulence/article37332851.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Air quality in Delhi drops to seasonal low||A day before Deepavali, air quality has dipped to a seasonal low of 320 — or the “very poor” category in the Delhi National Capital Region. Despite a spike in instances of farm fires from Punjab and Haryana this week, they aren’t a contributor to the quality, according to meteorological analysts. There were close to 2,700 instances of stubble burning on Wednesday and on Tuesday, 3,000 instances were recorded from Punjab, 203 from Haryana and 87 from Uttar Pradesh. “The contribution of biomass burning in PM2.5 concentration is likely to be less than 5% as winds are not favourable for transportation of pollutants,” according to an analysis from the Air Quality Early Warning System of the Ministry of Earth Sciences. The air quality over Delhi is likely to remain poor, at least until November 6 and then improve from an anticipated rise in windspeeds. Moisture and the lack of adequate winds also lower the mixing height that then retards the natural dispersion of pollutants. A mixing height less than 6,000 m with average wind speed less than 10 kmph is unfavourable for dispersion of pollutants. Currently the mixing depths are around 1,700 m and windspeeds less than 10 kmph. A note on Wednesday from the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) said instances of stubble burning and farm fires from Punjab and Haryana were down by 50% from last year. The active paddy residue burning events in Punjab, Haryana, NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan and the National Capital Territory of Delhi have come down from 43,918 in 2020 to 21,364 in 2021 during September 15-November 2, thus registering an overall reduction in the fire counts by 22,554. The hotspots of paddy residue burning in Punjab are Tarn Taran, Amritsar, Firozpur, Patiala, Ludhiana and Kapurthala. Similarly, the hotspots in Haryana are Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad, Ambala and Jind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/air-quality-in-delhi-drops-to-seasonal-low/article37332849.ece
04 November 2021||New Delhi,||Despite bail, it’s a long road out of jail for many||Faizan, 19, arrested on May 31 in a case of robbery, was granted bail by a Delhi court on September 24, but was eventually released on October 16 after tackling a series of legal hurdles. Similarly, Javed*, an accused in an arson case in connection with the Delhi riots, was granted bail on June 10 last year, but it took a 20-day ordeal for him to be released from the Mandoli jail, where he was languishing since March last year. Almost a week has passed after Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was released from the Arthur Road Jail a day after being granted bail by the Bombay High Court due to delay in paperwork following which they missed the deadline to provide the jail with physical copies of the release orders. This shines a light on a number of undertrials who have to spend several weeks to more than a month in jail after being granted bail as they either cannot pay the surety amount or are stuck in unnecessary delays like address verification or simply due to minor errors in documentation. In Faizan’s case, the court had imposed a bail bond of Rs. 50,000 on the teenager, who works at a small private company while his father is a contract labourer. Since he could not arrange the same, an application was moved by his lawyer seeking a reduction of the amount but it was denied. “It took some time but his relatives managed to collect the surety amount and he was released after 23 days,” his lawyer Dinesh Tiwari said. In Javed’s case, the court, as part of the bail bond, asked him to submit a fixed deposit receipt of Rs. 25,000. “Since he didn’t have the amount readily available, we offered his e-rickshaw in its place which cost much more than Rs. 25,000 but the court refused to accept it and it further delayed the process,” his lawyer Tanvi Sharma, recalled. Constant hurdles Several lawyers The Hindu spoke to claimed that among the several legal obstacles faced by these undertrials, arranging a local surety, a condition imposed by a majority of courts while granting bail, has proved to be a major concern. “The undertrial might be an impoverished migrant from some far-flung place and will not have someone who will stand surety for him or her,” Mr. Tiwari said. He said that often, issues arise during address verification or when there is an error in the release warrant. “Address verifications take a lot of time as the police personnel might have to go to the accused or the surety’s village which takes a week or more. There are also errors in the accused’s name on the release warrant but jail authorities can always check the FIR where the case details are already mentioned,” he added. After an accused is granted bail, a bail bond is imposed where a local surety, a relative or a friend of the undertrial, arranges the amount, be it in the form of property documents, vehicle papers, or through an fixed deposit receipt. If the accused violates the bail conditions, the submitted amount or collateral will be deducted or seized respectively. A local surety is generally combined with submission of a personal bond, where an undertrial signs an affidavit of a particular amount, which needs to be deposited if he or she breaches bail conditions. Advocate Chandan Goswami pointed out that often, getting a certified bail order copy becomes a cumbersome process. “Unless you ask for a dasti copy, the court doesn’t upload the order copy which further scuttles the process,” he said. On the insistence on local sureties, Mr. Goswami said “The Supreme Court and several High Courts have repeatedly clarified that a surety can be local or from any other state but the law dictates that you have to accept it nonetheless and let the person go.” Procedural delay He added that while proper legal representation speeds up the process, those who cannot afford such assistance continue to languish in jail for at least a month. “Even with legal aid, it takes around four days to complete all the formalities. If the order gets uploaded on the website instantly and is sent directly to the jail, it wouldn’t take so long,” he said. “In one case, a 23-year-old orphan was granted bail in a theft case six months ago, but he hasn’t been released yet as he has no legal aid to ensure a surety and even his bail order wasn’t available with the court. Often, jail authorities don’t even have the release orders on time,” advocate Tamanna Pankaj said. However, advocate B. Badrinath claimed that courts have been generous in letting undertrials out only on personal bonds over the past few months. “While imposing a local surety, the court keeps in mind the risk factor of the accused absconding,” he said. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves said that courts have repeatedly said that once a bail order is given, the release should be quick. Meanwhile, senior advocate Rebecca John argued “Even if the court is concerned about the accused breaching bail conditions, merely imposing a heavy surety will not prevent that from happening because there have been cases where undertrials have jumped bail despite a high surety.” She added that once a bail order is passed, “any unnecessary delay in release is a violation of constitutional protections”. “For verification, trial courts should follow a strict timeline so that people don’t have to spend more time in custody.” Earlier this year, the release of student activists Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Asif Iqbal Tanha in a Delhi riots case was delayed by two days over verification of their addresses and sureties, following which the Delhi High Court ordered their immediate release. Supreme Court judge Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, while speaking at an online event on Wednesday, called the delay in communicating bail orders to jail a “very serious deficiency” which needs to be addressed on a “war-footing” as it “touches upon the human liberty” of the prisoner. This comes after the Supreme Court in July had taken suo motu cognisance of the delay in the release of 13 prisoners from the Agra Central Jail despite being granted bail. The apex court, in September, gave the go-ahead to implement a system called FASTER (Fast and Secured Transmission of Electronic Records) which would allow transmission of e-copies or court orders through an electronic channel to jail authorities.  *Name changed      on request||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/despite-bail-its-a-long-road-out-of-jail-for-many/article37332816.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||NCERT’s manual on transgenders irks NCPCR||Following a right-wing backlash on social media and a complaint from a former Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) pracharak , the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has issued notice to the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) regarding its new training manual on inclusion of transgender children in schools. Vinay Joshi, a former RSS pracharak and activist against fraudulent religious conversions, made the complaint to the NCPCR, alleging that the manual was a “criminal conspiracy...to psychologically traumatise school students under the name of gender sensitisation”. The issues of contention were the manual’s recommendation to use gender-neutral toilets and remove gender binaries in school infrastructure and processes. “Such an approach will expose children to unnecessary psychological trauma due to contradictory environments at home and in school,” the NCPCR notice said. The manual’s suggestion to teachers to discuss the availability of puberty blockers or hormone treatments for adolescents experiencing gender dysphoria also came in for criticism. The NCERT was asked to “take appropriate action in rectifying the anomalies in the document”, verify the background and qualifications of the drafting committee members, and apprise the commission of action taken within seven days. The manual is no longer available on the NCERT’s website. The Department for Gender Studies, which produced the manual, deflected all queries to NCERT Director Sridhar Srivastava, who did not respond to The Hindu ’s request for a comment. Social media backlash On Monday, NCERT was trending for a brief period on Twitter after the right-wing website OpIndia posted an article on the manual, accusing the council of becoming “woke”. It also objected to an introductory section in the manual, which referenced the acceptance of gender diversity in the Vedic age and blamed caste patriarchy for the stigmatisation of transgender people. “There is respect for LGBTQ individuals in Indian society. But when nature has given you certain genders, trying to convince students that they might not be the same gender to which they are born is just tampering and interfering with the natural process,” Mr. Joshi told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncert-gets-notice-for-manual-on-transgenders/article37332821.ece
04 November 2021||New Delhi,||Congress is likely to revisit its alliance with the RJD in Bihar||The humiliating results in the byelection to two Assembly seats in Bihar has made the Congress sit up and rethink its relationship with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) as many leaders in the State feel that the alliance is dragging them down. In both seats, its vote share is far below the victory margins of the winning Janata Dal(U). On the other hand, the RJD is ready to forget and forgive, irrespective of the ugly spat. Bhakta Charan Das, Bihar State in-charge of the Congress, told The Hindu that the results and the events preceding it would be analysed before the party takes a call. While admitting that the party’s performance in the bypolls was sub-par, he also put the blame on the RJD. “Lalu Prasad Yadav ji ’s  comments that the Congress and the RJD have reached an understanding, signalling to voters that it’s a friendly match, because of which even the ones who were keen on us decided to desert us,” he said. Ms. Das added that the alliance should be based on a “clear-cut understanding” between the two sides. “Otherwise, it is meaningless to be together,” he added. The Congress decided to go solo after the RJD refused to concede Kusheshwarsthan to it. The Congress got only 5,603 votes in Kusheshwarsthan, which is 20 fewer than the tally of Chirag Paswan’s Lok Janshakti (Ramvilas). The JD(U) won by more than 12,000 votes. In Tarapur, the Congress got only 3,590 votes whereas the victory margin for the JD(U) was 3,852. The prolonged identification with the RJD has marginalised the Congress in Bihar. Leaders point out that in the 1995 Assembly election, the only instance when Mr. Lalu Prasad formed a majority government in the State, the Congress had a 16% vote share and 29 seats. To serve the interests of individual leaders in the State, the party, instead of occupying the Opposition space, went soft on the RJD. Nitish Kumar and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) moved into the vacuum left by the Congress. In the 2000 election, the Congress’s vote share fell to 11%, with the party winning 23 seats. All the 23 Congress MLAs supported Mr. Yadav’s minority government. “The Congress practically subsumed its identity within the RJD. And the slide that started from 1995 has not halted since,” a senior Congress leader said. While the RJD, the Congress leaders argue, will retain the Muslim and Yadav vote bank in the Assembly election, there is always a strong recoil. “There is a deep-seated fear among the voters that, if the RJD comes to power, the misadministration of Lalu Prasad’s regime will return. This leads to an aggressive counter polarisation. Why should we carry this baggage?” a senior Congress leader said. Congress leaders also say that in the Lok Sabha election, the Yadav vote bank has already started deserting the RJD. “We have to think about the longer run, especially the next Lok Sabha election in 2024,” a Congress leader said. Dispute over candidates The RJD does not share this sentiment. What happened in these bypolls, senior RJD leader Manoj K. Jha said, was episodic in nature, with a dispute over the candidate. The RJD, he said, wanted to field a person from a marginalised community but the Congress was not on board with it. “These results categorically tell you that the RJD has got votes from non-traditional quarters. Our vote share has actually gone up. The alliance with the Congress remains robust and State-level leaders should refrain from making denigrating remarks against the RJD, which doesn’t do their [Congress] party a favour,” Mr. Jha said. RJD leaders are confident that the Congress’s central leadership will prevail over the State leadership. “The truth is that they will never break ties since the party’s Delhi leadership would not want to lose a trusted ally,” another RJD leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-is-likely-to-revisit-its-alliance-with-the-rjd-in-bihar/article37332837.ece
04 November 2021||New Delhi,||Centre flags rise in number of COVID-19 cases||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday asked Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir to undertake a review of the rising COVID-19 case numbers and weekly positivity rates, and enhance testing. In letters to the Himachal Pradesh Health Secretary, Andhra Pradesh Principal Secretary of Health and the Jammu and Kashmir Additional Chief Secretary of Health, Arti Ahuja, Additional Secretary of the Union Health Ministry, highlighted the increase in number of weekly new COVID-19 cases since last week and early signs of rise in positivity rates last month. Ms. Ahuja stressed strict enforcement of COVID-appropriate behaviour, especially during festival celebrations. Previously on October 30, Ms. Ahuja had written to West Bengal and Assam, expressing concerns over the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the two States. Early indication In her letter to Himachal Pradesh, Ms. Ahuja said that there has been a nearly 22% increase in weekly new cases since last week and that there were early signs of increase in positivity: 2.7% in the week of October 4-10 to 3.3% in the week of October 25-31. “It is reassuring to note that the State has witnessed a gradual increase in the tests conducted from 38,726 in the week of October 4-10 to 44,549 in the week of October 25-31. ,” Ms. Ahuja said. Andhra Pradesh, she said, has shown a high quantum of weekly new cases over the past four weeks, and although the weekly positivity is less than 2.5%, it has stayed stagnant for the past two weeks. The State has also witnessed a decline in tests conducted from 2,82,959 in the week of October 04-10 to 2,41,838 in the week of October 25-31, she stated. With regard to Jammu and Kashmir, Ms. Ahuja said that the Union Territory has shown an approximately 61% increase in weekly new cases — 1,354 the week of October 25-31 as against 843 cases in the week of October 18-24. Although the weekly positivity is less than 1%, there has been a 67% increase in positivity in the last two weeks — from 0.3% in the week of October 18-24 to 0.5% in the week of October 25-31. Kathua has been identified as a district of concern due to high quantum of cases and positivity over 2.5%. She said J&K needed to increase testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-flags-rise-in-number-of-covid-19-cases/article37332895.ece
04 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||Temples now get funds: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the previous Governments in the State were spending public money on constructing boundary walls of kabristans , while his Government was spending the money on reconstruction and beautification of temples. Mr. Adityanath was speaking in Ayodhya during the Deepotsav event. Mr. Adityanath said those who loved kabristan invested public money on such places. And those who love dharm and sanskriti are using the money on the uplift of religion and culture. In the past too, in particular in the 2017 Assembly election, Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself had drawn a parallel between two communities in a contentious remark that if a kabristan was being constructed, a shamshaan should too. In Ayodhya, Mr. Adityanath also announced that the free ration being distributed to the poor in the State would be extended till Holi next year, coinciding with the 2022 Assembly elections. This would benefit 15 crore people, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/temples-now-get-funds-adityanath/article37332834.ece
04 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Judge arrested in sexual assault case||The police on Wednesday arrested a judge, who was recently suspended on charges of sexually assaulting a minor boy, after his interrogation in the case in accordance with the procedure laid down for judicial officers. The accused, Jitendra Singh, was taken after his arrest from Jaipur to Bharatpur, where he was earlier posted as the Special Judge, Anti-Corruption Cases. Mr. Singh has been booked at the Mathura Gate police station in Bharatpur under Section 377 (unnatural offences) of the Indian Penal Code and the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The judge’s stenographer, Anshul Soni, and a staff member of the anti-corruption court, Rahul Katara, are the other accused. Superintendent of Police, Bharatpur, Devendra Kumar Bishnoi said Mr. Singh was interrogated in the presence of a Metropolitan Magistrate and arrested as per the guidelines of the Supreme Court. The top court has ruled in its judgment in Delhi Judicial Service Association vs State of Gujarat that a judicial officer should be arrested under intimation to the District Judge or the High Court, as the case may be. Mr. Singh, who is of the District Judge cadre, was placed under suspension by the Rajasthan High Court after the first information report was registered against him on a complaint lodged by the 14-year-old boy and his family. The High Court has also deputed a vigilance team to investigate the allegations against him. ‘Boy was drugged’ The boy’s mother alleged that Mr. Singh and the two other accused had been sexually assaulting her son for the last one month after intoxicating him with a narcotic substance. The judge as well as the other accused had threatened the boy of implicating his family in false cases if he spoke about the assault to anyone, according to the complaint. Mr. Singh had allegedly befriended the boy at the District Club in Bharatpur, where he used to go to play tennis. However, Mr. Singh has lodged a counter-complaint against the boy’s mother and her family, accusing them of blackmail and extortion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/judge-arrested-in-sexual-assault-case/article37332841.ece
04 November 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,||At COP26, T.N. teenager tells leaders that youth are angry||As a child, Vinisha Umashankar, a Class 10 student, used to walk with her mother and a bag full of washed and dried clothes to get them ironed from a couple who ran a mobile ironing cart in her street in Tiruvannamalai town in northern Tamil Nadu. She saw how her clothes were ironed with charcoal-filled cast-iron boxes by the couple, sweating as they worked in the heat. She returned, not just with her ironed clothes, but with an intent to make their lives better. Years later, as she grew up, Vinisha Umashankar, now 15 years old, found her answers in sunlight. A solar powered ironing cart, which would replace the conventional charcoal ironing box, would power a steam ironing box to do its job. Her innovation brought her laurels from around the world, including the prestigious Children’s Climate Prize in November 2021. The prize given by the Sweden-based Children’s Climate Foundation is one of the most significant climate-related awards for young innovators. On Tuesday, Ms. Umashankar, one of the finalists for the Earthshot Prize, was asked by Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, to speak her mind on clean energy at a meeting that discussed clean technology and innovation as part of the 26th U.N. Climate Change Conference of Parties (COP26) in Glasgow, the U.K. Among her audience were world leaders, including British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, U.S. President Joe Biden, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Young people have every reason to be angry and frustrated at leaders who have made empty promises and failed to deliver. None of what we discuss today is practical for me. We need actions rather than promises to live in a habitable world,” she said at the meeting on Tuesday. Her speech received a standing ovation. Her parents, S. Umashankar, a business consultant, and U. Sangeetha, a schoolteacher, watched their only child’s speech on the world stage at close quarters as they travelled with her to Glasgow. “She (Vinisha) is class topper and her time management between studies and extracurricular activities is excellent. Her mother teaches science in our school,” S. Prathiba Shyam, principal, S.K.P. Vanitha International School, Tiruvannamalai, said. Ms. Umashankar’s mobile ironing cart has solar panels with a roof connected to a 100 Ah battery. It takes five hours of bright sunshine to fully charge the battery, which in turn powers the steam ironing box for six hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tn-teenager-vinisha-makes-a-clarion-call-at-cop26-summit/article37332853.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||NHRC asks Tripura government to submit report on violence||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked the Tripura government for a report on the recent instances of political and communal violence in the State. Acting on an October 28 complaint by Trinamool Congress spokesperson Saket Gokhale, the NHRC on Tuesday directed its registry to send a copy of the complaint to the Tripura chief secretary and Director-General of Police, asking for action-taken reports within four weeks. “The complainant…has highlighted issues regarding rising incidents of political violence and violence against persons from religious minority community in the State of Tripura. It is alleged that workers of ruling party of the State had attacked leaders of All India Trinamool Congress while they were campaigning in the State,” the NHRC said. The commission said the complainant had also alleged that an MP and other Trinamool workers had been attacked, referring to Rajya Sabha MP Sushmita Dev. The complaint also cited the incidents following a Vishwa Hindu Parishad rally in north Tripura, where a mosque and some shops were vandalised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-asks-tripura-government-to-submit-report-on-violence/article37332839.ece
04 November 2021||Srinagar,||Pak. closes airspace to Srinagar-Sharjah flight||The recently inaugurated Srinagar-Sharjah flight was forced to take a longer route on Tuesday after Pakistan raised objections over the use of its airspace. Union Home Minister Amit Shah inaugurated the direct flight between Srinagar and Sharjah on October 23 during his three-day visit to J&K. The flight was the first direct international connection from Srinagar. An official said the direction to take a longer route was conveyed to the Go First airlines on October 31 after Pakistan “denied the airspace all of a sudden”. The flight was seen by many in Kashmir as a change in Pakistan’s stand towards India. But the detour means that the flight, which was scheduled to be three-hour long, now takes an additional 30 minutes to reach Sharjah. The airfare too has gone up. Government and airline sources said that other west-bound flights using Pakistan's airspace, including those to the U.S. and U.K., were unaffected. The Airport Director of Srinagar was unavailable for comment. In February 2019, Pakistan closed its airspace for flights from India after Indian fighter jets targeted a terrorist camp in Balakot in the aftermath of an attack in Pulwama. The airspace was reopened later in July. National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah said, “Very unfortunate. Pakistan did the same with an Air India Express flight from Srinagar to Dubai in 2009-10. I had hoped that Go First airways being permitted to flying over Pak airspace was indicative of a thaw in relations but that wasn’t to be.” Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti said it was puzzling that the Government of India did not even bother securing permission from Pakistan to use its airspace for international flights from Srinagar.  (With inputs from   Jagriti Chandra)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-closes-airspace-to-srinagar-sharjah-flight/article37332819.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Prime Minister calls for door-to-door vaccination||He also suggested that raising awareness on the benefits of vaccination was the only solution and asked the officials to take help from religious leaders to encourage people to get their doses soon. The Prime Minister noted that religious leaders are very enthusiastic about the vaccination campaign and urged for a special emphasis on taking their message to the public. The Prime Minister cautioned that equal attention need to be paid to second-dose vaccination because whenever the cases of infection start decreasing, sometimes the feeling of urgency decreases. “You will have to contact those people who have not taken the second dose despite the stipulated time on a priority basis... ignoring this has created problems for many countries,” he said. He emphasised that under the free vaccine for all campaign, India created a record of administering about 2.5 crore doses in a day which bears testimony to its capabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/prime-minister-calls-for-door-to-door-vaccination/article37332825.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Covaxin gets WHO’s emergency use nod||According to information released by the WHO, Covaxin was found to have 78% efficacy against COVID-19 of any severity, 14 or more days after the second dose, and is extremely suitable for low- and middle-income countries due to its easy storage requirements. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, welcoming the announcement, said, “This is a proud moment for the entire country.” The WHO in its tweets on Wednesday said that the Technical Advisory Group, convened by the WHO and made up of regulatory experts from around the world, has determined that the Covaxin vaccine meets the WHO’s standards for protection against COVID-19; that the benefit of the vaccine far outweighs risks; and that the vaccine can be used. It added that Covaxin vaccine was also reviewed by the WHO’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE). “With validation from WHO, countries can now expedite their regulatory approval processes to import and administer Covaxin. UNICEF, Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO), GAVI COVAX facility, will be able to procure Covaxin for distribution to countries worldwide,” Bharat Biotech said in its statement. It added that this will enable the COVAX facility to secure the critical supply needed to meet the requirements of priority populations, thereby ensuring equitable access. Dr. Krishna Ella, chairman and MD, Bharat Biotech, said, “Validation by the WHO is a very significant step towards ensuring global access to India’s widely administered, safe and efficacious Covaxin. The EUL authorisation for Covaxin will enable us to contribute to accelerating the equitable access of the COVID-19 vaccine, and the access to our vaccine globally, thereby addressing the current public health emergency.” The company, in its release, said that the phase 3 trial data for Covaxin was available during June 2021, and the WHO’s EUL process commenced on July 6, 2021, with rolling data submission. SAGE of WHO had reviewed the data on October 5 in a meeting, and now has granted EUL for Covaxin. Global supply “Covaxin has been specifically designed to meet the needs of global distribution chains, the requirements for which are more critical in low- and middle-income countries. It has been formulated to enable shipping and long-term storage at 2-8ºC. It is also formulated to adhere to a multi-dose vial policy, thereby reducing open vial wastage, saving money to procurement agencies and governments alike,” said the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covaxin-gets-whos-emergency-use-nod/article37332827.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Excise duty on petrol cut by Rs. 5, diesel by Rs. 10||Oil industry officials said the estimated price for petrol would reduce from Rs. 110.04 to Rs. 103.97 a litre in the capital from Thursday, from Rs. 115.85 a litre to Rs. 109.98 in Mumbai, from Rs. 106.66 to Rs. 101.40 per litre in Chennai and from Rs. 110.49 to Rs. 104.67 in Kolkata. Similarly, diesel prices are likely to soften between Rs. 11 and Rs. 12.50 a litre in the four metropolitan cities. The Centre had been levying excise duties and cess of Rs. 32.90 per litre on petrol and Rs. 31.80 per litre on diesel. For context, the central excise duty on diesel was Rs. 3.56 per litre in 2014. The RBI has been mooting fuel tax cuts since February to cool down persistently high inflation. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had defended the high taxation saying there is no assurance that the States would cut duties if the Centre did so and called for a coordinated approach. On Wednesday, the Finance Ministry said the reduction in excise duty on petrol and diesel “on the eve of Deepavali” would boost consumption and keep the inflation low. The Government had recently blamed the need to service oil bonds issued by the UPA Government to rein in high prices during its tenure. In the past few weeks, it has also argued that the petroleum taxes are helping fund COVID-19 vaccination and other welfare measures. ‘Too little, too late’ The Opposition criticised the move as being too little, too late and being nudged by electoral pressures. Derek O’Brien of the Trinamool Congress termed it a “stunt”. “Happy Deepavali for Government of India. Last year, excise duty on petrol increased by 65% but now decreased by 15%. Between April and September, Government’s collection from excise on petrol rose 33% compared to last year. Collection of excise is 79% more than pre-Covid levels,” he said in a tweet. “In 2021, price of petrol was hiked by Rs. 28 & Diesel by Rs. 26/litre. After losing 14 by-elections & two Lok Sabha seats, reducing Petrol-Diesel price by Rs. 5 & Rs. 10 is tom-tommed as ‘Deepavali Gift’ of Modi Ji!,” tweeted Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala. In a statement, the Finance Ministry said, “In recent months, crude prices have witnessed a global upsurge. Consequently, domestic prices of petrol and diesel had increased in recent weeks exerting inflationary pressure. The world has also seen shortages and increased prices of all forms of energy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/excise-duty-on-petrol-cut-by-rs-5-diesel-by-rs-10/article37332828.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Central teams rush to States hit by dengue||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya held a review meeting on the dengue situation in Delhi on November 1. He had directed that the Health Ministry should extend help to all the States and U.T.s having a high incidence of dengue cases. He added that a significantly higher number of cases were reported in some States in October as compared with the corresponding period the previous year. The teams have been asked to report on the status of availability of kits and medicines, early detection, availability and use of insecticides, status of anti-larval and anti-adult vector control measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-teams-rush-to-states-hit-by-dengue/article37332829.ece
04 November 2021||Guwahati,||Quake linked to mass fish kill in Arunachal||Landslips caused by an earthquake of 3.4 magnitude close to the border with China led to mass fish death in the Kameng river in Arunachal Pradesh, it is learnt. The interval between the earthquake and the discovery of thousands of dead fish floating in the river was more than a fortnight. Officials in the East Kameng district said the earthquake on October 13 happened in the vicinity of the source of the river at an elevation of about 6,300 metres above Mean Sea Level. Kameng is not a transboundary river. The landslips dumped several tonnes of mud and rock into the river, substantially reducing the flow of water. The river turned blackish due to very high turbidity resulting in low dissolved oxygen that killed the fish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/quake-linked-to-mass-fish-kill-in-arunachal/article37332842.ece
04 November 2021||Lakhimpur Kheri (U.P.),||Lakhimpur Kheri violence case: two more arrested||The U.P. Police’s SIT investigating the Lakhimpur Kheri violence leading to the death of eight people, including four farmers, on Wednesday arrested two more men for their alleged roles in killing four others. Identified as Bichaila farm resident Ranjit Singh and Naurangabad farm resident Avtar Singh alias Nikku, the two were arrested for allegedly lynching two BJP workers, a driver and a local journalist after the death of four farmers, allegedly run over by an SUV in the BJP supporters’ convoy on October 3. The two were arrested under a second FIR registered in the Tikonia police station of the district over the lynching. Numbering 220/2021, the second FIR was registered under sections 147, 323, 324, 336 and 302 of IPC, the district Crime Branch said in a press release. A total of four persons have been arrested so far under the second FIR filed in Tikonia Kotwali police station by one Sumit Jaiswal. Earlier, Vichitra Singh and Gurvinder Singh had been arrested and sent to jail in this case, the press release said. Senior public prosecutor S.P. Yadav said the two accused were produced before the competent court which sent them to judicial custody. Meanwhile, another court, headed by District and Sessions Judge Mukesh Mishra, deferred till November 15 the hearing on the bail applications of Union Minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish and two others in the case. Ashish Mishra alias Monu, Ashish Pandey and Lavkush Rana are among the 13 accused arrested in connection with the FIR filed in the death of four farmers in Tikonia. A total of eight people were killed in the October 3 violence which took place during a protest over U.P. Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit to Lakhimpur Kheri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-case-two-more-arrested/article37333304.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Twenty-eight Saiva Agamas||Thirumoolar in his Thirumandiram speaks of the significance of the Saiva Agamas. There are 28 Saiva Agamas, said R. Narayanan in a discourse. Lord Siva has five faces, of which Sadyojata represents the Western direction, Vamadeva the North, Aghora the South and Tatpurusha the East. The four Vedas came from these four faces. Saiva Agamas came from Isana — the fifth face. To understand the Agamas fully, one must have followed the prescribed four paths — Carya, Kriya, Yoga and Jnana. Carya is doing service in temples, and serving His devotees. Kriya is studying under a guru and then worshipping Siva. Meditating on Him is Yoga. God realisation is Jnana. Sixty-six people learnt the Saiva Agamas, which emanated from Lord Siva. Not all of them learnt all the Agamas. The first 10 Agamas are Kamika, Yogaja, Cintya, Kaarana, Ajitha, Dipta, Sukshma, Sahasra, Amsuman and Suprabheda. Ten divine persons learnt these, each one learning one of the 10. The names of these 10 are: Pranava, Sudhaakya, Sudipta, Kaarana, Susiva, Eesa, Sukshma, Kaala, Amsu and Dasesa. Each of them taught two devotees. So 20 more people learnt the first 10 Agamas. These 20 include Trikala, Hara, Bhasma, Vibhu, Gopati, Ambika, Sarva Rudra, Trimoorthi, Hutaasana, Vaishravana, Prabhanjana, Bhima, Dharma, Ugra, Aditya, Vignesa, Sasi etc. So, a total of 30 people learnt the first 10 Agamas, which are known as Siva Bheda. The remaining 18 Agamas were studied by 18 people, each of whom taught one person. So a total of 36 persons studied these 18 Agamas. Anadi Rudra, Paramesvara, Parvathi, Padmabhu, Vyoma, Prajapathi, Nandikesa, Brihaspati are the names of some who studied these 18 Agamas, which are known as Rudra Bheda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/twenty-eight-saiva-agamas/article37332840.ece
04 November 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. plans law to recover damages||The Madhya Pradesh Government on Wednesday announced to bring a law to ensure constitution of tribunals having civil court powers to adjudicate the claims for damages to public and private properties and recover them from rioters and protesters involved in such incidents. City specific tribunals will be constituted for such incidents in the respective areas, Home Minister Narottam Mishra told reporters. “The Government is going to bring the Prevention of Private and Public Properties Damage and Recovery Act to ensure realisation of damages from those who damage public and individual persons’ properties during riots.” These tribunals will include officials of the ranks of DGP, Inspector General and Secretary, and will have the powers of civil court and their decision could only be challenged in the High Court, said Mr. Mishra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-plans-law-to-recover-damages/article37333305.ece
04 November 2021||New Delhi,||Scores level after bypolls: Chidambaram||Former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Wednesday claimed that the bypoll results in Assembly constituencies show that “the honours are even” today between the BJP and the parties opposed to it. In a series of tweets, analysing the results of 30 Assembly seats across 14 States, Mr. Chidambaram wondered which way “will the wind blow in the 2022 elections in various States”. “Here is a thought provoking analysis — BJP won seven seats and its declared allies won eight seats. Congress won eight seats. Non-BJP parties won seven seats of which only one seat was won by a crypto-ally of the BJP, namely YSR Congress. The other six seats were won by parties opposed to the BJP,” the former Finance Minister said on Twitter. “The honours are even today. Which way will the wind blow in 2022?” Mr. Chidambaram added. “It’s Diwali and inflation is at its peak. It’s not a matter of joke. I wish the Modi government had a sensitive heart for the public,” former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scores-level-after-bypolls-chidambaram/article37332835.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bangladesh national held for terror links||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested a Bangladesh national for his alleged association with banned terror outfit Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB). The case pertains to online recruitment and radicalisation of the youth by the JMB. The arrest of accused Mohammed Abdul Mannan Bachu was made during a search operation in West Bengal on Tuesday. Bachu belongs to Bangila Chadshi in Bangladesh’s Barisal. He has been living at Panchghara in South 24 Parganas, West Bengal. The latest searches also led to the seizure of electronic devices, fake Indian Voter ID cards, Aadhaar cards and other papers used to create such identification documents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bangladesh-national-held-for-terror-links/article37332838.ece
04 November 2021||New Delhi,||Celebrate in a safe and clean way: President||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday urged citizens to celebrate Deepavali in a clean and safe manner and contribute towards “conserving and protecting” the environment. Greeting people on the eve of Deepavali, Mr. Kovind said, “Deepavali symbolises the victory of good over evil and light over darkness. This festival is largely celebrated by people following different beliefs across various sections of our society. The auspicious occasion of Deepavali gives the message of mutual affection, fraternity and brotherhood”. “Let us celebrate this festival together in a clean and safe manner and resolve to contribute to the conservation and protection of environment,” the President said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/celebrate-in-a-safe-and-clean-way-president/article37332844.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||DRDO, IAF jointly test smart anti-airfield weapon||The Defence Research and Development Organisation and the Indian Air Force have jointly carried out two flight tests of the indigenously- developed smart anti-airfield weapon. The weapon was launched by an IAF aircraft from the Chandan ranges at Jaisalmer, Rajasthan on October 28 and November 3, a Defence Ministry statement said. “In both the tests, the intended target was hit with high accuracy,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdo-iaf-jointly-test-smart-anti-airfield-weapon/article37332817.ece
04 November 2021||New Delhi,||Sonia accepts Amarinder’s resignation||Congress president Sonia Gandhi accepted the resignation of former Punjab Chief Minister Captain (Retd) Amarinder Singh on Wednesday. Party general secretary K.C. Venugopal said, “Hon’ble Congress President has accepted the resignation of Captain Amarinder Singh from the primary membership of Indian National Congress”. Mr. Singh had sent his resignation letter to Ms. Gandhi on Tuesday. He made it clear that his party would tie up with the BJP in the Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-accepts-amarinders-resignation/article37332822.ece
04 November 2021||Mumbai,||Nothing further to add on allegations against Anil Deshmukh: Param Bir Singh||Former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh has told the Commission set up to investigate corruption allegations against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh that he does not have any further evidence to share on the matter. The affidavit was filed before the committee appointed to probe the letter written by Mr. Singh alleging that Mr. Deshmukh had directed suspended police sub-inspector Sachin Vaze to collect Rs. 100 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nothing-further-to-add-on-allegations-against-anil-deshmukh-param-bir-singh/article37332824.ece
04 November 2021||PUNE,||Ajit Pawar denies reports of properties being attached by I-T Department||A day after the I-T Dept provisionally attached assets allegedly linked to Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, his office on November 3 said no properties linked to him had been seized and that the agency had not sent any notice on this count. His lawyer Prashant Patil said media reports on the alleged seizure of the properties linked to Mr. Pawar had “no basis in fact”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ajit-pawar-denies-reports-of-properties-being-attached-by-i-t-department/article37332830.ece
04 November 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||‘SC/ST Act cannot be allowed to be misused’||Offence under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, cannot be presumed to be committed in every crime where the victim happens to be an SC or ST, the High Court of Karnataka has said. The court also pointed out that if motive for crime is not caste-based attack or hatred towards that caste, the accused can only be chargesheeted for any of the offences under Indian Penal Code that can be appropriately invoked in the background of the incident of crime or under other laws that can be applied as the facts and circumstances indicate.  Even thought the Act is essentially meant for protecting members of the SC and ST communities from atrocity or oppression, at the same time, it cannot be allowed to be misused; and therefore, the court said, there is a greater responsibility on the investigating officer to take decision wisely before filing the chargesheet. Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar passed the order while quashing the criminal proceedings initiated against one Lokanath, a resident of the city. The proceedings were initiated based on a complaint lodged by one Srisangam Priya of Tumakuru in relation to a decades-old dispute over land before various legal fora even prior to lodging of the complaint in 2020 invoking provisions of the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Civil dispute From the facts of the case and the chargesheet filed by the police, no offence of atrocity appears to have taken place, the court said, while pointing out that the materials disclose that it is a civil dispute between owners of two adjacent pieces of land and one happens to be a member the SC community. “Unless the investigation indicates or reveals intention of a person not belonging to SC or ST community to commit any of the offences under Section 3 of the Act, in order to oppress or insult or humiliate or subjugate or ridicule a member of the SC or ST community as such person merely belongs to that caste, the offence under Section 3 cannot be invoked in the chargesheet,” the court observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scst-act-cannot-be-allowed-to-be-misused/article37332856.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain causes a deluge of problems, ruins celebrations||Persistent waterlogging, that too rainwater mixed with sewage, has dampened the festive spirit of people living in Prakash Rao Colony in Pulianthope. The residential locality has been experiencing frequent sewage overflow over several years, with the situation worsening following rains. “It is Deepavali but we cannot wear new clothes and step out nor can children burst firecrackers due to the dirty water stagnating in front of our houses. In fact, water has entered many of the houses,” said Jagadesh, a resident. There are nearly 300 houses in the colony. Amaravathi, who has been living here for over three decades, said each time the sewage overflows, they had to call the authorities to drain it. “The pipelines have not been replaced and the road has not been re-laid. If we use the water pumps at our homes, we get drinking water mixed with sewage,” she said. “We have made several representations to the MLA, officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation and the water board. We have staged protests to draw the attention of officials but to no avail,” Mr. Jagadesh said. Another resident pointed out that a ration shop and a private school were located in the area and waterlogging made it difficult to reach these places. Viji, a resident, said that many residents had fever due to the unhygienic surroundings. Residents explained that Prakash Rao Colony was a low-lying area and water from Decaster Road and Veerachetty Street flowed into it. “After a lot of struggle and several pleas, authorities put in place a motor to drain out the stagnant water. This has been lying here for nearly two months and is in need of repair,” another resident noted. A solution in sight Officials of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) said they were regularly draining stagnant water through lorries, motor and sucker machines, and had asked the Corporation to raise the level of the road. An officer of the Corporation said that this was a long-pending problem. “There is no stormwater drain (SWD) here. A proposal to construct SWD has been sanctioned. However, work cannot be taken up during the monsoon. We will take up work after January,” he said.  We cannot wear new clothes and step out nor can children burst firecrackers Jagadesh Resident of Prakash Rao Colony||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-causes-a-deluge-of-problems-ruins-celebrations/article37332998.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. logs 962 fresh COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu logged 962 fresh COVID-19 cases and 19 deaths on Wednesday. While 11 districts reported fewer than 10 cases each, 24 districts had no COVID-19 deaths. As the fresh infections stayed below 1,000 for the third day, Coimbatore and Chennai continued to report cases in three digits. There were 109 cases in Coimbatore and 105 cases in Chennai. In Chengalpattu, 82 persons tested positive, while Erode reported 69 cases. There were 66 cases in Tiruppur, 58 in Salem and 47 in Namakkal. Ramanathapuram and Theni reported a single case each. So far, 27,05,548 persons have tested positive in the State. With 19 persons succumbing to the infection, the toll climbed to 36,176. There were three deaths in Chennai, while there were two deaths each in Madurai, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur. Coimbatore reported nil fatalities. Among the deceased was a 32-year-old man from Chennai. He had tested positive on October 27 and November 1. He had tuberculosis and mitral stenosis, and was admitted to a private hospital in Tiruvallur on October 26 with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for six days. He died of COVID-19 pneumonia on November 2. Another 1,078 persons were discharged after treatment. The State’s active caseload fell marginally to 11,012. A total of 11 districts had fewer than 100 active cases each. As many as 1,15,237 samples were tested. So far, 5,15,09,851 samples have been tested. Daily vaccination coverage fell to 62,492 on Wednesday. This took the overall coverage at government centres to 5,67,41,025. Those vaccinated included 33,967 persons aged 18-44, 14,080 persons aged 45-59 and 14,355 senior citizens. The coverage at private centres stood at 26,69,312.  The State’s active caseload fell marginally to 11,012. A total of 11 districts had fewer than 100 active cases each||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-logs-962-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37332974.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special wards opened across State for treatment of burns||Special wards were opened for treatment of burns caused by firecrackers at all government district headquarters hospitals and government medical college hospitals in Tamil Nadu, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Wednesday. The Minister, who inspected the burns ward at the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital, urged people to take utmost care while handling firecrackers. At the KMC, 22 beds — a special ward with 12 beds for the treatment of burns on the second floor and a ward with 10 beds on the ground floor — were readied. As for the number of persons who sustained cracker injuries in the last few years, Mr. Subramanian said 123 persons sustained injuries across the State in 2018, 242 persons in 2019 and 154 persons in 2020. At the KMC, 42 persons were treated for cracker injuries in 2016, 55 in 2017, 25 in 2018 and 55 in 2019. Last year, during the pandemic, the number of persons who sustained injuries reduced to 13. About 60 lakh persons are due for the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine. Work to identify them is under way, he said. The first dose coverage in the State stood at 71% and the second dose coverage at 31%. So far, 5.93 crore persons had been vaccinated, and nearly 60 lakh doses were available. Mr. Subramanian said 32,260 tests were performed last year for dengue. This year, 1,08,405 tests had been conducted so far. The disease was under control. There were 489 active cases as of now, while 25-40 cases were reported a day, he said. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Director of Medical Education R. Narayanababu and KMC Dean R. Shanthimalar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-wards-opened-across-state-for-treatment-of-burns/article37332972.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two more ostriches die at zoo||Two more ostriches died at the Arignar Anna Zoological Park on Wednesday, taking the number of dead birds to seven. The zoo management, in a statement, said the samples collected from the first five dead ostriches did not have any bacterial, viral and toxicological infection or involvement. It said it was awaiting the results for the samples sent to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal for avian flu test. A team of experts who visited the ostrich enclosure rule out the possibility of feed toxicity (fungal toxins and pesticides), water toxicity (nitrates and nitrites), common bacterial disease in ostrich (fowl cholera and anthrax) and New Castle disease, the statement said. “At present, the ostriches are under continuous monitoring by the zoo veterinarians and disinfectants are sprayed around the enclosure to control any likely spread of infection,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-more-ostriches-die-at-zoo/article37333001.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MSSRF institute launches fellowship||The M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) has entered into an agreement to institute the Hema Ramachandran Fellowship for Women Scientists with an aim to improve gender equality in scientific research. The spouse of late Hema Ramachandran, G.P. Ramachandran, has instituted an endowment at MSSRF to commemorate her scientific contributions and pave the way for women scientists to get back to research career. MoU signed An MoU was signed between Madhura Swaminathan, Chairperson, MSSRF, and Mr. Ramachandran at the foundation’s headquarters in Chennai. “This post-doctoral fellowship will encourage women scientists to take up research work in any of the scientific areas of the foundation,” said Ms. Swaminathan. Prof. Hema Ramachandran, worked as an experimental scientist at the C.V. Raman Research Institute Bengaluru where she initiated the optics programme and at Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Trombay, where she specialised in high pressure crystallography. She was honoured with the INSA Young Scientist Award. She passed away in November last year, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mssrf-institute-launches-fellowship/article37332999.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tomato price up as rain hits supply||The price of tomatoes touched a new high at the Koyambedu wholesale market on Wednesday as supply dipped due to rain in neighbouring key producing States. Wholesale traders noted that vegetable sales was dull by 20% on the day before the Deepavali festival. They cited intermittent rain to be one of the reasons for drop in retailers visiting the market. As less tomato-laden trucks arrived at the market on Wednesday, price of one kg of tomato shot up to Rs. 70 at the wholesale market. The cost of one kg of capsicum touched the three figures due to fewer arrivals and incessant rain in neighbouring districts. G.D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of All Associations of Koyambedu Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers Merchants' Association, said prices of many other vegetables such as carrot (Rs. 55-Rs. 65/kg), drumstick (Rs. 60-Rs. 70/kg) and onion (Rs. 40-Rs. 45/kg) rose sharply on Wednesday. It may take some days for the prices to come down. The vegetable market will not function on Friday in view of the festival, he added. Widespread rain Meanwhile, the India Meteorological department has forecast widespread rain on Deepavali day, with the possibility of isolated heavy rain in delta and southern districts. The active northeast monsoon will influence wet weather over the State till November 7. The persisting low-pressure area that lies over Lakshadweep and adjoining southeast Arabian sea and the trough from Comorin area to west-central Bay of Bengal off south Andhra Pradesh coast across Gulf of Mannar and Tamil Nadu coast would trigger rainfall. Southern districts Districts in the southern parts of the State are likely to receive heavy rain due to the presence of the trough. However, the intensity of the rainfall would begin to decrease from November 5, said officials. On Thursday, the Nilgiris, Tiruchi, Salem, Karur and delta districts may receive isolated heavy rain and most other places in the State may experience moderate rain. Chennai too may have intermittent, moderate spells in some areas. In the 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday, Peravurani and Adiramapattinam in Thanjavur disrtrict and Malaiyur in Pudukottai district recorded 17 cm rain each and most other places in the State recorded rainfall of varied intensity. On Wednesday too, many weather stations, including Chennai, Chidambaram and Neyveli, received light to moderate showers till 5.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tomato-price-up-as-rain-hits-supply/article37332993.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘High cost of commercial LPG will lead to diversion of domestic cylinders’||Consumer activists and distributors are worried that the recent increase in prices of commercial LPG cylinders will lead to illegal diversion of domestic cylinders. In Chennai, the price of one commercial cylinder, which was Rs. 1,831 last month, rose to Rs. 2,133 this month. T. Sadagopan, consumer activist, said such a steep increase would lead to cylinders being sold in the black market. “Already, there are complaints that domestic cylinders are being illegally refilled at fuel outlets. One can see this happening in bunks on the outskirts. It is a dangerous thing and the price increase will lead to diversion of domestic cylinders since they are cheaper. Families that cannot afford to buy domestic cylinders are converting to wood-fired stoves. They will see a good business opportunity in this situation,” he said. Eateries struggling A hotel industry source said small eateries were getting back to normalcy after over 18 months. “Many just vanished overnight due to debts. If they effect such hikes, it would cause a bigger burden on such establishments that are struggling to get back on their feet,” he said, and added that differential pricing for smaller establishments would help. An LPG dealer said they had suffered enough during the pandemic with small establishments not settling dues. “We provide them with credit as they can pay only after their day’s business. We cannot have nil balance. Such steep hikes would help competitors, especially the private players. They don’t increase on the first of every month but provide some more days for customers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-cost-of-commercial-lpg-will-lead-to-diversion-of-domestic-cylinders/article37333000.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Driving on Velachery Main Road, a nightmare for motorists||As the death of a motorist caused by a pothole on Anna Salai on Monday remains fresh in memory, it is a daily struggle for the motorists on Velachery Main Road. A portion of the road, which is managed by the Bus Route Road division of the Greater Chennai Corporation, is ridden with potholes and craters making it a nightmare to drive on the road. Road cutting at several places by utility agencies, including the Tangedco and the water board, has made matters worse. Running through the old parts of Velachery, it is a busy road as several government offices, commercial establishments, and multi-storeyed apartments exist all along the arterial way. Motorists have a tough time, particularly during the rainy season. With rainwater pumped out from the buildings on to the road, it becomes impossible to drive on it in the absence of a stormwater drain. S. Moorthy, a resident of Dhandeeswaram Nagar, said traversing through the stretch from Dhandeeswaram junction to Vijayanagar junction was a nightmare as the road has not been properly relaid after being dug up a few weeks ago. The road was newly paved only a few months ago, he added. Stormwater drain The residents of Velachery on Tuesday complained about the poor condition of the road to Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi who immediately deputed a team of senior officials to take steps to repair the road. A senior official said the road where water was stagnating had been cleared and concrete mix dumped to fill the potholes. The civic body proposed to build a stormwater drain next year at the spot to find a permanent solution to the problem of flooding, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/driving-on-velachery-main-road-a-nightmare-for-motorists/article37333005.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CBI chargesheets 18 in port trust fraud case||The CBI has filed a charge sheet at a special court against 18 persons, including A. Sermathi Raja, a former manager of Indian Bank’s Koyambedu branch, for causing a loss of Rs. 45.40 crore to the bank by committing fraud in the pre-closure of Chennai Port Trust’s fixed deposits. Cheating charge The CBI registered the case in July last year on a complaint from Indian Bank Zonal Office, Chennai (North), against the then manager of the Koyambedu branch and a few others for allegedly cheating the bank by pre-closing the term deposit accounts standing in the name of Chennai Port Trust. Searches were conducted at 28 places in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. During investigation, 12 persons were arrested, including two foreign nationals, and they are all in judicial custody. The CBI said in the charge sheet that the accused had allegedly exploited the investment of Chennai Port Trust’s surplus cash in term/fixed deposits through a limited tender process, and also the willingness of the bank to attract investment in the form of term deposits. The accused approached the branch manager and Chennai Port Trust and persuaded them to participate in the tender. The bank manager, in conspiracy with the others, accepted the proposed investment and took part in the bidding floated by Chennai Port Trust, quoting a higher interest rate than the maximum allowable rate. Indian Bank’s Koyambedu branch was successful in five tenders and got Rs. 100.57 crore in term deposits from March to May 2020. FD receipts The CBI alleged that after the FDs were created, the FD receipts (bond) were handed over to the fraudsters by the branch manager instead of the investing organisation. The accused allegedly forged receipts and submitted them to Chennai Port Trust, instead of the original FD receipts, which were submitted to the bank with a request to pre-close them. One of the fraudsters impersonated an official of Chennai Port Trust and opened a fake current account through forged documents in the name of Chennai Port Trust so as to transfer the amount from the pre-closure of FDs. Subsequently, the details of accounts were collected from several persons, and the money was transferred to these accounts based on the request letter forged in the name of Chennai Port Trust, the CBI said. The money received in different accounts was subsequently withdrawn by the fraudsters, who shared it among themselves on the basis of the pre-arranged commission. The fraud was committed one after another after each investment was made, and a total of Rs. 45.40 crore was swindled.  Searches were conducted at 28 places in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. During investigation, 12 persons were arrested, including two foreign nationals, and they are all in judicial custody||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-chargesheets-18-in-port-trust-fraud-case/article37332970.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin hands over appointment order to Mariappan Thangavelu||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday handed over an order to paralympic athlete Mariappan Thangavelu appointing him as Deputy Manager (Marketing) in Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Papers Limited. The athlete, a graduate in business administration, is at present a senior coach in the Sports Authority of India in Bengaluru, an official release said. Considering the laurels he has won in international sports events, the Chief Minister handed over the appointment order to honour him, it said. A native of Periyavadakkampatti village in Salem district, the athlete represented India in the 2016 Summer Paralympics games held in Rio de Janeiro in Brazil and secured a gold medal in men’s high jump T42 category. He also won a silver medal in Tokyo 2020 Paralympics. He bagged medals in various international sports events too. Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu, Minister for Youth Welfare and Sports Development Siva V. Meyyanathan, Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi, Industries Secretary N. Muruganandam, School Education Secretary Kakarla Usha and office-bearers of the Tamil Nadu Paralympic Sports Association were present at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-gives-appointment-order-to-mariappan/article37332985.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Experts laud data centric governance, but spotlight privacy protection||The Tamil Nadu Government’s data centric governance, aimed at proper use of funds and delivery of benefits, is well intended, but issues such as data privacy and protection of the system from cyber-attacks need to be addressed, experts say. Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said recently that the Economic Advisory Council to the Chief Minister had strongly supported the initiative. An analysis of the beneficiary-linked databases of large government programmes revealed instances of old age pension being credited into the accounts of deceased persons and rice being allocated in their names every month. Irregularities were found in crop and jewellery loans lent by co-operative banks, he said. “The objective of the project is a noble one, but there are huge challenges as it moves forward. The reason being that India does not have any dedicated law for data protection. The Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019, is pending before a joint parliamentary committee,” said Pavan Duggal, a cyber law expert and Supreme Court advocate. “The chances of the data being misused and the issue of offering an effective remedy to the affected person are very crucial issues we have to look at.” “We don’t have a cybersecurity legal framework. Our national cybersecurity policy is still not implemented. So, these data become vulnerable to cyber-attacks. Those challenges should be addressed for the State Government’s initiative to be successful,” he said. “When the intention of the government is to benefit its citizens, the key thing is whatever it does should be in accordance with the privacy protection requirements. That is the challenge it has to face,” said Na. Vijayashankar, chairman, Foundation of Data Protection Professionals in India. “The State should have a policy that protects the privacy of individuals, and it should be implemented with necessary controls on a day-to-day basis.” “Basically, privacy requires consent. So the project has to take into account how to get the consent of the citizens for whatever the government wants to do. In certain cases, consent may be exempted; if so, the policy should mention why consent is exempted,” he said. Government bodies would also come under the Data Protection Bill once it became an Act, Mr. Vijayashankar said. “Just like the Reserve Bank of India fines banks for lapses in KYC norms, government bodies will also be fined. This will enable the government to take corrective action.” When contacted, the Finance Minister said the government was aware of the need for data security and had been taking measures ever since it started the initiative. He pointed out that the government now had two data centres, and was mindful of storing data in its own servers. “I have asked the Information Technology Secretary to collate the list of all vendors and the apps and ensure that the data remain safe and stored in our servers and breaches don’t happen.” Mr. Thiaga Rajan gave the instruction well before it was claimed that the PDS data, of 5.2 million users, had been breached and posted on a hackers’ forum on June 28. Subsequently, officials of the Food and Consumer Affairs Department said the Chennai-based company that managed the website had denied any hacking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/experts-laud-data-centric-governance-but-spotlight-privacy-protection/article37333086.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fire at furniture shop on Ranganathan Street||Fire broke out at a furniture shop on the busy Ranganathan Street in T.Nagar here on Wednesday morning. A major disaster was averted by the personnel of Fire and Rescue Services even as thousands thronged the street for Deepavali shopping. At 11.30 a.m, the fire broke out in the false ceiling on the first floor of a building on Ranganthan Street. Thick smoke was billowing from the building. Immediately, Fire and Rescue Services Department was alerted. S. Syed Mohammed Shah, District Fire Officer, South, said, “On receipt of the call, the men who were on awareness campaign on the Ranganathan Street, Panagal Park, Pondy Bazaar and surrounding were pressed into service. First, the staff at the shop were evacuated to safety. Then the fire was put out after cutting the power supply.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-at-furniture-shop-on-ranganathan-street/article37332991.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One-time incentive for govt. workers acquiring higher qualification||The Tamil Nadu government has issued orders for granting incentive in the form of one-time lump sum amount ranging between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 25,000 to State Government employees, who have acquired higher qualifications after coming into service on or after March 10, 2020. According to a G.O. issued by Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, for a Ph.D, the one-time lump sum amount would be Rs. 25,000. For a postgraduate degree or its equivalent and a diploma or its equivalent, the lump sum would be Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 10,000 respectively. As per the operational guidelines issued in this regard the higher qualifications acquired by the government employee should help him / her in boosting the work efficiency. “The incentive would not be allowed if a government employee had acquired the higher qualification on the direction of the government or had obtained it during the study leave.” The incentive would be granted on a maximum of two occasions during the service of a government employee and there should be at least two years between the occasions, it said. ‘Not sufficient’ However, a section of the government employees is not happy with the announcement. “The one-time lump sum would not be sufficient even to cover the expenses incurred for acquiring the higher qualification,” contended P. Frederic Engels, who is a teacher in a State Government school. The old increment system which prevailed prior to March 20, 2020 should be resumed, he said. Manifesto pledge The AIADMK government had in March last year discontinued the increment system for higher qualifications obtained by government employees. Though the DMK election manifesto said it would resume the old system, the government has now decided to give a one-time lump sum, he pointed out. “Going by this G.O., an MBBS graduate, who is a medical officer in a primary health centre in a rural area would get a one-time lump sum of only Rs. 10,000, if he / she completes MS. This sum would not even compensate the fees he / she would have spent on higher education. This decision would only demotivate government employees from pursuing higher education," Mr. Engels argued.  For a postgraduate degree or its equivalent and a diploma or its equivalent, the lump sum would be Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 10,000 respectively||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-time-incentive-for-govt-workers-acquiring-higher-qualification/article37332977.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Test to fill polytechnic vacancies on Dec. 8||The Teachers Recruitment Board will conduct the examination to fill the vacancies for faculty members at polytechnic colleges on December 8. The online examination for the direct recruitment of lecturers (engineering/non-engineering) at government polytechnic colleges, which had been announced during 2017-18, were to have been held from October 28 to 31. But it was postponed after the government announced the date for downloading the admit cards. On Wednesday, Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi said the examination was rescheduled as many candidates had complained that they had been assigned to test centres in far-flung districts, questioning the decision in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said the Department of Higher Education had increased the number of centres from 129 to more than 200. “Those who wish to take the examination need not worry. We are making arrangements to ensure that candidates will have to travel less than 100 km to the exam centres,” he told reporters. A total of 1,38,140 aspirants are taking the test for around 1,060 vacancies. The examination could not be held in November as several national-level examinations were being held during the month, he said. “Many of these candidates will also take the National Eligibility Test, which is being held from November 20 to 30. There are bank exams too,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/test-to-fill-polytechnic-vacancies-on-dec-8/article37333071.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four injured as car topples on Santhome High Road||Four youth, including two women who were returning home from a resto bar, were injured when the car in which they were travelling toppled on Santhome High Road on Wednesday. The police said Srikanth, 22, from West Mambalam, who was driving the car, lost control over the vehicle as he was drunk. The other passengers in the car were S. Madhukrishnan, 24, from West Mambalam, who works as a photographer; Nithyashree, 24, who works as a professor and Vandhana, 22, a medical student. In the small hours of Wednesday, the car was going from T. Nagar towards Old Mahabalipuram Road. While negotiating a turn on Santhome High Road, Srikanth lost control of the vehicle and it hit a median and overturned. Passers-by rushed the injured to the Government Royapettah Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-injured-as-car-topples-on-santhome-high-road/article37332986.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT Madras faculty honoured||The International Institute of Acoustics and Vibration has awarded the Distinguished Fellowship Award to R.I. Sujith, professor in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras. He is the first Indian to be awarded the fellowship. Greater visibility An alumnus of IIT Madras and D. Srinivasan Chair professor in the department, Prof. Sujith said the fellowship would give his group greater recognition and visibility. He has authored a book on Thermoacoustic Instability and has over 360 technical publications, including 186 journal publications besides 12 patents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-madras-faculty-honoured/article37332978.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tipsy man stabs his wife to death||A 67-year-old inebriated man was arrested on Wednesday on charges of stabbing his wife to death in Taramani police station limits. The police said K. Duraisamy and his wife Vendha, 60, were living in Mahatma Gandhi Nagar and did not have any children. Duraisamy was daily wage worker and alcoholic. On Tuesday night, Duraisamy, who was drunk, stabbed Vendha with a kitchen knife several times during a spat. Neighbours rushed her to a hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tipsy-man-stabs-his-wife-to-death/article37333367.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. CM inaugurates buildings||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday virtually inaugurated new school buildings, libraries and teachers’ quarters constructed in multiple locations at a total cost of Rs. 169.11 crore. He also handed over certificates and trophies to those who successfully implemented a scheme under the Directorate of Non-Formal and Adult Education during 2021-22. The new buildings have been constructed with funds from NABARD, Integrated School Education Scheme, Member of Legislative Assembly Constituency Development Scheme, District Mineral Foundation and Teachers’ Welfare Fund, a release said. New classrooms, labs and amenities for drinking water were constructed in Ariyalur, Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Dharmapuri, Dindigul, Erode, Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Pudukkottai, Ramanathapuram, Ranipet, Salem, Sivaganga, the Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Tiruvallur, Tiruvannamalai, Tiruvarur, Tiruchi, Vellore, Villupuram andVirudhunagar districts, it said. School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, School Education Secretary Kakarla Usha, Commissioner of School Education K. Nandakumar and Director of Non-Formal and Adult Education P. Kuppusamy were present during the inauguration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-buildings/article37333009.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Weekly off for constables and head constables||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday issued orders to sanction a one-day weekly off to police personnel up to the rank of Head Constable “to take care of their health” and enable them to spend time with their families. The orders were issued in line with an announcement made by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on the floor of the Assembly in September. A G.O. issued by the Home Department on Wednesday amended the Police Standing Order 243 to thus: “Police personnel up to the rank of Head Constable shall have five working days. For working on the sixth day in case of exigencies, extra time remuneration will be given and one-day compulsory off in each calendar week.”  “The schedule of weekly-off duty for the police personnel would be drawn in advance and pasted on the notice board of the police station/unit but it would be liable to alteration should it be found later that a particular Head Constable or Police Constable was required for a particular duty on his off-duty day. “That Head Constable or Police Constable will then be given a day off-duty on the day preceding or following his allotted day, and a Head Constable or Police Constable due for off-duty on that day will be inter-changed,” the amendment said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-issues-orders-for-providing-weekly-off-to-police-personnel/article37333008.ece
04 November 2021||CoimbAtore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation leaves commuters in the lurch by removing shelter at bus stop||On October 8, a realty company removed the commuters’ shelter at Varadharajapuram Bus Stop on Kamarajar Road in Singanallur. It removed the shelter based on an order Coimbatore Corporation Executive Engineer, Planning (Town Planning Officer) R. Sasipriya had passed a day earlier. Her order said that based on application from the realtor, she was permitting the company to shift the shelter at its cost. The company had sought permission for shifting the shelter a few yards away. The officer’s action has angered residents and activists, who have questioned the need for exposing commuters to rain and sun and usurping District Collector’s power. Varadharajapuram resident P. Kumar said since the day the realty company removed the shelter without providing an alternative, the Corporation had pushed residents to wait in the open, exposing them to rain. The Corporation should have ordered the realty company to first construct the alternative shelter and then remove the old one. But this was not done, Mr. Kumar added that in issuing the order the Town Planning Officer had not sought the Highways Department’s permission as the Kamarajar Road was under the Department’s maintenance. By permitting the realty company to shift the shelter, the Town Planning Officer had usurped District Collector’s power, consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon alleged. As the Regional Transport Authority, it was the Collector who was empowered to authorise shifting of bus stop and as a consequence shelters. And, the Collector usually issued shifting orders based on joint field inspection by regional transport officer, traffic police personnel and a few other officials. The Corporation’s role was only to construct the commuters’ shelter, Mr. Kathirmathiyon said and reiterated that the Corporation officer had exceeded her brief and encroached upon the Collector’s power. He further said that by permitting the shifting of shelter, it was only the shelter that was shifted. But not the Varadharajapuram Bus Stop. If the stop was to be at the old place and shelter at new place, as it was at several bus stops in the city, it was a confusion that was Corporation’s making. Mr. Kathirmathiyon also sought to know from the Corporation the urgency in processing the realty company’s request. What motivated the officer concerned to act so fast on the issue as in other issues concerning town planning – encroachment removal, illegal hoarding removal or replying to RTI queries, there was no prompt action. Efforts to reach Ms. Sasipriya failed as she did not respond to calls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-leaves-commuters-in-the-lurch-by-removing-shelter-at-bus-stop/article37333019.ece
04 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Kovai Courtallam closed to visitors||Kovai Courtallam waterfall will remain closed to visitors on November 4 (Thursday). The Forest Department said that it was forced to deny entry to visitors to the tourism spot considering their safety. It said that the catchment areas of the waterfall received heavy rain on Tuesday and Wednesday, following which the inflow increased. After the waterfall swelled on Wednesday morning, the Department closed the tourism spot temporarily. The Department was expecting heavy footfall of visitors on Thursday as it is a holiday. Visitors will be permitted only after the inflow decreases, it said. Officials from the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) said that Monkey Falls, the waterfall near Aliyar check post on Pollachi – Valparai road, will be open to visitors on Thursday. “The waterfall will be open on Thursday if the inflow does not increase,” said Pollachi Forest Range Officer V. Pugalendhi. He said that ATR’s Butterfly Park near Aliyar check post will be open to visitors on Thursday. The park, with an entry fee of Rs. 10, was opened to the public on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kovai-courtallam-closed-to-visitors/article37333017.ece
04 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||MP alleges ‘step-motherly treatment’ by Palakkad Railway Division||Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram, on Tuesday, condemned the Palakkad Division of Southern Railway for its alleged “continuous neglect” in resumption of trains being operated via Pollachi and Kinathukadavu Junctions and accused the railway authorities of “step-motherly treatment” towards the two junctions. In a letter to Trilok Kothari, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) of Palakkad Division, Mr. Shanmugasundaram highlighted the delay in completion of the foot over bridge construction works at Kinathukadavu Railway Station. According to a Right to Information reply, the project worth Rs. 1.38 crore was sanctioned on November 22, 2019. However, it was delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The project’s expected date of completion is December 31 this year. The trains that were operated in the Pollachi-Kinathukadavu-Podanur section till March 2020 before COVID-19 lockdown and the trains operated in the metre gauge era are yet to be resumed despite multiple appeals made in the past, according to the letter. Delay in resumption of these train services is resulting in wastage of public money spent on gauge conversion and rail electrification works, the MP alleged, seeking the DRM’s intervention into the grievances of the residents of Pollachi Parliamentary constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-alleges-step-motherly-treatment-by-palakkad-railway-division/article37333020.ece
04 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||109 new COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore||As many as 109 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The Health Department said that there were 1,246 active cases and 125 persons recovered from the disease on Wednesday. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 1.2 % on Tuesday when it reported 114 fresh cases. Sixty-six new cases were reported in Tiruppur on Wednesday. The district had 743 active cases and 74 persons recovered on Wednesday. The district’s toll increased to 982 after a 55-year-old man died of COVID-19 on Tuesday. Twenty-one persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Wednesday. With the latest infections, the number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 33,627. The death of a person on Wednesday took the district’s COVID-19 toll to 213. A total of 195 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/109-new-covid-19-cases-in-coimbatore/article37333023.ece
04 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Official visits Forest College and Research Institute||Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary of DARE and Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, visited Forest College and Research Institute recently. During the visit, various technologies and plant varieties developed by the Institute were showcased. K.T. Parthiban, Dean of the College, said that the FC & RI had identified 30 tree species for promotion of agroforestry in the State besides having developed profitable agroforestry models for small and marginal farmers. Mr. Mohapatra also visited precision silviculture plantations, IDP forests, dye processing lab, wood workshop and inaugurated a modern xylarium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/official-visits-forest-college-and-research-institute/article37333030.ece
04 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||IRCTC air package||Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) announced an air tour package from Coimbatore to Hyderabad that begins on December 17 from the Coimbatore International Airport. A release said that the tour package would cover major tourism spots of Hyderabad including Charminar, Golconda Fort, Salar Jung Museum and Lumbini Garden. The package cost starts from Rs. 15,595 and would cover air fare, travel and accommodation expenses. Those interested shall contact IRCTC, Coimbatore, at 82879 31965 and 90031 40655 for bookings and for further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irctc-air-package/article37333029.ece
04 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Carnatic music competition||Karnataka Association, Coimbatore, has announced a Carnatic vocal music competition based on the songs of saint-poet Purandara Dasa. A release said that the competition was open to singers aged between eight and 25. The first round will be held on November 21 and the competitive round will be held on January 1, 2022. Those interested shall visitwww.kacbe.inand the last day for online registration is November 10. For further details, contact 94433 88347. Clinic inaugurated Mirakle Wellness Clinic inaugurated its second centre on KGT Campus recently. The clinic focuses on cancer diagnosis and treatment, cardiac health, gut health, bone health and pain management, sauna treatments, and general wellness and rejuvenation and its first centre was opened in 2018, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/carnatic-music-competition/article37333031.ece
04 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||BU MBA counselling on Nov. 8||Bharathiar University will conduct a counselling session on November 8 to fill vacant seats in its MBA programme. A release from the University said it would hold the “verandah counselling” at 10.30 a.m. on November 8 at the Bharathiar School of Management and Entrepreneur Development based on the TANCET 2021 score. Those interested to take part in the counselling should bring SSLC mark sheet, HSC mark sheet, community certificate, transfer and conduct certificate from the institution last studied, UG mark statement, provisional certificate, TANCET 2021 hall ticket and mark sheet, fitness certificate, two passport-size photographs and two photocopies of all documents, the press release said. Those interested may dial 0422-2428275 or mailbsmedonline@buc.edu.infor further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharathiar-university-mba-counselling/article37333016.ece
04 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery stolen from house||Unknown persons broke into a house at Krishnapuram on Somanur Road, near Karumathampatti, and took away 10 sovereigns of gold jewellery. Police said the burglary happened in the house of Ramanathan when he and his wife were away at their daughter’s house on October 30 (Saturday) evening. They returned around 10 a.m. on Tuesday and found the front door broken open and the jewellery missing. The police have registered a case and are investigating.  Woman found dead  A woman was found dead in Sengulam near Sundakamuthur on Wednesday. The Perur police said G. Sangeetha (42), a resident of Sundakamuthur, was found dead in the tank on Wednesday morning. The body was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. The police said there was no external injury on the body. An investigation was on after registering a case of unnatural death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-stolen-from-house-near-karumathampatti/article37333022.ece
04 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU postpones UG admission rank list||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has postponed the release of rank list of candidates who had sought admission to its undergraduate programmes. A release from the University said it was supposed to release the rank list on November 2, but was temporarily postponing. It would soon announce the new date of release of the rank list, the release also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-postpones-ug-admission-rank-list/article37333015.ece
04 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||The Regional Provident Fund Commissioner of the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) will conduct online grievance redress meetings for its members, trade unions, employers and pensioners on November 10. The meetings will be held at the EPFO Regional Office, according to a press release. Those participating in the meeting must furnish the details of their grievances along with the PF account number, Universal Account Number (UAN), Pension Payment Order (PPO) number, establishment’s name, mobile number and e-mail address topghs.rocbe@epfindia.gov.inon or before November 5.   Workers in the unorganised sectors who are not getting PF or ESI benefit can register oneshram.gov.in, according to a press release. The workers should be aged between 18 and 59 and can be working in any unorganised sector, according to a press release.   Coimbatore Productivity Council will organise “Quality Conclave- 2021” on November 19 at the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Hall, Coimbatore. Sessions will be held on quality, apart from a demonstration of best practices and a debate. The registration fee is Rs. 1,700 for a member and Rs. 1900 for a non-member. For details, contact 9952404302 / 7373663002.   Rotary Club of Coimbatore Central in collaboration with PSG Hospitals inaugurated a palliative and hospice centre for the needy at the hospital on Monday. A release said that the Rotary Club would provide financial assistance to patients in need of palliative and hospice care. T. Balaji, Project Director – Oncology at PSG Hospitals, J.S. Bhuvaneswaran, Director of PSG Super Speciality Hospitals and Rajasekhar Srinivasan, District Governor of Rotary International District 3201, participated in the inaugural event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37333021.ece
04 November 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. warns trespassers||The Forest Department has warned against pitching tents inside the forests for the purpose of grazing livestock. In a release , the department has warned against trespassing into the forests here that are home to elephants and various other animals. Those going into the forests also end up lighting up fire that may lead to forest fires. Further, animals coming into contact with the humans turn hostile, especially in the case of elephants leading to human casualties. According to the department, forests are forbidden for grazing. Further, the department has stated that no permission has been given for grazing in the forests. Hence, those trying to hoodwink the villagers claiming that they can secure permission from forest officials should be reported to the department, is said. Any violations will be dealt under the Tamil Nadu Forest Act, 1882.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-warns-trespassers/article37333090.ece
04 November 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Celebrating a ‘green’ Deepavali with sweet crackers||On a busy lane and under the shadow of Dindigul’s Malai Kottai, resides J. Bhuvana Sundhari, 33, a self-taught chocolatier, who for the past three and a half years has been enticing the young and the old by churning out chocolates in the shapes of crackers. It was while working in Bangalore that her love affair with making home-made chocolates began. By attending various workshops, Ms. Sundhari, an MCA graduate, honed her skills. What started as a way to satiate her sweet tooth became an enterprising business, when after marriage she left her job and settled as a home-maker in Dindigul. With her son inheriting her love for chocolates, she started making small batches for him and for her relatives living around. By word of mouth, her clientele grew. Now she has her baking unit in the ground floor of her house where she experiments with various tastes and flavours. Her most sought after chocolates are cashew nut bon bon. She sources first grade cashew nuts from Panruti and they are then dipped five times in rich melted chocolate fondant. Ms. Sundhari also makes fillings of fruit compote and her strawberry and orange fillings are most sought after. They are made to order and she has clients who even bring their own fruits for a bite of a choco-citrusy rush. Three years ago, she decided to experiment with chocolates that could be gift-wrapped for the festive season. It was then that the idea of making chocolates that resemble crackers was born. Her festive pack has chocolates in the shapes of flower pots, rockets, sparklers, atom bombs and chorsa garlands. This season, she has already couriered 50 kg of these packets to her clients. With Christmas season round the corner, she is ready to give chocolatey Christmas trees and maybe a caramel-filled Santa Claus. Ms. Sundhari is a hands-on-entrepreneur, with two young children to take care of. The only available time she gets to churn these gooey chocolate fantasies is at night. So from 10 p.m. to 2 p.m. she is at the cauldron melting the brew and getting the perfect consistency for various decadent treats. Once done, she lets it cool and the packaging is done later in the day with the help of her family members. “I would not have made it so far, if not for the help I get from my family,” she says. For chocoholics residing in Bangalore and Chennai, Ms. Sundhari’s home-made chocolates bursting with flavour are part and parcel of their festive celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/celebrating-a-green-deepavali-with-sweet-crackers/article37333077.ece
04 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||People throng bazaar areas for Deepavali||Hundreds of people thronged bazaar areas as last-minute Deepavali shopping led to city roads witnessing traffic congestion on Wednesday. Most of the roads, R.K.V. Road, Panneerselvam Park, Manikoondu, Meenatchi Sundaranar Road, Perundurai Road, Sathy Road, Mettur Road, Gandhiji Road and narrow stretches in market and commercial areas were filled with shoppers throughout the day. Shops selling textiles, crackers, mobile phones and household items were thronged by people as COVID-19 norms went for a toss. Despite police personnel, through the public address system, asking the people to wear masks and ensure personal distancing, the crowd focused only on purchase. Drizzle failed to dampen the festive spirit as the massive crowd caused traffic congestion on almost all the arterial roads that led to the city. Though movement of buses was banned in shopping areas, movement of other vehicles, including four-wheelers, caused inconvenience to pedestrians. In the bus stand, people waited to board special buses to move to their native. Most of the special buses were over-crowded during the day as workers in other districts returned to their native. At the railway station, the crowd was unusual as passengers in large numbers arrived to board trains. In Salem, both the new bus stand and the old bus stand were thronged by commuters in large numbers throughout the day. Most of the bazaar streets in the city witnessed huge crowds right from the morning. However, cracker sellers said that their business was not up to the expected level due to the rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-throng-bazaar-areas-for-deepavali/article37333094.ece
04 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rainfall in districts||Many places received widespread rain in the early hours of Wednesday. The district rainfall received a total rainfall of 137.6 mm. The rainfall recorded in other places are Kodumudi - 22.2 mm, Perundurai - 17.2 mm, Modakkurichi - 13 mm, Erode - 10 mm, Kavundapadi - 9.2 mm, and Bhavani - 7.4 mm. Salem district received a total of 335.60 mm rain on Wednesday. The rainfall recorded in other places are Veeraganur - 63 mm, Pethanaickenpalayam - 50 mm, Gangavalli - 40 mm, Thammampatti - 40 mm, Yercaud - 24.6 mm, Attur - 24.2 mm, Kariyakovil - 20 mm, Anaimaduvu - 18 mm, Kadayampatti - 15 mm, Mettur - 11.4 mm, and Omalur and Sankari - 10 mm each. Namakkal district received a total of 257.80 mm rain. The rainfall recorded in other places are Kolli Hills - 40 mm, Rasipuram - 36.20 mm, Senthamangalam - 28 mm, Puduchatiram and Namakkal - 26 mm each, Mangalapuram - 22.60 mm, Collectorate - 18 mm, and Tiruchengode - 14 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-rainfall-in-districts/article37333100.ece
04 November 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Cash, valuables seized from house of PWD engineer||Vigilance and Anti-Corruption sleuths seized Rs. 2.06 crore along with 38 sovereigns of gold jewellery from the house of a Public Works Department engineer here on Wednesday. The raid was carried out following complaints that the accused Shobana, an executive engineer, with the technical education division of the PWD for eight districts was in possession of huge amounts of cash collected as bribes from the contractors. According to a DVAC release, the accused had collected bribes for sanctioning the bills of contractors for the works undertaken by them. The sleuths from Vellore detachment raided the house at Nehru Nagar, from where they seized besides cash and gold jewellery, 1.3 kg of silver, fixed deposit certificates worth Rs. 27.98 lakh, and 14 property documents. On Tuesday, the DVAC team had seized Rs. 5 lakh of unaccounted money from the vehicle of the official in Vellore, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-valuables-seized-from-house-of-pwd-engineer/article37333089.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TAMIL NADU||Heated discussion at Cong. meeting over Huzurabad||The Political Affairs Committee (PAC) meeting of the Telangana Congress held on Wednesday after the Huzurabad results saw a heated exchange of words between the leaders apart from views. While the meeting was supposed to draw out a plan for the party’s agitational programmes against government policies serious questions were raised on the Huzurabad candidate’s selection and the loss. Senior leader V. Hanmantha Rao raised the issue and asked why a BC or an SC leader was not given the ticket but a novice like Venkat Balmoor. Former Deputy Chief Minister Damodar Rajnarsimha, who was the incharge for candidate’s selection, left the meeting abruptly apparently annoyed that he was being targeted by Mr. Hanmantha Rao, who has also sought serious review of the party’s losses. He also suggested that Komatireddy brothers should be asked to be more active in the party and he would personally convince them. Another senior leader K. Jana Reddy said the entire leadership should take responsibility for any loss and apparently questioned the TPCC president, A. Revanth Reddy as to why he alone owned up the responsibility. Party should send a strong message that leaders are united in any situation was apparently his argument. Sangareddy legislator, T. Jayaprakash Reddy, who created a stir with his comments in the media targeting Mr. Revanth Reddy over the loss spoke his heart out again at the meeting. At the same time, he assured the AICC incharge Manickam Tagore that he would stay way from media and will make measured comments whenever he speaks. Later, he clarified that his comments were hurting people but his intentions were not that. Issues related to Khammam district were also raised by the former Union Minister, Renuka Chowdary who said certain actions of CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka were hurting the party which Mr. Bhatti rejected outright. Panel to review The PAC meeting decided to constitute a committee to review Huzurabad loss and why the Congress voters preferred to vote for others ‘in this election’. Mr. Tagore will form the committee soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heated-discussion-at-cong-meeting-over-huzurabad/article37332858.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TAMIL NADU||Telangana SRTC restores bus service on CJI’s intervention||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana intervened after a student from Chidedu village in Manchal mandal wrote to him about the need for bus services to go to school. CJI Ramana’s intervention resulted in the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) restoring services on Wednesday. According to TSRTC Managing Director V C Sajjanar, the student is P Vaishnavi of class VIII of State government-run school. He said she wrote a letter explaining the circumstances to CJI Ramana, who in turn sent the letter to Mr Sajjanar, alerting him to restore bus services during school hours. “We had stopped services in some areas due to COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown, and could not restart them for occupancy reasons. In the letter, the students said that before lockdown there were buses for them to go to school, but after lockdown there were no buses. We are thankful to the Honourable CJI for alerting us. We have restored bus services from today,” Mr Sajjanar told The Hindu , adding that the letter which Vaishnavi wrote also her siblings mentions P Praneeth, a class IX student, and P Preethi, an Intermediate first-year student. Later in the day, the TSRTC said that the students’ father passed away due to a cardiac arrest during the first wave of COVID pandemic. In the letter, Vaishnavi pointed out that going to school in an autorickshaw was proving to be expensive, and that the suspension of bus services was causing hardship to her friends from the village. Mr Sajjanar tweeted that bus services have been restored during school timings, honouring the children’s right to education. “TSRTC management sincerely thanks the Hon’ble Chief Justice of India for alerting us,” he tweeted. The Managing Director said that the corporation has been receiving several requests from students in connection with the starting or restoring bus services after lockdown was lifted. In about a month, as many as 30 bus services have been restored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/telangana-srtc-restores-bus-service-on-cjis-intervention/article37332869.ece
04 November 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||A dangerous proposition: Kerala HC||The Kerala High Court has adjourned to November 23 the hearing on a writ petition seeking a directive to the Centre to remove the photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the COVID-19 vaccination certificate given to paid vaccine recipients. When the petition came up for hearing recently, Justice N. Nagaresh orally observed that the plea was ‘a very dangerous proposition.’ If tomorrow someone could come here and protest that they did not like Mahatma Gandhi and seek removal of his image from our currencies saying it was their blood and sweat and they did not want to see his face on it, what would happen then, the court asked. Counsel for the petitioner submitted that the portrait of Mahatma Gandhi was printed on currency as per Reserve Bank of India (RBI) regulations, while the Prime Minister’s photograph was affixed not based on any statutory provision. ‘No relevance’ According to the petition, the photograph of the Prime Minister on the COVID-19 vaccination certificate did not have any utility. It was a certificate issued merely to confirm the status of vaccination of a person. The affixing of a photograph of the Prime Minister on the certificate had no relevance as could be seen from such certificates issued by other countries. The messages or motivation printed in the certificate was irrelevant since the recipient of the certificate was already convinced of its utility and had taken the vaccination voluntarily. In fact, the messaging in a certificate was no more than ‘preaching to the converted.’ The petitioner also contended that he had already paid for his vaccination. As a result, he had not obtained any subsidy or largesse from the Government on his vaccination. In fact, it was the shortage of free vaccine slots that forced the petitioner to opt for the paid vaccination. The State had no right to claim the credit by inserting a photograph of the Prime Minister in the certificate issued to a paid vaccine recipient. It was a certificate issued merely to confirm the status of vaccination of a person. The present COVID-19 campaign appears to be designed to garner a political advantage by projecting a positive image of the Prime Minister. This Government-sponsored campaign affected both the personal decision-making process and the decision taken by the petitioner as a voter, he said. The Union Government counsel sought more time to file a statement.  The affixing of a photograph of the Prime Minister on the certificate had no relevance as could be seen from such certificates issued by other countries Petition||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-dangerous-proposition-kerala-hc/article37332862.ece
04 November 2021||Kovilpatti,TAMIL NADU||Crops submerged in rain||An average rainfall of 30 mm reported in and around Kovilpatti on Monday has led to submerging of various millet crops on 600 acres at Ayanvadamalapuram near here. “With water stagnating for a height of more than one foot, it is nigh impossible to save the crop,” said A. Varadarajan, president of Karisal Bhoomi Farmers’ Association. It is a double whammy for farmers as they had already incurred loss after plants failed to germinate as rain failed when they took up sowing 45 days back. “We had sowed seeds for the second time 20 days back,” he said. The farmers had taken up cultivation of black gram, green gram, pearl millet (cumbu), maize, shallot and chilli. Two successive years The farmers have incurred an expenditure of around Rs. 10,000 an acre in land preparation, seeds, fertilizer and wages for labourers. “With more rain predicted, water logging is going to continue. We have lost the rabi crop this year,” Mr. Varadarajan added. This is the second consecutive year of crop loss on rain-fed region here, he said. The farmers have appealed to the district administration to take up enumeration work at the earliest and give compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crops-submerged-in-rain/article37333409.ece
04 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Protect the eyes while bursting crackers’||Eyes are the second most commonly injured organs of the body (after hands and fingers) by firecrackers. Depending on the type of eye injury, it can cause mild irritation to irreversible damage or permanent blindness. Ophthalmologists in the city have called for precautionary measures, particularly for children, as each year a majority of the firecracker accident victims are children, followed by passers-by and bystanders. Lack of adult supervision and inadequate awareness of the risks involved while bursting crackers are the main reasons for accidents. People should be aware of first aid to be given in case of an eye injury, said Kala Devi R, senior ophthalmologist at Dr. Agarwal’s Eye Hospital. Firecrackers could damage eye lids, eyes and the thin bones behind the eyes or cause bruises around the eyes, she said. According to Dr. Kala, two types of eye injury occur: open globe injuries that are penetrating and perforating and closed globe injuries that damage the eye without rupturing the eye walls. The chemicals in the gun powder could cause thermal burns and fumes could cause watering and irritability. The intensity with which any part of a firecracker hit the eye determined the extent of damage. In case of any type of eye injury, said Dr. Kala, it was important to remember not to rub the eyeballs as it might increase bleeding or worsen the injury. People should also avoid rinsing or applying any kind of pressure to the eyes or removing any particle stuck in the eyes. The best option would be to irrigate the eyes or flush them continuously with clean water. People should not use eye drops or ointments as they made it difficult for the doctors to examine the eyes in an emergency, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protect-the-eyes-while-bursting-crackers-doctors/article37333081.ece
04 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Pipeline repair work to be taken up on Saturday||Madurai Corporation will suspend water supply to several areas on Saturday to repair Vaigai drinking water scheme pipelines. In a statement, Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan said pipelines bringing treated water under the Second Vaigai Drinking Water Scheme had broken on the southern bank near Jayalalithaa bridge and near Sundararajapuram overhead tank. They would be replaced on Saturday. Hence, water supply would be suspended to all places on the northern bank, Wards 6 to 9, Ward 27 and Wards 33 to 47 – Aruldosspuram, Thathaneri, Sellur, Meenakshipuram, Kulamangalam Road, Goripalayam, Race Course Colony, D.R.O. Colony, P and T Colony, Bibikulam, Narimedu, Pudur, Anna Nagar, K.K. Nagar, Mathichiyam, Karumbalai and surrounding areas. On the southern bank, water supply would be suspended in Wards 19, 28, 63, 64, 77 and from 88 to 93 – H.M.S. Colony, Virattipathu, Ponmeni, Sammattipuram, Sundararajapuram, Jaihindpuram, TVS Nagar, Muthupatti, Alagappa Nagar, Keeraithurai, Villapuram and surrounding areas. The Commissioner said water would be supplied to some wards through trucks. Meanwhile, Madurai Corporation has asked the residents who have applied for building plan approval through Smart DCR software and whose applications have been returned for want of details to make use of the old software before November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pipeline-repair-work-to-be-taken-up-on-saturday/article37333270.ece
04 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Keeladi 8th phase excavations likely after Pongal||The State Archaeological Department has made its submission to the Central Advisory Board for Archaeology (CABA) for carrying out the eighth round of excavations at Keeladi, where the remnants of Sangam Age settlement are being unearthed. The proposal was sent in mid-October. The standing committee of CABA will convene in Delhi to examine and approve different project reports received from across the country and the work will resume after the ASI gives its nod. “Our subcontinent has different ecological zones. South India is hit by northeast monsoon now. The eighth phase will most likely begin after Pongal in January 2022,” said an official. The proposal for the next round of excavations is usually sent by June-end. But the pandemic, lockdown and vagaries of the weather affected the operations and the CABA also delayed its meeting following the COVID-19 wave. Excavations at Keeladi, 13 km southeast of Madurai in Sivaganga district, are meant to establish the historical, architectural and cultural significance of the Sangam Age settlement. Findings after 25% of a site is excavated are usually benchmarked as reliable the world over. Less than 5% of Keeladi’s 110 acre spread has been unearthed so far. “Important features stumble out after completion of 10% of excavation, which is acceptable for documenting history,” Thanjavur-based archaeologist K. Rajan told The Hindu . Retired archaeology officer C. Santhalingam said it would take more than a decade to unlock the mysteries of the civilisation and regional power that flourished here 2,600 years ago. “The excavations, if possible, should be carried out twice a year. The first phase was carried out in 2015 and each year less than one per cent has been dug up,” he said. Exposing, processing, collating, recording, documenting and connecting the archaeological residue from 293 identified sites along the Vaigai may not happen in one’s lifetime. The 6,000 plus artefacts recovered so far which include beads, jewellery, silver coin, semi-precious stones, tools, spindle whorls, black and red earthen wares, brick walls, ring wells, Tamil Brahmi script etched plates and pots have shed light on the literacy achievement of the inhabitants, the probable trade links and an urban settlement and pushed back the known antiquity of the Sangam Age from 300 BCE to 580 BCE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/keeladi-8th-phase-excavations-likely-after-pongal/article37332981.ece
04 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Install CCTV cameras on Tahsildar office premises’||Pointing out that the two chain snatching incidents were reported on Ilayangudi Tahsildar office premises in Sivaganga district recently, a public interest litigation petition filed before Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday sought a direction to authorities to install CCTV cameras on the office premises. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar ordered notice on the petition filed by P. Radhakrishnan of Ilayangudi, which also sought a direction to the authorities concerned to install CCTV cameras at government offices where they were not installed. The petitioner said the State government had already issued a government order making installation of CCTV cameras in all public buildings mandatory. The main objective of the order was to prevent corruption and control crime. Since the CCTV cameras were not installed at the Tahsildar’s office, miscreants indulged in chain snatching, he said. Two snatchings First, the gold chain of a differently abled woman was snatched on the Tahsildar’s office premises and within months, the gold chain of an elderly woman was snatched there. The police officials were unable to identify the accused as there was no CCTV camera on the office premises, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/install-cctv-cameras-on-tahsildar-office-premises/article37333265.ece
04 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea seeks construction of building for library||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday ordered notice to the State on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the authorities to construct a permanent building for Karambakudi branch library in Pudukottai district. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar ordered notice on the petition filed by S. Shanmugam of Karambakudi, which said the library was functioning from a rental building that lacked adequate infrastructure. People were finding it difficult to access the library, the petitioner said. ‘No steps taken’ The petitioner said a place was earmarked for the construction of the permanent building in 2014. But, steps were yet to be taken to construct the building. The building should be constructed with adequate infrastructure for the benefit of students who were preparing for competitive examinations and the general public, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-seeks-construction-of-building-for-library/article37333264.ece
04 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Wednesday stood at 138.95 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 5,083 cusecs and a discharge of 2,305 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 62.73 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 2,669 cusecs and a discharge of 1,369 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 9,340 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37333079.ece
04 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Fire and Rescue Services emergency helpline number||Fire and Rescue Services Department, Southern Region, which has been conducting various awareness programmes and drills on safety measures in view of Deepavali celebrations has urged the public to celebrate the festival in a safe and cautious manner. The department has given emergency helpline numbers for quick response. People can contact the fire stations at: Madurai 0452-2335399, Theni-Allinagaram 04546-252699, Virudhunagar 04562-243666, Ramanathapuram 04567-221273, Sivaganga 04575-240301, Thoothukudi 0461-2326501, Palayamkottai 0462-2572099, Nagercoil 04652-276331 and Tenkasi 04633-222166. People can also contact the Fire and Rescue Services Control Room at 101 and the emergency helpline number 112, said the Deputy Director of the Fire and Rescue Services Department, Southern Region N. Vijayakumar in a press statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-and-rescue-services-emergency-helpline-numbers-for-deepavali/article37333075.ece
04 November 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Gutkha products worth Rs. 58 lakh seized||Banned gutkha items worth Rs. 58 lakh that were smuggled in two lorries were seized by the police here on Tuesday night. A team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Suresh Kumar was conducting vehicle checks at Ernapuram when they intercepted two lorries. But, both lorry drivers did not stop their vehicles and police chased them and intercepted the vehicles. Police found gutkha items in gunny bags in the lorries and seized them. Both the drivers told the police that they were transported for sales in shops in Namakkal. Both the drivers were arrested. Mr. kumar told the media that action will be taken against persons or shopkeepers involved in transporting or selling the banned gutkha items. He also said that 42 country-made guns were seized from Kolli Hills and Puduchatiram and warned that action will be taken for illegal possession of guns. The DSP said that 160 mobile phones stolen in the past one year were recovered and handed over to respective owners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gutkha-products-worth-rs-58-lakh-seized/article37333096.ece
04 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tourism sector starts showing signs of revival in Puducherry||The tourism sector in the Union Territory has begun to show signs of revival after months of lull due to COVID-19 restrictions. According to officials in the Tourism Department and representatives of the hospitality industry, tourist arrivals have picked up since last month. “Tourist arrivals started in January. But the number dropped after February, and then the revival started in mid-July. Last month, it gathered momentum. In the last five months, around 6 lakh tourists may have visited Puducherry,” an official said. The first three weeks of last month were really good with the arrival of weekend tourists picking up steam, he said. Data available with Chunnambar Boat House revealed that 2,176 tourists visited the spot on October 15. On October 16, the number stood at 3,322 and on October 17, another 2,524 tourists visited the place. “The numbers are good but we need to sustain the momentum by adding more facilities. Now, the place is active only on weekends and holidays, but for generating more income the government should start more ventures to attract more tourists year long. The entire PTDC is dependent on the income generated from the boat house for its survival,” said a staff. Pondy Marina, another fast developing tourist destination, also received a sizeable number of people. “Last month, on one weekend, we touched around 8,000 footfall. Half of the visitors could be from local areas, but there was good number of people from neighbouring States,” said Kamaraj, one of the persons operating a venture. G. Antony Prosper Anandraj, treasurer of Hotels’ Association of Pondicherry, said COVID-19 had caused significant damage to the hospitality industry. Post second wave, tourists arrival had increased considerably, he added. “Puducherry is always considered a cost effective destination and it has to remain the same way to remain competitive. We should have a constructive policy that encourages tourism stakeholders and provide safe and better experience to tourists,” Mr. Anandraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourism-sector-starts-showing-signs-of-revival-in-puducherry/article37333087.ece
04 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No COVID deaths, 29 fresh cases in U.T.||No COVID-19 death was recorded in the Union Territory even as 29 new cases were reported on Wednesday. Puducherry logged 9 new cases, which were detected from 2,454 tests, followed by Karaikal (8), Yanam (4) and Mahe (8). The cumulative toll remained at 1,859, with Puducherry accounting for 1,455 deaths, followed by Karaikal (250), Yanam (107) and Mahe (47). The test positivity rate was 1.18%, the case fatality rate 1.45% and the recovery rate 98.27%. With 58 more patients recovering from COVID-19, the active cases stood at 359. Of them, 73 patients were in hospitals and 286 in home isolation. The Union Territory has till date recorded a total of 1,28,106 cases and 1,25,888 recoveries. Of an estimated 19.23 lakh tests conducted so far, over 16.26 lakh have returned negative. Meanwhile, 1,490 people took the jab against COVID-19 on Wednesday. The Union Territory has so far administered 11,32,702 vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/29-cases-in-ut/article37333065.ece
04 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Summary revision of electoral rolls begins||The Elections Department has commenced the process of summary revision of photo electoral rolls across all Assembly constituencies to include youth who attain the age of 18, migrant electors and those who shifted residence with January 1, 2022 as reference date. The revision is being undertaken on the directive of the Election Commission of India, a press note from Shurbir Singh, Chief Electoral Officer said. The department will organise two-day special camps on the weekends — on November 13 and 14 and November 20 and 21 — as part of the campaign. Draft published An integrated draft electoral roll had been published and will be available at all polling stations and at the office of the Electoral Registration Officers. According to the schedule, claims and objections, if any, can be filed till November 30. The pleas will be resolved by December 20 and the Elections Department will come out with the final electoral roll on January 5 next year, the press note said. The public can also file their applications for inclusion, deletion or correction on the sites voterportal.eci.gov.in or nsvp.in or on the helpline app of the ECI. The EPIC will be despatched to voters once the final electoral roll is published. The CEO urged the public to avail of the opportunity to formulate an error-free and updated voters list.  The exercise is aimed at including youth who attain the age of 18, migrant electors and those who shifted residence with January 1, 2022 as reference date||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/summary-revision-of-electoral-rolls-begins/article37333371.ece
04 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Lt. Governor thanks J&K administration||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Wednesday expressed her gratitude to the Jammu and Kashmir administration and the CRPF for their timely intervention in rescuing 12 truckers from Tamil Nadu who were stranded on the Jammu-Ladakh Highway for several days amid heavy snowfall in the Union Territory. According to a press note from the Raj Nivas, following reports of the truckers being stranded due to snowfall, Ms. Soundararajan, who is also the Governor of Telangana, got in touch with the office of the J&K Lt. Governor through the Hyderabad Raj Bhavan and sought assistance in the rescue and rehabilitation of the truckers. The stranded persons were located and shifted to a temporary shelter by a CRPF team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lt-governor-thanks-jk-administration/article37333372.ece
04 November 2021||PUDUKKOTAI,TAMIL NADU||Three killed in road accident in Pudukottai||Three persons were killed in a road accident at Mattangal near Gandharvakottai on Tuesday night. According to sources, Subramanian, his wife Chithra, 36, and M. Lakshmi, 38, of Mohanur were proceeding to Gandharvakottai on two separate bikes. When they were passing through Mattangal, a van heading to Pattukkottai hit their two-wheelers. While Chitra died on the spot, Lakshmi died on the way to Government Hospital at Gandharvakottai. Subramanian died on the way to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Van driver held Gandharvakottai police registered a case and arrested the van driver, R. Muruganandam, of Periamottai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-in-road-accident-in-pudukottai/article37333057.ece
04 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Rise in Mettur level||Water level at Stanley Reservoir in Mettur Dam is nearing 113 feet against the full reservoir level of 120 feet on Wednesday. Officials of the Public Works Department said that at 8 a.m., the inflow stood at 10,904 cusecs and the discharge at 500 cusecs into the canal and 100 cusecs into the River Cauvery. The water level stood at 112.28 feet while the storage was 81.69 tmc against the capacity of 93.50 tmc. At Bhavanisagar Dam in Erode district, the inflow was 5,297 cusecs while the discharge was 2,300 cusecs into the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal and 500 cusecs into the Arakkankottai - Thadappalli canals. At 8 a.m., the water level stood at 102.14 feet against the maximum storage level of 105 feet while the storage was 30.43 tmc against the capacity of 32.80 tmc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rise-in-mettur-level/article37333101.ece
04 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DYFI protests against hike in fuel prices||Condemning the frequent hike in the prices of fuel and LPG cylinder, members of Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) staged a demonstration near the Collectorate on Wednesday. Led by the district president of the DYFI, P. Kandasamy and secretary V. Venkatesh, members said that the price of petrol and diesel have been hiked almost every day in the past five months causing hardship to the common people who lost their livelihood due to COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown.  The protesters said that the hike is Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s gift to the people of the country and strongly condemned it. They said that when the price of international crude oil is stable, oil marketing companies in the country continue to hike the price of fuel everyday to earn more profits. They wanted the recent hike in commercial cylinders to be withdrawn and stop hiking the price of fuel every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dyfi-protests-against-hike-in-fuel-prices/article37333095.ece
04 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Sedition case filed against NTK leader Seeman||The Ammapettai police in Salem registered a case against Naam Tamilar Katchi chief coordinator Seeman under five sections of the Indian Penal Code, including sedition, for hoisting a separate flag for the State during the ‘Tamil Nadu Day’ celebrations on November 1. The police said his party organised a meeting at a marriage hall in Ammapettai during which Mr. Seeman hoisted the flag and also made “many controversial remarks”. Ammapettai VAO Raja lodged a complaint, based on which a case under sections 124A (sedition), 143 (unlawful assembly), 153 (a) (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race etc. and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 505 (1) (c) (with intent to incite, or which is likely to incite, any class or community of persons to commit any offence against any other class or community) of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sedition-case-filed-against-ntk-leader-seeman/article37332983.ece
04 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Change in rly reservation timing||On account of Deepavali, the computerised Passenger Reservation System centres in the Salem Division of the Southern Railway will function for only one shift from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m., similar to Sunday’s pattern of working on Thursday, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/change-in-rly-reservation-timing/article37333098.ece
04 November 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Ramanadhi dam||Water from Ramanadhi dam was released for irrigating 4943.51 acres of ayacut in Tenkasi district on Wednesday. Tirunelveli MP, S. Gnana Thiraviyam, opened the sluices in the presence of Tenkasi Collector S. Gopala Sundara Raj. A statement said that water would be released through North Canal, South Canal, Pappan Canal and Ramanadhi Canal. Sixty cusecs of water would be released for 148 days. The release will help agricultural operation in Kadayam, Melakadayam, Govindaperi, Azhwarkurichi, Vagaikulam, Idaikkal, Pottalpudur, Thuppakudi, Ayan Pottalpudur, Pappankulam and Ravanasamudram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-ramanadhi-dam/article37333412.ece
04 November 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Two murdered||An employee of a private finance company was stabbed to death when he had gone to a house to collect loan dues at Sundarapandiapuram near here on Tuesday. Police said P. Ramasubramanian, 29, had gone to collect money from Shanmuganathan, 38. When Shanmuganathan’s wife said she could not pay the due, a quarrel erupted between them. Enraged over the issue, Shanmuganathan repeatedly stabbed him with a knife. The injured was rushed to Tenkasi Government Hospital, but died on the way. Samabavarvadakarai police have arrested the accused.    In another incident, A. Murugan, 51, was hacked to death by his elder brother Muniasamy over a property dispute under Pasuvanthanai police station limits in Thoothukudi district on Tuesday. The police said Arumugam of Bommaiyapuram had three sons and he had given his property to two of them, Muniyasamy and Chelladurai. The youngest son, Murugan, was agitated over this. Murugan, who was living in Ceylon Colony in Ottapidaram, had come to meet his father and stayed there. Muniyasamy hacked him with a machete and surrendered before the police. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar inspected the scene of crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-murdered/article37333410.ece
04 November 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA academy offers free training to aspirants of IBPS exams||SASTRA Academy for Growth and Excellence (SAGE) has announced free training for all those appearing for examinations conducted by the Institute of Banking Personnel Selection (IBPS) for the post of Probationary Officer/Management Trainees in December. Earlier, SAGE had announced that a six-day training session will be conducted for the physically challenged residing in Thanjavur and have enrolled their names for the examinations. In a press release on Wednesday, it has said all candidates residing in the district and aspiring to take up the IBPS exam to be held in December can join the free training programme to be held from November 15 to 20. The programme will be conducted at SASTRA, Thirumalaisamudhram, and Srinivasa Ramanujan Centre, Kumbakonam, to assist the aspirants in preparing themselves for the IBPS preliminary examinations. The candidates, who are eligible to appear for the IBPS examinations (eligibility and other criteria available atwww.ibps.in) and aspiring to avail the free training, are requested to contact the Dean, Corporate Relations and Extension Activities, SASTRA Deemed University, Thanjavur – 613401 over phone by dialling 04362 – 264101 – 108, Extension 2211, or through mail (sage@sastra.ac.in).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sastra-academy-offers-free-training-to-aspirants-of-ibps-exams/article37333056.ece
04 November 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Ganja seized from ambulance||A special police team formed by the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Thanjavur Range, Pravesh Kumar, has seized 200 kg of ganja from an ambulance at Nagapattinam. According to a press release from the DIG Thanjavur Range Office, the special team intercepted an ambulance at Nagapattinam in the early hours of Wednesday and a thorough search of the vehicle led to recovery of the smuggled substance. Further inquiry revealed that the contraband was brought from Andhra Pradesh to be smuggled to Sri Lanka through the Bay of Bengal. The special team arrested Marshal Terrance Raja of Nagapattinam in connection with the smuggling, the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ganja-seized-from-ambulance/article37332979.ece
04 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Pubs in IT parks on the cards in Kerala||The Kerala Government is likely to consider opening wine parlours and pubs in response to a demand from the IT sector workforce. Lack of night-life facilities such as pubs is pointed out as a drawback by the IT companies who wish to set up shop in the State, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the Assembly on Wednesday to questions. Representatives of the firms who draw up feasibility reports mention the absence of pubs and similar infrastructure as drawbacks. Also, the younger generation employed in the sector desire facilities available in the IT hubs elsewhere in Kerala also, he said. The State Government had earlier given serious thought to the issue but the outbreak of COVID-19 had prevented it from taking the matter further, he said. Kurukkoli Moideen of the Indian Union Muslim League had raised the matter in the Assembly during question hour. According to him, the Government had earlier considered opening wine parlours as part of developing night-life facilities for the IT sector employees. The announcement had come at a time when objections persisted against opening more liquor outlets in the State, Mr. Moideen said. The news has brought in a lot of cheer among the workforce. Vineeth Chandran, Secretary of Prathidhwani, welfare organisation of IT employees in Kerala, welcomed the decision as it could lead to an improvement in IT business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pubs-in-it-parks-on-the-cards-pinarayi/article37332854.ece
04 November 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects flooded areas||Fisheries Minister Anitha R. Radhakrishnan on Wednesday inspected waterlogged areas in Eral taluk. He inspected Thanneerpandal, Uppanur, Kadambankulam, Kurumbur bridge and Angamangalam bridge, along with Collector K. Senthil Raj. After inspection, Mr. Radhakrishnan said that heavy rain in the taluk led to surplus water from Kadmba weir entering various villages and that resulted in flooding. Farmers who met the Minister appealed to him to evict encroachment in the weir and remove water hyacinth to ensure free flow of rainwater. The Minister said that officials have been instructed to take efforts to prevent such inundation in future. Personal Assistant (Agriculture) to Collector, Palani Velayutham, PWD Executive Engineer Annadurai and Eral Tahsildar Kannan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inspects-flooded-areas/article37333414.ece
04 November 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Do not share personal details: BSNL||Public sector telecom operator BSNL has cautioned its subscribers to be wary of calls and messages received on their mobile phones asking them to update their know your customer (KYC) details to avoid disconnection. In a statement, its General Manager-Tirunelveli said that of late BSNL subscribers were getting calls seeking personal details like address, date of birth, PAN number to update KYC in the name of BSNL Customer Care to avoid deactivation of SIM cards. Stating that BSNL never seeks any personal information through SMS, the general manager appealed to them not to click on any links sent to their mobile phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-share-personal-details-bsnl/article37333408.ece
04 November 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Local holiday announced||Thoothukudi district administration has declared a local holiday for the entire district on November 9 on the occasion of Soorasamharam event as part of Kandha Sashti festival at Subramaniaswamy Temple at Tiruchendur. In a statement, Collector K. Senthilraj said that the holiday under Negotiable Instrument Act, will not apply for those in essential services. However, devotees would not be allowed to witness the event. Devotees can watch the live proceedings of the event through local television channels. Instead of November 9, the offices in the district would work on November 27, the statement said. Palani Meanwhile, Dindigul Collector S. Visakan said that devotees would be allowed to offer prayers at the Thandayuthapani temple at Palani during Kandha Sashti festival. However, they would not be allowed in the procession. Devotees will not be allowed for the ‘kaappu kattu’ event on Thursday. No mandagapadi will be allowed from November 5 to 10. On Soorasamharam day, devotees would be allowed to reach the hilltop temple till 11 a.m. However, devotees would not be allowed to witness Soorasamharam event to be held in Giri Street.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soorasamharam-sans-devotees/article37333082.ece
04 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rain plays spoilsport for vendors||On the eve of Deepavali, heavy rain spoilt the fortunes of roadside and seasonal textile traders in the cit on Wednesday. The festival eve is considered the busiest day of the year for textile traders. Expecting brisk business, a large number of seasonal traders from Tiruppur, Erode, Karur arrived in the city a few days ago and set up roofless shops in Singarathope, Super Bazaar, Big Bazaar Street, N.S.B. Road and other business areas near Teppakulam. Sourcing ready-made dress materials from Tiruppur and other areas, the traders piled up stocks to cash in on the soaring demand on the eve of the festival. But the pouring rain in the morning on Wednesday came as a rude shock to them. The rain, which began early in the morning, continued up to 11.30 a.m. and the traders could not set up their shops. Rainwater stagnated for one to two feet in most parts of Super Bazaar, Town Hall and other business areas. The anxious traders, who had invested heavily to set up temporary stalls, kept their fingers crossed as the continuous rain completely thwarted the morning business. The traders heaved a sigh of relief only after there was a let-up in the rain, They then began opening their shops. “We came to the city with a great expectation of brisk business. The rain washed out the morning business totally. It has shattered our business,” says M. Abthahir, a seasonal trader from Tiruppur, who set up a small shop by paying rent for Rs. 40,000 for three days from Monday in Super Bazaar. He was among the more than 500 seasonal traders who came to the city for the Deepavali sale. He said he had procured ready-made garments for Rs. 3 lakh from Tiruppur and Erode. Many people stayed away from shopping due to rain and business picked up only in the afternoon. He was not sure whether he could clear the stock before dawn on Thursday. M. Mathi, another seasonal trader from Erode, said there was no business till 1 p.m. as he could not display the garments due to heavy rain. It was really a bad season for him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-plays-spoilsport-for-vendors/article37333068.ece
04 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Animatronic insects at butterfly park||Electronic bees and butterflies, which move their wings in sync with the hands of visitors, are the latest attractions at the Tropical Butterfly Conservatory of the Forest Department in Srirangam.  Sensors Sensors read the movement of the hands of the visitors and enable the ‘animatronics models’ to move their wings and bodies accordingly.  The conservatory is Asia’s largest butterfly park and home to more than 300 plant species. About 125 species of butterfly and more than 100 bird species have been recorded at the conservatory, a Forest Department press release said. Popularly referred to as the Butterfly Park, it is located between the Cauvery and the Kollidam rivers and a major leisure spot in the city. It attracts a large number of visitors during weekends and holidays. The park has a play area for children, artificial water fountains, wooden bridges, huts, ponds and boats. In recent months, the Forest Department has introduced a children’s train, battery car and balloon games aimed at attracting repeat visitors. The department is planning to execute new projects and add more facilities at the park in the coming days, the department’s press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-animatronic-insects-at-butterfly-park/article37333070.ece
04 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Demand for Manapparai palkova doubles during festive season||The Manapparai palkova made by Manapparai Milk Producers' Cooperative Society is a crowd favourite. It is in high demand during any season, and most days, the milk sweet made in the morning runs out by noon. The reason for its high demand is the preparation method. While other methods of making palkova involve a steamer, the Manapparai palkova is made entirely in an iron wok and wood fire. Milk is made to condense in high heat, after which sugar is added. While it is a long process, the taste is worth it, says R. Thangavelu, secretary, Manapparai Milk Producers' Cooperative Society Buffalo milk of the local Murrah breed is used to make the palkova . “These ingredients remain constant. Even if the people who make the palkova change, the taste will remain constant," Mr. Thangavelu says. While 50 kilos of palkova are made per day, it is 100 kilos during Deepavali season. While the milk is delivered to the office before 5 a.m., two men, who are in charge of making the sweet dish, begin the process by 6 a.m. Within two hours, it is ready to be packed. A litre of milk yields 300 grams of palkova . The demand has been sustained by word of mouth alone. The palkova is made in two shifts.. “No matter how much we make, the shelves are empty by noon. Because of the demand, we begin making another round of the sweet in the evening," Mr. Thangavelu says. Asked why the preparation cannot be scaled up, he says they do not want to compromise on quality. “We are afraid that the unique taste will be spoilt. The availability of buffalo milk too is not sufficient," he adds. Only a part of the daily milk supply is used to prepare palkova , while the remaining is sent to the Aavin processing plant in Tiruchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demand-for-manapparai-palkova-doubles-during-festive-season/article37333060.ece
04 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||148 fresh cases, five deaths in central region||The central region reported 148 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. Five deaths due to the viral infection were recorded in the region All nine districts which belong to the central region reported less than cases. In Thanjavur, 37 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Tiruchi, meanwhile, registered 32 fresh cases. The other seven districts in central Tamil Nadu reported less than 25 COVID-19 cases each. In Karur, 25 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Tiruvarur registered 24 fresh cases and Nagapattinam, 11. Pudukottai district registered seven cases. Ariyalur, Mayiladuthurai and Perambalur districts reported four cases each. Two deaths each in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam and one in Perambalur district were reported in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/148-fresh-cases-five-deaths-in-central-region/article37333062.ece
04 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Kerala woman claims threat from ex-Minister||Alleging threat to her life from former Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, R. Sharmila (40) of Alapuzha in Kerala has submitted a petition to Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu seeking protection for herself and her husband. Garment business The woman alleged that she and her husband were involved in garment business and had got acquainted with Mr. Vijayabaskar in 2013. She claims to have handed over gold jewellery worth Rs. 14 crore to Mr. Vijayabaskar and his wife Ramya in January 2017 as he promised to monetise it and invest the money in business through his friends. I-T raid However, when the couple sought return of the jewellery or money in 2018, Mr. Vijayabaskar allegedly told them that he could not return it as there had been a CBI and Income Tax raid at his houses in 2017. After they insisted on having their money returned, Mr. Vijayabaskar gave Rs. 3 crore in 2019 at a Chennai hotel, she claimed. False case Further, she alleged that a false case was foisted against her in Karur and sought police protection to enable her to pursue her case against Mr. Vijayabaskar legally.  She claims to have handed over gold jewellery worth Rs. 14 crore to former Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and his wife Ramya in January 2017||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-woman-alleges-threat-from-ex-minister/article37333014.ece
04 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Wednesday stood at 135.60 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 1,842.71 cusecs and a discharge of 1,034.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 82.60 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 547 cusecs and a discharge of 20 cusecs. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Wednesday was (in mm): Palayamkottai 55, Tirunelveli 33.20, Manimutharu 25.20, Cheranmahadevi 20, Ambasamudram 15, Papanasam 10 and Nanguneri 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37333411.ece
04 November 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Release white paper on petrochemical project’||The Thamizhaga All Farmers Organisations Coordination Committee has demanded a white paper on the proposed formation of a petrochemical cluster in Nagapattinam. Addressing the media at Mannargudi on Tuesday, committee president P.R. Pandian recalled the agitations organised by the farmers in the past when the previous AIADMK government attempted to create a petrochemical industrial zone encompassing Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and surrounding districts. The agitations forced the AIADMK government to cancel the notification on the petroleum, chemical and petrochemical investment region (PCPIR) in February 2020 and declare the delta as a Protected Special Agriculture Zone in March. Subsequently, a notification was issued in August by the then Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, and rules were framed. The declaration and notification put an end to the tireless agitations of farmers against the expansion of petrochemical industry activities, he said. At this juncture, allocation of Rs. 50 lakh to conduct a detailed report on the possibility of forming a petrochemical cluster in Nagapattinam district and the simultaneous move by the Narimanam Oil Refinery unit to acquire fertile lands in Narimanam and surrounding villages had shocked the farmers. They had staged a walkout from the agriculture grievance meeting convened by Nagapattinam administration recently protesting the move to set up a petrochemical cluster, he said. The coordination committee called upon the State government to clarify its stand on the issue by releasing a white paper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/release-white-paper-on-petrochemical-project/article37333058.ece
04 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. arranges Deepavali celebration||Officials from the Gudalur Forest Division distributed sweets among tribal residents in Kozhikolly and Mundakannu settlements. Forest Department officials said that for the last few years, the residents of these settlements had avoided lighting fireworks to ensure that wildlife living next to their villages were not affected. The Assistant Conservator of Forests of Gudalur division, Venkatest Prabhu distributed sweets that were contributed by the Gene Pool Eco-Development Committee among 120 families in the two villages. Officials said that they were carrying out awareness programmes across the division where there was a high interface of humans and wildlife. Night patrol In order to ensure that there are no incident of poaching or wildlife crimes and trespassing into reserve forests, the Gudalur Forest Division officials have instructed field staff to intensify night patrol on Deepavali. T-shirts, caps and sweets were presented to the range staff in Gudalur and mahouts from the Theppakadu Elephant Camp who have been stationed in Gudalur for elephant-driving operations.  Coimbatore Staff   Reporter adds  Residents of Baralikadu, Poochamarathur, Nellimarathur, Neeradi and Thondai tribal settlements around the Pilloor Reservoir celebrated Deepavali along with the Forest Department staff, members of non-governmental organisations and nature enthusiasts on Wednesday. The residents sang folk songs and performed traditional dances to the tunes of tribal musical instruments. Karamadai Forest Range Officer E.N. Manoharan took part. On Tuesday, the Nilgiris Adivasi Welfare Association distributed rice and provisions among the tribal residents of Manar, Sirukinaru, Thondai and Poochamarathur. The Forest Department appealed to the residents of settlements in the reserve forest and villages bordering forests to avoid bursting firecrackers for Deepavali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-arranges-deepavali-celebration-for-tribal-people/article37333027.ece
04 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Eco-friendly painting workshop held for tribal children||Conservation NGO “Arulagam” conducted an “eco-friendly” painting workshop for tribal children at the Kargudi Tribal Residential School in the Nilgiris. S. Bharathidasan, secretary of Arulagam, said that the workshop was conducted to raise awareness about the impact of lead poisoning among students. “Every year, the last week of October is observed as International Lead Poisoning Prevention Week. As part of the week-long programme, ‘Arulagam’ conducted various activities, including discussions with painters’ association about the ill-effects of lead poisoning,” he said in a press release. The organisation also highlighted the need to control usage of lead in paints by appealing to policy-makers to check and monitor the lead content level in paints within permissible limits. “According to the World Health Organisation, children are one of the most vulnerable groups and every year, more than five million kids are getting affected by lead poisoning,” it said. The workshop was conducted using eco-friendly dyeing materials such as leaves, lemon, charcoal, lime, turmeric powder, indigo dye, rock powder and soil as alternatives to traditional lead-based paints. The painting brush was also made from natural plant materials such as cactus, coco peat and cotton. More than hundred students and teachers participated in the event. They were also trained to make wildlife-themed masks and allowed to paint with the natural colours. Dr. Ezhumalai Venkatesh from Pondicherry conducted the programme. The event was organised with the support of the International Pollutants Elimination Network, Rotary International the Nilgiris West and Kargudi Tribal Residential High School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eco-friendly-painting-workshop-held-for-tribal-children/article37333025.ece
04 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||PWD engineer’s houses in Vellore, Hosur raided||In a two-day joint operation, Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption and Inspection Cell officers searched the residences of Shobana, the Executive Engineer of the Technical Education Division of the Public Works Department, in Vellore and Hosur. In the searches that ended on Wednesday, the DVAC seized Rs. 2,06,90,300 in cash, 38 sovereign of gold jewellery, 1.320 kg of silver, fixed deposit certificates worth Rs. 27,98,000, 14 property documents, 11 bank passbooks and a bank locker key. Broad remit Ms. Shobana is in charge of infrastructure work in eight districts — Cuddalore, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Thiruvannamalai, Vellore, Ranipet, Tirupattur, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri. She also sanctions the bills for works undertaken by the private contractors in these districts. It was said that she was in possession of a huge amount of money which Ms. Shobana allegedly collected as bribe from the contractors over the years. Special DVAC teams, led by inspectors S. Vijay, K. Vijayalakshmi and V. Rajinikanth, searched a house in Vellore. Another team searched the house of the engineer in Hosur. “After a surprise check last evening (Tuesday) during which we seized Rs. 5 lakh from her car, we decided to extend the searches on Wednesday,” said a DVAC official. Subsequently, the team searched her residence adjacent to the Government Guest House near Thanthai Periyar Government Engineering College in Vellore where the team seized Rs. 15,85,000 and three cheques worth Rs. 3,92,000. Following the seizure, a case was registered at the DVAC, Vellore. After that, searches were carried out at her permanent residence in Hosur.  She was said to be in possession of a huge amount of money which she allegedly collected as bribe from the contractors over the years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pwd-engineers-houses-in-vellore-hosur-raided/article37333011.ece
04 November 2021||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||Organ transplantation centre opened at Naruvi Hospitals||A Organ Transplantation Centre (OTC) was opened at Naruvi Hospitals in Vellore on Wednesday. According to a press release, Naruvi Hospitals chairman G.V. Sampath said that the OTC has been set up in technical collaboration with Henry Ford Health System, USA. The OTC, which is well equipped with latest diagnostic tools, skilled surgeons and specialists, can handle complex surgeries and transplantation of vital organs such as the heart, liver, lungs and kidneys. The State government has given its approval for the centre. Started in February this year, Dr. Sampath said the 500-bed hospital had treated more than 30,000 patients, including around 6,000 COVID-19 patients. Naruvi Hospitals Vice-Chairperson Anitha Sampath, Executive Director Paul Henry, Chief of Medical Services Aravindan Nair, Chief Operating Officer Mani Maran and Hospital's General Manager Nithin Sampath were also present on the occasion, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/organ-transplantation-centre-opened-at-naruvi-hospitals/article37333366.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre has given more funds to Tamil Nadu’||“On November 2 itself, the funds were released, in fact more than what Tamil Nadu had sought. But it is amusing that the Chief Minister is trying to politicise the issue,” he said. Mr. Murugan said Rs. 246 crore was misappropriated under the scheme in Tamil Nadu, but only Rs. 1.85 crore had so far been recovered. He said the State Government had not appointed an ombudsman in all 37 districts as mandated under the scheme. On the issue of 23 fishermen from Tamil Nadu held by the Sri Lankan Navy on October 13, Mr. Murugan said the Ministry of External Affairs was in touch with Sri Lanka. He charged the Tamil Nadu Government with not being proactive. “The Ministry had asked [Tamil Nadu] for the complete details of these fishermen. But they were not given till October 25. This lackadaisical attitude on the part of the Tamil Nadu Government is leading to delays in getting them released.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-has-given-more-funds-to-tn/article37332975.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 69 new cases in Erode district||Erode district on Wednesday reported 69 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,04,506. While 78 persons were discharged, 734 continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 58 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 1,00,071. While 52 persons were discharged, 594 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 1,686. Namakkal district reported 47 cases taking the tally to 52,386. While 57 persons were discharged, 475 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 501.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-69-new-cases-in-erode-district/article37333091.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rush hour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rush-hour/article37333267.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Under a cloud||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/under-a-cloud/article37332871.ece
04 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Has BJP been successful in wooing Muslim voters in Sindgi?||What factors could have influenced the bypoll results in Sindgi? This is the issue being discussed a day after the results. While some have said that the BJP victory in Sindgi is significant as the ruling party lost in Hangal, the Chief Minister’s home district, some others are praising the efforts of party leaders V. Somanna, Lakshman Savadi and others. However, the factors seem to be varied and non-linear. Sindgi was one of the six seats won by the Janata Dal(S) in North Karnataka. On Tuesday, it lost the seat and party candidate Naziya Angadi lost her deposit. Compared to this, party leader M.C. Managuli, who won in 2018, had secured 70,865 votes, around 44% of those polled. The victory margin of over 31,000 votes seems to have surprised BJP nominee Ramesh Bhusnur. Political observers say that it could be due to the low voting percentage. Last time, the voting percentage was 81. The 12 per cent reduction in voting seems to have affected the chances of the Congress and the Janata Dal(S). Janata Dal(S) leadership was upset that Ashok Managuli and Shantaveer Managuli, sons of M.C. Managuli, had joined the Congress after the death of their father. In campaign speeches, party leaders H.D. Deve Gowda and H.D. Kumaraswamy had asked the voters not to favour their deserters. They argued that the Janata Dal(S) was the real secular party and that the Congress had exploited them all through. They chose Ms. Angadi, whose father in-law B.C. Angadi was a senior Janata Parivar leader in the 1980s. It was widely believed that the Janata Dal(S) had fielded a Muslim candidate only to split the secular vote. However, the Janata Dal(S) made little impact in the byelection, as it secured only 4,321 votes, around 2.6% of those polled. At least two Congress leaders told The Hindu that some BJP leaders had met some Muslim leaders asking them to vote for the Janata Dal(S) and not the Congress. Some believe that Mr. Bhusnur has been successful in getting some Muslim votes. “Like K.S. Eshwarappa in Shivamogga, Mr. Bhusnur enjoys a personal rapport with the Muslim leadership in the constituency. He has been helping the community since the beginning. He says that he has secured at least 4,000-5,000 Muslim votes. He may be telling the truth,’’ said Mahantesh Mathpati, a Sindgi-based writer. There are unconfirmed reports that the Muttahida Mahaj, a federation of voters, had appealed to the Muslim voters in Sindgi not to support the Janata Dal(S) as it would ultimately help the BJP. “The federation organised meetings of various Jamaat groups in the taluk in which leaders of various religious bodies, and some parties, participated,’’ said a leader from Almel town who had participated in one such meeting. Abdul Masood Khadar, convenor of the federation, however, denied these reports. “The federation does not openly support or oppose any party. Its main agenda is to create awareness about the poll process and ensure that most voters exercise their franchise. We did not organise any meeting in Sindgi. It is possible that some of our sympathisers who have political affiliations may have participated in some of the meetings,’’ he said. “Muslims form at least 21% of the electorate. But they did not vote in large enough numbers. Some were upset that the Congress did not give ticket to one of them. Some registered voters have gone away to Maharashtra to seek work,’’ said a Congress leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/has-bjp-been-successful-in-wooing-muslim-voters-in-sindgi/article37333110.ece
04 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rare procedure saves patient||Doctors in the Bidar-based Gudage Hospital saved the life of a heart patient by performing a rare treatment procedure recently. “We conducted a permanent pacemaker implantation (PPI) and fractional flow reserve (FFR) procedure in the hospital. This is the first time in the Kalyana Karnataka region that such a procedure has ben performed,” the hospital said in a release. A 60-year-old Sushila Bai from Santapur of Aurad taluk in Bidar district came to the hospital complaining of high blood pressure but very low pulse rate. Her pulse rate was below 20 and she was taking five tablets to control BP every day. After treatment, she is not taking any BP tablets. She has been discharged from hospital and she is healthy now. The hospital treated her free as she came from a below poverty line family. In some hospitals in Hyderabad, the procedure would have cost her Rs. 3 lakh, the release said. A team led by senior cardiologist Chandrakant Gudage, cardiologist Nitin Gudage, Sachin Gudage and Mahesh Tondare treated the patient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rare-procedure-saves-patient/article37333109.ece
04 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||MLIRC plans special recruitment drive||A special recruitment drive for Defence Security Corps will be held at the Maratha Light Infantry Regimental Centre (MLIRC) in Belagavi on November 8 and 9, for personnel who have served in the centre earlier. Recruitment will be held for soldier general duty and soldier clerk. Those who have served in MLIRC for at least five years are eligible. The age limit is 46 for soldier general duty and 48 for soldier clerk. They should bring relevant certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlirc-plans-special-recruitment-drive/article37333108.ece
04 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Road accident victim dies in hospital||A young man who was injured in a road accident in Belagavi last week died in hospital this Tuesday. Parashuram Bachalkar (21) was injured in a motorcycle accident near Bhavani Nagar last Tuesday. He died in a private hospital. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/road-accident-victim-dies-in-hospital/article37333111.ece
04 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hangal defeat cause for concern for BJP central leadership||The BJP’s shocking defeat in the byelection to Hangal Assembly constituency is learnt to have caused concern among the party’s central leadership, which will take stock of developments and incorporate these lessons in the party’s strategy for the 2023 Assembly elections. The party leadership is said to be particularly concerned as Hangal is regarded as BJP bastion since its veteran leader late C.M. Udasi had represented it for a long time. The constituency falls in the Chief Minister’s home district of Haveri. Though the party high command ensured smooth transfer of power from veteran leader B.S. Yediyurappa to Mr. Bommai, the Hangal defeat has given raise to speculation that it could be an indication of resistance by the supporters of the erstwhile regime within the party to the new one. BJP national general secretary Arun Singh is arriving in Bengaluru on November 8 to take stock of developments after the bypoll results. He is expected to hold consultations with prominent party leaders, including the Chief Minister. It is learnt that the party high command is keen that its State unit should learn from the Hangal defeat while preparing for the 2023 Assembly elections. CM for Delhi Meanwhile, the Chief Minister is visiting Delhi on November 6 to attend the party’s national executive to be held the next day. Speculations are rife that the issue of Hangal defeat may be discussed by the party central leaders on the sidelines of the executive as a prelude to the meeting to be held later by Mr. Arun Singh. However, a few leaders in the State unit maintained that meetings on the sidelines would depend on schedule of leaders. But they too admit that irrespective of whether or not the central leaders discuss the bypoll issue with the Chief Minister, they are certainly concerned over the party State unit losing a seat despite having various clear advantages. Mr. Bommai, who is spending Deepavali in Hubballi, reiterated before leaving from Bengaluru that the bypoll results were not an indicator of the electorate’s mood for 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hangal-defeat-cause-for-concern-for-bjp-central-leadership/article37332956.ece
04 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rise in cost of commercial gas hits hotel industry this festive season||Hotel owners are reeling under the rising price of commercial LPG cylinders, which has increased by Rs. 400 in the last six months. For the first time, commercial cylinders have breached Rs. 2,000. This, along with the rising price of essential commodities, is eating into the little profit that restaurants are finally making. The industry is on the road to recovery, but for the most part, proprietors are unwilling to pass the entire burden on to patrons who have only recently resumed dining out after the second wave of COVID-19. Many have increased the price of a few items like tea and coffee or biryani, while leaving the rest of menu prices untouched. “We would rather have this eat into our little profit than pass on the entire burden to customers. However, if the government doesn’t come to the rescue of the common man, we will be forced to increase our rates,” said P.C. Rao, president of the Bruhat Bengaluru Hotels’ Association. However, smaller eateries and darshinis, whose clientele are also feeling the impact of the rising cost of essential commodities, don’t have much of a choice but to increase the price of some items. Of the estimated 24,000 eateries catering to different categories of clientele in the city, nearly 30% are darshinis. The price of tea and coffee has been hiked from Rs. 10 to Rs. 12 a cup at Brahmalingeshwara Darshini in Anchepalya, off Tumakuru Road. The price of regular items on the menu has not been increased. Similarly, at Hassan Iyengar Bakery, the price of savoury items has been increased, while that of sweets remains the same. Shravya Dum Biryani, a small outlet on Tumakuru Road, has increased the per plate price of chicken kebabs from Rs. 40 to Rs. 50, and that of chicken biryani from Rs. 100 to Rs. 120. “We are struggling with rising costs,” said Babu Rao (name changed), owner of the biryani outlet. Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president of Karnataka Pradesh Hotel and Restaurants’ Association, said that along with commercial cooking gas, the cost of oil had increased by over Rs. 100 a litre, as had that of lentils, pulses and coffee powder. “Customers are just about returning to smaller joints. If prices are increased at this stage, the footfalls will decrease again. Increase in price is not the solution for either the hotel owner or customer right now,” he pointed out. Mid-segment and family restaurants and hotels are also in dire straits. An owner of a mid-size family restaurant in Vijayanagar said though the price of essential items fluctuate every day, hotels could not determine menu price accordingly. “Building owners are not reducing rents, the footfalls to family restaurants and hotels have not picked up after the lockdown and added to this, the cost of essential items keeps increasing,” he said. Arun Adiga of Vidyarthi Bhavan, a popular joint in Gandhi Bazaar, said that a mid-size hotel/ restaurant uses anywhere from 4-5 commercial LPG cylinders (each weighing 19 kg) a day, while bigger establishments may use over 10 a day. The cost of a commercial cylinder that was Rs. 1,081 in May 2020 is now Rs. 2,063 (November 2021). “The increase is around Rs. 1,000 in a little over a year,” he pointed out. Mr. Rao told The Hindu that the hotels’ associations had repeatedly represented to the State Government to intervene and control the price hike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rise-in-cost-of-commercial-gas-hits-hotel-industry-this-festive-season/article37332947.ece
04 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Are green crackers really green?||The boom of firecrackers has begun as Deepavali celebrations kick in. Many traders have also acknowledged a rise in sales. But amidst the push for green crackers, questions are being raised about whether they really are the best alternatives to existing versions when it comes to reducing harm to humans and the environment. Madhusudhan Anand, CTO and co-founder, Ambee, which supplies hyperlocal data on environmental factors in real time across the globe, said that green crackers are low-emission crackers free of harmful chemicals like sulphur nitrates, arsenic, magnesium, sodium, lead, and barium. ‘Not a safe replacement’ They are not “completely free but are significantly less pollutive”, as compared to regular firecrackers. “Their efficacies are determined by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and as of today, green crackers can only reduce emissions by up to 30% in comparison to regular ones. They are not a dependable and safer replacement to regular firecrackers, but they are only a low-emission and less harmful alternative. Green crackers use alternative, yet harmful chemicals like potassium nitrate and aluminium instead of magnesium and barium, and carbon instead of arsenic and other harmful pollutants,” Mr. Madhusudhan explained. He added that green crackers undergo a chemical formulation to ensure reduced particle emission and a lower sound yield. “Regular crackers emit anywhere between 160 decibels to even 200 decibels while green crackers are restricted to about 100-130 decibels,” he added. ‘Doesn’t solve purpose’ But is that enough? Pratima Singh, research scientist who leads the Air Pollution domain at CSTEP, told The Hindu that green crackers don’t solve any purpose because they too emit fine particle matter in the air. “It becomes difficult to breathe owing to the high pollution concentration from burning firecrackers. Metrological conditions does impact the dispersion of the pollution. Traditional crackers are made up of a lot of toxic chemicals (elements and metals) which get released in the air when burnt, and causes increase in the particulate matter (PM) concentration level. PM 2.5 particles affect humans and increase their breathing problems. Very fine particles (PM1) go beyond the throat area and travel to lungs causing a severe health impact in the long run. Such a high level of pollution concentration impacts children and senior citizens most,” she said. Impact of weather Explaining the impact of the weather, she said during this period the night temperature is low. Cold temperature results in restriction in the dispersion of pollutants. In cold weather, they will stay down at the breathing level, she explained. While there are arguments that firecrackers are burned once a year for Deepavali, she said there is a cumulative impact of many houses burning crackers on the ambient air. “Winter adds to the severity. There are many polluting sources and episodes in the country which we are not able to control. Deepavali comes once a year and there are a lot of sentiments attached. Pilot studies need to be carried out to make smaller crackers which have lesser/negligible polluting agents and more sparkles, so they don’t harm the traditional aspect/faith of the community or the environment,” she recommended. She also added that the Union Government will have the added responsibility of safeguarding livelihoods of those in the industry as well. “We have good institutions in the country which can work on finding a solution,” she added. Meanwhile, Mr. Madhusudhan said people should look for green crackers that are branded differently with a ‘Green fireworks’ logo along with a QR code. The logo will carry a ‘CSIR NEERI INDIA’ certificate and a certificate number, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-curious-case-of-green-crackers/article37332941.ece
04 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Make probe details on bitcoin scam public: DKS||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar on Wednesday demanded that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai make public details of the bitcoin scam, such as the terms of reference given to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to conduct a probe and involvement of influential politicians of the State in it. At a press conference, the KPCC chief said, “It is the duty of the ruling party to provide information to the public on the scam. The Opposition parties’ job is to put pressure on the Government to ensure justice from it.” Differing versions He claimed to know of the people involved in the scam, and said, “But evidence is required to make the names public. There are many differences between what is stated in a letter seeking probe from a Central agency and statements issued by the Chief Minister on the matter.” The Opposition Congress has been accusing the ruling BJP of a cover-up on the scam. Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah claimed that two influential politicians were involved and there was an attempt to cover it up. In response, Mr. Bommai said the ED had been asked to probe into the scam and no one involved in it would be spared. The Chief Minister has asked leaders of the Opposition to provide more details on the allegations being made. CM’s statement Mr. Bommai told the media last week that it was the State Government that referred the investigation to the ED. “All investigations have been done at the State level and then we referred it to the ED and the CBI. The investigations will continue and there is no scope for any interference in it by anyone,” Mr. Bommai had said. Case background In November 2020, the Central Crime Branch of Bengaluru police arrested hacker Srikrishna in connection with a dark web drugs procurement case and uncovered his alleged involvement in many cybercrimes, including hacking and stealing of two U.S-based bitcoin exchanges. The CCB has filed three chargesheets against him, alleging that he stole 5,000 bitcoins, but has failed to recover any of them. The failure to recover the stolen bitcoins has triggered suspicion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/make-details-of-bitcoin-scam-probe-public-dks/article37332963.ece
04 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3 arrested in mob violence following Puneeth’s death||The Magadi Road police are on the hunt for 25 to 30 men who allegedly attacked them and tried to set fire to a police vehicle on November 1 evening in a violent protest in the wake of actor Puneeth Rajkumar’s sudden death on October 29. The incident took place just a day after the Home Minister lauded the Bengaluru police for ensuring law and order after fans from across the State came to Bengaluru to pay their respects. While the Magadi Road police arrested three men, others managed to escape. “Efforts are on to track them down,” said the police. On November 1 evening, the “fans” attackedHoysala staff and the police team attached to the Magadi Road station when they tried to stop them from setting a tyre on fire in the middle of the road. The mob poured petrol on the vehicle in a bid to set it on fire as well. Assistant sub-inspector of police Venkatachaliah drove off in the Hoysala and alerted the control room seeking reinforcement. A police team arrived at the spot soon after, but the mob turned on them. One person allegedly tried to snatch a police sub-inspector’s pistol. The police finally quelled the mob and detained the participants in a police vehicle, but the accused kicked open the door, broke the lock, and escaped. Three men who allegedly participated in the violence — Kumara N., 40, Manjunatha, 32, and Manjunatha G, 27 — were arrested, but the others escaped. The police have registered a case on the charges of attempt to murder, assault and criminal intimidation, and assaulting public servants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-arrested-for-mob-violence-following-puneeths-death/article37332960.ece
04 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Illegal constructions now found in rural areas too: HC||Observing that the menace of illegal constructions has not remained limited only to the cities but have now percolated to the areas of panchayats, the High Court of Karnataka has directed the State Government to regulate constructions in the panchayat areas by enforcing the building bylaws, which the panchayats have failed to adopt even six years after their enactment. The court issued the direction after noticing that no panchayat in the State had adopted the Karnataka Panchayat Raj (Zilla Panchayats, Taluk Panchayats and Grama Panchayats Control over erection of Buildings) Model Bylaws, 2015, which came into force on May 8, 2015. Justice M. Nagaprasanna, while dealing with a petition related to illegal construction in Maddur gram panchayat area of Mandya district noticed that GPs, TPs, and ZPs, though have obligation in law to adopt within three months the model bylaws notified by the Government, have failed to do till date. “It is in public domain that there are mushrooming of construction activities in all the areas coming under the GPs, TPs, and ZPs. The violation of known norms of law in construction is not limited to areas in the city corporation limits. It has percolated into the areas of panchayats,” the court observed. Therefore, the court said, “The time has arrived for the Government to regulate the constructions undertaken in the panchayat areas as well. The Government has notified the bylaws. The bylaws cannot remain on paper and the constructions in the panchayat areas can go on unabated violating every known norm of law.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illegal-constructions-now-found-in-rural-areas-too-hc/article37333319.ece
04 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Large chunk of JD(S) votes went to BJP in Sindgi, admit party insiders||The humiliating drubbing that the Janata Dal (Secular) received in the byelections to Sindgi saw the shifting of a large percentage of votes in favour of the BJP. While the party is disappointed, leaders now claim the results were expected and they are looking ahead with a focus on the 2023 Assembly elections. As per internal post-poll calculations, most of the votes that the JD(S) commanded in 2018 has gone to the BJP and some to the Congress. The party’s vote share in Sindgi plummeted from 44.15% in 2018, when the former Minister late M.C. Manuguli was elected, to a mere 2.66%, thus relegating the party to a distant third. “It looks like the voters have favoured the BJP. The Congress may not have benefited much despite the late legislator’s son Ashok Manuguli being its candidate. The anticipated triangular fight did not happen at all,” sources said. “Because we were on the back foot, people voted for a stronger party. This is common in many byelections. We are not deterred since trends during Assembly elections provide a different picture.” According to the former Minister Bandeppa Kashempur, the party had to fight to prove its existence. “The party lost grassroots machinery due to Mr. Ashok’s desertion. The party did not even have booth-level workers on the polling day. We had to field a candidate to prove our existence, which otherwise would have sent a wrong signal politically. The loss was expected, but the votes secured is disappointing,” he said. He, however, said the party was not disheartened since people had turned up in big numbers to rallies addressed by the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and party supremo H.D. Deve Gowda. “We remain focused on 2023, especially in the north Karnataka region.” The party has so far lost four out of five seats that it won in 2018. While the party retained Ramanagaram after Mr. Kumaraswamy vacated the seat which his wife Anita Kumaraswamy later won, it lost K.R. Pet, Hunsur, Mahalakshmi Layout, Sira, and now Sindgi. These besides losing the parliamentary election from Mandya in 2019. Another party source said that despite fielding a Muslim candidate to increase confidence among the minority community — an optics often seen by the Congress as a ploy to divide minority votes — the party may have not succeeded in endearing the minorities. “This result could force a rethink in the poll strategy for the party in future elections,” he said. Meanwhile, Mr. Kashempur has suggested to Mr. Kumaraswamy to get a survey done to understand why the affection people showed him in rallies by thronging them had not translated to votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/large-chunk-of-jds-votes-went-to-bjp-in-sindgi-admit-party-insiders/article37332959.ece
04 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police: Body found in bag was that of student's||Within 24 hours, the R.R. Nagar police have ascertained the identity of the body found in a gunny bag next to a rajakaluve on Tuesday. “The victim has been identified as Tarun, 21, a resident of Bharathi Nagar. He was a hotel management student,” said the police. Tarun left home on Monday to purchase firecrackers for Deepavali but never returned. His parents filed a missing complaint with the police. His attackers had bound his hands and legs and gagged his mouth with adhesive tape. “We are retracing the victim’s movements after he left his house,” said a police officer. The police are also checking his mobile phone and following up with his friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-body-found-in-bag-was-that-of-students/article37332944.ece
04 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ponzi scam: ED attaches assets worth Rs. 35.7 crore||The Enforcement Directorate, which is investigating a Ponzi investment scheme scam, has provisionally attached assets worth Rs. 35.7 crore of Vikram Investments and other associates under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The attached immovable properties, which include land, office spaces and residential flats across Bengaluru, have a value of Rs. 34.21 crore. Moveable assets that have also been attached are in the form of bank balance and fixed deposits of Rs. 1.49 crore, stated the ED in a release. Enforcement Directorate officials had initiated a money laundering investigation on the basis of an FIR registered in March 2018 by the Banashankari police against partners and other associates of Vikram Investments: Raghavendra Srinath, K.P. Narasimhamurthy, M. Prahlada, K.C. Nagaraj, and Sutram Suresh. They allegedly cheated the general public by luring them to invest in Vikram Investments, promising high returns to the extent of 25-30% per annum under the guise of commodity trading. However, they are not registered with any of the regulatory agencies. The firm earned the trust of their clients by ensuring that they got the first payment of returns as promised. As a result, many clients invested more of their money with them. At some point, the firm stopped issuing returns and allegedly did not release the principal amount either.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ponzi-scam-ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-357-crore/article37332950.ece
04 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||254 new cases, 2 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 254 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of positives to 29,89,014. The maximum number of cases, 151, was reported in Bengaluru Urban district. Two patients succumbed to COVID-19 on Wednesday. With this, the death toll rose to 38,091. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 316 people were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,42,588. At present, there are 8,306 active patients across Karnataka. The positivity rate for the day was 0.33%, while the case fatality rate (CFR) dropped to 0.78%. Around 76,420 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 56,526 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,10,84,158.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-karnataka-sees-254-new-cases-2-deaths/article37332945.ece
04 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Deadline extended||The last date for submitting applications for admissions to postgraduate courses offered by Bengaluru City University departments and its affiliated colleges for the academic year 2021–22 has been extended. According to a BCU press release, the last date for submitting applications without a fine is November 6, and with a fine of Rs. 100 it is November 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deadline-extended/article37332951.ece
04 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Convention on farmers’ movement||A convention on farmers’ movement, organised by Karnataka Janashakthi, will be held on November 7 at Gandhi Bhavan on Kumarakrupa Road. The programme will feature talks on ‘International conspiracy behind the Central agriculture Acts’ by V. Gayathri, ‘Corporate interest behind the obstinacy of the Indian Government’ by B.C. Basavaraju, and ‘Social impact of amendment to Karnataka’s Acts’ by Kodihalli Chandrashekar during the first session between 10.30 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. In the second session between 2.30 p.m. and 5 p.m., there will be talks on ‘Lessons to learn from the Delhi struggle – our tasks in Karnataka’. Speakers in the second session are Mavalli Shankar, Badagalapura Nagendra, K.P. Suresh, and Sirimane Nagaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/convention-on-farmers-movement/article37332952.ece
04 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Masti awards to be presented on Saturday||Masti award and Masti Kadambari - Katha Puraskar presentation ceremony, organised by Dr. Masti Venkatesh Iyengar Trust, will be held on November 6. Poet and writer H.S. Venkateshamurthy will preside over the function and present the awards, according to a press release. Venue The programme will be held at 10 a.m. at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Racecourse Road, Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/masti-awards-to-be-presented-on-saturday/article37332953.ece
04 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Anganwadis to reopen on November 8||Anganwadis across Karnataka, which were closed for nearly 20 months in view of the pandemic, will reopen on November 8. The State Government took this decision after getting an approval from the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee. Anganwadis have been given detailed standard operating procedures to follow to ensure the safety of children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anganwadis-to-reopen-on-november-8/article37332961.ece
04 November 2021||BENGALURU/KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||BJP demands ex-CM’s apology||The ruling BJP has sought a public apology from Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah for his reported remarks that Dalits have supported the BJP for ensuring their own livelihoods. The former Chief Minister has hit back, arguing that his statements were being deliberately misrepresented. Describing this as an “insult to Dalits”, the BJP SC Morcha held a protest in Bengaluru on Wednesday. Participating in the protest, BJP leaders, including MLA P. Rajiv, demanded that Mr. Siddaramaiah tender an apology to Dalits for such an “insensitive” statement. Similar protests were held elsewhere in the State too. Responding to the protests, Mr. Siddaramaiah said he had made the statement in a Madiga Dandora meeting at Sindgi and was criticising MLAs and MPs who were with the BJP despite knowing that the party “did not respect either the Constitution or Babasaheb Ambedkar”. He sought to know why there were no protests then and why it was being picked out now. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar said it was the Congress Government led by Mr. Siddaramaiah that had implemented the Karnataka Scheduled Castes Sub-Plan and Tribal Sub-Plan Act for spending 24.1% of its total budget on SC/ST welfare. Constable slapped Meanwhile, in Raichur, enraged for being prevented from burning an effigy of Mr. Siddaramaiah during a protest, BJP leader and former MLA A. Papareddy slapped a police constable who was in plain clothes. A video clip of Mr. Papareddy arguing with the constable, Raghavendra, attached to Raichur West police station and slapping him went viral. Mr. Papareddy claimed he did not know the man he slapped was a policeman. An FIR has been registered against five people, including the former MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-demands-ex-cms-apology/article37332957.ece
04 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||DC lays down norms for Datta Mala Abhiyana||Chikkamagaluru Deputy Commissioner K.N. Ramesh has instructed the office-bearers of Srirama Sene to keep Datta Mala Abhiyana at Sri Guru Dattatreya Bababudan Swamy Dargah a simple programme by adhering to all COVID-19 restrictions. Srirama Sene people have planned a seven-day Datta Mala Abhiyana beginning on November 8. The valedictory of the campaign will be held at the cave shrine on November 14. The DC held a meeting with officers and office-bearers of Srirama Sene in Chikkamagaluru on Tuesday regarding the preparations for the event. The State Government had allowed the gathering of 400 people for the event and all the participants have to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour. The organisers of the event would not be allowed to take out any procession as part of the campaign. No tourists The district administration has decided to bar the entry of tourists to the shrine on November 14. The officer appealed to the tourists not to plan a visit to the place on the day. The administration would set up a temporary hospital, arrange for an ambulance and other basic amenities on the day. Vehicles with long chassis would not be allowed on the narrow road, connecting the shrine. The organisers would have to give details of the vehicles to the administration in advance and take approval, said Superintendent of Police Akshay M. Hakay. Assistant Commissioner H.L. Nagaraj and other officers were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dc-lays-down-norms-for-datta-mala-abhiyana/article37333309.ece
04 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Commercial LPG cylinder rate hike hits hoteliers||The hike in the rate of commercial LPG cylinders has left hoteliers sulking. Every time the cylinder cost went up, the hoteliers hoped it would come down at least in a few days. Now, the increase of cylinder price by Rs. 266 at one go has impacted the daily investment in food production beyond their imagination. A commercial LPG cylinder costs over Rs. 2,000. “I require at least 10 cylinders a month. The investment in fuel will be over Rs. 20,000 a month. I don’t know how to manage with this situation”, said Prakash Shetty, who runs an eatery on Salagame Road in Hassan. The cost of vegetables, cooking oil and other items has been going up, reducing the profit margin. Normally, hoteliers revise the rates on their menu once a year, considering the expenses, increase in rent among other parameters. Given this situation, those in the hotel industry have to revise the price multiple times in a year. “But, we cannot revise price multiple times. We have to bear the brunt and face the loss”, said Shailesh, manager of a prominent hotel in Hassan. His hotel requires four-five cylinders a day. The hike in the price of the cylinder increases the investment by more than Rs. 1,000 a day. “If we revise the price of food items, we will lose the trust of regular customers. Similarly, we cannot reduce the number of employees, considering the loss. Unless we hire a sufficient number of people both in the kitchen and for food service, we cannot run the show”, he said. Apart from the cost of essential commodities, the demands of employees have also gone up. To keep the employees the owners have to increase their salary regularly. “The hotel industry is not doing well these days because of various factors. Following the COVID-19 restrictions, we had no business for several months. When the business is resuming, the price rise is hitting us”, said Jagadish, who runs a non-vegetarian hotel in the city. The worst-hit are those who run roadside eateries. “We have to look for innovative ways of reducing the food production cost. From now I will reduce expenditure on vegetables and I am also thinking of reducing the quantity of food per plate. As we cannot hike the price suddenly, we have to manage with such tricks”, said a hotelier, who wished not to be named.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/commercial-lpg-cylinder-rate-hike-hits-hoteliers/article37333311.ece
04 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||KSE taunts Siddaramaiah on poll results||RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa said the victory in Hanagal had been a faint hope for the Congress, which had been washed away in the ‘tsunami’. In an interaction with presspersons in Shivamogga on Wednesday, Mr. Eshwarappa was reacting to Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah’s tweet that Congress would emerge as a tsunami in the coming days. “Siddaramaiah himself was lost in the tsunami in Chamundeshwari constituency. The Congress party has been facing defeat after defeat. In Sindagi also, the Congress lost the battle by a huge margin. Only the people of Hanagal have stood by that party”, he said. ‘Will introspect’ Mr. Eshwarappa said the BJP fought the by-elections with the strength of the party’s organiation at the booth level and the development works of Yediyurappa and Basavaraj Bommai. “We will introspect on the defeat in Hanagal and take up measures to ensure we win the seat with a huge margin next time”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kse-taunts-siddaramaiah-on-poll-results/article37333310.ece
04 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hangal loss not a setback: Vijayendra||BJP State vice president B.Y. Vijayendra said that the party’s defeat in Hangal should not be seen as a setback for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The CM and other leaders worked hard for the party in the elections, he told journalists in Hassan on Wednesday. Mr. Bommai had been the Chief Minister only for a couple of months. He campaigned extensively for both seats. The party won one and lost another. “Everybody in the party will take the responsibility for the defeat,” he said. The party would introspect on the way the campaign was held and find out the reasons for the defeat. “We will work out strategies to emerge stronger in the coming days,” he said. On the party’s strength in Hassan, Me. Vijayendra said it had only one MLA in Hassan. “We should win at least five seats in Hassan district. I am confident that we will achieve it in the coming days,” he said. He was in Hassan to visit Hasanamba Temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hangal-loss-not-a-setback-vijayendra/article37333120.ece
04 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Paddy to be procured under MSP||In the wake of demand by paddy growing farmers of the State, the Government has decided to purchase paddy under Minimum Support Price (MSP), Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said. Speaking to presspersons in Hubballi on Wednesday, he said that the officials have been directed to begin the process of registration of paddy-growing farmers after Deepavali and initiate the process of paddy purchase from farmers under MSP. He said that similarly, there is a demand for purchase of maize under MSP and the issue will be taken up during the next Cabinet meeting. On him completing 100 days in office as Chief Minister, he said that completing 100 days in office is not a significant achievement. However, the process to analyse some of the initial steps will be initiated, he said and added that continuous review of his government’s performance is being taken up. To a query, he said that there is no question of blaming anyone for the debacle in Hangal as they faced the bypolls under collective leadership and everyone will bear the responsibility of failure. “Hangal has always seen intense fight with voters choosing between the Congress and the BJP all these years. Due to the good work by Congress candidate Srinivas Mane, the people have elected him. We will introspect our failure and try to take remedial measures. But the fact is that we failed to garner the support that the former Minister late C.M. Udasi enjoyed in the constituency,” he said. He said that the bypoll results cannot be indicators to the general Assembly election. “If loss for BJP in Hangal is indicator of the next election, then what does the huge win by the BJP in Sindgi bypoll indicate?” he asked. On the winter session of State Legislature, he said that it has already been decided in favour of holding a session in Belagavi and the dates will be decided in the Cabinet meeting on November 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/paddy-will-be-procured-under-msp-cm/article37333126.ece
04 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dedicated air cargo terminal now operational at Hubballi Airport||A dedicated domestic air cargo terminal at Hubballi Airport, the first such facility in North Karnataka region, became operational on Wednesday. Airports Authority of India (AAI) has, in coordination with Airports Authority of India - Cargo Logistics and Allied Services Company Limited, operationalised the dedicated domestic air cargo terminal. The old passenger terminal building at the airport has been renovated to function as a cargo terminal at an estimated cost of Rs. 45 lakh. The old passenger terminal was lying unutilised after the new terminal of the airport with hi-tech facilities was commissioned. Making a formal announcement on the operationalisation of the cargo terminal, Director of Hubballi Airport Pramod Kumar Thakre said that the Ministry of Civil Aviation recently introduced Krishi Udan 2.0 scheme with focus on facilitating and incentivising movement of farm produce by air transportation. “This scheme offers full waiver on landing, parking, TNLC and RNFC charges for Indian freighters and passenger to cargo freighters at select airports of the Airport Authority of India,” he said. The cargo terminal at Hubballi Airport is spread across 1,000 sq.m and it has an annual capacity of over 15,000 tonnes. It is capable of handling general, perishable, courier, postal mails and dangerous goods. With dedicated storage space for valuables and dangerous goods, provision for commercial office space for freight forwarders, e-commerce and courier companies are also available here. “AAI believes that this terminal will play an important role in improving trade and logistics scenario in the North Karnataka region. It is expected that this terminal will act as a base for this region and further improve the supply chain prospects of e-commerce companies,” Mr. Thakre said. According to Mr. Thakre, Indigo, StarAir and Alliance Air that operate flights from Huballi have expressed interest in operating through this terminal. Depending upon the local demand, airlines may even operate cargo charters/freighters apart from the existing belly cargo that is being uplifted through their A320, ATR, Embraer aircraft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dedicated-air-cargo-terminal-now-operational-at-hubballi-airport/article37333124.ece
04 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sweets made of clay in protest against price hike||In a novel protest condemning the price hike of essential commodities, among others, members of the All India Mahila Janawadi Sanghatane (State Unit) made sweets and savouries out of clay to mark Deepavali celebrations here on Tuesday. Padmini Kiranagi and Jagadevi Noolkar, members of the sanghatane, said that people are affected due to loss of livelihood and the skyrocketing prices of essentials. “We have prepared sweets and savouries out of clay to remind our Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the plight of the common people who are facing the wrath of price hike,” they said. The protestors demanded that the Union Government roll back increase in prices of essential commodities and fuel. Instead of helping people to combat the ravages of the pandemic, the BJP-led Government has hiked the prices of essential products. They demanded that the government extend free foodgrains scheme through Public Distribution System (PDS) and give subsidy for edible oil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sweets-made-of-clay-in-protest-against-price-hike/article37333105.ece
04 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Creating awareness on road safety and traffic rules||In a bid to inculcate road safety issues and spread awareness about traffic rules among citizens and students, Kalaburagi City Traffic Police on Tuesday organised a traffic awareness programme at the Central Bus Stand and educational institutions. Circle Inspector of Police B. Shantinath attached to the Traffic Police Station urged citizens and students to follow traffic rules, including wearing helmets while riding two-wheelers and wearing seat belts while driving cars, and also follow lane discipline. He also requested teachers to educate students about road safety and the value of life as students are the future of the country. He asked students to take an oath that they will not drive a vehicle until they attain the age of 18 and also insist that their parents wear helmets and seat belts while riding or driving to avoid violation of traffic rules. Mr. Shantinath reiterated that traffic rules are meant for public safety and each and every citizen must follow them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/creating-awareness-on-road-safety-and-traffic-rules/article37333107.ece
04 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Three children drowned||In a tragic incident, three children were drowned in a water pit at Mahalakshmi Layout in Kalaburagi city on Wednesday. The deceased have been identified as Darshan (12), Prashant (11) and Vignesh (11), all residents of Brahmapur locality. The incident took place when the children were playing near the water pit located close to a building under construction. Fire and Emergency Services personnel tried to rescue them but in vain. The police recovered the bodies and shifted them to the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) Hospital for post-mortem. A case has been registered in RG Nagar Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-children-drowned/article37333112.ece
04 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Two killed in road accident||Two persons were killed on the spot in a collision between their motorcycle and a KKRTC bus in Afzalpur taluk of Kalaburagi district on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as Anand Policepatil (32) and Govind Mekeri (31), both from Revoor (K) in Afzalpur taluk. A case has been registered by the Afzalpur Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-killed-in-road-accident/article37333116.ece
04 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Now, consumers can pay water bills at post offices||Consumers can now pay their water bills issued by Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) at post offices. Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar and Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Mangaluru Division, N. Sriharsha said in a joint press release that the bills can be paid at 29 post offices. According to them, such a provision of paying water bills at post offices has been enabled for the first time in the State. Apart from the post offices within the jurisdiction of Mangaluru City Corporation, the bills can also be paid at other post offices of Mangaluru which are outside the jurisdiction of the MCC, they said. “Customers can pay their bills even without presenting the bill but just giving the sequence number printed on the bill,” the release said. “It is a special Rajyotsava gift to all citizens of Mangaluru,” they said. Service charges and GST are applicable for paying the bills. For transaction value up to Rs. 1,000 a consumer will have to pay a total of Rs. 6. For transaction value from Rs. 1,001 to Rs. 2,500 the total charge applicable is Rs. 12, from Rs. 2,501 to Rs. 5,000, it is Rs. 18 and for transaction value above Rs. 5,000 the charge will be Rs. 24. The bills can be paid in post offices under the MCC limits at Ashoknagar, Baikampady, Bajal, Balmatta, Bejai, Boloor, District Court, Falnir, Fisheries College, Gandhinagar, Hampankatta, Kankanady, Katipalla, Kavoor, Kodiyalbail, Konchadi, Kulai, Kulshekar Head Post Office, Kulur, Leewell, Mangaluru Collectorate, Mangaluru Head Post Office, Mercarahills (Mallikatte), Padil, Panambur, Shakthinagar, Srinivasnagar, Surathkal, Vamanjoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/now-consumers-can-pay-water-bills-at-post-offices/article37333288.ece
04 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ward committees become a reality in city||Ending over two decades of dilly-dallying, Mangaluru City Corporation has now finally formed ward committees. Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar issued an order to this effect on Tuesday announcing the final list of members for 60 ward committees. Mr. Sridhar said in a statement that the corporation had invited applications from citizens interested in being part of the ward committees in July 2021. Later, a provisional list of eligible candidates had been announced for public objection. “Objections filed against the provisional list have been taken into serious consideration by the ward nodal officers. Based on their directions, a final list of eligible members belonging to all wards has been posted onwww.mangalurucity.mrc.g- ov.in.” According to the Karnataka Municipalities Act (Amendment) Act 2020, the ward committees shall meet as and when required but at least once in a month. Ward councillors shall preside over the meeting of the committees having 10 other members each. The committees should elect a secretary from among the members. The Act has mentioned 20 main functions of the committees. Some of the functions are taking up the responsibility of maintaining parks or supervising them, taking the responsibility of afforestation and maintenance or their supervision and maintaining the list of government property and take all steps to report to the corporation council in case of any encroachments. The Act mentions that the committees shall take steps to prevent encroachment of streets, roads, footpaths and parking spaces by anyone, especially by shop owners, hawkers and street vendors and they shall be responsible for preventing unauthorised layouts or buildings or developments coming up without proper licence being obtained. The committees shall have complete freedom to choose works that are not localised in nature and resolve to suggest to the council to be added to the annual as well as long-term action plans. They shall take up social auditing of development works of Urban Local Bodies or any government department or undertaking in their jurisdiction with the help of area sabhas and neighbourhood groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ward-committees-become-a-reality-in-city/article37333278.ece
04 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Indoor stadium to have five courts for badminton, three for kabaddi||An indoor stadium for kabaddi and shuttle badminton which the Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. (MSCL) will construct at Urwa Market at a cost of Rs. 20.54 crore will have five courts for shuttle badminton and three for kabaddi. Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel laid the foundation stone for its construction on Tuesday. Mr. Kateel also laid the foundation stone for building a multi-level car parking-cum-retail space project at Hampankatta on the occasion. According to MSCL, the work orders for building the stadium were issued to Mugrodi Constructions on August 13, 2021, for a cost of Rs. 18.81 crores. It will have to be completed in two years on 1.13 acres. The stadium, to come up on 9588.8 sq m with a basement, ground floor and four other floors, will have parking for 103 cars in the basement. The company said in a note that three kabaddi courts will be on the ground floor which will also have an outdoor court, registration kiosk, changing rooms, shops, toilets and administrative office. The first floor will have spectator seating, lobby, VIP lounge, dormitory, public toilets and shops. The second floor will have facilities for indoor games, lobby and gymnasium. The third floor will have five badminton courts, a registration kiosk, medical room, lobby, dormitory, changing rooms and physiotherapy room. The fourth floor will have spectator seating capacity of 800, lobby, a dormitory and a public toilet. The multi-level car parking-cum-retail space project will come up at a cost of Rs. 70 crore under a public-private-partnership model on 1.55 acres. A MSCL official said that Carz Structures Pvt. Ltd. will invest the entire amount. The construction period is three years from the date of agreement that is August 25, 2021. It will have basement, lower ground and upper ground floors and plus four floors. The building will have provision for parking 422 cars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/indoor-stadium-to-have-five-courts-for-badminton-three-for-kabaddi/article37333286.ece
04 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Five women complete an arduous expedition||Having climbed the 5,245 m high Kolhoi range in Himalayas and cycled 3,350 km to reach Karwar, five women from the State also kayaked 300 km of the Karnataka coastline to reach the Ullal coast in Mangaluru on Monday evening. With this, these members from different SC/ST hostels of the State successfully completed their 75-day long ‘Shikaradinda Sagara’ (from mountain ranges to sea) expedition. “This expedition has given us varied experiences. From battling mountaineering sickness, to cycling in varied climatic conditions and overcoming sea sickness, we did it all. We really felt how overcoming difficulties brings joy,” said a beaming Puspha, from Madikeri. Pushpa, Asha from Bengaluru, Bindu from Mysuru, and Aishwarya and Dhanalakshmi, both from Shivamogga, were part of the all terrain expedition jointly conducted by the Indian Mountaineering Association and Department of Youth Services and Sports’ General Thimmayya National Academy of Adventure. The Youth Services and Sports Minister K.C. Narayana Gowda flagged off the expedition on August 16. After acclimatizing with the cold weather, the team scaled Mount Kolhoi, which is 21 away from Pahalgam of Jammu and Kashmir. “It was really hard to climb through glaciers and hard rocks. But once we reached the top (of the hill), our joy knew no bounds,” said Ms. Bindu. The team practised cycling in Himalayan ranges and then set forth to cover the 3,300-km long route till Karwar. Their endurance was challenged while going up and down the hill ranges. They battled heat while riding through Punjab and heavy rains during their ride along the Maharashtra coast. From Karwar, the team kayaked in the rough sea using the white water rafts. As a precaution, the team members sported gowns that prevented them from drowning. The members in separate kayaks, and the support staff of the academy in a separate boat, reached Ullal around 5 p.m. Lauding the feat of members, Minister for Social Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary, who received the members at Ullal beach, said these women belonging to backward communities have successfully completed a challenging expedition. “I will shortly call them for a felicitation by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-women-complete-an-arduous-expedition/article37333281.ece
04 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Worker dies as concrete slab collapses||A worker died while another was injured when a concrete slab collapsed at a construction site in Kotathattu village, near Kota, of Udupi district on Wednesday. The Kota Police said that a portion of the concrete slab collapsed when workers were removing the support columns of a new house that belongs to Rajashekar Hande. Manjunath (36) died on the spot. Chethan (28), who suffered a fracture in his legs, is undergoing treatment at a private hospital, the police said. The Kota Police have registered a case against the contractor and the engineer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/worker-dies-as-concrete-slab-collapses/article37333279.ece
04 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||1,000 kg of rice seized in Udupi||The Byndoor Police on Tuesday seized 1,000 kg of rice, meant for distribution under the Anna Bhagya scheme. The seizure was following the raid by the team led by Byndoor Tahsildar Shobhalakshmi that comprised personnel from the Food and Civil Supplies department. The team raided the place behind an Urdu school in Uppunda where few persons were seen loading rice into a car. On inspection, the team found that the rice was allocated for the distribution under Anna Bhagya scheme. The team informed the police, who seized the 31 packets of rice. The police also seized the weighing machine and the car. On the complaint by Food Inspector Vinay Kumar, the Byndoor Police registered case against Zuber and Munthaseeb for offences under Section 3,6 and 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1000-kg-of-rice-seized-in-udupi/article37333289.ece
04 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Group booked for entering temple with footwear||A video clip showing a group of youth entering with footwear Karinjeshwara Temple near Bantwal has led the temple administration to file a police complaint. The Punjalkatte Police registered the complaint for an offence under Section 295 of Indian Penal Code. Tourist hotspot The group of youth recently arrived at the temple near Kavalmundkuru village in a car registered in Kerala. This temple is atop the picturesque Karinja Hills, which is a favourite tourist destination in the region. Their travel video was uploaded on Instagram on October 7 wherein some of the youth are seen entering the temple wearing their footwear. This video went viral on the social media.  In the complaint filed on behalf of the president of the Temple Management Committee on Wednesday, Vinay Kumar asked the police to take action against the youth who have hurt people’s religious sentiments. Condemning the action of the youth, Bharatiya Janata Party Dakshina Kannada president Sudarshan Moodbidri asked the police to arrest the youth whose identity is clearly seen in the video. In a statement, he said that the action of the youth appears to be one intended to disturb peace in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/group-booked-for-entering-temple-with-footwear/article37333291.ece
04 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Forest dept. had foreseen landslips||The Forest Department had foreseen the repeated landslips being reported on Chamundi Hills and had advised the government against any major road widening or development projects. Sources in the department said that a report was submitted to the government stating that the soil was barren and loose and could not withstand the pressure of infrastructure works and had warned of landslips. An official said the government had proposed a four-lane road and it was turned down by the department on the grounds that it could not be sustained given the fragility of the place. But subsequently, some portions of the roads were widened and other infrastructure works including a vehicle parking facility has been completed atop the hill. The vehicle parking facility atop the hills resulted in vast swathe of land being cleared of green cover while the pressure on the ecosystem from the unregulated movement of traffic carrying tourists and devotees has also increased, adding to the pressure on the fragile ecosystem The prognosis that Chamundi Hill was prone to landslips came true when a portion of the road connecting to Nandi statue from the View Point junction caved in on October 20. But the damage has been further aggravated since then due to the continuing rains and the length of the affected portion of the road has also increased in the interim period. Officials from the PWD responsible for its maintenance said no repairs were taken up when the portion of the road caved in on October 20. However, the road was out of bounds for vehicles as the soil was soggy while the retaining wall too had collapsed and hence was fraught with danger. Though experts have visited the site no measures were initiated and the authorities said they are waiting for the rains to subside. Elected representatives including Chamundeshwari MLA G.T.Deve Gowda, district in-charge Minister S.T.Somashekar and others had visited the spot soon after the first incident was reported. However, the PWD officials aver that no civic work entailing the use of excavators or heavy earth moving equipment can be deployed at the spot in view of the continuing rains. Rain factor According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, Mysuru has received 19.8 mm of rainfall against a normal of 8.4 mm between November 1 and 3 which was 136 per cent above normal. The district has also received 304 mm of rainfall since October 1 against a normal of 153 mm and this was 99 per cent above normal for the same period. Environmentalists in the city said no measures have been sounded even remotely to arrest the deteriorating ecology and forest conservation and the focus is on ‘development’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/forest-dept-had-foreseen-landslips/article37333316.ece
04 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Manual removal of lantana under way at Nagarahole||Manual eradication of lantana, which has invaded large swathes of national parks, is being attempted by the authorities at Nagarahole through Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme. This is part of the habitat improvement initiative taken up by the Forest Department so as to shore up the availability of fodder for herbivores and mega species such as elephants. Lantana is a weed which has spread across large areas of Nagarahole and the problem is also acute in the adjoining Bandipur as well. At Nagarahole, the lantana has spread across nearly 60% of the national park which has an area of 843 sq. km including the buffer and hence there are concerns over habitat degradation in the long run. To counter this, grassland development project has been launched in forests with focus on areas where the lantana problem is acute and this entails manual uprooting of the weed from its roots repeatedly a two to three year cycle so as to prevent its growth completely. In its place grass is being cultivated. The issue was raised in the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee meeting held in Mysuru recently and Mahesh Kumar, Director, Nagarahole National Park and Tiger Reserve, stated that the pilot project to manually remove lantana has been taken up under MGNREGA at a cost of Rs. 1.2 crore. He said the project will create 14,000 man days of work and nearly 3,500 man days of work have already been generated and utilised. The project entails removing lantana over an area of 350 hectares. Though this is akin to a drop in the ocean considering the scale and magnitude of the problem, the project cannot be taken up simultaneously in all affected areas as this will create disturbance to wildlife. Whether manual eradication of lantana is sustainable in the long run remains to be studied but supplanting the area with grass is expected to increase fodder availability in the national park. Incidentally, grassland development has already been taken up in the adjoining Bandipur and parts of M.M. Hills Wildlife Sanctuary. The proliferation of lantana and other weeds including eupatorium and parthenium tends to suppress the natural regeneration and growth of fodder that is edible to the herbivore population. This shrinks the grasslands, forcing mega species such as elephants to stray into agricultural fields on the forest periphery resulting in human-elephant conflict which is already high in parts of Mysuru-Kodagu belt. The proliferation of lantana also enhances the risk of forest fires during summer as these weeds are highly combustible and burn easily when dry. The weed tends to regenerate rapidly suppressing other edible grass from growing and takes over the habitat and the degraded habitat is abandoned by herbivores which migrate in search of areas with greener pastures, accentuating human-animal conflict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/manual-removal-of-lantana-under-way-at-nagarahole/article37333321.ece
04 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah criticised for remarks on Dalits||BJP activists in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar staged a demonstration on Wednesday condemning former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah for his remarks on Dalits. Mr. Siddaramaiah had reportedly stated that many Dalits had joined the BJP for a livelihood and this drew rebuke from within the BJP and members of the Dalit community. In Mysuru the BJP leaders including members of the party’s SC Morcha staged a demonstration and sought Mr. Siddaramaiah’s apology. They questioned whether he shifted from JD(S) to Congress for a livelihood and said that his remarks were an affront on the dignity of the community. In Chamarajanagar activists burnt a poster of the former Chief Minister and said he would have been in political oblivion were it not for the hard work of the Dalits which saw him register a win in the Chamundeshwari byelections in 2006, by a wafer-thin majority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-criticised-for-remarks-on-dalits/article37333313.ece
04 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a rise in cardiac ailments’||Even though heart and cardiovascular diseases among the youngsters were not uncommon, cardiologists have reason to believe that the COVID-19 pandemic had sparked a substantial rise in heart problems, particularly among people below 45 years of age. Due to the lockdown and Work From Home (WFH) environment, people have adopted a sedentary lifestyle. Also, people tend to consume an increased amount of fat and carbohydrate-rich food while a few others had significantly increased smoking and use of recreational drugs during the period. Mental health This, coupled with loss of jobs and income for many, had led to domestic quarrels and distress, putting a large number of people in a highly stressed mental condition, leading to a post-pandemic episode of obesity, high blood pressure and sugars, causing a higher number of heart attacks, C.B. Keshavamurthy, Consultant Interventional Cardiology, Columbia Asia Hospitals, Mysuru, has said. The number of patients below 45 years, who were admitted to their hospital for cardiac treatment, went up from 15 in 2019 to 18 in 2020. By September 2021, a total of 15 patients below 45 years of age had been admitted for cardiac ailments, he said. Dr. Keshavamurthy pointed out that the heart is the second most common organ to be affected by COVID-19 after lungs. “The virus attacks the lining of blood vessels and damages it, resulting in heart attacks, weakening of the heart muscle and clots the blood vessels,” he said. He also claimed that heart problems during COVID-19 may have resulted in loss of several young lives due to poor awareness, late recognition or delay in getting appropriate treatment. Dr. Keshavamurthy said many people were hesitant to seek medical attention during the pandemic for non-COVID-19 illnesses, resulting in delayed diagnosis of heart attacks, strokes and clots in blood vessels, leading to fatal outcomes. Below 45 years Meanwhile, Sandesh Prabhu, Consultant, Cardiology and Electrophysiology, Manipal Hospitals, Whitefield, said patients aged less than 45 years constituted about 15-20% of the admissions in their hospital this year. “This is the group where we can have a significant reduction in heart attacks if proper steps are taken and adequate lifestyle modification is carried out,” he said while adding that the main reason for an increasing number of heart attacks in the younger population was the changing lifestyle. Cardiologists, who have observed that young patients with heart attacks are at a similar risk of dying as compared to their older counterparts, also pointed out that the surge of heart attacks among the young are caused by diabetes mellitus, smoking, hypertension, high cholesterol, increasing obesity, increased consumption of processed foods and beverages and lack of physical activity. Genetic predisposition Genetic predisposition to heart attacks in the young is also a well-studied subject. “It is seen that family history of heart disease increases the chances of having a heart problem early in life. Such individuals need to be more vigilant”, the cardiologist said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-pandemic-has-resulted-in-a-rise-in-cardiac-ailments/article37333322.ece
04 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Nanjangud residents to witness PM’s Kedarnath shrine visit on big screen||The people of Nanjangud would get to see the live coverage of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the Himalayan shrine of Kedarnath in Uttarakhand on November 5 and also the inauguration of the reconstructed ‘samadhi’ of Adi Shankaracharya. An LED screen would be erected at Kalamandir, located adjacent to the Srikanteshwaraswamy Temple in the town, to facilitate witnessing of the live event of the Prime Minister offering prayers at Kedarnath and inaugurating the rebuilt ‘samadhi’ between 10.30 a.m. and 11 a.m, according to Nanjangud MLA B. Harshavardhan. To mark the occasion, the BJP has invited sadhus and devotees to be part of the nationwide celebration of the event. Many temples across the country would be virtually joining the event. Three temples in Karnataka - Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala Manjunathaswamy Temple, Sri Male Mahadeshwaraswamy Temple in M.M. Hills and Srikanteshwaraswamy Temple in Nanjangud town – would be joining the event with arrangements for watching the event live on a big screen. Hundreds of people are expected to assemble at the venue to witness the event, the MLA said, in a release here. A 12-feet statue of Adi Shankaracharya would be unveiled at the samadhi. The statue was sculpted by Mysuru-based sculptor Arun Yogiraj. The samadhi was destroyed in the 2013 flash floods that hit Kedarnath and was restored recently. The life-size statue of Adi Shankaracharya was also conceived as part of the restoration project and out of many sculptors from across the country who displayed their model, the authorities selected the model prepared by Arun Yogiraj. The work on sculpting the statue commenced in September 2020 and the sculpture shows Adi Shankaracharya in a sitting position.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nanjangud-residents-to-witness-pms-kedarnath-shrine-visit-on-big-screen/article37333318.ece
04 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CFTRI to help set up workable food processing units||The Mysuru-based CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI) has drawn up a plan to support SHGs and rural entrepreneurs who are interested in taking up food processing, and establish enterprises in their villages. Thanks to Sustainable Rural Food Processing Enterprises for Livelihood Generation, CSIR-CFTRI, under the CSIR Integrated Skill Initiative, aims to enable poor households in rural areas access gainful self-employment and skilled wage employment opportunities, thus improving their livelihoods. In this regard, it is holding an online training programme on “Sustainable Rural Food Processing Enterprises for Livelihood generation” on November 18. The National Rural Livelihoods Mission (NRLM) was launched by the Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD which aims at building strong grassroots institutions of the poor. Under this programme, poor women have been mobilised to form their own institutions such as Self-Help Groups and higher order community institutions at village, panchayat, cluster, block as well as district levels to carry out various social activities and delivery of services. Activities of these community institutions include strengthening financial and livelihoods’ support services and imparting skills to the rural population. Support services Furthermore, Start-up Village Entrepreneurship Programme (SVEP), the sub-scheme under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana - National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM), focuses on helping small entrepreneurs, individual and group through various business support services as well as credit support. A large percentage of the enterprises supported through the various programmes of the MoRD are in the food processing sector, a release from the CSIR-CFTRI said. The CSIR-CFTRI said the training programme is for Self-Help Groups (SHGs) registered under State/National Rural Livelihoods Mission (SRLM)/ (NRLM). Rural entrepreneurs can also apply for the training (individual registrations). One SHG can nominate a maximum of five members for the training, the release said. The virtual training course consists of processing of locally grown agri-commodities with 1-2 case studies; jam, jelly and ketchup processing; ingredients and formulations for variety of papad and chips making; processing and preparation of variety pickles: packing, labelling, branding and marketing requirements; hygiene, nutrition standards and FSSAI requirements; requisite skills for creating linkages with livelihoods opportunities and interfacing with DICs for the State government support Timeline A maximum of 200 persons can attend the training on a first-come-first-served basis and the registration fee is Rs. 1,180 (including GST) and the last date for payment and registration is November 12 or reaching 200 applications, whichever is earlier. The date and time of the webinar is November 18 (9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. to 4.30 p.m.). e-Certificates will be issued to those who successfully complete the training. Further details and important links for registration and payment may be found at: https://cftri.res.in/PDF/SHG__Brochure.pdf or contact the Head, Planning, Monitoring and Coordination. E-mail: pmc@cftri.res.in; Tel: 0821-2515320.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cftri-to-help-set-up-workable-food-processing-units/article37333315.ece
04 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||RPF rescued 79 children from trafficking in Oct.||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) of the South Western Railway has earned plaudits for a series of intervention including rescuing 79 children from being trafficked in the month of October alone. The RPF had launched Operation Nanhe Farishte to detect and prevent the trafficking of children and women passengers and 79 children including 62 boys and 17 girls were rescued during the month. They have been handed over to various NGOs and to the police or reunited with their parents. Recruitment scam The SWR authorities said apart from rescuing children and girls, the RPF also bust a major recruitment racket by nabbing two persons who were behind the scam. The duo would lure youngsters and job aspirants and promise them lucrative jobs in the railways and nearly 400 candidates had been duped to the tune of Rs. 22 crore by the duo. The RPF team not only confiscated 221 blank signed cheques from the duo but also seized Rs. 4.15 lakh in cash and original documents of the candidates, about 100 fake railway appointment orders and nearly 70 fake name plates of TTEs. Touts held Special drives conducted during the month also led to arrest of 6 touts from whom used tickets valued at Rs. 1.18 lakh, was seized, according to the SWR authorities. As many as 2,711 persons were arrested in the zone in October under various sections of Railway Act and Rs. 4,35,670 was realised by way of fine. Luggage restored The RPF has also helped restore the lost luggage or baggage of passengers on 29 occasions during October including gold and silver ornaments and other personal belongings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rpf-rescued-79-children-from-trafficking-in-oct/article37332943.ece
04 November 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Dalits ask Siddaramaiah if he joined Cong. for a livelihood||The SC Morcha of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) staged a protest in Yadgir on Wednesday and condemned the statement made by Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah on Dalits during campaigning for the recently concluded bypolls. The protesters said that Mr. Siddaramaiah defamed the self-respect of Dalits by saying that Dalits have joined the BJP for a livelihood. “The statement by him is highly condemnable and the Dalits will seek an apology from him,” they said. They urged Mr. Siddaramaiah to make it clear on why he had joined the Congress. “Mr. Siddaramaiah, tell us, did you join the Congress for a livelihood?” they asked. They said that “you have defamed the self-respect of Dalits who have supported you in becoming the Chief Minister and all Dalits will now want to teach you a lesson in the coming Assembly election.” The protesters burnt Mr. Siddaramaiah in an effigy and shouted slogans against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dalits-ask-siddaramaiah-if-he-joined-cong-for-a-livelihood/article37333115.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Festival time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/festival-time/article37333276.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Festival time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/festival-time/article37333119.ece
04 November 2021||KOCH,KERALA||After HC setback, NIA to move SC in gold smuggling UAPA case||The diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, which shook Kerala politics during the fag end of the tenure of the previous Left Democratic Front Government, may end up as an economic offence case and not an act of terror in the event of the Supreme Court refusing to entertain the investigating agency’s appeal against the Kerala High Court order. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which charge-sheeted the accused for engaging in terrorism under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), has found itself in a disconcerting situation with a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court rejecting its contentions. The High Court, while allowing the bail plea of the frontline accused, noted that the facts narrated and the charges alleged against them did not help the court to conclude that they had any connection with terrorism as defined under Section 15 of the Act. Ordinary smuggling An ordinary smuggling of gold, with motive of mere profit and evasion of duty, would not be a threat to the economic security of the country as defined under the Act, it noted. Though the investigation agency could find solace in the argument that the High Court itself has observed that its findings were strictly related to the bail plea of accused, including Swapna Suresh, P.S. Sarith, K.T. Ramees, and others, the judgment is likely to leave an impact on the judicial reasoning of the Special Court, indicated judicial sources. With the Bench, which perused all the records placed before it in its entirety, arriving at the conclusion that the charge of terrorism prima facie does not stand against the accused, the NIA may have nothing much left in its armoury to prove the case unless it comes up with some fresh set of evidences or the Supreme Court steps in to reverse the findings of the High Court. Appeal against bail The NIA, which has moved the Supreme Court against the bail granted to a set of accused in the case, is planning to file its appeal against the second set of bails granted by the High Court. The High Court also noted that counterfeiting of high quality currency notes, coins or any other material manufactured, smuggled or circulated in relation to counterfeiting could be treated as a threat to the economic security of the nation. The NIA also could not substantiate its charges of terror funding against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/after-hc-setback-nia-to-move-sc-in-gold-smuggling-uapa-case/article37333207.ece
04 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Govt. warns of action against dumping of septic tank waste||The government has warned of stringent action against those dumping septic tank waste at Brahmapuram and on Willingdon Island. Government departments and agencies have been directed to step up surveillance in these regions after illegal dumping of septic tank waste, especially in the night hours, went up recently. A joint task force comprising representatives of the Kochi Corporation, police, State Pollution Control Board and Health Department was formed to conduct surprise inspections and seize vehicles involved in transporting waste in violation of rules. The government has asked the Secretary of the Kochi Corporation to complete the annual maintenance of the faecal sludge treatment plant at Brahmapuram. The sludge could be taken to the plant on Willingdon Island, which is functioning only at 50% of the capacity, till the work is completed. The regional performance audit officer has to verify records and assess the extent of the capacity utilisation of the plant on Willingdon Island. On the removal of legacy waste from the Brahmapuram dumping site, the government has asked the corporation Secretary to submit a status report. It had earlier approved the tipping fee of Rs. 3,550 per tonne offered by the consortium led by Zonta Infratech Pvt. Ltd for developing an Integrated Solid Waste Management Project at Brahmapuram. The proposal is to set up a waste-to-energy plant having a capacity of 300 tonnes per day. It will be implemented under the Design, Build, Finance, Operate and Transfer (DBFOT) basis. On the steps taken by Thripunitura and Aluva municipalities that had lagged behind in effective solid waste management, the government has informed the National Green Tribunal that the Thripunitura Municipality has appointed over 70 Haritha Karma Sena members to collect non-biodegradable waste from the doorsteps and ensure its proper segregation. The civic body has set up an aerobic compost bin at Anapparampu in ward 41. It has deployed 76 employees for cleaning of roads and canals. The Aluva Municipality has also stepped up efforts to comply with the norms, it claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-warns-of-action-against-dumping-of-septic-tank-waste/article37333199.ece
04 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Water supply augmentation schemes for city in the pipeline||A database on city households with drinking water supply will soon be drawn up as part of a project to augment the piped water supply in the city. Details of houses that lack water supply connections, areas which experience drinking water scarcity, number of fresh water sources in the city and water sources that need to be rejuvenated for making drinking water available will also be prepared this month. Details on piped water supply and water sources will be included in the City Water Balance Plan and City Water Action Plan, which is prepared as part of the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) 2.0 project. The second phase of the project aims to extend drinking water connectivity in all the select cities. Similar plans will be prepared at the State level too to augment the piped water supply in the 93 municipalities and Corporations of the State. It is estimated that the Kerala Water Authority has provided 1.36 lakh domestic connections in Kochi city alone. However, the number of households with access to piped drinking water is yet to be obtained. The Mission will set aside 55% of the project cost for drinking water supply schemes, 40% for sewerage/septage sector, four per cent for the rejuvenation of waterbodies and the remaining one per cent for green space/parks sector, according to Mission documents. The water balance plan will cover details of water sources including waterbodies, water treatment and distribution infrastructure, area-wise water coverage and sewerage network including septage treatment plants. The baseline data on household water tap and sewer/septage connections are compiled to identify the gaps in the service delivery, according to Mission documents. A preliminary analysis of the drinking water availability scenario in the city had identified patches in the distribution network. As many as five water storage tanks are being constructed in the city. With dedicated lines being laid from these tanks to water-scarce areas, the water shortage could be addressed to a significant level, Mission officials hoped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-supply-augmentation-schemes-for-city-in-the-pipeline/article37333201.ece
04 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rising fuel prices upset many a budget||The prices of petroleum fuels have almost continuously risen between January and October this year. While the rise in price of domestic and commercial cooking gas has thrown domestic budgets into disarray, traders and suppliers are bogged down by the steep rise in the price of diesel. The price of petrol has risen from about Rs. 84 a litre in January to more than Rs. 110 in November. Similarly diesel price has risen from around Rs. 78 a litre to more than Rs. 103 in November. Transporters are demanding up to 70% hike in transport charges on vegetable loads from different destinations reaching markets such as Kochi, says N.H. Shameed of the Market Stall Owners’ Association. The cost of transport comes to between Rs. 100 and Rs. 110 per 70 kg packets and each lorry load mostly brings around 14 tonnes of vegetables. A steep rise in fuel price means the increased cost will be pushed on to the ordinary buyers even as some of the items such as tomato, big onion, beans, and bhindi are seeing a rise in both wholesale and retail prices because of a shortage of supply, he says. The rise in diesel price will also affect about 10.5 lakh poor fishers and those working in the fisheries sector, says Joseph Xavier Kalapurackal of the Boat Operators’ Association. He says most fishers are keeping off the seas and plan to venture out only during the peak season to optimise the catch. Each normal fishing expedition by a mechanised boat requires about 400 litres of diesel, meaning that the cost of fuel alone will be Rs. 4 lakh. Rising transport cost The cost of transporting fertilizers has almost doubled, pushing suppliers to impose additional charges on even small and medium farmers, says Joseph Karukappally, rubber farmer and a supplier of chemicals and fertilizers. The price of domestic cooking gas has risen from a little over Rs. 700 per 14.2 kg cylinders to more than Rs. 900 in November. Similarly, the price of commercial LPG cylinders (19 kg) has gone up from less than Rs. 1,530 in February this year to over Rs. 1,900 in November. Hoteliers say they have to cope with the current situation even as COVID-19 has brought the hospitality business to its knees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rising-fuel-prices-upset-many-a-budget/article37333212.ece
04 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Techies hail move on night-life facilities||The State Government’s move to set up night-life facilities around information technology (IT) parks in the State has evoked positive response from IT professionals. Aneesh Panthalani, president, Progressive Techies (PT), a socio-cultural organisation of techies here, welcomed the Chief Minister’s announcement that the Government would consider opening night-life facilities such as pubs and wine parlours for employees in the IT sector. “The absence of pubs and other means for night-life has been a drawback in the State’s IT sector. Companies, especially multinational firms, always look out for leisure and recreation facilities for their employees while deciding on their office locations,” he said. Mr. Aneesh pointed out that the cultural and traditional restrictions in the State had delayed the opening of such night-life facilities. Space to relax Sison K.K, an IT professional and member of the PT, said that IT employees require a space to relax and unwind after the day-long work under tremendous pressure. “All the major IT hubs in the country have similar facilities and we have been lagging behind in introducing such facilities,” he said. Deepa, who works at Infopark here, pointed out that leading companies such as Google have a variety of spaces for leisure, recreation and fun. “Such managements understand the relevance of leisure and recreational facilities for its employees and they have integrated it along with their working space. Is it not better to have these facilities inside IT parks itself, as those who wish to explore it will anyway avail the facilities available outside,” she asked. Padma, an IT professional in Thiruvananthapuram, had a different take as she suggested that the Government and the companies should focus on ensuring work-life balance by offering a flexible working atmosphere rather than viewing the lack of such facilities as a shortcoming in the State’s IT sector. “The business need to focus on the human side rather than stepping up pressure on employees by coming up with unrealistic goals. With work from home turning a reality owing to the pandemic situation, work pressure has gone up considerably,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/night-life-facilities-at-it-parks-hailed/article37333177.ece
04 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CPI(M) leader seeks help to avoid ouster from home||P.K. Velayudhan, a 53-year-old member of CPI(M) Kolancherry area committee and former president of Vadavucode-Puthencruz panchayat, can hardly sleep these days. Unless some benevolent people come to his aid in about a week, his family, including two teenage girls, two brothers and their families, would be dumped on the street. His property spread over 27 cents with two houses, including his ancestral home, is in danger of being attached over non-payment of loans running to Rs. 30.84 lakh. Desperate, Mr. Velayudhan posted a plea for help on his Facebook account on Tuesday when bank officials were originally scheduled to turn up for measuring the land as a prelude to the attachment, which was eventually put off for another 10 days following his desperate request. He had taken a loan of Rs. 12 lakh from two banks for running various entrepreneurial initiatives, treatment and for his sister’s marriage. “However, all the initiatives failed and I couldn’t repay the loan in the past six years. I am not in a financial position to repay the whole amount,” said Mr. Velayudhan, a three-time panchayat member who was the president of Vadavucode-Puthencruz panchayat in the last term. He is looking to mobilise Rs. 15 lakh as credit to get his attached property released. He assures to accept the terms set by the lender and to repay the amount within two months by pledging his property afresh. Mr. Velayudhan used to be a construction worker on contract. But his preoccupation as a people’s representative took a toll on his work. Left with no other alternative to get his life back on track, he is now set to return to that work. “Being left on the street is beyond what we could take. Anyone can verify with the banks whether things I have shared here are genuine or not” read Mr. Velayudhan’s post, which included the contact numbers of banks and his own mobile number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-leader-seeks-help-to-avoid-ouster-from-home/article37333195.ece
04 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CB registers another case against Monson||The Crime Branch (CB) investigating alleged fraudster Monson Mavunkal registered yet another case against him on Wednesday. He was charged with cheating a Thrissur-based businessman, Anish George, of Rs. 15 lakh by selling him fake antiquities and cosmetics. Among his many claims was that he was a recognised cosmetologist. Monson had allegedly sold the businessman a Bible and Quran, which he claimed, were over 100 years old. By the time the businessman realised the trickery and demanded a refund, Monson got arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cb-registers-another-case-against-monson/article37333202.ece
04 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Three held for creating ruckus at medical college||The Kalamassery police on Wednesday arrested three youngsters on the charge of creating disturbance and threatening the security guard at the Government Medical College, Kalamassery, by brandishing a knife. The arrested men were identified as Naveen Antony, 20, and Sarath P. Shaji, 23, of Glass Factory Colony in Kalamassery, and Karthik, 20, of Eloor. The accused, who were allegedly drunk, dropped in at the hospital to visit their friend admitted to the casualty ward after suffering injuries in an accident. The trouble erupted when the security guard stopped them from entering the ward citing COVID-19 protocol. Forgery charge The Nedumbasserry police arrested a man accused of forging the degree certificate of Kashi Vidyapith University in Varanasi. The arrested man was identified as Ramesh, 47, of Alathur in Palakkad. He reportedly ran an institution named Krishna Institute of Management Studies in Kozhikode. According to the police, he forged the certificate for one Sharon Roy of Elanjikkal. Held in POCSO case The Muvattupuzha police on Wednesday arrested a youth on the charge of raping a minor girl. The arrested man was a 24 year-old from Malappuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-for-creating-ruckus-at-medical-college/article37333193.ece
04 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Karayis to return home after eight years||Karayi Rajan and Karayi Chandrasekharan, two senior CPI(M) leaders from Kannur, will leave Ernakulam for Kannur on Friday. Arraigned as accused in the murder of Popular Front of India (PFI) activist Muhammad Fazal in 2012, they got arrested and released a year-and-a-half later with a strict bail condition that they should not leave the limits of Ernakulam district. The High Court has now relaxed their bail condition, making it possible for them to head home. In Ernakulam, the CPI(M) provided them shelter at the home of senior party member K.T. Thankappan at Thripunithura. While Mr.Thankappan hosted Mr. Rajan, his son Surjith in the neighbourhood hosted Mr. Chandrashekharan. In between, they successfully contested the local body elections in absentia in 2015. Subsequently, Mr. Rajan was elected Kannur district panchayat president and Mr. Chandrashekharan, Thalassery municipal chairman. But they gave up the posts a few months later citing the practical difficulties of remote administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karayis-to-return-home-after-eight-years/article37333188.ece
04 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Adverse weather causes massive crop loss in district||Extreme weather conditions, mostly heavy winds and almost incessant rain between August and October this year, have resulted in massive crop loss in the district. Substantial areas of banana and tapioca plantations have been lost either to heavy winds or flooding. Agriculture Department sources said that banana plants easily succumb to winds while tapioca is vulnerable to flooding of fields. Both these natural phenomena have been continuously witnessed in taluks like Muvattupuzha and Kothamangalam. While preparations for rice cultivation in the ensuing season have been disrupted seriously because of heavy rain, there has also been loss of vegetable crops due to heavy downpour throughout the district. Sources pointed out that the winter season paddy cultivation is more extensive in Ernakulam district than the first season paddy cultivation. Heavy rain has been a stumbling block to field preparations for the new season. It is now estimated that the crop losses due to bad weather conditions up to the middle of October could be around Rs. 12 crore. Areas where farming activities are robust like Angamaly, Malayattoor, Kalady, Muvattupuzha, Koothattukulam, Perumbavoor and Kothamangalam have seen heavy crop losses. Meanwhile, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has said that a corpus would be constituted, in consultation with the Finance Department, to help farmers who suffer crop loss because of the current climatic conditions. A communication from the Minister’s office said that the total loss, between October 12 and October 28, amounted to Rs. 451 crore across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/adverse-weather-causes-massive-crop-loss-in-district/article37333192.ece
04 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Acquitted actor to return to film field||Actor Priyanka said here on Wednesday that she would turn active in Malayalam cinema after the First Judicial Class Magistrate, Thiruvalla, acquitted her in a case filed by actor Kaveri, accusing Priyanka of having tried to extort money from her in 2004. The court acquitted Priyanka on the grounds that the prosecution had failed to prove the charges. Kaveri’s mother had alleged that Priyanka tried to extort money by saying that a magazine would carry news that would portray her daughter in bad light.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/acquitted-actor-to-return-to-film-field/article37333203.ece
04 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Steps on for probing hawala heist’||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday informed the Kerala High Court that it has started the process for probing the Kodakara black money heist case by opening file relating to the crime. The submission was made by the counsel for the ED when a petition filed by Salim Madavur, president of the Lok Tantrik Yuva Janata Dal, seeking a directive to the ED to probe the economic offences as revealed in the investigation by the police into the Kodakara heist case came up for hearing before the court The ED’s counsel submitted that there were altogether 22 accused and 219 witnesses in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-on-for-probing-hawala-heist/article37333187.ece
04 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Supplementary quota: HC issues directive||The Kerala High Court has observed that students who have secured admission in unaided schools are entitled to apply under the supplementary quota for admission to higher secondary courses. Justice Raja Vijayarghavan observed that the restrictions in clause 8 of the prospectus for the single window system for admission to Plus One courses for 2021-22 would only apply to students who managed to obtain allotment during the main allotment effected through the single window system and the same would not be applicable to students who were forced to obtain admission in unaided schools.  The court made the observations while considering a writ petition filed by Fleming Shaijan against the refusal to access the portal of the single window system on the ground that he had already secured admission under the unaided quota.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/supplementary-quota-hc-issues-directive/article37333209.ece
04 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC admits appeal||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday admitted an appeal filed by the State Government against a single judge’s verdict setting aside a Government order reducing the price of RT-PCR tests from Rs. 1,700 to Rs. 500 in all private diagnostic labs in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-admits-appeal/article37333210.ece
04 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Rain relief will be expedited: Collector||Emergency relief measures will be taken without delay in the rain-ravaged eastern parts of Kollam and an action plan prepared, District Collector Afsana Parveen has said. Various department heads have been directed to come up with temporary and permanent measures. Procedures for disbursal of compensation will be expedited after appraising property damage through Rebuild Kerala mobile app. Damage by landslip She was visiting the affected areas on Tuesday to assess the damage. Ms. Parveen said the Irrigation Department had been asked to submit a report on the loss caused by the landslip near Shivan Kovil on the banks of the Kallada river in Punalur, along with the redressal measures taken. “If there is a risk of recurrence, it should be made clear and details on the construction of protective walls should be handed over. Water from the Thenmala dam should be released only in accordance with the change in water level,” she said. The Public Works Department has been directed to expedite the repair of damaged roads near the Pathimoonu Kannara bridge (13 arch bridge). The Minor Irrigation Department will submit a report on the safety measures at the flood-hit Nalu Cent Colony in Edappalayam. The panchayat authorities have been instructed to intervene in solving the drinking water problem in the area. Whether disaster-prone Based on the report of a geologist, it will be decided whether the houses in the Ashraya Colony are habitable during heavy rain. In emergency situations, the residents will be shifted to temporary camps to ensure safety. While local bodies have been asked to remove debris from the landslide site in Edappalayam, geologists will gather information to find whether the area is disaster-prone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-relief-will-be-expedited-collector/article37333257.ece
04 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Schemes to help women launch ventures||The Kollam district panchayat has launched the Grihashree and Swayamprabha schemes to help women start individual or group ventures. Individual ventures in the below the poverty line (BPL) category between the ages of 18 and 60 will get subsidy up to Rs. 75,000 through Grihashree. The amount will be Rs. 50,000 for those in the above the poverty line (APL) category under the same scheme. Applications must be for starting production or service ventures in home-based units or those functioning in industrial and commercial buildings. Under Swayamprabha, BPL groups will get a subsidy up to Rs. 2 lakh. Groups with both BPL and APL members will receive a maximum subsidy of Rs. 1.5 lakh. Those interested can apply along with project details and documents at district panchayat or District Industry Centre by November 5. For details, contact 9446108519.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schemes-to-help-women-launch-ventures/article37333252.ece
04 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Ganja seized, man arrested||The Kollam excise special squad on Wednesday arrested Sivakumar, 27, of Ayathil, with half a kilogram of ganja. The officials also seized 10 phenergan tablets, sterile injection water, syringes, needles and a knife from his bedroom. Sivakumar was once convicted in a drug case filed by the excise. The ganja was found hidden under the seat cover of his motorbike. (Phenergan is a medicine used to reduce the discomfort while injecting drugs.) The accused was presented in the court and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ganja-seized-man-arrested/article37333253.ece
04 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Course on COVID home-care support||The Government Medical College at Parippally has invited applications for COVID-19 home-care support crash course under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY). Class X is the qualification required and those in the age group of 18 to 35 years can apply through the link https: forms.gle/ crTqw7D7NoQ2WTd57. Selected candidates will get 21-day free training and 90-day on-job training. The last date for accepting applications is November 6. Contact sumiskill.kase@gmail.com for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/course-on-covid-home-care-support/article37333258.ece
04 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Dalit PhD student in MGU alleges sexual harassment||The indefinite hunger launched by a Dalit PhD student at the Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU), alleging caste discrimination, took a new turn on Wednesday when she raised allegations of sexual harassment against a fellow researcher. The PhD student, who launched the hunger strike in front of the university entrance on October 29, told mediapersons that she had been sexually harassed by a research scholar in 2014. “A research fellow held my hand when we were about to leave the classroom. I managed to escape,” she said. She alleged that though the incident was reported to Sabu Thomas, the present Vice Chancellor who was then the director of the university centre, and to joint director Nandakumar Kalarikkal, they ignored her complaint. VC’s response Mr. Thomas dismissed the allegations and said that he had never received any complaint from the student, verbally or in writing. “Had she done so, I would have constituted an inquiry,” he said. He added that he was willing to order an inquiry in the event of a fresh complaint. The PhD student has been protesting against ‘caste discrimination’ since she joined an MPhil course here in 2011. She said she was not allowed to enter the laboratory and faced casteist abuse from Mr. Kalarikkal. Though the university authorities held talks with the girl and the Dalit forum, Bhim Army, on Monday, it broke down with the two parties sticking to their stance with regard to the dismissal of Mr. Kalarikkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dalit-phd-student-in-mgu-alleges-sexual-harassment/article37333254.ece
04 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Families along Kuttiyadi Ghat Road relocated for fear of landslips||On the directive of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), several families living along the Kuttiyadi Ghat Road in Kavilumpara panchayat have been relocated to safer places. The swift action comes in the wake of multiple episodes of landslips that paralysed the mountain pass on Wednesday night. Two relief camps are functional in the panchayat accommodating 30 families. Their houses are reportedly under landslip threat. Panchayat officials have so far confirmed simultaneous landslips in five locations. However, there has been no casualty. Panchayat members who visited the affected areas on Wednesday said the landslips had damaged five houses, apart from destroying several stretches of the Ghat Road. Mudslips in other areas of the panchayat also damaged nearly 50 houses, they added. Though traffic on the mountain pass was partly restored on Wednesday, many of the blocked culverts remain a major safety issue. During their inspection, local administrators came across seven such blocked culverts which doubled the impact of the landslip on the pass. Floodwaters carrying huge loads of debris caused serious damage to bitumen tarring on several stretches, which could recur in the absence of proper maintenance, they said. Panchayat member Rony Mathew said the Public Works Department had been cold-shouldering road development proposals and the safety measures despite an unconditional support from landowners. “The culverts and drains could have been repaired in advance to avert such a massive damage to the pass. Floodwaters had, in fact, swept away tarred road on several stretches,” he added. As a safety measure, the DDMA has temporarily restricted entry of heavy vehicles to the route. Only light vehicles will be allowed during emergency situations. The restrictions will be in place throughout the yellow and orange alert days. Similarly, efforts are also on to step up safety measures on the Thamarassery Ghat road. Motorists have been urged to avoid unimportant journeys during the late night hours considering the rough weather alert. Ghat Road Protection Committee volunteers said they would remain alert to handle unexpected situations. They also appealed to motorists to refrain from reckless driving as it had already caused many freak accidents on the route during the rainy season.  Though traffic on the mountain pass was partly restored on Wednesday, many of the blocked culverts remain a major safety issue||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/families-along-kuttiyadi-ghat-road-relocated-for-fear-of-landslips/article37333185.ece
04 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Hospital canteen closed after video of dogs goes viral||A video showing a couple of dogs roaming outside the canteen of the Institute for Maternal and Child Health (IMCH) at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, was all that led to the temporary closure of the eating facility following an inquiry. The video showed three dogs scratching themselves in front of the front door of the canteen next to the maternity ward of the hospital. The person who took the video says that the dogs often rest on the rice bags kept below the staircase nearby. He says they are also seen pissing on the rice bags. Gas cylinders too can be seen there. “When we asked the canteen people about it, they claimed there were no rice bags. But we checked and found that there was indeed rice in them,” he says while picking a handful of rice from the bag. “The authorities should see this and take action. See, dogs are shedding their hair all around,” he adds, also showing how one of the dogs sits on the rice bag. After the video went viral on social media, Health Minister Veena George on Tuesday directed medical college principal V.R. Rajendran to inquire into the incident and submit a report. Dr. Rajendran found merit in the allegations levelled in the video. Thus, Ms. George asked for immediate closure of the canteen and directed the Food Safety Department to inspect the premises. Later, the health wing of the Kozhikode Corporation too inspected the canteen and found that the staff there did not have the mandatory health cards. One of the employees working in the kitchen was found to be injured in the hand. Five litres of stale juice too was kept there. The authorities have been asked to solve the issues in three days from Tuesday.  Dogs often rest on rice bags. When we asked the canteen people about it, they claimed there were no rice bags. But we checked and found that there was indeed rice in them Person who took the video||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hospital-canteen-closed-after-video-of-dogs-goes-viral/article37333182.ece
04 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Students allege bid to close down Sanskrit varsity centre at Koyilandy||A section of students have objected to the alleged attempt to close down the Koyilandy sub-centre of the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady, citing shortfall in admissions to various courses. Functionaries of the Students Federation of India (SFI) said on Wednesday that it was part of a larger design to stop all the nine sub-centres under the university. They added that the centres at Thuravoor in Alappuzha and Thrissur had been closed, and that applications were not invited for admissions to postgraduate courses at the Ettumanoor centre in Kottayam in the 2020-21 academic year. Similar was the case with courses in Hindi and Sanskrit Grammar at the Tirur centre in Malappuram district as well. SFI Koyilandy area secretary Mohammed Farhan claimed that the attempt seemed to be first reducing the number of admissions in various departments and later close down the centre citing shortage of students. If there are less than five students in subjects related to Sanskrit and 10 in other subjects, those departments will be scrapped from the sub-centres. The Koyilandy sub-centre has degree courses in Sanskrit Vedanta, Sanskrit Literature, and Sanskrit General, and PG courses in Sanskrit Vedanta, Sanskrit Literature, Sanskrit General, Malayalam, Hindi, and Urdu. Though there are 20 seats for PG courses in Malayalam, Hindi, and Urdu, only less than 10 students have sought admissions to them. However, the students claimed that there were those willing to study these subjects, but they were not getting a chance due to the unscientific admission process. They pointed out that the university had published the second allotment list only 22 days after the publication of the first allotment list. This led to many students opting for courses in other universities. The university authorities, meanwhile, claimed that most of the sub-centres were functioning out of rented premises, and that it was not economically feasible to run them if there were not enough students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-allege-bid-to-close-down-sanskrit-varsity-centre-at-koyilandy/article37333183.ece
04 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pubs plan evokes mixed reaction||Employees attached to start-up companies at the Government Cyberpark and the UL Cyber Park have expressed a mixed reaction to the proposal to start pubs at IT parks. A section of the techies felt that the absence of pubs was a major drawback. “Besides, young people from the State are lured to the ecosystem prevailing in cities such as Bengaluru and Hyderabad. A cultural shift is necessary to bring them. Pubs cannot be just a bar in the literary sense,” P. Anusmitha said. K.M. Sreevidya, a content writer, said post-dusk life eluded young techies in the State. “The proposal to start wine parlours at IT parks is good,” she added. However, S. Chandana, a IT manager, loathed the new idea of pub policy at IT parks. “Now the proposal is for wine. The next stage will be beer and alcohol. Alcohol should be strictly kept out of IT parks,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pubs-plan-evokes-mixed-reaction/article37333171.ece
04 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||New IT firm begins operations at Cyberpark||Mojgenie IT Solutions, developer of innovative teaching and learning platform MOTS, has started operations at the government Cyberpark in Kozhikode. The new office of the startup was inaugurated by Vivek Nair, general manager, Cyberpark. Noufal Panolan, managing director of Mojgenie, introduced the company’s flagship project MOTS (Multi-functional Online Teaching System), a digital platform for online teaching and learning. The platform was developed exclusively in-house. “Even though the online teaching and learning culture was established during these difficult times of COVID, this model is going to be the major trend in the education industry,” Mr. Noufal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-it-firm-begins-operations-at-cyberpark/article37333174.ece
04 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Independent panel to study farmers’ grievances||An independent commission appointed by the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, an umbrella body of farmers’ organisations across the country, to study farmers’ grievances will hold a two-day sitting covering the upland areas of Kozhikode district from November 13. It is the first such people’s commission appointed by a major farmers’ organisation as part of preparing a comprehensive field study report and submitting it to the Union and State Governments for appropriate follow-up action. Upland areas Mahasangh leaders said the commission would meet as many farmers as possible from upland areas like Chakkittappara and Kattippara and record their grievances with the latest facts and figures. Apart from the scheduled panchayat-level meetings, a public sitting will be held at Kariyathumpara on November 13 for farmers and their representatives, they informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/independent-panel-to-study-farmers-grievances/article37333186.ece
04 November 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Kattunayakan student to fly to Qatar for internship||A Kattunayakan tribal student from Nilambur will soon be flying to Qatar to attend the 2021 FIFA Arab Cup football being held in November-December as a prelude to the World Cup Football taking place next year in Qatar. Nidhin C., a fifth semester student of Bachelor of Tourism and Hotel Management (BTHM) programme at the Amal College of Advanced Studies, Nilambur, will be doing his internship in Qatar along with 38 of his classmates. He will be the only tribal student from Kerala to attend the FIFA Arab Cup. Nidhin could not restrain his excitement about going overseas as part of his studies. It will be his first flight, and it will be his first journey out of Kerala. “I am so happy and excited about flying abroad. It’s something I never expected. I had not dreamt beyond the jungles of Nilambur,” Nidhin told The Hindu . He had studied at Indira Gandhi Memorial Model Residential School, Nilambur, till SSLC, and at Rajiv Gandhi Memorial Model Residential School, Noolpuzha, Wayanad, for higher secondary. His horizons had widened after he joined BTHM at Amal College, Nilambur. There will be two women among the 39 students going to Qatar on a month-long internship. They will fly to Doha on a chartered flight from Chennai by the mid of this month. Online interview They were selected by the Qatar Star Services through an online interview. The students are hopeful that they would be called to attend the FIFA World Cup being held in Qatar next year. “Most likely they can get to work for the World Cup. We are so happy about their international exposure,” said Shameer Babu Thappi, head of the Department of Tourism and Hotel Management. College Principal T.V. Zacharia and placement officer V.K. Hafiz said that they too were excited about an international exposure for a tribal student along with others. Apart from Mr. Hafiz, faculty member K.P. Jineesh Babu will accompany the students to Qatar. The Qatar Star Services will meet the expenses of the students, including their travel, stay, transportation and food. Besides, each student will also get a stipend of 500 Qatar Riyal (equivalent to Rs. 9,800).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kattunayakan-student-to-fly-to-qatar-for-internship/article37333214.ece
04 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Victimology library coming up in Palakkad||A library exclusively on victimology is coming up in the district. It will be the first of its kind library in the country, according to the Victims Information, Sensitisation, Welfare and Assistance Society (Viswas), the driving force behind the venture. Viswas, a Palakkad-based organisation offering help to victims of crime and other human excesses, is setting up the victimology library at the Civil Station as part of its long-term objectives. Study on crime Victimology studies crime with special focus on victims. “It will examine the psychological effects of crime on the victims, the interactions between victims and the criminal justice system and the relationship between the victims and the offenders,” said P. Premnath, Viswas secretary. The library will be named after V.N. Rajan, former Inspector General, who is widely known as the father of victimology in the country. It will have Indian and foreign books. Mr. Premnath said that books on victimology were not widely available. He said the library would go a long way in helping law students and practitioners lay their hands on some rare books on the subject. Viswas is also planning to open a law book bank for poor students, and to create awareness of human rights among Government employees, students and the public. District Collector Mrunmai Joshi, who is the president of Viswas, presided over the general meeting held here recently. Office-bearers K. Thomas George was elected treasurer. V.P. Kuriakose, former Child Welfare Committee chairman, was elected coordinator of a programme involving panchayats against human trafficking. B. Jayarajan and R. Devikripa were elected vice-presidents. S. Santha Devi was elected chairperson of Niyama Vedi. N. Rakhi, Jose Paul, M.P. Sukumaran, Mohammed Ansari, and K.P. Raji spoke. Mr. Premnath welcomed the gathering. Deepa Jayaprakash proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/victimology-library-coming-up-in-palakkad/article37333359.ece
04 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||VACB seizes Rs. 82,100 from excise offices||Officers of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) seized Rs. 82,100 unaccounted money during a raid at the excise circle and range offices at Kacherimedu, near here, on Wednesday. When Rs. 80,000 was found in the bag of civil excise officer P. Girish, Rs. 2,100 was found in the possession of assistant excise inspector Prasanth. Vigilance officers said they suspected the money was the bribe given by toddy shop owners for sanctioning of permits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacb-seizes-rs-82100-from-excise-offices/article37333362.ece
04 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Techies cheer move to open pubs at IT parks||For long, quite a few young professionals in the IT sector have been reluctant to move to Kerala's IT parks owing to the lack of social life after work. So, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's reply in the Assembly on Wednesday, hinting at opening of pubs and wine parlours responding to demands from the sector, has brought in a lot of cheer among the workforce. Vineeth Chandran, Secretary of Prathidhwani, welfare organisation of IT employees in Kerala, welcomed the decision since it could also lead to an improvement in IT business, with more companies getting attracted to the State. "When multi-national companies consider a new place to set up their campus, they also consider avenues for entertainment and places for the employees to unwind. Cities such as Bengaluru or Chennai have a lot of such options, while our cities have been lacking in these. This has been highlighted by several companies in the past. Though there was a plan to set up a beer parlour of the KTDC at the Technopark Club, it did not take off. This is certainly a welcome move and the reactions from employees have been generally positive," said Mr. Chandran. Social ecosystem Binu Jacob, Secretary of Group of Technology Companies (G-Tech), said that tech collectives like theirs have been raising this demand for some time. "For a sector like IT, which has a high number of youngsters, we need a social ecosystem, including entertainment avenues, malls, health clubs and pubs. They need a certain vibrancy and avenues for people to network with each other. In no other place are pubs considered a taboo. Though the first IT park in the country was set up here, we have not grown as much as IT parks in other major cities, partly due to these reasons. This move would definitely bring in some interest from IT employees as well as companies planning to set shop here," said Mr. Jacob. Though the setting up of pubs and microbreweries have been in the active consideration of the State Government before too, it has not gone ahead with the plan due to opposition from some quarters. However, framing it as a move to boost IT investments could make it harder for those opposing the idea.  Though there was a plan to set up a beer parlour of the KTDC at the Technopark Club, it did not take off||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/techies-welcome-move-on-pubs/article37333178.ece
04 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala Tourism makes a mark at London WTM||Kerala Tourism, which is looking at a speedy recovery after a pandemic-induced lull, put up an impressive show at the three-day World Travel Market (WTM) 2021 in London. WTM, held from November 1 to 3, was the first trade fair attended by Kerala Tourism after the COVID-19 outbreak brought the global tourism and hospitality industry to a grinding halt. The ‘Human by Nature’ promotional campaign was the theme of the Kerala pavilion. Kerala Tourism won the Indian Responsible Tourism One To Watch award for its Aymanam Model Responsible Tourism Village Project, bringing into the global focus the riverine location near Kottayam. The Lakesong Backwater Resort in Kumarakom received the Silver Award in the Decarbonising the Travel and Tourism segment for its initiatives in sustainability and environment protection, a statement said. Attracting stakeholders Tourism Minister P. A. Mohamed Riyas said the State's participation in WTM 2021 attracted leading stakeholders from the travel trade of the United Kingdom, which is a key source market for the state. “Several buyers were interested to know about the COVID-19 situation in Kerala. To an extent, we would be able to instil confidence among the UK buyers with this participation. We are especially pleased with the award for our Responsible Tourism project as we have scrupulously followed the sustainable development model for the tourism sector,” Mr. Riyas was quoted as saying. Innovative projects Venu V., Additional Chief Secretary (Tourism), said the State was making vigorous efforts to ramp up its tourism sector by launching an array of innovative projects that would strike a chord with the visitors from both India and outside. The Kerala delegation was led by Tourism Director Krishna Teja. The event served as an opportunity to display Kerala as a top tourism destination of the world, he said. Harold Goodwin, (Director of the Responsible Tourism Partnership and WTM Responsible Tourism Advisor) launched the Human By Nature theme book at the stand. The book explores the Kerala way of life with articles, pictures and travellers' impressions of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-tourism-participates-in-london-wtm/article37333198.ece
04 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. aims to provide land, documents for all: Pinarayi||The State Government's aim is to provide land and land documents for all, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was inaugurating a workshop for MLAs on digital surveying here on Wednesday. It is to realise this dream that the Government has launched a digital resurvey across the State with the latest Continuously Operating Reference Station (CORS) technology. An online portal and mobile application with around 500 Government services have been readied, he said. The resurveying in 1,550 villages will be completed within four years with the help of the latest technology. Resurveying in the State began in 1966. The Government went forward with this step to ensure that there is no further delay in completion of resurveying, which is being carried out at a cost of Rs. 807 crore. An amount of Rs. 339.438 crore has been allocated from Rebuild Kerala. Once the resurvey is completed, all services from the Survey, Revenue and Registration departments can be provided through an integrated portal, said Mr. Vijayan. Revenue Minister K. Rajan, who presided over the meeting, said that the long-standing disputes regarding land in the State would be settled with the completion of the resurvey in the next four years.  Online portal and mobile app with around 500 Govt. services have been readied||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-aims-to-provide-land-documents-for-all-pinarayi/article37333391.ece
04 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KITE gives G-Suite training for visually challenged teachers||The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) has started training all visually challenged teachers in the State in use of G-Suite platform for online classes. Training has been launched for 456 teachers across the 14 districts. KITE has already installed Orca free software and screen reader in school laptops to avoid visual challenges from coming in the way of use of modern technology. All the visually challenged teachers are also being provided information and communications technology training in the free software. Login issued Login IDs have been issued to more than 10 lakh high-school students and teachers for using G-Suite that facilitates direct interaction between students and teachers during online classes. Online classes have commenced for Classes VIII to X as well. Training for Plus Two teachers will begin this week and end by the next week. Progress review Meanwhile, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty reviewed the progress of the training at Government School for the Visually Impaired at Vazhuthacaud in the capital. He interacted with the teachers and agreed to their demand to allot more time for the training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kite-gives-g-suite-training-for-visually-challenged-teachers/article37333390.ece
04 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BJP’s political resolution reflects changed realities||A leadership conclave of the Bharatiya Janata Party that concluded here on Wednesday adopted a political resolution that charted a new course for the party’s resurgence after the severe loss of political ground in the 2021 Assembly elections. The document reflected the BJP’s perception that most Christians, a crucial demographic in Kerala, had found a common cause with the Narendra Modi government’s economic and national security agenda. The impression was evident in the BJP’s condemnation of the registration of a case against the Pala bishop for delivering a “cautionary sermon” warning the youth against falling prey to “narcotic jihad”. Summit with Pope The resolution also highlighted Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s historic summit with Pope Francis in the Vatican. The leadership perceived the Prime Minister’s gambit would help the party further cement its ties with the minority community. The BJP also seemed to have relegated the Sabarimala issue and Communist Party of India (Marxist) “connivance” in the gold smuggling case to the back-burner for now. Instead, the BJP has leaned on issues the party felt resonated forcefully among Keralites. For one, the BJP has demanded a new dam for Mullaperiyar. It has directly appealed to the worries of an estimated 30 lakh people living downstream of the Mullaperiyar dam. It has also demanded implementing the Gadgil report to prevent further degradation of the Western Ghats and opposed the SilverLine rail project as economically and environmentally untenable. The party seemed not to have abandoned its conservative agenda. It has demanded freedom for pilgrims to move in and out of Sabarimala at will and sought to abolish the virtual queue system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjps-political-resolution-reflects-changed-realities/article37333215.ece
04 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sops announced for cinema industry||The State Government has decided to waive the entertainment tax on cinema tickets till December 31. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday as part of the steps to address the crisis being faced by the cinema industry. The meeting resolved to grant concessions on the fixed charge for electricity during the lockdown when cinemas were closed and the tax for the period from April 1 to December 31. Cut in fixed charge A concession of 50% on the fixed charge would be given till December 31 and theatre owners can pay the balance amount in six instalments. Cinema halls would be totally exempted from building tax during the lockdown period. Though theatres would be allowed to admit partially vaccinated persons, only 50% of the seating capacity would be permitted in the first phase. Moratorium on loans The State Level Bankers Committee would be convened to discuss the demand raised by exhibitors for a moratorium on loans. The Finance Department was asked to consider the proposal for a special package for theatres to meet the expenses on preparing cinema halls for shows after a long hiatus. Culture Minister Saji Cherian, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal, Health Minister Veena George, Local Administration Minister M.V. Govindan and Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sops-announced-for-cinema-industry/article37333220.ece
04 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||14 Malayalam films for this year’s IFFK||Two Malayalam films by filmmakers making their debut have been selected for the competition section of the 26th edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) to be organised by the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy in December.  Nishiddho , directed by Tara Ramanujan, and Aavasavyooham , directed by Krishand R.K., will be the Malayalam films to feature in the competition section this year. The committee has chosen Tamil film Koozhangal (Pebbles) directed by Vinothraj P.S, which is also India's official entry for this year's Oscar Awards, and Kashmiri film Be Ches Ne Veth (I'm Not The River Jhelum) directed by Prabha Chandra as the other Indian films in the section. The Academy on Wednesday announced the list of films for Malayalam Cinema Today and Indian Cinema Now sections. The Malayalam Cinema Today section includes Ennivar, Prappeda , Udharani , Avanovilona ,  Bannerghatta  , Aarkkariyam , Sunny , Chavittu , Niraye Thathakalulla Maram , Nayattu , The Great Indian Kitchen and Women With a Movie Camera . The Indian Cinema Now section consists of Kannada film Pedro , Hindi/Bhojpuri film Jhini Bini Chadariya (The Brittle Thread), Bhojpuri film Life is Suffering, Death is Salvation , Assamese film Boomba Ride , Bengali film Baagh , Shankar's Fairies and Bengali film Deep6 . The Malayalam films were chosen by a committee consisting of director Harikumar as chairperson and writer E. Santosh Kumar, Miriam Joseph, filmmaker’s Don Palathara and Sajin Babu as members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/14-malayalam-films-for-this-years-iffk/article37333175.ece
04 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State logs 7,312 cases||Kerala reported 7,312 new cases of COVID-19 when 69,680 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s active case pool had 73,083 patients on Wednesday, with 8,484 recoveries. According to the Health Department, only 7.7% of the active cases are currently admitted to treatment centres. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 32,598 with the State adding 362 deaths to the list on Wednesday. These include 51 recent deaths, 72 undeclared deaths of the period before June 2021 and 239 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following appeals filed by families. ICU occupancy of COVID patients was 1,084 on Wednesday. On Wednesday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID dropped to 326. Hospitalisations dipped drastically and at present, only 5,058 persons are being treated in hospitals. District-wise cases Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases, 1,099. Ernakulam reported 1,025 cases, Kozhikode 723, Thrissur 649, Kottayam 616, Pathanamthitta 534, Kollam 501, Kannur 422, Malappuram 342, Wayanad 331, Alappuzha 315, Idukki 313, Palakkad 284 and Kasaragod 158 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-logs-7312-cases/article37333222.ece
04 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Assembly passes four Bills on fisheries||The Assembly on Wednesday passed four important Bills pertaining to the fisheries sector, including the Kerala Fish Auctioning, Marketing and Maintenance of Quality Bill, 2021, aimed at streamlining the auctioning process, ensuring the quality of the fish sold, and curbing exploitation of fishers by middlemen. The House also passed the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (Amendment) Bill, 2021; the Kerala Marine Fishing Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021; and the Kerala Inland Fisheries and Aquaculture (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Sweeping changes Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian said the four Bills were designed to bring in sweeping changes in the sector. The Kerala Fish Auctioning, Marketing and Maintenance of Quality Bill requires fish auctions to be conducted only through notified landing centres, harbours, and markets. (This provision does not apply to retail sales by fishers). A sum not exceeding 5% of the auction amount can be collected as commission. Forty per cent of this commission will be returned to the fishers concerned as an annual production bonus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assembly-passes-four-bills-on-fisheries/article37333219.ece
04 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One killed as bus rams waiting shed at Aryanad||A 65-year-old man died and five school students were injured when a Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus rammed a waiting shed at Aryanad in Nedumangad on Wednesday morning. The Aryanad police identified the deceased as Soman Nair (65), Chithira Bhavan, Cherumanchal, Aryanad. The children sustained minor injuries Rushed to hospital The six of them were waiting to board the bus when the incident happened, according to the police. Soman Nair and the students were rushed to a local hospital and later moved to Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, the police said. Goes out of control The KSRTC bus, which was on its way from Pankavu to Aryanad, reportedly went out of control at a bend on the road and hit the waiting shed, the police said.  The bus reportedly went out of control at a bend on the road and hit the waiting shed, says the police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-killed-as-bus-rams-waiting-shed-at-aryanad/article37333394.ece
04 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two more de-addiction centres to be set up||The Excise Department plans to open two more de-addiction centres in the State, Minister for Excise M.V. Govindan informed the Assembly on November 3. One de-addiction centre each will be opened in Ernakulam and Kozhikode for women and children, the Minister said, replying to questions in the House. A de-addiction centre for women and children is currently functioning in Thiruvananthapuram, he said. To a related question, Mr. Govindan said the government was considering a proposal to produce low-alcohol liquor. But a decision would be finalised only after detailed discussions, Mr. Govindan said.  Govt. considering proposal to produce low-alcohol liquor, says Excise Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-de-addiction-centres-to-be-set-up/article37333399.ece
04 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3,262 women ended life in 21 months in State: CM||As many as 3,262 women committed suicide in the State between January 1, 2020 and September 30, 2021, according to data presented by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the Assembly on Wednesday. In a written reply, the Chief Minister said the Government had noticed a slight increase in suicides among women. He cited family-related issues and mental distress as two of the major reasons for the suicides. Complaints received During the said period, the Chief Minister received 3,556 complaints and the police, 64,223 complaints regarding atrocities against women. A total of 3,534 and 61,406 complaints respectively were disposed of. Investigation was progressing in 2,839 complaints, Mr. Vijayan said. The 51,626-strong State police force had 4,380 women members, the Chief Minister said in a written reply. They included one officer each in the DGP and ADGP ranks, 10 SPs, one Dy.SP, two AC (Battalion), 26 inspectors, 112 sub-inspectors, 82 senior civil police officers, 3,137 civil police officers, 97 battalion havildars and 911 battalion police constables. Case against policemen To another question, the Chief Minister said 744 police officers were listed as accused in criminal cases, as per the latest data. Department-level action was initiated against 691 officers on the list, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3262-women-ended-life-in-21-months-in-state-cm/article37333393.ece
04 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ward for mothers, kids at mental health centre||A special ward for mothers and children will come up at Mental Health Centre, Peroorkada. The legal aid clinic functioning at the Centre has helped tap the corporate social responsibility scheme of Gemini Solutions Software Pvt. Ltd. at Technopark for building the ward. The foundation stone for the building will be laid at the centre at 10 a.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ward-for-mothers-kids-at-mental-health-centre/article37333387.ece
04 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Case under SC/ST Act against man for assault||The Chirayinkeezh Police on Wednesday registered a case under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (SC/ST)(Prevention of Atrocities) Act against a man belonging to a forward Christian community who had allegedly assaulted his sister's husband belonging to a Scheduled Caste community. The accused has been identified as Danish George, a doctor. The police are the lookout for the suspect who has gone into hiding. According to the police, Midhun (26), who works at an Akshaya centre in Kadakkavoor had eloped with Deepthi George (24) on October 29. Her family filed a person missing complaint. The couple appeared at the Chirayinkeezh police station on the day. She said that she would prefer to live with Midhun, to whom she had got married, rather than go back to the family. The next day, Deepthi's family invited them to the local Church for conciliatory talks. Later, they visited Deepthi's house, where a scuffle broke out when Midhun was not allowed inside, the police said. Conversion alleged Speaking to the media on Wednesday, Deepthi accused her brother of demanding Midhun to convert to Christianity or end the relationship. When Midhun refused, he was attacked, she said. In a CCTV visual of the attack, Danish can be seen attacking Midhun with a stick. Midhun is currently under treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-under-scst-act-against-man-for-assault/article37333388.ece
04 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Award for historian||Eminent historian T.P. Sankarankutty has been awarded the first Kantaloor Jnanasamskrithi award instituted by the Kantaloor Sala. Prof. Sankarankutty was chosen for his research work on the Kantaloor Sala, a centre of traditional Vedic learning and ancient wisdom. The award comprises a purse of Rs. 10,000, a citation and plaque.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-historian/article37333389.ece
04 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Congress to hold meets for development of capital city||A meeting of a sub-committee appointed by the District Congress Committee (DCC) to prepare a master plan for the development of the capital city on Wednesday decided to hold meetings with experts from various fields. The first of the series of meetings will be held on November 22. The committee will convene with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, Thiruvananthapuram Management Association, trade bodies, India Medical Association, residents' associations, voluntary organisations, environmental organisations, journalists and youth will take part in the meeting. Thiruvananthapuram DCC president Palode Ravi presided over the event on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-to-hold-meets-for-development-of-capital-city/article37333392.ece
04 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Feed on Wheels’ flagged off||State public sector-undertaking Kerala Feeds Ltd (KFL) has joined hands with the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) to launch 'Feed on Wheels' where KSRTC buses are used to deliver cattle and poultry feed to farmers at subsidised rates. Minister for Animal Husbandry J. Chinchurani inaugurated the project here on Wednesday. Transport Minister Antony Raju flagged off the KSRTC bus carrying the first consignment. The KSRTC has provided two KSRTC buses for the project. One will travel across Thiruvananthapuram till Thursday. The buses will cover other districts in the days ahead. KFL had decided to extend the project State-wide after a pilot scheme in Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta became a hit with farmers. Farmers can directly purchase feeds for cattle, poultry and goat, which will be available to them at subsidised rates ranging from Rs. 40 to Rs. 300 per kg. They can book the feed by dialling or sending an SMS to 9447490116. KFL managing director B. Sreekumar made the first sale. Dr. Sreekumar said that the aim was to ensure supply of KFL products at a reasonable rate in areas where the company lacked outlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-buses-to-deliver-cattle-poultry-feed/article37333260.ece
04 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||More students turn up in schools||Nearly 25,500 more students turned up on Wednesday than Monday, the day schools in the State reopened after a long break induced by COVID-19. On Monday, 12,08,290 students reached schools. The day after, it increased to 12,13,614. On Wednesday, the number of students coming to schools touched 12,33,785. The increase was more visible in Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Palakkad, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasaragod. Some schools are closed in flood-affected areas, including those in Alappuzha. Fitness certificate The government had recently issued an order giving temporary fitness certificate to schools with asbestos, aluminium, and tin sheet roofs subject to conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-students-turn-up-in-schools/article37333216.ece
04 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Separate CEOs for IT parks in State: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday indicated that the Government was planning to appoint separate chief executive officers (CEOs) for the three information technology (IT) parks in the State. Special circumstances Mr. Vijayan informed the Assembly that Technopark Thiruvananthapuram, Infopark Kochi, and Cyberpark Kozhikode were brought under a single CEO of IT Parks-Kerala under special circumstances. “The Government intends to change this situation,” the Chief Minister said, replying to questions. Najeeb Kanthapuram of the Indian Union Muslim League raised the matter in the House.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/separate-ceos-for-it-parks-in-state-cm/article37333217.ece
04 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Curbs on bursting of crackers||The Government has issued restrictions on bursting crackers as part of the Deepavali celebrations in the State. An official press note citing the Home Department said crackers would be allowed only from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. Crackers emitting loud noise would not be allowed in 100-metre radius of hospitals, courts, educational institutions and places of worship. Only green crackers that do not pollute the environment would be allowed. The press note advised the public to avoid the use of crackers that lead to chemical and noise pollution and those that produce fumes. Bursting of crackers during the Christmas and New Year celebrations would be restricted to 35 minutes, from 11.55 p.m. to 12.30 a.m.  Fireworks allowed only from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-on-bursting-of-crackers/article37333176.ece
04 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Haj panel chief elected||Muhammed Faizi has been unanimously elected chairman of the newly- constituted Haj Committee. Minister for Haj V. Abdurahiman spoke at the meeting of the committee here on Wednesday. Ex-officio member Premkumar was among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/haj-committee-chairman/article37333179.ece
04 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mullaperiyar monitored on hourly basis: CM||The State Government is monitoring the water level in the Mullaperiyar dam on an hourly basis, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan informed the Assembly on Wednesday. Rainfall in the catchment areas of the reservoir and the consequent changes in water level are being closely studied, Mr. Vijayan said, after the issue was raised in the House by T.P. Ramakrishnan of the CPI(M) through a special question. Concerns conveyed The Government has conveyed Kerala’s concerns regarding the rising water levels in the reservoir and also highlighted the need for a new dam before the Supreme Court and the supervisory committee. Further, the State has also conveyed its apprehensions about dam safety if the water level is raised to 142 ft, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mullaperiyar-monitored-on-hourly-basis-cm/article37333218.ece
04 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||A rediscovery after 128 years||A rare species of vanishing delicate lacewing, Apochrysa evanida, has been rediscovered after 128 years by a team of researchers from Shadpada Entomology Research Lab (SERL), Christ College Irinjalakuda, Thrissur. This species was rediscovered in the Western Ghats at Valliyoorkavu, Wayanad. Suryanarayanan T.B., PhD student, and Bijoy C., assistant professor, Christ College, are behind this discovery. “This forms the first report of Apochrysa evanida in the Western Ghats. Though the larval stage of this species was reported a year ago from Bengaluru, the adult insect was not yet recorded since its first discovery in 1893 by Gerstaecker,” says Dr. Bijoy. The insect belongs to the family Chrysopidae or green lacewings of the order Neuroptera. The findings are published in the recent issue of national scientific journal Entomon . Third species Apochrysa evanida is the third species under the subfamily Apochrysinae reported from the country. The research was conducted with financial assistance from the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-rediscovery-after-128-years/article37333402.ece
04 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||ID cards for trees on college campus||Not only students, but even trees on this campus have identity cards, that too with barcodes. Name boards with barcodes have been installed for all trees on the campus of Jyothi Engineering College, Cheruthuruthy, under the Central Government’s Biodiversity Project-2019. By scanning the QR code, one can get details about the trees and their uses. The name boards have been installed to create awareness among students and teachers of trees and their role in reducing global warming and pollution, according to college sources. The project has been implemented by the Public Relations Department and Green Club of the college, led by Fr. Roy Joseph Vadakkan, secretary and campus head of the college. The college under the Syro Malabar Catholic Archdiocese, Thrissur, has around 1,000 trees belonging to 80-odd species. It has 350-odd bamboo grooves as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/id-cards-for-trees-on-college-campus/article37333361.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festive fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festive-fervour/article37333173.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Saying it with light||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/saying-it-with-light/article37333251.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Setting out for work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/setting-out-for-work/article37333404.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sparkling with joy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sparkling-with-joy/article37333396.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seeking equality||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seeking-equality/article37333398.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In the light of a thousand lamps||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-the-light-of-a-thousand-lamps/article37333406.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rights violation||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rights-violation/article37333365.ece
04 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘kills’ husband||A former security guard, Battini Venkateswarlu, 52, was allegedly done to death by his wife Kusuma, 34, while he was asleep on Tuesday night. I Town circle inspector Prathap Reddy said that they had taken her into custody and were interrogating her. The police said according to Kusuma, her husband used to suspect her fidelity and torture her every day. Vexed by his repeated accusations and torture, she committed the crime. Kusuma hit Venkateswarlu on the head with a wooden pestle leading to his instantaneous death. The police have registered a case and an autopsy of the body was done. The couple has two daughters. The son of a retired Mandal Parishad Development Officer, Mr. Venkateswarlu was not employed anywhere and so was Kusuma. They used to live on the interest from the MPDO’s retirement benefits, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-kills-husband/article37333330.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Annaatthe’ to hit 1,200 screens worldwide||After the COVID-19 lockdowns, ‘Superstar’ Rajinikanth’s Annaatthe will release on Deepavali day in about 1,200 screens globally, besides those in India. This is the first Tamil film after March 2020 to have such a massive release worldwide. However, certain things are different with Annaatthe , as against a usual Rajini film. For starters, he has closed the chapter on his political career. The question in every exhibitor’s mind has been whether his huge fanbase will throng the theatres as usual, despite its disappointment with his decision not to enter politics. In a long while, this is the first film of Rajinikanth to come out, unaccompanied by rumours of a possible announcement about his political entry. Second, the evolving situation in most countries because of the restrictions at public places like theatres has meant that producers of big budget films like Annaatthe — which has reportedly been made at a cost of Rs. 180 crore, according to film industry sources — have found themselves in catch-22. Sun Pictures has reportedly roped in Qube Cinema, one of the well-known names in digital distribution, to assist it in finding theatres abroad. Many say this had to be done because the distributors did not want to spend huge amounts upfront on buying the overseas theatrical rights. Senthil Kumar, co-founder, Qube Cinema, said his company was, indeed, aiding in the distribution of the film. “We haven’t bought the film..., but we are involved in finding theatres and other logistics,” he said. “The film will release in close to 1,200 screens.” According to the official word from Sun Pictures, the film will release in at least 1,100 screens, including 572 in the U.S and 135 across Europe. The film is also releasing in more than 100 screens in Malaysia, around 83 screens in the UAE and 17 in New Zealand. The film’s performance at the box office will decide whether Rajinikanth can continue his solo act as the number one of Tamil cinema, drawing an astronomical salary of close to Rs. 100 crore, or follow Bollywood Superstar Amitabh Bachchan and reprise roles that suit his age. A leading producer said, “We will know tomorrow if he can continue to act as a young man opposite Nayanthara. There is a huge pressure on his shoulders, thanks to his Rs. 100-crore salary, and if this film fails, he may have to change his approach. On the contrary, if the film is a huge hit, he will once again have proved that he is the undisputed king of the box office. So far, all shows on the first day are fully booked, but the second day tickets are available.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/annaatthe-to-hit-1200-screens-worldwide/article37332949.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Incentive to medical workers||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday launched the distribution of a special cash incentive to government and contract medical workers who helped control the spread of COVID-19 during April, May and June this year. According to an order that the government issued in October, a total of Rs. 196.91 crore will be granted to 24,908 medical officers, 26,615 nurses, 6,791 health inspectors, 8,658 village health nurses, 6,083 laboratory technicians and 32,113 others. Of the 1,05,168 workers, 34,396 are from the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine; 13,371 from the Medical and Rural Health Services; 49,908 are from the Directorate of Medical Education; 270 from the Directorate of Indian Medicine and Homoeopathy; 962 from the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services (ESIC Project); and 6,261 from the Tamil Nadu Health System Reform Program. Vaccination review Mr. Stalin took part in a videoconference of all Chief Ministers, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to review the COVID-19 vaccination being undertaken across the country. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Officer on Special Duty in the Health Department P. Senthil Kumar, Tiruvallur Collector Alby John Varghese and Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine T.S. Selvavinayagam also took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stalin-gives-incentive-to-medical-workers/article37332976.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stalin attends meeting on vaccination||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday took part in a videoconference of all Chief Ministers, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to review the COVID-19 vaccination being undertaken across the country. State Health Minister Ma. Subramanian, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, also took part, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stalin-attends-meeting-on-vaccination/article37333343.ece
04 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vegetable prices go up in Chittoor district||The prices of vegetables in Chittoor district, rising steadily for a couple of days, touched roof on Wednesday with even the tomatoes and onions of substandard quality costing Rs. 60 a kg. Usually, the price of onions(A1 quality) hovers around Rs. 30 a kg while the same quantity and quality of tomatoes cost Rs. 20-Rs. 25 a kg in the district. With the prices beyond the purchasing power of a common man, there were no takers for the vegetables on the festival day. Chittoor district makes a phenomenal contribution to the domestic supply of vegetables, including tomatoes, cabbage, cauliflower, several gourds and beans, thanks to the congenial climate in the western mandals. The good rains since June initially presented an air of hope among the people that the prices of vegetables would be under control. But their hopes were soon dashed, as the galloping prices of the petrol and diesel prices had a debilitating effect on the transport of vegetables. There has been no respite in prices of onions and tomatoes since last month. Even those that are of poor quality are being sold at high prices. “Previously (before the petrol price rage), we used to sell the third quality vegetables at minimum profits in towns. The situation was different when the petrol was below Rs. 100. Now, with the price inching closer to Rs. 120 a litre, we have no option but to hike the prices of vegetables. The price changes further when it reaches the retailer. We are helpless,” says Manikanta, a vegetable supplier to the eastern mandals of Chittoor. Vegetable merchants in Chittoor said that it was evident that the purchasing power of the middle-class and the poorer sections had come down post the COVID pandemic. “These days, some vegetables have become a luxury to the common man. We try to dispose of the perishable stocks with minimum profits. Still, large stocks are getting damaged every day. Yesterday’s profits are today’s loss. Tomorrow is uncertain,” a senior merchant said. Lakshmi, a homemaker of SBI Colony in Puttur, said that during the last two months, several households had limited their dishes to dal, rasam and curd, giving secondary importance to vegetables. “The consumption of onions and tomatoes is gradually coming down. Cauliflower and carrot are now a luxury. Even the green leaves price has also doubled,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vegetable-prices-go-up-in-chittoor-district/article37333332.ece
04 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kuppam’s maiden civic poll all set to be a YSRCP-TDP battle||The maiden election to the two-year-old Kuppam Municipality with 25 wards and 39,000 voters is all set to witness a battle between the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and main opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP). Till the 2019 Assembly elections, the Kuppam region remained a bastion of TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu. Since 1989, the question of the TDP losing in Kuppam never arose. However, the fall in the winning margin of Mr. Naidu from 50,000 in 2014 to 30,000 in 2019 shook the morale of the party cadres. The YSRCP cadres in Kuppam led by Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy are now looking at Mr. Naidu’s bastion as a ‘crumbling fort’ which can be captured easily. Now, the maiden municipal election in Kuppam is the right time to invade Mr. Naidu’s citadel, so goes the mood of the ruling party cadres. However, political experts say the TDP cadres, that seem to be in the doldrums, got a morale boost after Mr. Naidu’s two-day Kuppam tour on October 29 and 30. The major panchayat of Kuppam was upgraded into a municipality in 2019. The civic body, with population of 65 lakh in nine panchayats, has been divided into 25 wards. Of the total 39,261 voters, women (19,891) are slightly more than men. During the last two and a half years of the YSRCP’s tenure, Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy has visited Kuppam half a dozen times. His son and Rajampeta MP P. Mithun Reddy recently visited the constituency and promised that drinking water would be providcaded from the Handri-Neeva project, apart from other development projects worth several crores of rupees. The YSRCP drubbed the TDP in the MPTC, ZPTC and panchayat elections in the constituency. Riding over the success, the YSRCP cadres are condfident of a win by a big margin in Kuppam. Political pundits say that the TDP cadres spent two and a half years in despair in the absence of any ‘guardian angel’. A genaral observation is that even as the TDP vote bank still remains solid in Kuppam, there is a vacuum in the local leadership, which was seen as the prime reason of the TDP’s debacle in the MPTC, ZPTC and panchayat elections. The Kupam municipal poll result will depend on how the TDP cadre would respond to Mr. Naidu’s clarion call to win all the 25 municipal wards, they say. Meanwhile, Chittoor Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar, along with senior police officials from Chittoor and Palamaner, on Wednesday inspected the arrangements being made for the filling of nominations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kuppams-maiden-civic-poll-all-set-to-be-a-ysrcp-tdp-battle/article37333349.ece
04 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Maha padayatra a ploy to protect Naidu’s interests’||The ‘maha padayatra’ of the Amaravati farmers that is currently under way is a ploy by TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu to safeguard his real estate interests, the YSRCP has alleged. Addressing the media at the party central office here on Wednesday, Bapatla MP Nandigam Suresh alleged that Mr. Naidu was provoking the people of Amaravati in the name of the padayatra. “Mr. Naidu, while keeping his benamis in the forefront, is portraying the padayatra as a farmers’ agitation,” Mr. Suresh alleged. “The agitation is being led by Mr. Naidu to create chaos in the State,” the YSRCP leader alleged, and said Mr. Naidu should own up responsibility if people from the Rayalaseema or North Andhra regions objected to the padayatra as they were all supporting the government’s three-capital decision. Mr. Suresh dared Mr. Naidu to take out a padayatra in the Rayalaseema and North Andhra regions opposing the three capitals. It was Mr. Naidu who had gone to the court opposing the distribution of house sites for the Dalits in the Amaravati region, he alleged. “Mr. Naidu is not staying in Amaravati. He is more like a visitor to the State,” Mr. Suresh said, and reiterated that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised to develop the Amaravati region into the Legislative Capital and provide a better package to the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maha-padayatra-a-ploy-to-protect-naidus-interests/article37333351.ece
04 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||QS rankings: ANU comes 4th in State||Acharya Nagarjuna University(ANU) has come 81st nationally and 4th in the State in the rankings given by Quacquarelli Symonds(QS), a UK-based company specialising in the analysis of higher education institutions worldwide, based on the parameters of teaching, research, patent publications and innovation, international outlook. Expressing his happiness, ANU Vice-Chancellor Patteti Rajasekhar said: “The university paved a way for rapid development in areas of research. The rankings are a motivation to the faculty and researchers to work harder.” He congratulated all the teaching faculty, non teaching staff, and researchers on the achievement. Prof. Rajasekhar also thanked Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Governor and Chancellor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, Education Minister A. Suresh and all the administrators of APSCHE for constantly supporting the university administration. The university has received 39 international ranks, 14 national ranks, 2 certifications, 2 records, 1 Green University Award in the last year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/qs-rankings-anu-comes-4th-in-state/article37332917.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD:,ANDHRA PRADESH||GRMB asked not to delay DPRs||Telangana Government has requested the Godavari River Management one more time to forward the detailed project reports (DPRs) of six projects, which were not new and taken up during the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh, to the Central Water Commission (CWC) for obtaining necessary clearance without any further loss of time. Projects whose DPRs were submitted to the river board include Choutpally Hanmanth Reddy (CHR), Sita Rama (SR), Chinna Kaleswaram (Mukteshwar) Chanakha-Korata, Tupakulagudem and Modikuntavagu lift irrigation schemes for its perusal (appraisal) and forwarding them to CWC for further appraisal and according clearances. In a letter addressed to Chairman of the GRMB J. Chandrashekhar Iyer, Engineer-in-Chief C. Muralidhar of Telangana observed that the two river boards (GRMB and KRMB) formed as per the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act 2014 were found to be taking varying stands in the matter of appraising the DPRs submitted by the two member States. By delaying the examination/appraisal of the DPRs the GRMB was delaying the process of getting approvals to the projects within six months as stated in the gazette notification on the purview of the two river boards issued on July 15. He also pointed out that examining technical aspects such as irrigation planning, cost estimates, designs and others were not in the purview of the river board as they had to be appraised and cleared by the CWC and its Directorates. Further, he mentioned that Krishna River Management Board had simply forwarded the DPR of Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS) submitted by AP to CWC stating that it (board) had no technical expertise to appraise it. Mr. Muralidhar also brought to the GRMB Chairman’s notice that given technical clearances to the completed and ongoing projects was the responsibility of the CWC and not of the river boards. He explained that the six projects whose DPRs were submitted by Telangana would not come under Clause 85 (8) (d) of the APRA as they were not new projects and were grounded during the combined AP Government itself. The projects were included in the unapproved projects category in the gazette notification wrongly and fall under Clause 2 (f) – explanation (ii) and as per Clause 2 (f), the DPRs of unapproved projects have to be cleared by CWC after examination by the river boards under the provisions of APRA. He brought to the GRMB Chairman’s notice that utilisation of water envisaged by the six projects fall well within the earmarked utilisation of 967.94 tmc ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/grmb-asked-not-to-delay-dprs/article37333157.ece
04 November 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||P.D. Act slapped on red sanders ‘smuggler’||Inter-State red sanders ‘smuggler’ Mude Mallikarjuna Naik alias Chandu Naik (28) has been booked under P.D. Act on the charge of smuggling the logs out of the protected Seshachalam forest. Naik, hailing from Kamakinda Sugali Bidiki in Chinta Komma Dinne mandal of Kadapa district, has allegedly been involved in the illegal activity for a decade and has 20 cases booked against him since 2014. Police suspect he has contacts with international smugglers in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. He was allegedly known to bring labourers from Tamil Nadu and engage them in tree cutting activity in Atlur, Guvvalacheruvu ghat, Veeraballi and Tsundupalli forests and transport the logs to the neighbouring States and further to international destinations. Collector V. Vijayarama Raju approved the proposal forwarded by the police department, based on which the P.D. Act was slapped against him on Wednesday. The accused has since been shifted from the Rayachoti sub-jail to the Kadapa central prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pd-act-slapped-on-red-sanders-smuggler/article37333338.ece
04 November 2021||KALABURAGI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Video of Raichur BJP leader slapping policeman in mufti goes viral||Enraged after being prevented from burning Congress leader Siddaramaiah in an effigy during a protest, BJP leader and former MLA A. Papareddy slapped a police constable in plain clothes in Raichur on Wednesday. A video clip of Mr. Papareddy arguing with the police constable, Raghavendra, attached to Raichur West Police Station and slapping him went viral after the incident. The incident happened during the BJP Scheduled Castes Morcha’s protest against Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah who had, during a recent election rally in Sindgi, reportedly said that Dalit leaders had quit the Congress and joined the BJP to secure their livelihood. Stating that the former Chief Minister had insulted the Dalit community, the BJP activists attempted to burn Mr. Siddaramaiah in an effigy. However, a few policemen in mufti, including Mr. Raghavendra, prevented them and took away the effigy from the protest site. It was then Mr. Papareddy followed the policemen and slapped Mr. Raghavendra. The BJP activists later collected the effigy and burnt it. Speaking to the media after the incident, Mr. Papareddy said that he took the policeman in mufti for a BJP activist participating in the agitation. “He [the police constable] was in plain clothes and I thought he was our activist. He had held a BJP flag and took the effigy away from the protest site... Siddaramaiah has been verbally attacking BJP leaders, especially Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The Congress had burnt Mr. Modi in effigies many times before. They had burnt [BJP leader] B.S. Yediyurappain in an effigy in front of the Vidhana Soudha. Why didn’t the police prevent them from doing it then? Why do they have so much love for Mr. Siddaramaiah? Burning political leaders in effigies has been there for decades. But the police have attempted to prevent us from burning Mr. Siddaramaiah in an effigy this time,” Mr. Papareddy said. To a question, Mr. Papareddy refused to apologise to the constable. Instead, he demanded action against him for infiltrating into the protesting party workers and disturbing them. Speaking to The Hindu on the incident, Raichur Superintendent of Police Nikhil B. said that a case will shortly be registered against Mr. Papareddy. “I came to know about the incident and I am now meeting the constable for gathering more information. We cannot let it go. We have taken the issue seriously and will book a case shortly,” Mr. Nikhil said, soon after the incident. Following a complaint lodged by Mr. Raghavendra, Sub-Inspector of Police Manjunath attached to Raichur West Police Station registered a First Information Report (FIR) against five people, Papareddy, James, Hanumesh, Siddanagouda and Shivu Jalibenchi, under Indian Penal Code, including Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint). “We have registered a case against Mr. Papareddy and four others under IPC. Investigation is on. Let us see what emerges in the investigation,” Circle Inspector of Police, Raichur West, Veerareddy, who is the Investigating Officer in the case, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/video-of-raichur-bjp-leader-slapping-policeman-in-mufti-goes-viral/article37332898.ece
04 November 2021||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Father, imam held for Kerala girl’s death||Following the death of an 11-year-old girl here a few days ago, the Kannur City police on Wednesday arrested her father and an imam for denying her timely medical treatment for an illness. The police said the girl’s father, Abdul Sattar, a resident of Naluvayal, and imam Muhammad Uwais, a native of Kunjipalli, were arrested on a complaint filed by a relative of the child. The relative had complained that Fathima, who had high fever, lost her life as she was denied proper treatment due to superstitious beliefs held by the elders in her family. ‘Holy water’ The girl was allegedly given only ‘holy water’ by Uwais, imam of a local mosque, when she was taken to him for curing her. Police said Uwais allegedly practised witchcraft. Kannur City Police Commissioner R. Ilango said they were arrested in a case registered for denial of medical treatment. The relative has sought an investigation against the imam for the mysterious death of five more persons who were allegedly subjected to superstitious practice and dissuaded from seeking medical treatment when they approached him after contracting various diseases, they said. Police said Fathima, studying in the seventh standard, had fever for three days and died on Sunday. She was taken to a private hospital when the fever did not subside. According to hospital sources, the girl was brought dead. ( With inputs from PTI )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/father-imam-held-for-kerala-girls-death/article37332863.ece
04 November 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Expedite land acquisition for projects, officials told||Land acquisition for various road and housing projects in the district will be expedited and the departments concerned have been given possession of the land parcels, District Collector P. Koteswara Rao has said. Chairing a meeting with all the department heads to assess the total requirement and the progress of land acquisition here on Wednesday, Mr. Koteswara Rao said a weekly review would be held to assess the progress of implementation of some of the important National Highway projects. The Roads and Buildings, the Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation, and the Rural Water Supply department officials participated in the review. There was a discussion on the doubling of the Guntakal - Guntur railway line for which land acquisition was immediately essential. The district was sanctioned 20 Primary Health Centres, and for constructing buildings for them, land acquisition should be given priority, the Collector said. All the Revenue Divisional Officers and the Nandyal Sub-Collector were asked to come prepared with data and the progress made for the next review meeting. The Railways needed 112.18 acres and the R&B Department needed 146 acres for their projects in various mandals. The officers concerned were asked to expedite the process. In addition, 405 acres was needed for the Chennai - Surat National Highway project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/expedite-land-acquisition-for-road-housing-projects-collector/article37333329.ece
04 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 YSRCP nominees files paper for Nellore civic poll||The YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) on Wednesday had a head start for the elections to Nellore Municipal Corporation, scheduled to be held on November 15, as 12 of its candidates filed their nomination papers. Prestige of Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar Yadav is at stake as the polls are being held in his home constituency. Accompanied by Mr. Anil Kumar and Nellore Urban Development Authority chairman N. Dwarakanath, YSRCP nominee D. Rajasekhar arrived in a procession to file his nomination papers. Eleven more party candidates also filed their nominations. Nominations were received for 16 of the 54 wards in the urban local body, said Nellore Municipal Commissioner K. Dinesh Kumar. No candidate of the TDP filed nomination papers on the first day Two candidates of the Jana Sena Party filed their nominations as also an equal number of independent candidates. The YSRCP swept the urban local body elections held in Naidupeta, Sullurpeta, Venkatagiri and Atmakur, while the civic polls could not be held in Gudur and Kavali for pending litigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/12-ysrcp-nominees-files-paper-for-nellore-civic-poll/article37333335.ece
04 November 2021||ODIA CAMP (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal people help police destroy ganja plantation||The East Godavari police, with the help of Porja tribes, on Wednesday destroyed ganja crops in 10 acres on the banks of Sileru river near the Odia Camp (village of Porja tribe) on the Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB)region. The area shares the border with Malkangiri district in Odisha. A team of officials led by East Godavari SP M. Ravindranath Babu, ASPs G. Krishnakanth and Krishnakanth Patil and ITDA Chintoor Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana destroyed the ganja plantation in presence of the armed police in the Naxal-hit Donkarai mandal. The estimated quantity of destroyed ganja is nearly 6,000 kg. “We convinced the Porja tribe to join the drive undertaken to identify the ganja plantations. On Wednesday, we destroyed ganja plantation in 10 acres. We are not blaming the local communities as they are being lured by smugglers. We will educate the tribals on the legal consequences of cultivating ganja,” said Mr. Ravindranath Babu. The police also sought help from the forest and ITDA authorities to encourage commercial crops in the region. In response to a call by the police, tribal people from the five villages participated in the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-people-help-police-destroy-ganja-plantation/article37333353.ece
04 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lacklustre Deepavali for Ongolites this year||Incessant rain since a few days has taken the sheen off Deepavali, the festival of lights, in Ongole and other parts of Prakasam district. While it was COVID-19 last year that deprived people of the festive joy, it is continuous wet spell this time that has left revellers and shopkeepers in the district disappointed. Unabated downpour has left the P.V.R.M. Boys High school, where a large number of shops selling crackers come up, in a sheet of water. While a majority of cracker sellers did not put up stalls at the sprawling grounds fearing more rain in the next two days, those that did open their shops saw little business. All arterial roads wore a deserted look as there was no let-up in the showers. Textile shops as also shops selling sweets and savouries on the arterial Gandhi road and other places witnessed thin crowd. However, hawkers went round the city selling earthern lamps and colours. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department(IMD) predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places in the coastal region as a trough at mean sea level runs from Comorin area to westcentral Bay of Bengal off South Andhra Pradesh coast. Kothapatnam received a maximum rainfall of 36.4 mm followed by Singarayakonda 32.8 mm, Podili 10.6 mm, Ongole 8.6 mm, Kandukur 8.2 mm, Tallur 7.2 mm and Vetapalem 7.2 mm, according to a data compiled by the Chief Planning Officer. ‘Only eco-friendly crackers’ Meanwhile, Prakasam Superintendent of Police Malika Garg said people would be allowed to burst only eco-friendly fire crackers and that too, only between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. on Thursday as per the directions issued by the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal. She asked people to celebrate the festival by avoiding big social gatherings. People should maintain social distance during shopping and while bursting of crackers. Only soaps should be used for cleaning of hands instead of hand sanitizers. In case of mishaps, people can call 100 or 101 or drop a Whatsapp message on 9121102266.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/not-so-cracking-deepavali-for-ongolites/article37333334.ece
04 November 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 hurt in blast in illegal cracker unit at Tekkali||Three youngsters received serious burns following a blast in an illegal cracker unit in Tekkali of the district on Wednesday. The victims were identified as Vakada Hari, Saigopal and Murthy. A few others received minor injuries in the blast that occurred when they were preparing crackers in a house in Kaccheri Veedhi. All the injured were being treated at the local government hospital. Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar directed all Station House Officers to immediately conduct raids to check illegal cracker manufacturing units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-hurt-in-blast-in-illegal-cracker-unit-at-tekkali/article37332864.ece
04 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: Kerala Government announces further relaxations||The Kerala Government has decided to allow more relaxations in civil life in the State, buoyed by the reassurance that the COVID-19 situation was increasingly becoming less threatening and that the end of the pandemic might be soon in sight. A State-level COVID-19 review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Wednesday decided that people who had received one dose of COVID-19 vaccine may be allowed entry to cinema halls. At present, only those who are fully vaccinated are allowed entry to the cinemas. The Health Department has been directed to issue guidelines on the protocols that need to be followed in the cinema halls. The meeting decided to allow up to 200 persons for all socio-political/ religious functions, funerals and marriages which are held outdoors, while up to 100 persons may be allowed entry to such functions held in closed spaces. The good public response to school reopening has been a confidence booster for the administration, which felt that the 80% attendance on the first day of school reopening was an indication that the apprehensions surrounding COVID-19 were easing in the community. The Chief Minister directed doctors to visit schools and examine children with specific health issues as and when the situation demanded. He directed teachers to pay special attention to improve the mental well-being of children who are returning to schools after nearly two years. He appealed to parents not to pay heed to exaggerated reports on the circulation of viruses other than COVID-19. The meeting suggested that sectoral magistrates be retained only if the situation in a locality demanded it. He directed the Health Department to find additional human resource on daily wages as required. In technical high schools, students in Classes 8-10 will be admitted for practical classes in general workshop and engineering drawing. Sanction will be allowed for the National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF) school-level practical training sessions and preliminary sessions for students in Classes 9 and 10. Revenue Minister K. Rajan, Health Minister Veena George, Chief Secretary V.P. Joy, State Police Chief Anil Kant, Secretaries of various departments, District Collectors and district police administration officials were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-kerala-government-announces-further-relaxations/article37332868.ece
04 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prepare e-M book software: TTD official||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD) Joint Executive Officer V. Veerabrahmam has directed officials of Information Technology department to prepare the e-M book software to facilitate tracking the progress of engineering works and processing of bill payments. At a review meeting with engineering and IT officials here on Wednesday, he said the pilot implementation of the software, once it is ready, would enable the Assistant Engineers to update the progress of ongoing work from the project site. He advised the engineering officials to coordinate with the technical team led by TCS, in case they found any snags in the application. On the ongoing works at Bhubaneshwar and Seethampeta, he enquired about the progress and also take up repairs to the TTD’s Kalyana Mandapam buildings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prepare-e-m-book-software-ttd-official/article37333340.ece
04 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police perform ‘Ayudha Puja’||Ahead of the Deepavali festival, weapons of various divisions in the police department were given an overhaul marking ‘Ayudha Puja’. Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu took part in the festivities at the police parade grounds here on Wednesday, where the artillery, vehicles and communication equipment were cleaned, decorated with flowers and worshipped. “We also prayed for the safety and welfare of the personnel who handle these weapons and equipment,” Mr. Naidu said. Additional Superintendent E. Supraja, Deputy Superintendents (Traffic – II) Katama Raju and Nanda Kishore (Armed Reserve) took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-personnel-perform-ayudha-puja/article37333337.ece
04 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police raid ID liquor making unit near Kolleru, arrest four||In a major operation, the police raided a creek near the Kolleru Lake and seized huge quantity of arrack, jaggery wash and other material used for brewing Illicitly Distilled (ID) liquor on Wednesday and arrested four persons involved in the illegal activity. “The accused are manufacturing ID liquor on a wooden platform built at a height (called ‘mancha’ in Telugu) in thick bushes near Pandiripalligudem village. We suspect the involvement of a gang in the illegal trade,” said Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal, who participated in the operation. As part of the special action plan, the police are using drones to detect ID liquor manufacturing sites, and hoarding and selling points in the district. The drones traced a liquor brewing unit in a remote location in the creeks near Kolleru. “The drone videos and photographs identified the ‘mancha’. The accused are using boats, water drums, jaggery, big utensils, stoves and other material for brewing arrack,” said Mr. Siddharth, who led the raid in which about 50,000 litres of jaggery wash was destroyed. Gudivada Deputy Superintendent of Police N. Satyanandam said a few fishermen were involved in the illegal trade. The police team, which also comprised Kaikalur CI Y.V.V.L. Naidu and SI Ch. Krishna, seized 15 gas stoves, 10 cooking gas cylinders, utensils, drums and other material, all worth about Rs. 7 lakh, the DSP said. The arrested were identified as B. Subba Raju, G. Rambabu, B. Kota Shivaji and P. Krishna, all native of Kaikalur and Akiveedu mandals. The accused were selling ID liquor at Kolletikota, Penchikalamarru, Alapadu, Dumpagadapa, Pedda Kottada and other villages in Krishna and West Godavari districts, Mr. Naidu alleged. “Cases have been registered against the accused. Instructions have been given to continue the raids in the villages,” Mr. Siddharth said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-raid-id-liquor-making-unit-near-kolleru-arrest-four/article37332915.ece
04 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clear ‘Neeru Chettu’ dues of Rs. 1,700 crore, TDP tells govt.||TDP former MLA Kuna Ravi Kumar said that there was a rising resentment among the farmers in the State against the agriculture policies of the YSRCP government. Mr. Ravi Kumar on Wednesday said that the farmers had carried out ‘Neeru Chettu’ works of the value below Rs. 10 lakh in the State during the tenure of the TDP government. “The YSRCP government is yet to clear to dues of Rs. 1,700 crore in the past two and a half years. It is harassment of farmers. Moreover, the government is ordering false enquiries to brand these farmers as corrupt persons,” he alleged. The farmers had sold their wives’ mangal sutras to complete the ‘Neeru Chettu’ works, but the government were making their lives miserable by delaying the payments, he said. The TDP leader alleged that the farmers were being targeted and victimised along the political lines. “As per the Chief Engineer of minor irrigation, there are Rs. 1,700 crore dues under the Neeru Chettu works. The previous government carried out works worth Rs. 4,851 crore works under scheme, which helped recharge groundwater table by 5 metre and stabilise over 7 lakh acres across the State,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/clear-neeru-chettu-dues-of-rs-1700-crore-tdp-tells-govt/article37333354.ece
04 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BIE exempts pvt. candidates from attendance for Inter exams||The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) will grant exemption to private candidates (without college study) from attendance to appear for the Intermediate Public Examinations to be held in March, 2022. Students with arts combinations will be considered on payment of exemption fee of Rs. 1,300. In a statement on Wednesday, BIE Secretary V. Ramakrishna said the fee should be paid through e-challan generated in bie.ap.gov.in. The students can submit their applications without late fee up to November 23 and till November 30 with a late fee of Rs. 200. The provision of granting exemption from attendance (without college study) to the candidates of science stream was dispensed with from the IPE, September, 1997. Eligibility criteria Speaking about the eligibility conditions, Mr. Ramakrishna said candidates who have a gap of one year after passing the qualifying examination i.e. SSC or its equivalent are eligible to appear only for the first year IPE. If the gap period is two years or more, they can appear for both 1st and 2nd year IPE at a time. Students who want to change their optional subjects from science subjects to humanities and for change of groups in humanities from one faculty to another as per the rules of the BIE, also need to apply for the exemption from attendance on or before the given dates. Documents required The students should submit their exemption application forms along with the original certificates of the Secondary School Certificate (SSC), Transfer Certificate (TC) and e-challan for Rs. 1,300 in the office of the Regional Intermediate Officer of the district concerned through their Principals by November 23 (without late fee) and by November 30 (with late fee). Mr. Ramakrishna further said that the fee once paid would not be refunded or adjusted in case the candidates are found not eligible for the examinations. The exemption application forms could be downloaded from the BIE website https://bie.ap.gov.in, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bie-exempts-pvt-candidates-from-attendance-for-inter-exams/article37333355.ece
04 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make best use of festival season, officials told||Managing Director of Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) and CEO of AP Tourism Authority (APTA) Satyanarayana on Wednesday directed the officials to utilise the festival season to ensure 100% occupancy in the Harita Hotels across the State. Mr. Satyanarayana was addressing the HoDs, Regional Directors, Divisional Managers and District Tourism Officers via a video link. Making the best of the festival season, the officials should attract tourists with packages designed for the Karthika Masam and Margasira Masam, he said. “The period between November and February is crucial for tourism. Tourists and pilgrims travel extensively during this time, and focus should be on tourism destinations such as Lambasingi and Araku, besides temples,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/make-best-use-of-festival-season-officials-told/article37333417.ece
04 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1 hurt as street light poles fall on road||Two LED street light poles on the median of the busy Eluru Road here fell, injuring one person and causing panic among the pedestrians and motorists on Wednesday. Sk. Raheem (41), who was riding a motorcycle towards Machavaram, sustained an injury on his face in the incident that took place in front of the BSNL office around noon. Eyewitnesses said that one pole fell on the other under the impact of strong winds as its base was corroded. Traffic comes to halt Traffic came to a halt as electric wires snapped as a result. Even before the police and electricity personnel reached the spot, the passers-by and the staff from the BSNL office started pushing the poles towards the median immediately and paved the way for free movement of vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-injured-as-street-light-poles-fall/article37332916.ece
04 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Brochures released on safe Deepavali||Officials of the AP State Disaster Response and Fire Services Department released brochures on ‘Safe Diwali’. The brochures were distributed in all licensed fire crackers shops, said Regional Fire Officer (RFO) G. Srinivasulu. The brochures were printed with more than 10 precautions – in English and Telugu – to be taken while burning crackers. Parents were requested to be with children while bursting of crackers, not to burn them by holding them in the hand and not to keep stocks of crackers outside while celebrating the festival, the RFO said. Instructions had been given to the Station Fire Officers to keep the fire tenders ready for any emergency, Mr. Srinivasulu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/brochures-released-on-safe-deepavali/article37333375.ece
04 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor extends Deepavali greetings||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan extended Deepavali greetings to the people of the State on Wednesday. He urged people to adhere to COVID-19 guidelines while celebrating the festival. “On this joyous occasion of Deepavali, the festival of lights, I extend my warm greetings to the people of A.P. May the lights of Deepavali bring peace, prosperity and happiness to all. Deepavali signifies the triumph of good over evil and occasions like these inspire us to conquer the calamities and build a society filled with peace, amity and communal harmony,” said the Governor. “I appeal to the people of the State to celebrate the festival by adhering to the COVID-appropriate behaviour ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-extends-deepavali-greetings/article37333347.ece
04 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||KLU students land plum jobs||Three students of KL Deemed to be University have bagged jobs offering Rs. 20.62 Lakhs Per Annum in the campus recruitment drive that saw the participation of the representatives of dream companies and super dream companies. All three, G.William Carey, Nuthanapati Laya Sree and Rohith Jatla, are from the Electronics and Communications Engineering (ECE) department. Vice-Chancellor Saradhi Varma said students have secured 3,022 job offers by reputed companies so far. He said students were imparted special training to make them industry-ready and their level of efficiency reflected in the kind of jobs being offered to them. Dr. Varma said the KLU endeavour was to eye bigger jobs for students in the days to come. More than 1,000 students were being paid stipend by companies where they were absorbed as interns, he informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/klu-students-land-plum-jobs/article37333379.ece
04 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Moral victory’ for BJP in Badvel, says Madhav||MLC P.V.N. Madhav has said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has won a ‘moral victory’ in the Badvel bypolls by bagging a respectable number of votes after fighting the ‘anti-people’ policies of the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) in the State. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Mr. Madhav alleged that the YSRCP won the election by rigging the votes. Though there were signals that the voters were vexed by the policies of the ruling party, they were threatened by the secretariat staff and village/ward volunteers, he alleged. The BJP leader congratulated party leader Eatela Rajendar for his victory in the Huzurabad bypoll in neighbouring Telangana and said that the victory is an indication that voters want development and not easy money. Referring to the mortgage of government assets by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, he wondered as to how it was done without introducing a Bill in the Assembly. On the demolition of the A.P. Tourism cottages at Rushikonda, Mr. Madhav alleged that the resorts that were earning a lucrative revenue were demolished and 20 acres of the hill destroyed. He welcomed the demand for the formation of an all-party delegation to take up the issue of privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) with the Centre. He said the State BJP leaders had also suggested to the Centre to look for alternatives to the issue. BJP State vice-president P. Vishnu Kumar Raju alleged that the State government was funding the ‘Navaratnalu’ scheme with the money given by contractors. Their bills were not being cleared and the money was being diverted for other purposes. He also alleged that the Rushikonda tourism resorts, which were in the reach of the common people, would now be out of bounds for them. The proposed construction in 2 lakh square feet would damage the natural beauty of the hill, Mr. Raju said. While welcoming the construction of a temple of Lord Venkateswara on a hill near Rushikonda, Mr. Raju ridiculed the Chief Minister for having no time to participate in the consecration of the idols. He said that if the Chief Minister was so busy, he could ask Sri Swaroopanandendra Swamy of Visakha Sarada Peetham or depute someone else to participate in the consecration ceremony. He alleged that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was toying with the sentiments of Hindus and it would not be tolerated. He warned that the BJP would launch an agitation if the ‘Vigraha Pratishta’ at the temple was not done in 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/moral-victory-for-bjp-in-badvel/article37333341.ece
04 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Incessant rain on Deepavali eve leads to dip in firecracker sales||Sales of firecrackers began in the city on a sluggish note on Wednesday as shoppers stayed indoors due to incessant rain. Nearly a hundred stalls have come up on the Andhra University main ground, and 50 on the AUCE Grounds and an equal number near the ground at the NSS Unit of the university. Stalls were also set up at the Alwar Das Grounds in MVP Colony and vacant areas at Madhurawada, Pendurthi, Arilova, Gajuwaka, Seethammadhara and Pedagantyada. The stalls were set up in adherence to COVID-19 safety protocols, and the workers employed by the stall owners were trying to boost sales by offering steep discounts. Street vendors also went around selling earthen lamps, electric lights, coloured candles and other decorative items for the festival. “This time, we were expecting good business as things were slowly returning to normalcy after the COVID-19 second wave. But rain has played spoilsport and we hope that the skies clear up by tomorrow morning. As soon as the rain stops we are confident that customers will start pouring in,” said Srinivas, a firecracker trader from MVP Colony. According to GVMC Regional Fire Officer Niranjan Reddy, permission was accorded only to 350 shops this year compared to 400 last year. Many of the traders invested less on stocks, fearing bad weather and undergoing a bitter experience of heavy losses suffered in previous years. Prices go up Meanwhile, customers complained that firecrackers became expensive compared to last year. The traders said that the hike in transportation charges due to costlier fuel prices, and a reduction in production and additional taxes have led to the increase in prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/incessant-rain-on-deepavali-eve-leads-to-dip-in-firecracker-sales/article37333430.ece
04 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police catch a whiff of ‘Maoists’ links to ganja smugglers’ in AOB||A diary recovered from the site of an exchange of fire with Maoists contains information on possible links between the rebels and ganja smugglers, according to sources in the Police Department. “Rummaging through the belongings left behind by the Maoists at a camp, we found a diary belonging to Aruna, a State Committee Secretary and second in-command of the Andhra Odisha Border (AOB) region after Central Committee Member Gajarla Ravi alias Uday. In the diary, there were 20 names of middlemen who are active in ganja smuggling in the AOB region,” a senior police offiical engaged in anti-Maoist operations said. Police said the details found in the diary corroborate what they have been saying all along — that ganja cultivation remains a lucrative source of revenue for the Maoists who lend active support to its cultivation and trade. Of late, the AOB region has become infamous for rampant cultivation and smuggling of ganja. Police officials said they are receiving reports that ganja cultivated in the AOB region is being peddled across the country from Delhi to Goa, Kerala, Hyderabad and Tamil Nadu, as well as in North-eastern States. Though the police have long suspected a nexus between the Maoists and ganja smugglers, the unearthing of the diary substantiates their claims, officials said. For years, the Maoists have been denying any role in the ganja cultivation. However, it is difficult to cultivate and trade the crop in that region without their approval, as nothing moves without their consent in that region as they hold considerable sway there. This was confirmed by Director General of Police Gautam Sawang recently. He pointed out that the ganja is grown under their patronage and they earn hefty commissions through its sale. “The Maoist connection is our main hurdle in eradicating the ganja menace in AOB,” he had said. Change in stance As per the adivasis in the interior parts of AOB and in the cut-off region, earlier, the Maoists had introduced a tax on the cultivation of ganja. Ganja has been cultivated in the Agency for decades, but the cultivation of the crop gained momentum in the last two decades after middlemen from Tamil Nadu and Kerala made their way to the region. They introduced techniques like drip irrigation and the usage of portable generator sets and started to finance the farmers and also supply them seeds. It was then that the Maoists, who had infiltrated the Visakha Agency by the early 1980s, started to take a keen interest in the cropping, as it served as a good revenue generation model. In the earlier days, they had imposed a tax of 10 paisa per plant which later shot up to Rs. 1 per plant. However, a few years ago, a resolution was passed by the CPI (Maoist) that they would not tax the cultivators as it might antagonise them and they might lose their support base. It was then that they switched their collection model and started to focus on the middlemen, said a senior officer from the Excise Department who is engaged in anti-ganja operations. Dubious distinction In the last decade, the Visakhapatnam Agency has gained the dubious distinction of being a hub of ganja cultivation in India after the Chamba valley in Himachal Pradesh. As per a conservative estimate, over 40,000 acres are under cultivation in AOB region, with an area double the size being used to cultivate the crop across the border in the neighbouring State. The trade could be over a few thousand crores a year, as the variety that is grown here fetches good value in the upcountry market, as the base price of Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 2,000 per kg in the Agency can go up to Rs. 5, 500 to Rs. 15,000 per kg in the big cities, said police officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-catch-a-whiff-of-maoists-links-to-ganja-smugglers-in-aob/article37333357.ece
04 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCTC launches pilgrim special to Gujarat||A ‘pilgrimage special tourist train’ named ‘Vibrant Gujarat’ will be operated by Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), to places of tourist and spiritual interest in Gujarat from Vijayawada via Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra. The pilgrim special tourist train will leave Vijayawada at noon on November 28 and arrive in Visakhapatnam on the same day at 8.30 p.m. and leave at 8.50 p.m. It will reach Somnath on December 1. Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, Chandra Mohan Bisa, Area Officer of IRCTC South Central Zone, said that the 10 nights-11 days tour would cover Somnath temple, Dwarakadheesh temple at Dwaraka, Bet Dwaraka and Nageswar Jyothirlinga, Sabarmati Ashram and Akshardham temple and Statue of Unity at Vishvamitri. The package includes night stay at Dharmashala/halls/dormitories on multi-sharing basis for ‘Sleeper Class’ passengers and hotel accommodation on twin and triple sharing basis for ‘3 AC’ passengers. tea/coffee, breakfast, lunch and dinner and one litre water a day. Local transportation will be part of the tour. The cost per head (including GST) for Sleeper Class is Rs. 10,400 and for 3rd AC is Rs. 17,330. Replying to a query, Mr. Chandra Mohan said that this was the first time that the State of Unity was included in the tour. Both doses of COVID-19 vaccination were mandatory for guests above 18 years of age. Bookings have already been opened. Those interested in going on the tour can contact the IRCTC office at the main entrance at Visakhapatnam Railway Station or contact Chandan Kumar on the mobile number 8287932318 or K. Gananadha on 8287932281. They can also log on towww.irctctourism.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irctc-pilgrim-special-tourist-train-to-gujarat/article37333342.ece
04 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Annavaram priests thank Sarada Peetham pontiff||Priests of Annavaram temple visited Visakha Sri Sarada Peetham at Pendurthy on Wednesday to thank Peetham head Sri Swaroopanandendra Saraswathi and Swatmanandendra Saraswathi for taking up their cause with the State government. A G.O. was released by the government hiking the remuneration given to the purohits from the revenue earned by the temple through the conduct of Satyanarayana Vrathams at Sri Veera Venkata Satyanarayana Swamy temple at Annavaram, by 10%. The priests said that Visakha Sri Sarada Peetham was not only working for upholding Hindu Dharma but also for the welfare of priests. They said that for the past 20 years, they had been seeking an increase in their percentage of revenue from ‘Vrathams’ performed at the temple, but the governments had neglected it. The intervention of Visakha Sri Sarada Peetham seers had prompted the State government to act on their long-pending demand, they said. Sri Swaroopanandendra Swamy told reporters that ‘Vrata’ purohits have been facing severe financial problems due to the COVID-19 pandemic. He said that the decision of the State government would benefit 260 Vrata purohits. AP Purohita Brahmana Samakhya State president Yamijala Narasimha Murthy, and Annavaram Vrata Purohita Sangam honorary president Muthya Satyanarayana Sarma called on the seers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/annavaram-priests-thank-sarada-peetham-pontiff/article37333424.ece
04 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sarpanches take pledge to curb ganja smuggling||As part of their ongoing anti-narcotics drive, the district police conducted a sensitisation programme for sarpanches from Narsipatnam sub-division here on Wednesday. Speaking during the programme, Deputy Inspector General (DIG–Visakha Range) L.K.V. Ranga Rao said that it is the responsibility of a sarpanch to ensure that the residents of a village lead the rightful way for a living. He said that ganja smuggling cases are spoiling the reputation of Visakhapatnam (Rural). Wherever ganja is caught in the country, it is found to be sourced from Narsipatnam sub-division. Steps need to be taken to contain ganja smuggling, he said. He also asked the sarpanches to create awareness on planting alternate crops for a living instead of ganja crops, which could land farmers into trouble. Cultivating medicinal plants would earn good name to the region, he advised. The DIG also sought them to organise meetings with the locals and bring a change such that they voluntarily come forward and leave ganja smuggling as well as cultivation. On the occasion, all the sarpanches took a pledge that they would not support ganja cultivation and smuggling in their villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sarpanches-take-pledge-to-curb-ganja-smuggling/article37333425.ece
04 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister inaugurates surgery ward at Paderu||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Wednesday inaugurated a surgery ward at the Paderu district hospital. Speaking to reporters after the inauguration, the Minister said that locals from Agency areas will no longer have to travel all the way to Visakhapatnam for surgeries as the newly-inaugurated surgery ward will cater to their needs. The Minister appreciated the efforts taken by Collector A. Mallikarjuna and Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R. Gopalakrishna in establishing the surgery ward. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had expressed his commitment to setting up a medical college at Paderu to improve the healthcare infrastructure in the Agency, and said that work on it had already begun. The ITDA in coordination with Aarogyasri has conducted five medical camps till now in various mandals for the tribals. The tribals should utilise all the welfare schemes being provided by the government, he said, adding that vacant posts in the health department would be filled soon. The government is also conducting job melas keeping in view the unemployment among tribal youth, he stated. Boosting tourism Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that tourist spots in the Agency are being developed to attract more visitors. “With a budget of Rs. 35 crore, we are going to construct a freedom fighters’ museum at Tajangi in Chintapalle mandal. The museum will reflect the traditions of the tribals,” he said. Mr. Srinivasa Rao felicitated Mr. Gopalakrishna and health staff on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-inaugurates-surgery-ward-at-paderu/article37333428.ece
04 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civic chief takes stock of emergency response||Municipal Commissioner G. Lakshmisha took part in several programmes on Wednesday. He visited the Command Control Centre (CCC) in the GVMC and learnt about its functioning. He enquired about the number of smart poles, CCTV cameras installed in the city and how the Command Control Centre alerting citizens during emergencies. He enquired about the number of complaints pertaining to civic issues received through the social media platforms and how were they being resolved and the time of response. In the evening, the civic chief held a meeting with the officials of the Public Health Department. He asked the officials to ensure that the sanitation works werre up to the mark. Mr. Lakshmisha also inspected the Ward 31 in the Zone-IV. He enquired about the biometric attendance of the sanitary staff and instructed the officials to organise awareness campaigns on seasonal diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/civic-chief-takes-stock-of-emergency-response/article37333431.ece
04 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||21 new COVID-19 cases||The district recorded 21 COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,58,307. After almost nine days, the district recorded one COVID-19 death, taking the toll to 1,097. The last COVID-19 death was reported on October 25. After 30 more persons recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours, the recoveries increased to 1,56,471. The number of active cases stands at 739.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/21-new-covid-19-cases/article37333432.ece
04 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘False propaganda by police’||The CPI (Maoist) in a letter released on Wednesday denied statements made by police that they had links to ganja smuggling activities from the Agency areas of Visakhapatnam district and bordering tribal districts in neighbouring Odisha. CPI (Maoist) spokesperson from AOBSZC, Ganesh, said in the letter that the police was trying to tarnish the ideology of the outfit by levelling false allegations that the ganja was being cultivated under the Maoists’ patronage and that they received a share of the profits. “We have reiterated several times in the past that we do not have any links to the ganja cultivation,” he stated. The Maoists also urged the tribals to resist the efforts of the police, SEB and Excise Department who are on a mission to destroy the ganja plantations. The move should be resisted strongly till the authorities offer an alternate and self-sustaining crop model to the tribals, Ganesh said. “In the name of ‘Parivartan’ and the drive against narcotics, police are destroying the crop and are directly hurting the livelihood of the innocent adivasis,” he said. In the letter, it was also alleged that the adivasis are actually used as daily wage labourers in the ganja cultivation, while the real beneficiaries are the middlemen who include political leaders and police officers. The spokesperson also named a few police officers including a DSP-rank officer who had allegedly forced the adivasis to grow the crop and made huge money by selling it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/false-propaganda-by-police/article37333358.ece
04 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||EEMA award for Meenakshi Anantram||Meenakshi Anantram, founder of ‘Razzmatazz’, received the award and title of ‘Legend’ of the Events and Entertainment Industry, from the apex association EEMA, the national body of registered event managers in the country. Razzmatazz, founded 30 years ago in the city, has carved a niche for itself as a pioneer in the event management industry in the region. It has arranged more than 6,000 events all over the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eema-award-for-meenakshi-anantram/article37333423.ece
04 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man hacked to death in district||A man aged around 40 years was found dead under Padmanabham police station limits in the district on Wednesday. Police sources said that the deceased, identified as Bangarraju, was hacked to death by an unidentified person with a sharp-edged weapon. Police suspect that a financial dispute might have led to the killing. A manhunt has been launched for the suspect and an investigation is on. Further details are yet to be ascertained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-hacked-to-death-in-district/article37333426.ece
04 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple hundi collects Rs. 21 lakh||Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple at Burujupeta received Rs. 21,50,758 through Hundi collections from October 6 to November 3. The collections were counted on Wednesday. Other donations include: 62.600 gm of gold and 860 gm silver and foreign currency of USD $141 and Singapore $80. Temple Executive Officer S.J. Madhavi, Inspector (Endowments) V.S.S. Gouri, Grade-1 EO T. Rajagopala Reddy, temple assistant EO V. Rambabu, and Union Bank of India’s Kotha Road Branch BM M. Chandra Mouli were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/temple-hundi-collects-rs-21-lakh/article37333427.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engineering successful careers!||Engineering as a career is hugely popular and continues to attract students. It is a lucrative field that offers ample and high-paying job opportunities. But to embark on a successful career, a good college is paramount. The good college paves the way forward for your career, and also is the foundation that provides the base for your post-graduation and research options should you decide to opt for those, after you complete your graduation. The first step towards a fruitful career is to graduate from a college that meets your needs and takes care of your aspirations. In the Engineering and Management fields, there are many parameters to consider while selecting the right college. Firstly, consider the branch. The field of engineering has a vast scope with numerous upcoming technical fields every day. Thus, it is crucial to find an engineering field that matches your interests and future job prospects. In addition to the branch, there are also other important aspects to be considered like the location, accessibility, cost, accreditation of the college, facilities offered, and eligibility. But be aware that getting admission into the college of your choice is not guaranteed; have a backup of a minimum three other engineering branch options and colleges so that you can opt one of those in case you are not able to get your selected stream or college. Compromises are inevitable, but keeping alternatives allows you to look for the best combination of branch and college, amongst the options available to you. Create a checklist of the criteria that you consider significant. For instance – distance to commute daily and mode of transportation, accreditation, location, degree offered, college infrastructure, teacher-student ratio, hostel facilities (if required), the reputation of the institute, university affiliation, placement record, financial aid, campus life and campus facilities. Other aspects to consider include social life and extracurricular activities like dance, music, sports, debate clubs, and such. Adequate importance must be given to extracurricular activities as well, as not only do they break the monotony of pure theoretical study but also to encourage a holistic development of the student. Skills such as team spirit, good communication and other important social skills are developed through these activities. Read about the college, check its web page, student’s reviews and if possible, visit the campus. Except for a decided few, most of the students foraying into the stream of engineering are basically clueless when it comes to which engineering branch they should opt for. Many students (or rather parents) are more interested in getting into the 'top' branch (invariably computer science). Job prospects of the field are the only aspect considered while making this decision; ignoring interest and aptitude in the process. Besides the most popular branches like mechanical, computers, electrical and civil, there are numerous other engineering branches like chemical, biotechnology, aeronautical, industrial, instrumentation, marine, etc. which have a good scope. And more than the branch, it is the college and the facilities provided by the college that matter. Fact is that when studying in a good well-established college the faculty, facilities, study atmosphere and placements arranged by the institute are essential when embarking on a career. All branches of engineering have a reasonably good future; there are well-paying jobs in all disciplines. But excelling in that branch and accordingly getting a well-paying job in a good company is the ultimate goal, for which the institute makes a difference. It is the institute which helps mould the students to be academically proficient as well as confident, capable and poised to excel at interviews and on the job itself. Furthermore, it is a common trait amongst students to change their interests and accordingly focus on an additional field even while studying to eventually snare a good job in a field totally unrelated to the branch they initially started out with. Thanks to the access to information, one can learn all that there is regarding a career choice before plunging into the course. - Uma Chodavarapu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/engineering-successful-careers/article37332920.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oppn. leaders join ‘maha padayatra’||Meanwhile, TDP leader Pilli Manikya Rao said that the YSRCP government had harassing the farmers of Amavarati by foisting false cases including the ones booked under the SC, ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. “Had the government showed some sympathy to the farmers, they would not have hit the roads. The TDP government had pooled 35,000 acres from farmers who selflessly parted with their land,’’ said Mr. Manikya Rao. The protestors would resume the padayatra, covering Pedanandipadu and Prathipadu on Thursday. The activists of youth JAC took out a rally in support of the padayatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oppn-leaders-join-maha-padayatra/article37333346.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. to raise SCS, bifurcation issues at SZC meeting||Clarity should be sought on the linking of basins of various peninsular rivers, mainly including the Godavari and the Krishna. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials to be prepared to give a proper account of the problems being faced by A.P. since bifurcation to find solutions for them, and to respond to the issues connected to A.P., which the other States might bring to the table. The Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh , Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Puducherry, the Lieutenant Governor of Andaman & Nicobar Islands, and the administrator of Lakshadweep were invitees to the zonal council meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-to-raise-scs-bifurcation-issues-at-szc-meeting/article37333344.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive buzz||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/festive-buzz/article37333419.ece
04 November 2021||HANAMKONDA,TELANGANA||Tension at Hanamkonda village||Tension broke out at Devannapeta village in Hasanparthy mandal on Wednesday during the visit of a delegation of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leaders to the village to finalise the venue for the TRS Vijaya Garjana public meeting tentatively slated to be held on November 29 to mark two decades of the party formation, coinciding with “Telangana Deeksha Diwas.” Utter chaos prevailed when some local farmers protested against any move to use their agricultural lands for the public meeting to avoid "imminent danger" to their vegetable and other crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tension-at-hanamkonda-village/article37333385.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rules what? Illegal cracker sale goes full blast||Enforcement has gone for a toss when it comes to control of polluting firecrackers in the city on Deepavali, as witnessed by the unrestrained purchase and sale of environmentally-hazardous crackers going on in full swing everywhere. Supreme Court directions in 2017 and 2018 favouring ‘green crackers’ and banning use of regular crackers with hazardous particulate matter have gone unheeded, not only by the manufacturers, vendors and buyers, but also by the enforcement authorities, including GHMC and the police. If the apex court’s directions are implemented in word and spirit, literally all the station house officers in the city will have to be held liable for contempt of court! “They [the police department] shall also ensure that there is no sale of banned firecrackers. In case the violation is found, the Station House Officer (SHO) of the concerned police station of the area shall be held personally liable for such violation and this would amount to committing contempt of court, for which such SHO (s) would be proceeded against,” said the guidelines issued by the TSPCB based on the order. GHMC, which has allotted its playgrounds for temporary cracker stalls, has failed to ensure that the stalls sold only green crackers with reduced emissions. Despite the explicit ban on the manufacture, sale and use of joined firecrackers/series crackers popularly known as laris, the same could be found in almost all the stalls, at exaggerated prices. “My sons are fond of them, so I had to buy them despite the high price. For a ten thousand wallah, I was charged Rs. 5,200,” said Narasimha Rao from Boduppal, who said he had no clue about the ban, nor any idea of green crackers. According to a circular issued by GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar on October 28, the deputy commissioners of respective circles were to form teams to identify shops or persons selling banned firecrackers within their limits, and impose severe penalties or punishments. No such teams were formed nor any inspections conducted to identify sale of such illegal crackers. Interestingly, even the Hyderabad Agricultural Cooperative Association (HACA), a government organisation which has a tradition of providing firecrackers at affordable prices, has paid no heed to the guidelines. At its outlets set up at NTR Stadium, the association sold banned crackers and laris with impunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/illegal-cracker-sale-goes-full-blast/article37333141.ece
04 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Upward prices hit the bottom line||Booming fuel, cooking oil and grocery prices have caught food business in a cleft stick. “We are absorbing the loss. If we increase the prices customers might disappear,” says Pyare Yadav, who runs a food kiosk inside the remodelled Moazzam Jahi Market. Commercial Liquefied Petroleum Gas prices have been increased by all the State-run oil manufacturing companies by Rs. 266 for 19 kg cylinder with effect from November 1. A year back the same 19 kg LPG cylinder used to cost Rs. 1,100 and one month back Rs. 1,700 and now it is Rs. 2,000. This runaway price rise has reduced the profit margins to slivers, turning food business into a dicey preposition. Cooking oil, groceries and packing material prices have also seen a surge due to increase in transport costs. “I can no longer absorb the losses nor cut corners. We are increasing the price by Rs. 5 per item from November 5,” says Upendra of Ambika Tiffins in Hyderguda. So, a plate of idly that used to cost Rs. 35 will now cost Rs. 40. He lists the surge in prices ranging from cooking oil price spiking from Rs. 1,400 to Rs. 2,400 per 15 kg tin of sunflower oil in the span of one year. “Even the packing containers price has gone up from Rs. 1,400 to Rs. 3,800,” he informs. The price spike coming on top of months-long COVID-19 lockdown and downturn in business due to social-distancing norms have harshly impacted big restaurant chains. One well-known American restaurant franchisee used to serve Mexican rice with tacos. Now, diners get only tacos, no Mexican rice. Another restaurant specialising in Palegar cuisine used to offer groundnut chutney with its ragi mudde. Now diners have to order it separately. A plate of mirchi bajji used to have four-batter fried stuffed chillies. Now, only three are being offered for the same price. Portion sizes have shrunk in many restaurants. The mounds of rice burying meat in some restaurants have become smaller. Omelettes have become extra runny in a well-known cafe in Banjara Hills. “It’s been a rough ride for all the restaurants considering the steady rise in most of the raw materials including gas and cooking oil and with no respite from either the Central or State governments it is becoming more challenging to survive in this business. All restaurants in my opinion will be forced to sooner or later increase menu prices to stay afloat and there’s no other option,” says Uttam Reddy of Rayalaseema Ruchulu, a restaurant chain in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/upward-prices-hit-the-bottom-line/article37333153.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Follow precautions: doctors||Like every year, ophthalmologists and plastic surgeons have urged people to follow certain precautions while celebrating Diwali to avoid burn injuries. Children mostly get eye injuries while lighting flower pots (cracker). Professor of the Plastic Surgery department at Osmania General Hospital Dr. N. Nagaprasad said that when a flower pot does not burn, children try to ignite it again, and get injured in the process. “Sometimes, the flower pot explodes leading to injuries in the face, mainly eyes. Also, youngsters sometimes hold crackers in their hands while igniting another. An explosion due to this can lead to devastating hand injuries, where youngsters might even lose their fingers. We have attended such cases earlier,” he said. The professor emphasised that if someone receives burn injuries, water has to be poured immediately so that the intensity decreases. Cotton clothes should be worn while lighting crackers, and nylon and synthetic material should be avoided. He also urged youngsters to light rockets in a glass bottle filled with water, at least to one-third level, so that it stays stable. Empty plastic bottles should not be used to light these crackers. Consultant paediatrician at SLG Hospitals Dr. Arvind Kumar M. asked people to avoid loose clothes made of silk and synthetic, not to examine crackers that are lit but did not burst.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/exercise-caution-doctors/article37333136.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Adilabad village comes alive with Gusadi tribal dance||Getting a feel of the link between the present and the past through a rich, cultural and historic festival of the Gonds of Adilabad! Yes, for two photographers K. Santhosh Kumar and veteran Kondapalli Sarma, who descended on village Modi to know the famed Gusadi dance, which is part of the biggest festival of Raj Gonds of Adilabad, it was an experience they would love to remember forever. Far away from the madding crowd, a relatively obscure village of Modi in Adilabad district comes alive, thanks to the traditional and century-old Gusadi tribal dance, they said. “The tribals dressed in colourful costumes and decorated with ornaments visit the neighbouring villages in troupes, singing and dancing. And this is somewhat a mutual ritual with the residents reciprocating the same to the guests the next time around,” the duo said. “The festival also marks the end of the harvest and yield of crops in hamlets. The tribals worship Yethmasurpen or God of soul, and God Jangu Bai, by placing musical instruments, such as Dappu, Ghumela, Dhol, Vetti, Karra, Pepri and Thudum,” Santhosh said. The Dandari dance troupe members, only male members of families, put on a turban of peacock feathers and horns of the deer, artificial beard and moustaches and goatskin to cover their bodies. A festival, which has become synonymous with the rich heritage of Adilabad attracting visitors from far flung places preceding the fortnight of Deepavali, effectively starts on a full moon day and goes on till the 14th day of the fortnight, said Sarma. Interestingly, they don’t have a bath till the 14-day festival ends! Kanaka Raju, exponent of this beautiful Gusadi dance, was conferred with the prestigious Padmashri award for promoting it. The Gusadi dance, which might well resemble the best of the fabled African folk artistes in terms of colourful attires and drum beats, continues to be the link between the present and the past and more significantly, serves as a gentle reminder that this has survived the onslaught of technological advances sweeping across the world. “Honestly, we heard a lot about this but this is the first time we got the real feel when we were there right in the midst of this amazing atmosphere. It clearly transported us to a different world,” said the duo after capturing some of the best images from the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/adilabad-village-comes-alive-with-gusadi-dance/article37333143.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Firemen stay alert for eventualities||It will be a full and tense day and night duty for the 1,300 personnel of the Telangana State Disaster Response and Fire Services Department (TSDRFSD) when Hyderabad and the rest of Telangana celebrates Deepavali on Thursday. Majority of the 180 large vehicles and 138 bike fire engines will be stationed at strategic locations chosen in tandem with the local police, especially where cracker stalls are located. Within the twin cities, about 60 large truck engines and about 50 two-wheeler quick response teams have been readied. These two-member teams armed with fire extinguishers will be deployed to deal with any fire quickly before they turn into major mishaps as they can easily manoeuvre traffic and congested roads, said Regional Fire Service Officer, Central Region, V. Papaiah. There were over 60 fire related complaints last year during Diwali, he said. The fire services department had issued about 4,435 licences to cracker shops, mostly in Hyderabad, with Malkajgiri 679, Hyderabad 556, Kukatpally 420, Secunderabad 274, Rangareddy 229 and Rajendranagar 187. In rest of the State, shops were allowed in Khammam 337, Warangal 263 followed by Nizamabad 182 and Nalgonda 162. Areas of focus for fire personnel are Siddiamber Bazaar, Osmangunj, Langer Houz, Phool Bagh, Banjara Hills, Amberpet, Lower Tank Bund, Yousufguda, and Moosarambagh. Mr. Papaiah urged people to light crackers in open spaces, and keep two buckets of water nearby, one for discarding used fireworks. A couple of blankets should also be kept ready. Citizens have been told to call up ‘101’ or 9949991101 or 8712699444 or the nearest fire station in case of any emergency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fire-engines-at-strategic-spots/article37333139.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Power utilities depending on consumers, not vice versa’||Chairman and Managing Director of Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd (TSSPDCL – Southern Discom) G. Raghuma Reddy has told the engineers and employees of the organisation to behave properly with the consumers who approach them for any service or redressal of grievance as the utility was depending on consumers and not vice versa. Speaking at a Consumer Day meeting organised here on Wednesday on the occasion of establishment day of the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC), Mr. Reddy said the Discom was introducing new and easy methods to avail services from time to time. Consumers could apply online through website or app for new connections, name change, billing discrepancies and others. As part of strengthening the distribution network in the Southern Discom areas they had spent Rs. 11,855 crore with the help of the State Government since formation of the State in June 2014. Stating that the energy demand was also increasing constantly in the Discom areas since formation of the State, he said it had reached a peak (power) load of 8,474 megawatt from 4,989 mw in 2014. Similarly, the consumption of energy had gone up from a maximum of 101.72 million units to 180.51 mu, he explained. Electricity Ombudsman Nagaraju said consumers could complain with the Consumer Grievance Redressal Forum in case there were any discrepancies in supply and billing. They could also approach the Ombudsman if the problem was not resolved at CGRF level, he said adding that section officers’ role was key in the electricity department and told them to follow citizen charter properly. A few consumers also spoke on the occasion expressing their satisfaction over the quality of services. Directors of Southern Discom K. Ramulu and S. Swamy Reddy, senior engineers of the Discom Narasimha Swamy, Brahmam, Ravi Kumar, Khaja Abdul Rahman, Chandrasekhar and others also spoke at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-utilities-depending-on-consumers-not-vice-versa/article37333146.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Gandhi’s ideals and those of Godse never work together’||Rejecting the TRS charge that Congress and the BJP colluded to ensure ‘defeat of K. Chandrashekhar Rao’, the Telangana Congress leaders said they believed in ‘Gandhi’s ideals’ and the party can never work with the BJP that believes in ‘Godse’s ideals’. TPCC Campaign Committee Chairman Madhu Yaskhi Goud said the TRS was trying to divert the attention from the humiliation meted out to it by the people of Huzurabad despite spending a few thousands of crores. Since this was not an election between parties but a narrative built on ‘KCR’s ego Vs Eatala’s self respect’ Huzurabad win cannot be termed as BJP’s win, he said. Admitting that Congress’ dismal performance was an issue that the party has to take seriously, he still felt that Congress candidate Balmoori Venkat was a long term player given his commitment to the party and people’s issues. AICC spokesperson, Dasoju Sravan argued that by making Huzurabad election as the costliest ever both the TRS and the BJP have blocked the election space for people from poor communities and small castes that played a key role in the Telangana movement. “It was a 500 crore man taking on 5,000 crore man in the elections and both fighting on their egos.” This is a conspiracy by both the TRS and the BJP to drive away people with some ideals and social consciousness from the election space and ensure only the rich can contest. Praja Chaitanya Yatra The party decided to take up a series of agitation programmes to raise issues concerning the common people of Telangana including a week-long Praja Chaitanya Yatra from November 14. The TPCC Political Affairs Committee Chairman, Shabbir Ali said that a meeting of Mandal and District level leaders of Congress party would be held on November 9 and 10. Further, a week-long Praja Chaitanya Yatra would be organised from November 14 to 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gandhis-ideals-and-those-of-godse-never-work-together/article37333161.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No COVID jabs today||No vaccination against COVID would be provided at government health facilities on Thursday for Deepavali. The jab service will resume from Friday, said Director of Public Health (DPH) Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao. On Wednesday, Telangana recorded 156 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total to 6,71,946. While 35,494 samples were examined, results of 1,419 were awaited. Two more COVID patients died on Wednesday. The fresh cases include 53 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 14 from Rangareddy, 12 from Karimnagar, and 11 from Mechal-Malkajgiri. From March 2, 2020, to November 3, 2021, 2.76 crore samples were tested and 6,71,946 turned COVID positive. Of the total cases, 3,953 were active cases, 6,64,033 recovered, and 3,960 died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-covid-vaccination-today-for-deepavali/article37333138.ece
04 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Register unorganised sector workers in portal by year-end: CS||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed the Labour department officials to prepare an action plan for registering unorganised sector workers in different establishments in the e-Shram portal. The last date for registration of these workers in the portal is December 31. Review meeting The Chief Secretary held a meeting with senior officials and stakeholders to review the progress of enrolment in the portal on Wednesday. He directed the officials to speed up the registration of unorganised sector workers and conduct special drives to mobilise them to Common Service Centres for registration in the e-Shram portal. Officials had been directed to set up worker facilitation centres at the district or village and ward level. To be supervised by the heads of concerned departments at various levels, these centres should ensure completion of registration at faster pace. He directed the State-level nodal officers and committees at the district level to coordinate with all line departments in reaching the targets. Mr. Somesh Kumar asked officials to conduct awareness camps relating to registration on e-Shram portal explaining them the benefits extended by the Central and State governments to unorganised sector workers. Workers enrolled under e-Shram were assured a coverage of Rs. 2 lakh in the event of death and Rs. 1 lakh in case of disability. Mr. Somesh Kumar wanted constitution of a committee headed by the Chief Secretary at the State-level and similar committees headed by collectors at the district level to monitor the progress of the enrolment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/register-unorganised-sector-workers-in-portal-by-year-end-says-cs/article37333150.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two incidents reported||The police of Siddipet raided the house of K. Shravan Kumar at Cheriyal mandal headquarters and seized eight ganja plants being grown in the backyard of the house. The incident took place on Wednesday. Cheriyal Circle Inspector Srinivas Reddy said that the worth of these plants will be about Rs. 10,000 and a case was registered against Shravan Kumar. In another incident, the police of Sadashivapet in Sangreddy district arrested two persons- Md. Rashid and M. Jakeer- while trying to sell dry ganja at Maddikunta. According to Circle Inspector Sudarshan, both of them are bringing ganja from Hyderabad and selling it to those addicted to it. The police seized 350 grams of dry ganja from the accused persons||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ganja-seized-in-two-incidents/article37333160.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hospitals gear up for patients with burn injuries||Patients with burn injuries have already started going to the Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital. Since Monday, doctors at the hospital have attended at least five cases, including a six-year-old child who suffered from serious eye injuries. Superintendent of the government eye hospital Dr. V. Rajalingam said that they have posted five additional doctors on duty from Wednesday to Friday. Usually, one medical officer and two post-graduates (junior doctors) are available. “From Wednesday, two medical officers, four PGs, and two senior resident doctors will be on duty. And retina and cornea specialists will be available on call. Medicines needed to treat eye injuries are procured already,” said Dr. Rajalingam. Similar preparations have been made at Osmania General Hospital (OGH). Usually, two plastic surgeons are on duty. OGH superintendent Dr. B. Nagender said that six more plastic surgeons are posted for Diwali and the day after. Besides, huge stock of sterilised bandages, wound dressing material, ointments, pain killers, and antibiotics, among others, were arranged on Wednesday evening. Specialists from the hospital said that they are prepared to attend a large number of patients. Every year, people with burn injuries during Diwali opt for government hospitals like OGH, Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital, and Gandhi Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hospitals-gear-up/article37333135.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Engineering final phase admissions from Nov. 6||The final and special phase of admissions for engineering courses in Telangana will begin on November 6 and end on November 26. The Department of Technical Education that announced the schedule said that the final phase will begin on November 6 followed by a special round and spot admissions. Students can cancel their seats allotted in the first phase by November 5 in the website, https://tseamcet.nic.in. In phase 2 registration, payment of processing fee, slot booking for certificate verification can be done on November 6 and 7. Certificate verification will be done on November 8 and they can exercise their web options from November 6 to 9. Allotment of seats will be done on November 12 and students need to pay the tuition fee and self-report online from November 12 to 15. Last date for cancellations is November 18. There will be special round of counselling on November 20 and 21 and seats will be allotted on November 24. Guidelines for spot admission for private unaided engineering and pharmacy colleges will be available on https://tseamcet.nic.in on November 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/engineering-final-phase-admissions-from-nov-6/article37333151.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Attention diversion gang busted||Kachiguda police apprehended four persons who they said, are involved in a case of attention diversion and recovered from their possession Rs. 20 lakh. According to the police, the accused who were nabbed on Tuesday are Ibrahim Kalburgi alias Reddy (45), Mukesh (55), Pandu (53), and Anvesh Kumar alias Kiran (32). Two others identified as Vikas Gautham and Amit Patel are absconding. Police said that the victim and complainant M A Afroz came across one Vikas’ Facebook post, in which he stated that he could sell him 1 kg gold for Rs. 42 lakh. The victim allegedly met Anvesh at a house in Nimboliadda where the former paid Rs. 42 lakh. Reddy counted the cash, put Rs. 38.05 lakh in a bag and locked it, and put this in a briefcase. Reddy allegedly diverted the victim’s attention, turned the briefcase upside down, pretended that he had forgotten to bring the key and by saying so, he took another similar bag containing white paper bundles, locked previously, put it before the complainant and told him to wait at the same place till they bring the key and gold, and asked him to wait and left the place with the original cash bag. The accused spent the money and Rs. 20 lakh was recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-of-attention-diversion-gang-held-for-duping-man-of-rs-42-lakh/article37333155.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PD Act against four ‘drug peddlers’||Hyderabad City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar on Wednesday invoked the Preventive Detention Act against four alleged drug offenders. The accused persons have been identified as Mohd.Azher Ali (36), who is a resident of Phoolbagh, Mohammed Feroz (40), a resident of Yakutpura, Mohd Mazher Ali (32), who is also a resident of Phoolbagh, and Shaik Ashraf Pasha (24), a resident of Dhandupally. They allegedly were involved in peddling narcotics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pd-act-against-4-drug-peddlers/article37333156.ece
04 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH, Dr. Reddy’s collaborate on potential drug for psoriasis||A collaborative project between School of Life Sciences of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) and Dr. Reddy’s Institute of Life Sciences, funded jointly by Department of Science and Technology (DST) and Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd (DRL), for a project on ‘12-R-Lipoxygenase or 12R-LOX as target for discovery and development of drugs against psoriasis’was announced on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-dr-reddys-collaborate-on-potential-drug-for-psoriasis/article37333144.ece
04 November 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||A defeat of the arrogance of KCR: Eatala||“The people of Huzurabad Assembly constituency demonstrated steely resolve to save democratic values in the face of unprecedented intimidation tactics, flagrant misuse of official machinery and money power by the TRS regime,” BJP leader Eatala Rajender, who won the bitterly fought byelection to the Huzurabad Assembly seat, said. Mr Rajender alleged that the bypoll outcome was a defeat of “arrogance” of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and the decisive rejection of the TRS dispensation’s “vendetta politics.” Addressing his maiden press conference in Huzurabad town on Wednesday less than 24 hours after winning the bypoll, Mr Rajender said all sections of people including youth, women and farmers of Huzurabad constituency had foiled the “conspiracies” hatched by TRS leaders to win the bypoll by “hook or by crook”. “Hordes of TRS leaders camped in Huzurabad for several weeks and resorted to all kinds of unethical practices by distributing hundreds of crores of rupees and doling out liquor, freebies and other inducements of unprecedented scale with a single-point agenda of defeating me in the bypoll," he charged. Training his guns on the TRS leadership, he alleged that the TRS leaders intimidated voters by issuing veiled threats to stop pensions and Rs. 10 lakh financial assistance under the “Dalit Bandhu” scheme. “But enlightened people of Huzurabad displayed remarkable grit and thwarted their (TRS leaders’) attempts by upholding “Dharma” and “self-esteem” of Telangana people in the just concluded Huzurabad bypoll.” Mr Rajender remarked, adding that they (voters) heralded “Deepavali” in advance, a day ahead of the festival of lights. Referring to his seventh consecutive victory as MLA, he said: “I will remain ever indebted to people of Huzurabad Assembly constituency and serve them with renewed commitment.” Thanking the BJP national and State leaders for assiduously working for his victory, the former minister said” “The BJP national leaders welcomed me into the party when the TRS leadership backstabbed and expelled me over five months ago.” Responding to a query, Mr Rajender said he would extensively tour the constituencies of ministers and other Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) MLAs to exert pressure on the State government to implement the promises the ruling party made at the hustings. Former Peddapalli MP and BJP leader G Vivek Venkataswamy and others were present at the press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-defeat-of-the-arrogance-of-kcr-eatala/article37333164.ece
04 November 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Drones used to identify ganja cultivation||The police are using innovative methods to find out places where ganja may be cultivated, which has become a serious issue in the State. Police of Zaheerabad have been using drones to identify ganja cultivation areas and as late as on Tuesday, they sent drone to take photos. However, no traces of ganja cultivation came to their notice. “We have used drones to search for ganja cultivation at Vithanaik tanda, Mirjampally tanda, Upparpally tanda and Jangorepally tanda about a week ago. Recently, on Tuesday we flew them at Sunnabatti tanda, Padigan tanda and Mandagubbadi tanda. All these tandas are mostly bordered with Karnataka areas. As ganja is frequently coming from neighbouring places, we searched those areas. However, we have not found any ganja cultivation,” said Mr. M. Viswanatham, Sub-Inspector, Chiragpally, who was involved in search of ganja. The raid was led by Zaheerabad Circle Inspector P Rajasekhar. One of the officials on condition of anonymity said that Bidar became hub of transportation of ganja to other states and this is passing via Zaheerabad only. The police and excise department officials are more vigilant for the past few months after cases of seizing of ganja have increased. At least two incidents were reported in the district headquarter town in recent past. In September and October the excise department booked six cases of dry ganja and arrested 12 persons. As much as 103.35 kilograms of dry ganja was seized by them in addition to confiscating six vehicles. Coming to ganja plants, two persons were arrested and 4,650 plants were destroyed. In a major haul in 2018 and 2019, the excise officials seized as much as 828 kilograms of dry ganja in three cases out of which two were at Muttangi Toll Plaza of Outer Ring Road (ORR) located at Patancheru. Another case pertains to Yelgoi in Jarasangam mandal where 120 kilograms of dry ganja seized. Alprazolam, cash seized The Prohibition and Excise Department officials seized three kilograms of Alprazolam and arrested two persons. About 500 grams of Alprazolam was seized from an auto at Kallakal village of Manoharabad mandal of Medak district on Tuesday. According to K.A.B. Sastry, deputy commissioner, based on the information provided by auto driver Tallapally Venu, excise officials searched Saptagiri lodge near Secunderabad railway station and seized 2.5 kilograms of Alprazolam from Roop Singh, a resident of Ratlam village of Madhya Pradesh. He was identified as main supplier of Alprazolam. The cost of the substance was stated to be Rs. 21 lakh while Rs. 26 lakh was seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drones-used-to-identify-ganja-cultivation/article37333159.ece
04 November 2021||SI DDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Never intended to speak against court’||Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy made it clear on Wednesday that he never intended to speak against the honour and respect of the courts. In a release here on Wednesday, Mr. Venkatarami Reddy said that a meeting was held on 25.10.2021 in the district to educate the public on the perils faced by the farmers in relation to the business of spurious sale of seeds and also to discuss the advantage of alternative farming in view of certain instructions received from the Food Corporation of India (FCI). Media reports The Collector was responding to the media reports and comments made by the High Court recently on a petition filed by farmer on the comments made by him that he would not care even orders of High Court or Supreme Court if a shop was closed for selling paddy seeds. “The sale of spurious seeds has been a serious problem plaguing the farmers in the district and strict measures were warranted to curb the same. In this regard, certain shops were sealed and a few cases were registered. The sale of spurious seeds would destroy the lands of the farmers and would cause irreparable loss to the farmers and in that context, the dealers of such spurious seeds were informed not to deal or sell spurious seeds and that strict action will be taken against them. In such context, it was noticed that the dealers are filing cases against cancellation of licences by suppressing facts before the Courts.” “The Rabi paddy will have high broken percentage on milling and not suitable for delivery of raw rice. Telangana region is a high temperature region and particularly in some parts of Siddipet district the issue of broken rice and the instructions of the FCI in relation to the stoppage of Parboiled rice from the State of Telangana needed to be addressed. The position of production of paddy for the next season was also discussed. The pros and cons of the same have also been deliberated. However, it was noticed that some dealers who were dealing in spurious seeds were also present in the said meeting. Having noticed their presence, I have stated that even if such dealers are suppressing the facts and obtaining orders, I will apprise the courts about the correct position and even if orders are granted, we will get the same vacated by stating our stand before the courts. This was the purported intention of my statements; however, it has been reported in the media, that I have made certain statements against the Courts. The sequence of the words spoken by me are projected to appear as though I have stated the same in the context of cultivation of paddy for the next season and the supply of paddy seeds by the dealers,” said the Collector in the statement. “I am aware of the implications of any statement made against the Judiciary and have always bowed down to the majesty of the courts and never meant any disrespect to any court during my career and have acted only in the general interests of the public within the parameters of the law. I have the highest respect and regard for the Honorable Courts, and I am conscious of my actions. The context of my statements have been grossly misreported and on that basis, a Writ Petition also has been filed before the Court. I deem it my duty to clarify my statements and their context since they are projected to be against the majesty of the courts,” Mr Venkatarami Reddy explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/never-intended-to-speak-against-court-collector/article37333165.ece
04 November 2021||Agartala,||Six held for fake tweets in Tripura||As Tripura is struggling to counter hate mongering campaigns on social media over sporadic communal violence in recent times, police have arrested six people in connection with fake tweets. A total of 11 cases were registered at different police stations, said a senior police official. He said they have also issued appearance notices to three others named in two other cases. The cases were registered at different police stations in Sepahijala, north Tripura and Unakoti districts. The police on Wednesday morning said that they have registered criminal cases against 71 people for posting provocative materials on social media platforms. Security agencies found 78,000 tweets till Tuesday night that carried texts, photos and videos of perpetrated communal violence. Only 30 tweets originated from Tripura, and the rest were from other States and abroad, they informed. Systematic campaign Sanjay Mishra, the OSD to Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb, alleged a systematic and organised campaign to shame Tripura through planting fake news. He complained that vested groups are running the fake campaigns from Maharashtra, Delhi and even the United States. He reiterated the appeal of the State police that none should indulge in posting fake photos and rumour mongering. Meanwhile, in a show of unity and harmony, Hindu residents of Boxanagar area of Sepahijala district repaired a Panjakhana (Muslim prayer hall), which was partially damaged by miscreants on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/six-held-for-fake-tweets-in-tripura/article37333052.ece
04 November 2021||Bathinda (Punjab),||Six vehicles set on fire after death of labourer||Angry over the death of a contractual labourer and injury to another while working at Guru Gobind Singh Refinery here, workers allegedly set on fire six vehicles on Wedneday, police said. The damaged vehicles included two of the police and four of the refinery, they said. A heavy police force from across the district was deployed at the main gate of the refinery and the surrounding villages after the incident. Senior district police officials also rushed to the spot and took stock of the situation. The police said while working, two labourers fell from a high tower in the plant leading to the death of one and severe injuries to the other. The police took out a flag march on Wednesday evening inside the refinery compound. Senior Superintendent of Police Ajay Maluja said the situation is under control and peace has been restored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/vehicles-set-on-fire-after-death-of-labourer/article37333225.ece
04 November 2021||Chandigarh,||Sidhu launches attack on Amarinder, calls him ‘coward’, ‘crybaby’||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday once again trained his guns on former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, calling him a “fraud”, “coward” and a “crybaby”. Mr. Sidhu also dubbed the former Chief Minister as a “spent cartridge” and a “dying duck in a thurderstorm, a lost cause”, a day after the veteran leader resigned from the Congress and announced the name of his party, Lok Punjab Congress. Meanwhile, Punjab Ministers Pargat Singh and Amarinder Singh Raja Warring also attacked the former Chief Minister over his party and bonhomie with the BJP. Capt. Amarinder had resigned as the Punjab Congress chief after a bitter power tussle with Mr. Sidhu. On Capt. Amarinder indicating in his resignation letter to Congress national president Sonia Gandhi that he would “expose” the MLAs embroiled in illegal sand mining, Mr. Sidhu in an interaction with reporters in Amritsar asked, “Was he sleeping all these years?” If there was mafia during his regime, then who was earning the money, he asked. Mr. Sidhu dubbed him as the “world's biggest coward”, questioning why he did not act if he found any wrongdoing. ‘Spent cartridge’ Replying to a question, Mr. Sidhu said, “I don’t want to talk about spent cartridges.” “He is a fraud person. He has become a ‘rondu bachha’ (crybaby). It is said when a person ages he becomes like a child, he has become a ‘rondu bacha’ now,” the Punjab Congress chief said. “You are a dying duck in a thunderstorm, a lost cause,” he added hitting out at Capt. Amarinder. Mr. Sidhu also claimed that people of Punjab hate the former Chief Minister. “We changed a failed Chief Minister," he said, referring to the resignation of Capt. Amarinder as the Punjab CM. “People of Punjab will have to decide whether they stand with those who fight for Punjab or with those who fight for power,” Mr. Sidhu said. He said he never hankered for posts and all along stood for Punjab’s interests. Mr. Sidhu also made a mention of Tuesday's meeting of party MLAs and other senior leaders, in which Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was also present. Replying to a question, Mr. Sidhu said policies are not for two months but a roadmap is given for five years. “Sidhu will stand with the roadmap of Punjab,” he said. When asked what all can be achieved by the Channi government in a short span as the Punjab Assembly polls are only a months away, Mr. Sidhu replied, “When there is right intent, good policy and political will, everything is possible”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sidhu-launches-attack-on-amarinder-calls-him-coward-crybaby/article37333325.ece
04 November 2021||Gurugram,||Hindu Sangharsh Samiti says namaz row resolved||Leaders of the Sanyukt Hindu Sangharsh Samiti on Wednesday said the district administration officials in a meeting with the representatives of the two communities had conceded that public places could not be used for religious activities and no such places were ever designated in Gurugram for offering of Friday prayers. Accusing the administration of acting under pressure from right-wing groups, the Muslim community called for an internal meeting on Thursday to choose representatives to engage with the administration. Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch co-founder Altaf Ahmad, present at the joint meeting, said the discussion at the Deputy Commissioner’s office was sabotaged by right-wing group representatives and Muslim Rashtriya Manch (RSS’ wing) representative Khurshid Rajak, who were driving their one-point agenda of suppressing Muslims. He added that the Muslim community was shocked to know that the Gurugram administration had cancelled eight of the 37 spots of Jumma Namaz agreed upon in 2018. ‘No designated places’ “The Samiti president, Mahavir Bhardwaj, and the Muslim Ekta Manch chairman, Shehzad Khan, in a joint statement to the media after the meeting agreed that offering of namaz could not be allowed at public places, but they added that the prayers could not be stopped immediately and more time be allowed. The number of places for offering namaz this Friday would be mutually decided upon after a meeting between the two groups. The Samiti’s president said the administration rejecting the existence of the list of 37 designated places for namaz had paved the way for amicable resolution to the matter,” said a press statement issued by the Samiti. Deputy Commissioner Yash Garg did not respond to repeated calls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hindu-sangharsh-samiti-says-namaz-row-resolved/article37333046.ece
04 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||Two Assam recycling projects win international awards||Two waste-based projects in Assam have won an international award for taking their businesses to a higher, greener level. Shree Guru Plastics and Inside Out, two enterprises based in Guwahati, won €10,000 and six months of business mentoring to help make their ideas a reality. They were among the 100 entries from across the world for a zero waste city challenge organised by WasteAid, a U.K.-based international NGO between April and July. While Shree Guru Plastics, founded by Dilip Das, has been recycling post consumer low-value plastics in Guwahati for a decade now, Inside Out formed by the Rupankar Bhattacharjee and Aniket Dhar has ventured into making paper out of water hyacinth, which is considered the most troublesome weed on earth. “We have been collecting low-value contaminated plastic and recycling them to produce thin film used in the construction industry. Our facility processes 11 tonnes of plastics a month and with the seed funding from WasteAid, we hope to increase the capacity to 19 tonnes a month,” Mr. Das said. His firm currently employs 13 women in processing and seven ragpickers for collection. The expansion is expected to generate employment for 15 more women. ‘Will provide jobs’ “Our weed-to-paper project aims at reducing the need for wood pulp and will provide employment to 23 local people, including semi-skilled labourers and unskilled labourers for waste collection,” Mr. Bhattacharjee said. Water hyacinths are a major ecological worry in wetland-rich Assam. “We are excited to support these entrepreneurs and to help develop sustainable resource management in Guwahati by improving recycling rates for low-value plastics and turning ecological waste into valuable products,” Dinesh Bandela, WasteAid’s project manager for India said. According to the NGO, the prize money will be used to grow local circular economy businesses in Guwahati, where only 10% of the waste generated is recycled. The circular economy is a “model of production and consumption that involves sharing, leasing, reusing, repairing, refurbishing and recycling, existing materials and products for as long as possible” with the aim of tackling global challenges such as waste, pollution, climate change and biodiversity loss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-assam-recycling-projects-win-international-awards/article37333228.ece
04 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Gehlot emerges stronger after sweep in bypolls||On the verge of completing three years during his third stint, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has emerged stronger after the victory of the party at both the Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad seats in the Assembly bye-lections. With Mr. Gehlot’s consolidated position, the tussle between the rival factions in the ruling party will get diminished in the coming days. Mr. Gehlot is likely to carry out the much-awaited Cabinet reshuffle and make political appointments shortly after the Deepavali festival. The exercise will be taken up on Mr. Gehlot’s own terms with an explicit message that the Congress can form the Government again if the 2023 elections are fought under his leadership. Raje absent Faced with Mr. Gehlot’s heightened stature, the faction-ridden Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party is set to grasp the significance of former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje, who was sidelined during the selection of candidates. After the tickets were denied to the leaders considered close to her, Ms. Raje was conspicuous by her absence in the election campaign. The BJP may attribute its humiliating defeat at the both seats, where it was relegated to third and fourth positions, to the alleged misuse of government machinery, but its disregard of the sentiments of the local party workers deprived it of getting advantage of the sympathy factor. The prolonged farmers’ agitation and unchecked rise in petrol, LPG and edible oil prices were also among the major factors responsible for the defeat. While the rift in the BJP may intensify with the blame for the poor show being shifted on State president Satish Poonia, the Congress high command has received a message in no uncertain terms that Mr. Gehlot’s popularity remains intact. The bypolls campaign was entirely controlled by the Chief Minister, who addressed half-a-dozen rallies in the two constituencies, while his former deputy Sachin Pilot went to the region only once, on the day of filing of nominations. As part of the electoral strategy, Mr. Gehlot selected MLA Gajendra Singh Shaktawat’s wife Preeti Shaktawat as the party candidate in Vallabhnagar despite the deceased legislator having been a staunch loyalist of Mr. Pilot. Mr. Shaktawat was one of the 18 MLAs who had shifted outside the State along with Mr. Pilot during his rebellion last year. As Ms. Shaktawat has won riding on the sympathy wave, Mr. Gehlot can be said to have got a “disgruntled MLA” in his favour. Moreover, the Congress has snatched the Dhariawad seat from the BJP, which had won there in the last two Assembly elections, and increased its tally to 108 in the 200-member House, further strengthening the position of Mr. Gehlot in the State politics. Sikar-based political analyst Ashfaq Kayamkhani said on Wednesday the victory of the Congress now and two others earlier this year had indicated to the lack of anti-incumbency wave and proved people’s satisfaction over the handling of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gehlot-emerges-stronger-after-sweep-in-bypolls/article37333051.ece
04 November 2021||New Delhi,||Case registered in multilevel parking collapse||A day after part of an automated multilevel parking facility at Green Park collapsed, damaging a few cars, Delhi Police on Wednesday took suo motu cognisance of the incident and registered a case at Hauz Khas police station. No injuries were reported and the parking area was subsequently closed. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) alleged corruption in the construction of the facility, which was built by the BJP-ruled South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), and sought a probe into the matter. “Yesterday (on Tuesday), the automated stack parking unit at Green Park completely collapsed. And it’s important to note that this was such a renowned parking system that it was inaugurated twice by two Union Ministers,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said. AAP leader Atishi said the facility built by the corporation collapsed within a year and it was a clear proof of corruption by the BJP. “It’s necessary to investigate which contractor and officer were given the responsibility of the construction. Their links with BJP leaders should also be looked into,” she said. SDMC standing committee chairman B.K. Oberoi, however, said investigation revealed that the electrically operated floor plates (which are used to shift cars) had “collapsed due to a technical malfunction”. “There were no irregularities in the construction. The floor plates got dismantled and fell inside the facility. The parking system had indicated an error on multiple occasions and the supervisor should have checked it,” Mr. Oberoi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/case-registered-in-multilevel-parking-collapse/article37333047.ece
04 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Pollution from crackers can make air quality severe post-Deepavali’||Delhi’s air quality is expected to deteriorate to “severe” level on Friday and Saturday if pollution from firecrackers is 50% of what was seen in 2019, said authorities. But if there is no additional pollution from firecrackers, the air quality is expected to remain in the “very poor” range, which has been continuing since Tuesday. The city’s air quality on Wednesday worsened slightly (314) from Tuesday (303) but continued in the “very poor” category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours and considered the day’s AQI. Stubble fires to go up The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5 in Delhi is expected to go up from 8% on Wednesday to 20% on Deepavali and 35%-40% on Friday and Saturday, said government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). “However, if we consider 50% of firecracker load of 2019, then AQI is predicted to enter severe category during November 4 to 6. It is predicted to improve slightly on November 6 evening onwards but will fluctuate between high-end of very poor and severe range,” SAFAR said in a statement. “Even a smaller increment in the local emissions due to firecrackers is likely to have a significant deterioration impact during November 4 to 6 and may put the AQI in the ‘severe’ category,” SAFAR said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pollution-from-crackers-can-make-air-quality-severe-post-deepavali/article37333049.ece
04 November 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. announces e-market for city traders||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced ‘Dilli Bazaar’, an e-marketplace, where every small and big entrepreneur from the Capital will have their own e-commerce store. He said the portal would give a global online identity to entrepreneurs and enable shoppers to go on virtual walkthroughs of Delhi’s markets. “The Delhi Government has taken up an initiative that is going to bring prosperity to the ventures of Delhi’s traders and businesspersons,” Mr. Kejriwal said in a digital briefing. “One will be able to showcase all their products and services on this portal. Virtual bazaars are being developed on this portal,” he said. Prominent markets ranging from Khan Market, Lajpat Nagar and Sarojini Nagar would have a presence on the portal which, the Chief Minister said, was expected to be up and running by August next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-announces-e-market-for-city-traders/article37333043.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Woman found murdered in rented house||A 28-year-old woman was found murdered at her residence in south Delhi’s Mehrauli on Wednesday, the police said. DCP (South) Benita Mary Jaiker said the police received a PCR call at 2.45 a.m. from the victim’s husband. Avdesh Kumar, a worker at a sweet shop, found his wife lying unconscious with a head injury at their rented accommodation when he returned from work. It appeared that she had been brutally beaten up by someone, the husband told the police. When the police reached the spot, the victim had already been shifted to a hospital where doctors declared her brought dead. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC was registered and the crime scene was inspected. The couple had shifted to the house along with their two children two days ago, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-found-murdered-in-rented-house/article37333044.ece
04 November 2021||Washington,||U.S. puts Israeli maker of Pegasus spyware on ‘black list’||U.S. authorities on Wednesday put the Israeli maker of the Pegasus spyware on a list of restricted companies, taking aim at software central to a scandal over surveillance of journalists and officials. The company, NSO, was engulfed in controversy over reports that tens of thousands of human rights activists, journalists, politicians and business executives worldwide were listed as potential targets of its Pegasus software. Smartphones infected with Pegasus are essentially turned into pocket spying devices, allowing the user to read the target’s messages, look through their photos, track their location and even turn on their camera without them knowing. “These tools have also enabled foreign governments to conduct transnational repression, which is the practice of authoritarian governments targeting dissidents, journalists and activists outside of their sovereign borders to silence dissent,” the U.S. Commerce Department said in a statement. NSO fired back at the decision, saying its “technologies support U.S. national security interests and policies by preventing terrorism and crime”. “We will advocate for this decision to be reversed,” a NSO spokesperson said, adding that its compliance controls have resulted in “multiple terminations of contacts with government agencies that misused our products”. Washington also targeted Israeli company Candiru, Singapore-based Computer Security Initiative Consultancy PTE (COSEINC) and Russian firm Positive Technologies. The companies’ addition to the so-called “entity list” means exports to them from U.S. organisations are restricted. For example, it is now far harder for American researchers to sell them information or technology. Critics say the widespread availability of software such as Pegasus now allows even cash-strapped authoritarian governments to effectively purchase their own answer to the United States’ National Security Agency, with highly invasive surveillance powers. While companies offering such technology have sprung up around the world, several have been founded in Israel. “Today’s action is a part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s efforts to put human rights at the center of U.S. foreign policy, including by working to stem the proliferation of digital tools used for repression,” the Commerce statement said. Zero click Following the initial concern over Pegasus, a subsequent wave of worries emerged when iPhone maker Apple released a fix in September for a weakness that can let the spyware infect devices without users even clicking on a malicious message or link. The so-called “zero click” is able to silently corrupt the targeted device, and was identified by researchers at Citizen Lab, a cybersecurity watchdog organisation in Canada.  Israel’s defence establishment has set up a committee to review NSO’s business, including the process through which export licenses are granted. NSO has insisted its software is intended for use only in fighting terrorism and other crimes and says it exports to 45 countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-puts-israeli-maker-of-pegasus-spyware-on-black-list/article37332814.ece
04 November 2021||HONG KONG,||Shock in China as tennis star accuses top leader of sexual abuse||Top Chinese tennis star Peng Shuai’s allegations of a sexual assault and subsequent years-long affair with a senior Communist Party of China leader and former Vice Premier has triggered intense debate in China as well as a massive effort by the authorities to censor it. In a late night post on Tuesday on her official account on Sina Weibo, the Twitter equivalent used in China, Ms. Peng, a household name in the country, a former world number one in doubles, and winner of two grand slams, revealed in an emotional message how she was sexually assaulted by Zhang Gaoli, then the Communist Party boss in Tianjin, 10 years ago when she was 25 years old. Ms. Peng said she had been invited home by Mr. Zhang, who was 65 at the time, and his wife, and his wife had stood guard by the door when the attack happened, which left her in shock and in tears. She said the two then began an intermittent affair, until Mr. Zhang was in 2012 promoted to the highest echelons of power in China as the seventh-ranked member of the Politburo Standing Committee that came to power that year, led by Xi Jinping. Mr. Zhang, she said, resumed the affair after his retirement in 2018. Neither Chinese authorities nor Mr. Zhang have as yet responded to Ms. Peng’s statement. She said in the message she had no evidence for her claims, but added she was determined to tell the truth. “For someone of your standing Vice-Premier Zhang Gaoli, you have said you are not afraid,” she said, “but even if it is only me like an egg hitting a rock or moth going to the flame seeking self-destruction I will tell the truth about you.” Ms. Peng’s are the latest of a series of sexual misconduct allegations that have targeted men in power in China, who rights activists say have gotten away with impunity for their actions for years. Despite numerous people speaking out since 2018, China’s “Me Too” movement has largely been stifled by the authorities, who have, as in Ms. Peng’s case, scrubbed out information and restricted information about cases that have come up, usually through social media posts, against prominent personalities in universities, the media and major companies. This is, however, the first allegation made against the highest levels of the party leadership. The Politburo Standing Committee, which Mr. Zhang served on for five years, is the ruling party’s highest body. While the conduct of senior party officials is hardly shocking to many Chinese, with numerous officials in the past who were purged for corruption routinely accused by party authorities of carrying on sexual relations with many mistresses, what is unprecedented about Ms. Peng’s case is that both figures are household names in China and Mr. Zhang occupied one of the country’s highest offices. The sensitivity of Ms. Peng’s allegations against a former senior official brought even tighter censorship restrictions than the usual. On Wednesday, Ms. Peng’s name could not be searched for on Weibo while people were barred from posting information about the case on WeChat. Her original post was deleted but screenshots were shared by users. Those were later deleted too. Significant and rare Teng Biao, a lawyer and legal rights activist previously based in Beijing who is now in the U.S., observed how significant and rare it was for anyone to speak out about top officials. “Former vice premier, Politburo Standing [Committee] member Zhang Gaoli, allegedly raped tennis star Peng Shuai. Based on what Peng has written, it's not an affair. It is rape,” he said on Twitter. “Top Communist Party leaders have unlimited power in China. [It is] extremely rare a victim dares to disclose their scandals.” Lu Pin, a Chinese feminist activist who is editor of Feminist Voices , saluted Ms. Peng’s courage in speaking out and said the latest case underlined the continuing relevance of the “Me Too” movement in China. “Peng Shuai’s revelation is very important. It allows people to see the real life of China’s top leaders as never before, behind the power-wrapped morality,” she said on Twitter. “Imagine their excessive abuse of power being so authentically identified under the witness of so many people. Why does everyone know that Peng Shuai’s revelation is too real?” She said “every victim bravely stood up, awakened people irreversibly, and demonstrated and encouraged the next victim to stand up and shake society more and more powerfully.” “Me Too has challenged the normalcy of society, about what can be said, about what it is not right,” she said. Starting in 2018, numerous Chinese women spoke out against instances of sexual misconduct, from college students speaking out about their professors to an employee at tech giant Alibaba. In September, a court in Beijing ruled against Zhou Xiaoxuan in the first “Me Too” case that went to court after a three-year trial. Ms. Zhou had accused a well-known host working for the State broadcaster China Central Television (CCTV) of sexually harassing her at their workplace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/shock-in-china-as-tennis-star-accuses-top-leader-of-sexual-abuse/article37332807.ece
04 November 2021||Washington,||In stunning upset, Republicans win Virginia Governor race||Republicans won big in Virginia on Tuesday night, with their gubernatorial candidate, businessman Glenn Youngkin, beating former Democratic Governor Terry McAuliffe, in a State that U.S. President Joe Biden won by 10 points in the general election last year. At noon on Wednesday, Republicans also looked like they were winning or at least tying the race for the House of Delegates, the lower chamber of the State, where all but nine seats are being contested. Republicans need at least nine seats to flip the chamber where Democrats have a majority (55-45). A GOP victory in Virginia and a close gubernatorial race in New Jersey come as U.S. President Joe Biden’s job approval ratings are at an all time low — in the early forties — and Democrats are struggling to sort out internal differences that have prevented them from passing a massive social security and infrastructure legislation. Mr. Youngkin, a 54-year-old former private equity executive, had a two percentage point lead on Wednesday morning, when 99% of the vote had been counted. He had managed to cut into Democratic margins in suburban areas, where white voters had been turned off by former U.S. President Donald Trump last year. He also won some rural areas with margins greater than those Mr. Trump had last year. The former President sent out messages of endorsement for Mr. Youngkin (and claimed credit for his victory), but Mr. Youngkin was careful not to get too close to Mr. Trump during the campaign and stayed away from joint appearances. He also did not not write off the former President. However, also of note, is that Virginia and New Jersey have historically elected Governors from the opposing party of the sitting President in off years (i.e., a non-mid term or general election year). The outcome of Tuesday night, however, suggested that Democrats’ strategy — at least in the State — of rallying voters against Mr. Trump did not work. Mr. McAuliffe, who was the Governor from 2014 to 2018, tried, but without enough success, to portray his opponent as a version of Mr. Trump (even referring to him as ‘Glenn Trumpkin’) . Central issues Central issues in the campaign were education and the economy. Critical Race Theory — which analyses how systems and institutions maintain and engender racial disparities — became a Republican talking point in the race, though it is not taught in Virginia schools. Mr. Youngkin also rejected mask mandates in schools and said parents’ rights to “decide what’s best for their children”, must be respected. He also ran on a campaign to support school choice, funding for law enforcement and cut State taxes. Mr. McAuliffe called Mr. Youngkin’s campaign against Critical Race Theory a “racist dog whistle”. He also committed to raising teacher salaries above the national average and making historically large investments in education. On the economy, like his opponent, Mr. McAuliffe pledged to increase jobs, backed an increase in the minimum wage and said he would introduce mandated paid sick and family leave across the State. Other races In other races on Election Day, Boston elected city council member Michelle Wu as Mayor, the first woman Mayor and person from an ethnic minority group to hold the post. New York elected Eric Adams, who will become the second African American in the Mayor’s seat. As The Hindu went to press, the New Jersey Governor race was tight without a clear victor, with Democratic incumbent Philip Murphy and Republican contender Jack Ciattarelli running neck and neck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-stunning-upset-republicans-win-virginia-governor-race/article37332891.ece
04 November 2021||Alexandria,||Republican candidate wins tight poll in bellwether Virginia||The Republican candidate pulled off a stunning upset to win the Governor’s mansion in the U.S. State of Virginia on Wednesday, U.S. television networks projected, in a race seen as an early verdict on President Joe Biden’s first year in office. Newcomer Glenn Youngkin was 2.7 points ahead of Democrat Terry McAuliffe in the neck-and-neck tussle shortly after midnight, with more than 95% of the vote counted, prompting NBC, CNN and ABC to call the election for the Republican. A harbinger of the parties’ prospects in next year’s midterm elections, the race was initially expected to be a comfortable Democratic win but instead became a toss-up in the closing days of the campaign. A private equity multi-millionaire who has never run for office defeating a former popular Democratic Governor will be seen as a disaster for Mr. Biden going into the all-important 2022 races that will determine who controls Congress. “All right Virginia -- we won this thing! How much fun!” Mr. Youngkin, who poured at least $20 million of his own fortune into the race, told cheering fans after dancing onstage to Norman Greenbaum’s 1969 hit “Spirit in the Sky.” Calling his victory a “defining moment,” he told the crowd: “Together, we will change the trajectory of this commonwealth. And friends, we are going to start that transformation on day one.” The election, a neck-and-neck tussle for weeks, resonated nationwide as a proxy war between Mr. Biden and former President Donald Trump, who gave Mr. Youngkin his early backing. Mr. Youngkin’s campaign will now likely become a blueprint for Republicans across the country as they strategise on how to leverage Mr. Trump’s base while avoiding becoming tainted by his toxic brand among moderates in the midterms. The Democratic faithful had badly wanted the race to be a referendum on Mr. Trump but in reality he had little to do with the campaign and was never likely to prove the galvanizing nemesis they had hoped for. Early in the campaign, Mr. Youngkin accepted Trump’s endorsement and steered clear of criticising the twice-impeached former President.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/republican-candidate-wins-tight-poll-in-bellwether-virginia/article37332810.ece
04 November 2021||Kabul,||Taliban commander killed in hospital attack||A Taliban military commander was killed when his men responded to an Islamic State suicide bomb and gun attack on a hospital in the Afghan capital, officials said on Wednesday. The Taliban spent 20 years waging an insurgency against the ousted U.S.-backed government before seizing control of Kabul in August. Now they face the struggle of bringing stability to Afghanistan, which has been hit in recent weeks by a series of bloody assaults claimed by rivals, the Islamic State-Khorasan (IS-K). At least 19 people were killed in Tuesday’s attack on Kabul’s main military hospital, according to a Health Ministry official. Hamdullah Mokhlis, a member of the hard-line Haqqani network and an officer in the Badri Corps special forces, is the most senior figure to have been killed since the Taliban seized Kabul. “When he got the information that Sardar Daud Khan Hospital was under attack, Maulvi Hamdullah (Mokhlis), the commander of the Kabul corps, immediately rushed to the scene,” the Taliban media official said. ‘Face-to-face fight’ “We tried to stop him but he laughed. Later, we found out that he was martyred in the face-to-face fight at the hospital,” he added. The attack began with a suicide bomber detonating his explosives near the facility’s entrance before gunmen broke into the hospital grounds. As part of the response, Kabul’s new rulers deployed their special forces to the roof of the building in a helicopter captured from Afghanistan’s former U.S.-backed government. In a statement released on its Telegram channels, IS-K said that five of its “fighters carried out simultaneous coordinated attacks” on the site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-commander-killed-in-hospital-attack/article37332811.ece
04 November 2021||Geneva,||‘Ethiopia’s war marked by extreme brutality’||The UN human rights chief said on Wednesday that Ethiopia’s year-long war has been marked by “extreme brutality” as a joint investigation into alleged atrocities faulted all sides for committing abuses, and “the big numbers of violations” are linked to Ethiopian forces and those from neighbouring Eritrea. The investigation said all combatants have committed abuses which may amount to crimes against humanity and war crimes. The report was released a day before the war’s one-year mark and as Africa’s second most populous country enters a new state of emergency with rival Tigray forces threatening the capital. “The gravity and seriousness of the violations and abuses we have documented underscore the need to hold perpetrators accountable,” said Michelle Bachelet, the UN high commissioner for human rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ethiopias-war-marked-by-extreme-brutality/article37332812.ece
04 November 2021||washington,||Fed to begin slowing economic aid||The Federal Reserve will begin dialling back the extraordinary economic aid it has provided since the pandemic erupted last year, a response to high inflation that now looks likely to persist longer than it did just a few months ago. In a statement on Wednesday, the Fed said it will start reducing its $120 billion in monthly bond purchases in the coming weeks, by $15 billion a month, though it reserved the right to change that pace. Those purchases have been intended to hold down long-term interest rates to encourage borrowing and spending. With the U.S. economy recovering, that is no longer needed. The Fed will slow its $80 billion in Treasury purchases by $10 billion a month and its $40 billion in mortgage-backed securities by $5 billion in November and December and said similar reductions “will likely be appropriate” in the following months. That suggests that the central bank might decide to accelerate its pullback in bond buying if inflation worsens. If the pace is maintained, the bond purchases would end altogether in June. At that point, the Fed could decide to raise its benchmark short-term interest rate, which affects many consumer and business loans. That would be much earlier than Fed officials had envisioned last summer, when they forecast that the first rate hike would not happen until late 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fed-to-begin-slowing-economic-aid/article37332892.ece
04 November 2021||Tehran,||U.S. stopped from seizing tanker: Iran||Iran said on Wednesday it had thwarted an attempt by the U.S. Navy to seize a tanker in the Sea of Oman carrying its oil, state television reported. It gave no details of the date of the incident or the country where the vessel is registered. The report comes amid faltering efforts to revive Iran’s nuclear deal with world powers that would see a lifting of U.S. sanctions on its oil exports. “The United States stopped a tanker exporting Iranian oil and transferred its cargo to another tanker which it directed towards an unknown destination,” it said. “The naval arm of Iran’s Revolutionary Guards then captured the tanker with air support,” it said, without specifying which vessel it was referring to. “U.S. forces again tried to block the passage of the tanker using a warship and several helicopters but again failed. “The tanker is now in Iranian waters.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-stopped-from-seizing-tanker-iran/article37332808.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Batting for ‘One South Asia’ makes more sense||Over the course of four days, at the G-20 in Rome and COP26 (the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference) in Glasgow, Scotland, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke at nearly a dozen events, expanding on India’s plans to counter climate change. India’s record since the 2015 Paris Accord and initiatives such as the International Solar Alliance (ISA) and Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), as a part of which Mr. Modi (along with other leaders) launched the ‘Infrastructure for Resilient Island States (IRIS)’ at the World Leaders Summit at COP26 were widely welcomed. The announcement of India’s new Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) and the “Panchamrit” or five goals for the future elicited applause from across the audience. Missing however, was any reference to India’s own region, the subcontinent, South Asia, without which India’s multiple forays on fighting climate change could well prove fruitless. South Asia’s feeble voice The absence of a South Asian initiative on climate change led by India, accrues to a number of obvious reasons: India-Pakistan tensions that have led to the degradation of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) process, especially since 2014, when the last SAARC summit was held; events in Afghanistan and the Taliban takeover which will bring it closer to its Central Asian rather than South Asian neighbours; the differences over pollution issues within the Bangladesh-Bhutan-India-Nepal (BBIN) grouping that has held up its initiatives like the common Motor Vehicle Agreement (due mainly to Bhutan’s opposition); and slow movement amongst the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) countries along the Bay of Bengal that have yet to bring about a common charter at the global level despite adding climate change as an area of cooperation a decade ago. Impact of climate change Why does this matter? To begin with, regardless of relations between any of the countries in South Asia (India-Pakistan being the only notable rivalry), there is no question that this is a cohesive geographical unit that is sheltered by the Himalayas to the north, fed by its many glaciers in an intricate network of rivers that fall into the ocean, and buffeted by the same climate and monsoon conditions. Second, South Asia is slowly becoming the world’s biggest area of concern when it comes to climate change. According to this year’s Global Climate Risk Index, India and Afghanistan are among the top 10 countries worldwide in terms of vulnerability, but South Asia classifies for the overall lowest values (https://bit.ly/3bEuMcW). By one estimate, 20 out of 23 major cyclone disasters in the world in the past have occurred around the Bay of Bengal region, and global warming, coastal degradation and soil salinity as well as water scarcities cause the deaths of thousands in South Asia each year. The Asian Development Bank now predicts a decrease of 11% in South Asian GDPs by 2100 if “Business-As-Usual (BAU) Emissions” are maintained. With global warming and sea levels rising, other estimates predict there will be nearly 63 million climate migrants in South Asia by 2050 (“Costs of Climate Inaction: Displacement and Distress Migration”; https://bit.ly/3mERLuG). Second, all these grim figures build a logic for a combined push for global reparations and assistance for the entire region. As a part of the developing world, the Indian subcontinent is not responsible for the massive damage done to the environment already wrought by the developed world, and according to 2019 figures, no single regional bloc has lower per capita emissions than South Asia does (https://bit.ly/3EKwZjL). Green potential When New Delhi speaks of the need for climate justice, global funding and climate adaptation technology transfer, India’s voice would only be strengthened multiple times if it speaks for South Asia as a whole. According to the World Bank’s newly launched South Asia road map, climate-smart investment opportunities in South Asia total a whopping $3.4 trillion, with “energy-efficient green buildings” alone representing an investment potential of more than $1.5 trillion. Green transport connectivity and infrastructure, electric vehicles could represent another $950 billion in investment opportunities by 2030. This does not include the vast sums of funding available for cross-regional solar grids, windfarms and run-of-river energy projects (https://bit.ly/3ECXF5V). Other drawbacks, China However, while India and other countries in the region access global banks, including the BRICS-led New Development Bank (NDB), the Beijing-based Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, and Asian Development Bank for projects individually, there is no single South Asian entity the banks could work with for a more targeted focus and more concessional financing for the problem that faces the region. Third, growing carbon footprints as well as post-COVID-19 economic compulsions are driving countries into closer regional coalitions, looking for solutions closer home, than those provided by globalisation and long-distance supply chains. South Asia has remained an exception, persistently showing lower inter-regional trade and connectivity, and lower levels of cooperation on migrant labour issues, inter-state tourism and cross-border employment than other regions. Finally, New Delhi has often warned of the pernicious influence of ‘Chinese solutions’ to problems in the subcontinent, ranging from unsustainable infrastructure financing to environmentally harmful projects as part of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), but it has been unable to proffer a viable alternative, with or without its Quad partners.  On certain issues, where India has failed, South Asian neighbours have learned to seek help from other international partners or even each other: when India stopped COVID-19 vaccine exports this year for example, Bhutan, which received vaccines from Denmark and a number of other countries including the United States and China after a desperate global appeal, in turn helped Nepal with stocks of AstraZeneca. When New Delhi failed to respond to Sri Lanka’s request for assistance with its currency and debt crisis last year, the Rajapaksa government turned to Bangladesh for a currency swap arrangement. The problems between India and Pakistan that have multiplied manifold in the past few years are no doubt a major obstacle, but not one that cannot be surmounted in the face of a common challenge, as the special SAARC conference on COVID-19 in March 2020 showed. New Delhi can show the way When it comes to climate change, there is a chance to turn this trend, and for India, the largest country in the region sharing the most boundaries with other South Asian neighbours, to lead the way to find holistic solutions: accessing funding, tapping the latest climate adaptation technology, and finding cross-border markets for renewable energy networks. Mr. Modi’s “One Sun One World One Grid” and ‘Panchamrit plans’ would clearly pack more punch if they contain a clear road map for the region, and strive for a common South Asian taskforce to tackle the enormous challenge that lies ahead for India and its neighbourhood this century. suhasini.h@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/batting-for-one-south-asia-makes-more-sense/article37332792.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||On dealing with false criminal cases||It is often alleged that false cases of cruelty are registered by the police at the behest of the estranged wife under Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and many innocent relatives of the husband are roped in overzealously. This Section, along with Section 304B on dowry deaths, was brought in to check the menace of increasing dowry deaths and the cruelty meted out to married women by their in-laws in 1983. But its misuse has outraged many since then. Similarly, allegations are levelled sometimes for the misuse of certain provisions of the Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. This special law was enacted to remove the discrimination faced by the SC and ST communities, who remain vulnerable and are sometimes denied their civil rights. But it is alleged that, at times, cases are registered to settle personal scores. Judgment modified Realising the misuse of Section 498A, the Supreme Court in Rajesh Sharma  vs State of Uttar Pradesh (2017) issued certain guidelines, including the formation of district Family Welfare Committees (FWCs), restraint on arrest till the complaint was examined by the committee, the disposal of the proceedings by a senior judicial officer in case of a settlement between the parties, etc. However, in 2018, the Supreme Court in Social Action Forum for Manav Adhikar vs Union of India modified the same judgment, stating that most of the directions had the potential to enter into the legislative field, which was not permissible. It was held that the constitution of the extrajudicial FWCs was contrary to the procedure prescribed under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Similarly, the Supreme Court in Subhash Kashinath Mahajan vs State of Maharashtra (2018), taking cognisance of the abuse of the process of the courts with regard to certain provisions of the SCs and STs (Prevention of Atrocities)  Act, issued certain guidelines, including the holding of a mandatory preliminary inquiry to avoid false implication of an innocent individual, the approval of the appointing authority before the arrest of a public servant, etc. However, in 2019, the Supreme Court in Union of India vs State of Maharashtra and Ors ., overruled the above judgment and held that the guidelines were opposed to the protective discrimination given to members of SC and ST communities as envisaged under the Constitution. Lodging a false report, the court said, “is due to the human failing and not due to the caste factor”. Genuineness of allegations These judgments indicate that the courts cannot lay additional guidelines when the existing law is unambiguous and only legislature can modify such law in its wisdom. This also means that the onus is on the police to ensure that once the law is set into action, no undue advantage of the special law is taken by the complainant. The investigating officer must not jump to conclusions as soon as a First Information Report (FIR) is registered. Some investigation must be done to confirm the genuineness of a complaint before an arrest takes place. It is a settled law that no arrest can be made in a routine manner on a mere allegation. The arrest must be necessary and justified. Mere authority to arrest is not sufficient. The Supreme Court, in its landmark judgment in Arnesh Kumar vs State of Bihar (2014), asked the police to satisfy themselves on the necessity of an arrest under the parameters laid down in Section 41 of the CrPC. Police officers, in fact, are duty-bound to ensure that the principles set by the Supreme Court in its various judgments are implemented by the investigating officers. Further, the judicial magistrate is also required to peruse the report furnished by the police officer and satisfy themselves before authorising further detention. Though there are legal remedies available against those lodging false reports, the general perception, however, is that the remedial measures are not only insufficient but also ineffective. The first remedial measure is to initiate criminal action against the person who gives false information to the police or levels specific criminal charges against a person. The police, after completing the investigation, may initiate action under Section 182 or 211 of the IPC respectively. However, both these offences are non-cognisable and a magistrate’s nod is necessary for initiating further legal action. The court, on its own, in certain cases directs the police to take action under these Sections if, on the completion of the trial, it is found that the allegations were completely false. Second, the complaint may be filed before a judicial magistrate having jurisdiction, who, after an inquiry, can take appropriate action against a person who filed a false case with the police. Third, the complainant may approach a High Court for anticipatory bail and for quashing the FIR. The Supreme Court recently held that even in non-compoundable cases that are not so serious or private in nature, the High Court, using its inherent powers under Section 482 of the CrPC, may quash the judicial proceedings even after a conviction, in case a genuine compromise is reached between the warring parties. The Law Commission, in its 243rd report in 2012, had suggested making Section 498A compoundable with the permission of the court, but it was not accepted by the Government. Fourth, in addition to the above, damages may be claimed under the law of tort for malicious prosecution and causing injuries. What data show As per data compiled by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) in the report Crime in India 2020 , about 5% of the cases under Section 498A were found to be false. About 9.4% were either non-cognisable or civil in nature or with insufficient evidence in the end. Similarly, about 12% of the cases under the SCs and STs (Prevention of Atrocities) Act were found to be false by the police, and about 7% were either non-cognisable or civil in nature or with insufficient evidence in the end. Further, out of the 17,765 cases under Section 498A decided by the courts, 3,425 cases ended with a conviction. Out of the 8,138 cases under the SCs and STs (Prevention of Atrocities) Act decided by the courts, 3,588 cases ended with a conviction. Although there are varied reasons for acquittal, including a delay in lodging the FIR, witnesses turning hostile, compromise between the parties, lack of proper presentation by the prosecution and an appreciation of the evidence by the court, etc., the problem arises when a court concludes that a case is false. Since the onus of arriving at the truthfulness of a case lies primarily with the investigating officer, it is their duty to investigate the case thoroughly and collect all the facts and circumstances fearlessly. This would ensure that false cases are closed in time and no innocent individuals have to suffer the rigours of the law. R.K. Vij is a senior IPS officer in Chhattisgarh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/on-dealing-with-false-criminal-cases/article37332804.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||India’s 5G leap is about powering tomorrow||The fifth generation mobile network, or 5G, is the next level of mobile network that will shape the Fourth Industrial Revolution, or Industrial 4.0, quality of service delivery, innovation, etc. by facilitating smarter and developing societies. Commercial 5G networks began to be deployed in 2020 and are expected to reach 12% of world mobile connections (1.1 billion) and generate revenues up to U.S.$1.3 trillion by 2025 for operators. The technology that 5G uses will improve data transfer speed at unexpected higher levels — almost 100 times more — and reduce latency times helping mission-critical services. Thus, 5G is essential but are we ready for it? Some roadblocks India’s telecom sector, which has revolutionised the digital space and facilitated services-led growth and quality of life, has been estimated to be one of the top performers globally for several years; but it has also been in doldrums for the last few years. Moreover, the Supreme Court of India’s ruling on the dues being sought by the Department of Telecommunications (estimated to be more than Rs. 90,000 crore has further exacerbated the financial condition of telecom companies. It is no wonder then that the number of telecom operators has come down to a handful from around 15 a few years back. In this scenario, the huge investment required for 5G may add to their worries. The trial run of 5G in developed countries such as Japan and the United States reveals that the investment is very high, ranging from $6 million per small city to $60 million per large or densely populated city. Much potential The new generation mobile network has the transformative potential to provide a wide range of benefits to the Indian economy, which when enhanced with artificial intelligence provides a new dimension to connected and autonomous systems. Its use is a chance for Indian policy-makers to educate and empower citizens and businesses, and transform existing cities into smart and innovative cities. This may allow citizens and communities to get socio-economic benefits and comforts delivered by a well-advanced, more data-intensive, digital economy. Broadly speaking, the uses of 5G in India may encompass enhanced outdoor and indoor broadband, the Internet of things, smart cities, smart agriculture, energy monitoring, remote monitoring, smart grids, telehealth, industrial automation, remote patient monitoring and industrial automation to name some of the areas. There is great potential for India to move to an advanced digital revolution. However, it is imperative to undertake an independent economic assessment, city wise, beginning with the metro cities, to assess the commercial viability for 5G deployment in India. Till this happens we may continue enhancing the existing quality of 4G networks. Singapore had planned four 5G networks — two comprehensive 5G networks and two others with smaller and limited coverage, the reason being the high cost in deployment of fibre cables and the scarcity of 5G airwaves. What needs to be done The immediate priority for India will be in identifying end users and population to be covered, analysis of the existing network and operators, identification of cities for the 5G roll out, working out an investment model, and minimisation of the digital risk and pricing based on the externalities and usage of various sectors. The deployment of 5G in India needs to be carefully planned after a cost benefit analysis by independent experts which will create a level-playing field through market mechanism such as facilitating, simulating, auctioning, ensuring competition, functioning markets, etc. Once a case is made for 5G, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) may consider preparing a foolproof spectrum road map with a predictable renewal process which will compensate the huge investment required for deployment and ensure coverage. A level-playing field should be created for all telecom companies with more focus on companies which have the experience of ensuring telecom networks to remote areas and the potential to provide affordable coverage. Global trial runs show that the key areas for 5G deployment are harmonisation of 5G spectrum bands, pricing and sharing of the spectrum. Sharing of available spectrum to maximise its efficient use especially in rural areas, and spectrum allocation procedures that favour investment, need to be considered. Essential sector-friendly steps As the deployment of 5G network is expensive, both the Central and State governments may need to consider measures which stimulate fibre investment, attract investment through public private partnerships (PPPs) and facilitate investment funds on a nominal interest basis. Fortunately, the big telecom package along with reforms announced by the Government in the middle of September bring relief and create an enabling environment for investment in the sector. Steps such as a moratorium on dues, redefining adjusted gross revenue, and reducing spectrum charges will help all telecom companies, more so Airtel and Vodafone Idea who face precarious financial situations. Further, allowing 100% foreign direct investment in the telecom sector under the automatic route along with these policy reforms augurs well for the sector to attract investment. Implementation of 5G requires huge investment and the relief package is welcome step. Tax issues too The Government also needs to address information asymmetry and negative externalities through laws and regulations/taxes and subsidies. The deployment of 5G technology will also need right of access to government infrastructure such as traffic lights, lamp posts, etc. where wireless operators can deploy electronic small cell apparatus. At the same time, reasonable fees may be charged by State and local governments to operators for affordable deployment of 5G equipment. Further, removing the tax burden for deploying fibre networks reduces associated costs, thereby promoting investment as was done by Singapore government, could help in the smooth deployment of fibre in India. As India has already witnessed digital revolution even in its remotest areas due to cost-effective 4G technology, the use of 5G can play a vital role in enhancing this sector and also facilitating India’s goal to emerge as a manufacturing and innovation hub. The negative implication of 5G is furthering the ‘digital divide’. Therefore, Government policies should also focus on affordable coverage through synchronisation of bandwidth. Surjith Karthikeyan is Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Government of India. Pravakar Sahoo is Professor, Institute of Economic Growth (IEG), Delhi. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indias-5g-leap-is-about-powering-tomorrow/article37332795.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A court order for the ages||In a democracy, how far should the Government be allowed to peep into a citizen’s privacy? The Government of India has always maintained that there is no limit to this, as long as the act is carried out in the interest of national security. The current Government has handled all Pegasus-related issues on the basis of this premise. The Supreme Court’s recent decision provides a definitive answer to this question. The top court said national security was not a pass for the Government to spy on its own citizens. The expert committee instituted by it is mandated by stringent terms of reference. It is worth noting that the court refused to accept the Government’s suggestion for a Government-sponsored commission to investigate the matter. As a result, “we the people” would like to call it a landmark decision. The ruling was made in accordance with the fundamental right to privacy. Aadhaar case The Supreme Court had on an earlier occasion interpreted the Constitution and its emphasis on the primacy of privacy. In the Aadhaar case, which I was also a party to, the court determined privacy to be a fundamental right. The current Government has always had a different perspective on this crucial issue. There were allegations that the Government was tapping citizens’ phones utilising numerous agencies. The advent of the Pegasus malware brought the issue to a more dangerous level. The disclosure by the Pegasus Project, a media consortium, was so alarming that it shook the entire world. According to their analysis, Pegasus was utilised in India as well as over 45 other nations. The list included journalists, politicians, judges and activists. Even Ministers in the Union Cabinet were not spared. Initially, the Government bolstered its argument by issuing a blanket denial of the report. When it failed, their strategists worked around the clock to save themselves from a catch-22 predicament. Parliament’s monsoon session arrived in the midst of this controversy. The Government’s main objective was to prevent any discussion on Pegasus. The Opposition, on the other hand, was eager to hold the Government accountable. But the MPs’ customary avenues for airing their concerns were systematically diluted. Strictly following the procedures, I gave a notice for the following questions: “The number of memorandum of understandings [MoUs] the Government has entered into with foreign companies and the details sector-wise; whether any of these MoUs with foreign companies has been in order to curb terror activities through cybersecurity and the details of the same; and whether the Government has entered into an MoU with NSO Group in order to curb terror activities through cybersecurity across the nation and, if so, provide details thereof.” The Rajya Sabha Secretariat set a date for them to be included during the Question Hour. But these questions were never brought before Parliament. Moreover, the rights of the MPs were suppressed by the authoritarian arrogance of the Government. The monsoon session was marred by unpleasant incidents. An MP may be compelled to question the relevance of Parliament when it is not permitted to examine vital topics, including the Pegasus issue, the farmers’ struggle and price rise. When Opposition members tried to talk about Pegasus, their microphones were turned off. We have heard Prime Minister Narendra Modi reiterating that Parliament is an avenue to debate national concerns. These assurances are like lines drawn on water. Under the cover of national security, they built a fortress to prevent any discussion on Pegasus. Even the spyware’s country of origin, Israel, has launched an investigation into it. However, the Government of India was adamant to ensure that no mention of Pegasus was made in the House. An “ atmanirbhar [self-reliant]” Government is preaching the ideology of hyper-nationalism and then handing over the key of national security to a spyware controlled by a foreign country. As far as national security and a citizen’s fundamental rights are concerned, the Supreme Court’s terms of reference were clear. The state cannot be an adversary in the defence of basic rights. The Government defends its operations by using the term “lawful interception” to justify its acts under the guise of national security. If that argument is permitted to do its rounds indefinitely, the country will devolve into a police state. The significance of the top court’s historic decision is that it underlines that restrictions on the right to privacy must pass constitutional scrutiny. Citizens will definitely look up to this verdict as a protective measure in defence of their civil liberties. But they are anxious to know how the Government will cooperate with the fact-finding voyage of the expert committee. Binoy Viswam is an MP and Secretary of the CPI National Council||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-court-order-for-the-ages/article37332799.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Cong. sweep an alarm for BJP||The results of the byelections in Himachal Pradesh have its own story to tell as the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) grip over the situation has slid, which goes against the belief that the ruling clique has leverage to capitalise on. The State went to the polls on October 30 for the Arki, Kotkhai and Fatehpur Assembly seats and the Mandi Lok Sabha seat. The results have shocked the BJP. Although the Mandi and Arki seats were expected to be under the BJP’s influence, the contest at Fatehpur and Kotkhai had weakened its prospects. However, the Congress’s sweep of all four seats went against popular expectations. What was more alarming was that the Congress had increased its vote share to 48.9% in the three Assembly seats against a meagre 28.1% of the BJP. Pratibha Singh, wife of former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh, won by a margin of 8,766 votes against Brigadier Khushal Thakur for the BJP at Mandi. Rohit Thakur of the Congress defeated Independent Chetan Bragta by 6,293 votes, Bhawani Singh defeated the BJP’s Baldev Thakur by 5,634 votes and Sanjay Awasthy defeated the BJP’s Rattan Pal by 3,277 votes. It has been a characteristic of the State for decades now that after a certain Government completes three to four years, an anti-incumbency factor comes to the fore and a formal changeover takes place. Factors like an anti-incumbency mood, failure to meet promises, ineffective leadership and the economic slowdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic had a significant role in the current development. Rising oil prices and the consequent inflation acted as the final nail in the coffin for the BJP. Moreover, the loss of stalwarts significantly influenced the results, though the controversial allocation of tickets by both the BJP and Congress also worked adversely for the two. The BJP paid for the poor allocation of tickets to controversial candidates. In Kotkhai, it gave a ticket to Neelam Saraik against Mr. Bragta, son of former Minister Narinder Bragta; in Fatehpur to Mr. Baldev against former candidate Kripal Parmar and in Arki to Mr. Pal against two-time winner Govind Sharma. This did not go down well with party workers and led to infighting. The Congress also denied a ticket to Rajender Kumar in Arki, Virbhadra’s staunch follower. The BJP was also harsh to the rebels who worked against the party, since the official candidate could secure only around 3,000 votes in Kotkhai. The triangular contest due to intra-party factionalism, which saw a cross-party transfer of votes, seriously damaged the BJP’s position in the elections. Although at Arki, the Congress also saw a rebel in Mr. Kumar, the victory of Mr. Awasthi signified the presence of an anti-incumbency mood. The results are also a warning to the central leadership since BJP national president J.P. Nadda and Union Minster Anurag Thakur hail from the State. The active presence of the duo during the campaign also received a jolt and may lead to a leadership shuffle in the State on the same lines as done in Uttrakhand this year. The real shock came from the Mandi seat, home of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. It must be an unnerving moment for Mr. Thakur as before the elections, there had been voices in the air about a repeat of Uttrakhand in Himachal. These elections are a precursor to the Assembly election in 2022. It shows the testing times for the incumbent Government. Rising prices have been at the root of these losses according to several pre-election surveys. Unemployment and ineffective leadership also overturned the Government’s achievements of having attained 100% (first dose) vaccination during the pandemic. In between lies the riddle of politics, games of aspirations and intra-constituency dynamics that surely affect such elections. Harish K. Thakur is Professor and Chairman of the Department of Political Science, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cong-sweep-an-alarm-for-bjp/article37332801.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||The recovery toolkit||The latest string of official numbers, including almost-record GST collections, healthy direct tax inflows, strong manufacturing and exports, provide some confidence that the economy has lurched back from the danger zone for the second time in less than a year owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. But the healing is still too uneven. GST revenues in October, for transactions done in September, crossed Rs. 1.3-lakh crore. The Finance Ministry believes this kitty would have been higher if sales of cars and products dependent on chips were not afflicted by shortages. If September’s activity reflects pre-festive stocking, the actual festive spending (October-November) may keep GST numbers propped up, but it would be critical to wait for the post-celebration trajectory. October has offered mixed signals so far — manufacturing has seen a surge in output and new orders, domestic and global, but continues to shed jobs, as per the IHS Markit Purchasing Managers’ Index. Moreover, manufacturing rivals Vietnam and Indonesia have seen a sharper rise. Diesel consumption, a better indicator of commercial throughput, has been lower than October 2020, while credit growth, rail passenger revenues and traffic congestion have been insipid. India’s exports have held strong, but the import bill is rising too as coal, fuel and edible oil prices shoot up. A hovering fertilizer crisis could yet dampen rabi crop and hit farm sector growth. While that could trip rural demand, rising oil prices pose a persistent threat to growth. One understands a resource-starved Government’s preference for certain non-discretionary revenue flows such as those arising from ‘fuel consumption’ over the less certain ‘discretionary consumption’ revenues based on households’ aspirations and confidence levels about the immediate future. But the longer-term impact of the former constricting the latter would be worse as it also puts paid to hopes of a sustainable investment pick-up. Growth engines will remain throttled rather than go full throttle towards the Centre’s five trillion-dollar goal for the economy, unless consumption and investment bounce back. With Wednesday’s token tax cuts on petrol and diesel, the Government is clearly changing tack from narratives about the high fuel taxes funding free vaccines and welfare schemes that can only hold legs for some distance. Whether this is prompted by recent electoral setbacks or in anticipation of the bigger State polls ahead, it may need to follow up with more tax cuts as global prices are expected to firm up further. The urban poor have been hit the hardest by the high inflation prevailing since the pandemic’s onset in 2020. They, along with the much-celebrated Indian middle class, have the highest propensity for upward spending on consumer durables, homes, two-wheelers, and so on. Beyond a point, people would also like to be self-reliant just as the nation aspires to be, and that would trigger a virtuous cycle for the economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-recovery-toolkit/article37332786.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Mixed bag||The results of bypolls in three Lok Sabha seats and 29 Assembly seats across 13 States and one Union Territory are a mixed bag for the BJP and the Congress. The ruling party in West Bengal, the TMC, got a resounding endorsement as it won huge victories in four Assembly seats, while the TRS, despite using all levers of power in Telangana, faced a defeat in the lone Assembly seat. The BJP took a considerable beating in Himachal Pradesh, where it rules, as it lost a Lok Sabha seat and three Assembly seats to the Congress; but it made gains in Madhya Pradesh, where it displaced the Congress in two Assembly seats while retaining a Lok Sabha seat and an Assembly seat. In Assam, it won all five Assembly seats along with a regional ally, displacing the Congress in one. The victory in the Huzurabad Assembly segment in Telangana may be the most encouraging for the BJP, as it defeated the ruling TRS that had left no stone unturned to retain the seat. The Congress defeat in the seat was so decisive that the outcome might point to a definitive turn in State politics. In Karnataka, the BJP faced a setback in the home district of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Reading too much into bypoll results is fraught with risks, but some broad points are noteworthy. Taken together, the results show that the Opposition is alive and kicking, but still devoid of a national narrative, programme or leadership. This set of byelections may not signal any consequential change in the national mood — H.P., which gave a drubbing to the BJP, has only four Lok Sabha seats, while in Bihar, BJP ally, the JD(U), retained both Assembly seats. The polls show that leadership at the State-level matters, and this may be bad news for the BJP that has increasingly centralised power and sought to undermine strong regional leaders. In Karnataka, B.S. Yediyurappa’s removal as CM appears to have come with a cost; in Assam, and other northeastern States, the imprint of Himanta Biswa Sarma is unmistakable in the impressive performance of the BJP; in Madhya Pradesh the credit for the party’s victories goes to CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan; and in Rajasthan the extent of its defeat can be attributed to the lack of regional leadership. The massive scale of the TMC’s performance in West Bengal and the corresponding rout of the BJP prove the former’s complete grip over the State, and the latter’s continuing struggle to understand it. The party was tamed in the Assembly election earlier this year, and its agenda and approach continue to be distant from the thinking of the Bengali. As for the Congress, what matter more are the defeats in M.P. and Telangana, and not the victories in H.P. and Rajasthan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/mixed-bag/article37332787.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Anti-drink campaign||In response to invitation from leaders in Mettupalaiyam and surrounding villages, a large meeting was held in Mettupalaiyam yesterday. Leaders from various places attended, including Messrs. Venkataramana Iyenger M.L.C., Vellingiri Goundar M.L.C. and Ratnasabapathy Mudaliar, President Coimbatore Taluk Board. Mr. Venkataramana Iyenger presided. Speeches were made by several leading men, including Mr. Vellingiri Goundar. A resolution was passed requesting the headmen of several castes to organise anti-drink campaigns, the tree owners not to lease trees for tapping toddy, potters not to give pots and the contractors to close shops even at a little cost and lastly requesting the M.L.C.’s to take immediate steps in the Council to have prohibition bills. The President closed the meeting with a long speech exhorting the audience to continue in the same strain in their campaign against drink fearlessly and said that so long as the campaign was carried on peacefully, they need not fear the Government and that the Government would not prohibit such measures as the resolution set forth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/anti-drink-campaign/article37332796.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Chavan surveys cyclone-hit areas||A grant of Rs. 2 crore to the Orissa Government for undertaking relief and rescue operations in the cyclone-affected areas of the State was announced here to-day by the Union Finance Minister, Mr. Y.B. Chavan, addressing a press conference after making an aerial survey of the devastated areas in a helicopter. Lack of finance, Mr. Chavan said, would not stand in the way of relief operation. Mr. Chavan also had discussions with State Government officials. On his return from the aerial survey, Mr. Chavan had a conference with the State Chief Minister, Mr. Biswanath Das, members of the Cabinet and senior officials of the State Government on the relief measures to be taken in the affected areas. The Opposition leader in the Orissa Assembly, Mr. Binayak Acharya, was the only non-official present at the conference. Mr. Chavan said he had flown over the coastal stretch of Cuttack and Balasore districts for nearly three hours. One area was affected by tidal bore and the other by cyclone. Giving his impressions of the ravage, Mr. Chavan said that it was “shocking and painful”. Even the Prime Minister, who was away, was deeply concerned about the tragedy, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/chavan-surveys-cyclone-hit-areas/article37332797.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||October services output grows at decade high, PMI shows||India’s services sector recorded its strongest output growth in ten-and-a-half years in October, as reflected by the survey-based IHS Markit Services Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), which accelerated to 58.4 from 55.2 in September. A reading of 50 indicates no change from the previous month’s economic activity levels. The pace of job creation based on the survey of 400 firms remained moderate but quickened from September to the fastest since February 2020. “The recovery of the services sector entered its third straight month, with firms scaling up activity at the fastest pace in ten-and-a-half years and creating more jobs,” said Pollyanna De Lima, economics associate director at IHS Markit. Services businesses also faced the sixteenth successive monthly increase in input costs, with the inflation rate hitting a six-month high and outpacing its long-run average. Firms surveyed by IHS Markit cited higher fuel, material, retail, staff and transport costs. Overall business confidence remained subdued due to growing concerns around price pressures. With input costs again rising sharply, companies raised their fees in October at the fastest pace in close to four-and-a-half years. “A substantial rise in prices charged for the provision of services in India had no detrimental impact on demand,” Ms. De Lima said. “That said, service providers were concerned that persistent inflationary pressures could deter growth in the coming year,” she added. “New export business decreased in October, a trend that has been recorded since the COVID-19 outbreak,” the firm said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/october-services-output-grows-at-decade-high-pmi-shows/article37332579.ece
04 November 2021||MUMBAI,||SBI Q2 net rises 67% on asset quality, provisions||State Bank of India’s (SBI) second quarter net profit surged 66.7% to Rs. 7,627 croredue to improvement in asset quality and lower provisions for bad loans. In a filing, India’s largest lender said it had recorded its highest quarterly net profit. “The outcome in asset quality... has been quite encouraging,” said chairman Dinesh Khara. “The first quarter saw elevated levels of fresh slippages as collections were severely impacted due to COVID-related travel restrictions,” he said. “Now there is no major concern relating to asset quality because underwriting has improved significantly,” he added, saying the bank expected its loan book to rise 10% in FY22. Operating profit rose 9.84% to Rs. 18,079 crore. The lender has fully provided Rs. 7,418 crore due to the change in family pension rules. Net interest income climbed 10.7% to Rs. 31,184 crore. Loan-loss provisions slid 52% to Rs. 2,699 crore. Net non-performing asset (NPA) ratio dipped 7 basis points (bps) to 1.52%, while the gross NPA ratio declined 38 bps to 4.9%. Provision Coverage Ratio stood at 87.68%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-q2-net-rises-67-on-asset-quality-provisions/article37332576.ece
04 November 2021||mumbai,||Poor IBC recovery calls for process rejig: Crisil||Only a third of the admitted financial claims of insolvent companies have been recovered since the onset of the bankruptcy process five years ago, a domestic credit rating agency said. With only Rs. 2.5 lakh crore in recoveries, there is a need for a ‘stronger push’ to make resolutions under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) process more effective, Crisil said, admitting that the law has tilted the power equation in favour of creditors from debtors. “A closer look at the data shows, however, the recovery rate and resolution timelines have a lot more room for improvement. This makes a continuous strengthening of the code and stabilisation of the overall ecosystem imperative,” it said. The commentary from the agency comes amid concerns raised over low recoveries, of about 5%, in recent high-value cases. It may be recalled that initially, the recoveries were much higher in the specifically earmarked dozen accounts. “Besides low recovery rate and longer time frame, a key challenge is the high number of cases going to liquidation,” agency director Nitesh Jain said.  A key challenge is the high number of cases going to liquidation Nitesh JainDirector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/poor-ibc-recovery-calls-for-process-rejig-crisil/article37332582.ece
04 November 2021||new delhi,||‘MSME margins badly hit by commodity price surge’||Industry chamber PHDCCI on Wednesday said skyrocketing commodity prices were severely impacting the price-cost margins of businesses, especially MSMEs, observing that the RBI had a crucial role to play in balancing inflation and maintaining currency stability. The assertion is among the chamber’s suggestions outlining the focus areas for RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das in his second term. These include attaining and sustaining a high growth trajectory to become a $5-trillion economy. “Skyrocketing commodity prices are severely impacting margins of businesses, especially MSMEs... RBI’s role becomes crucial to balance inflation... and maintain currency stability while attaining high growth,” PHDCCI suggested. It also urged Mr. Das to focus on maintaining adequate liquidity in the system while balancing inflationary pressures. “Demand should remain intact to [help economy] regain lost momentum.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/msme-margins-badly-hit-by-commodity-price-surge/article37332584.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Canada funds to pick up 50% in NHAI InvIT||Canadian Pension Plan Investment Board and Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan will be the anchor investors for the Infrastructure Investment Trust (InvIT) of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) with each picking up 25% stake. Besides,NHAIwould retain a minimum of 15% equity and the rest would be offered to domestic institutional investors. The InvIT will initially have a portfolio of five operating toll roads with an aggregate length of 390 kilometers, with more roads planned to be added later. The total enterprise value of the five roads was pegged at Rs. 8,011.52 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/canada-funds-to-pick-up-50-in-nhai-invit/article37332577.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. picks 42 white goods firms for PLI||The government said it has ‘provisionally selected’ 42 air-conditioner and LED manufacturers with committed investment of Rs. 4,614 crore as beneficiaries under Production-Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for white goods. “The approved investments of Rs. 4,614crore are likely to generate net incremental production of around Rs. 81,254 crore and direct employment for about 44,000 people,” the Minister of Commerce and Industry said. Those selected include 26 for air-conditioner manufacturing with committed investments of Rs. 3,898 crore and 16 for LED Lights with committed investments of Rs. 716 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-picks-42-white-goods-firms-for-pli/article37332580.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Reforms will aid telcos in saving cash’||The seminal reforms announced by the government for the telecom sector will help preserve cash flows and enable the industry to drive investments, Bharti Airtel CEO Gopal Vittal said on Wednesday. Speaking at Bharti Airtel’s Q2 earnings call, he said while over the next 3-4 years, 5G will be present on an ubiquitous basis in most key cities, in the immediate short term much will depend on the pace of the regulator’s consultation and the actual timing of the auction. “The government announced seminal reforms that will help preserve cash flows and enable the industry drive investments.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reforms-will-aid-telcos-in-saving-cash/article37332581.ece
04 November 2021||New Delhi,||Centre releases Rs. 17,000 cr. in GST compensation dues to States||The Centre released GST compensation dues of Rs. 17,000 crore to States on Wednesday, taking the total compensation paid out from GST cess collections so far this year to Rs. 60,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-releases-rs-17000-cr-in-gst-compensation-dues-to-states/article37332574.ece
04 November 2021||ABU DHABI,||Rohit and Rahul pulverise Afghanistan||Virat Kohli lost the toss for the third straight time and India was asked to bat first yet again. However, those were the only similarities from the two previous games as the batters went ballistic and notched up the highest total of the edition — 210 — in the Group 2 Super 12 match against Afghanistan on Wednesday. In reply, Afghanistan was restricted to 144, giving India its first win of the competition. The change of venue — despite the long boundaries at the Zayed Cricket Stadium — seemed to have worked in India’s favour as Rohit Sharma (74, 47b, 8x4, 3x6) and K.L. Rahul (69, 48b, 6x4, 2x6) bulldozed the spirited Afghan attack. The reunion at the top worked wonders as the duo’s 140-run stand set up the foundation for a massive total. Rishabh Pant and Hardik Pandya’s lusty blows meant India crossed the 200-run mark. Afghanistan was never in the chase. Skipper Mohammad Nabi (35) and Karim Janat (42 not out) were involved in a 57-run partnership for the sixth wicket. Mohammed Shami finished with three for 32 while R. Ashwin, playing in India blue colours after four years, spun a web around the Afghan batters to return excellent figures of 4-0-14-2. Earlier, Suryakumar Yadav, who recovered from back spasm, replaced Ishan Kishan in the XI and paved the way for the first-choice opening combination of Rohit and Rahul to be restored. With the team in a must-win situation in its remaining three games, and that too by huge margins, it needed a blazing start. In contrast to their approach in the first two games, Rohit and Rahul went after the Afghanistan bowlers right from the word go. The moment Rohit lofted off-spinner Nabi over cover for a four in the opening over, it was clear that he meant business. Rohit showed his ability to clear the field with panache and even played the odd nudge past the wicketkeeper which sped to the fence. With Rohit playing the big shots, Rahul joined the party and the two took the team past the 100-run mark in the 12th over. Rohit then took on Rashid Khan, arguably the best T20 bowler, tonking the leggie for successive sixes in the 14th over. He was dismissed when he mistimed a shot off medium-pacer Janat in the 15th over while Rahul’s attempt to clear short fine-leg led to his downfall soon after. Off the next 21 balls, Pant (27 n.o., 13b, 1x4, 3x6) and Hardik (35 n.o., 13b, 4x4, 2x6) showcased their big-hitting prowess, piling on 63. The total proved too steep for Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-and-rahul-pulverise-afghanistan/article37332883.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Manpreet also to get the Khel Ratna||Olympic bronze-winning Indian men’s hockey team captain Manpreet Singh has been added to the list of Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna awardees. All the awards, including the Arjuna and Dronacharya, will be given away by the President of India on November 13.  The awardees: Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna: Neeraj Chopra (athletics), Ravi Kumar(wrestling), Lovlina Borgohain (boxing), P.R. Sreejesh, Manpreet Singh (both hockey), Avani Lekhara, Manish Narwal (both para shooting), Sumit Antil (para athletics), Pramod Bhagat, Krishna Nagar (both para badminton), Mithali Raj (cricket) and Sunil Chhetri (football).   Arjuna: Arpinder Singh (athletics), Simranjit Kaur (boxing), Shikhar Dhawan (cricket), C.A. Bhavani Devi (fencing), Sandeep Narwal (kabaddi), Himani Uttam Parab (mallakhamb), Abhishek Verma (shooting), Ankita Raina (tennis), Deepak Punia (wrestling); Monika, Vandana Katariya, Dilpreet Singh, Harman Preet Singh, Rupinder Pal Singh, Surender Kumar, Amit Rohidas, Birendra Lakra, Sumit, Nilakanta Sharma, Hardik Singh, Vivek Sagar Prasad, Gurjant Singh, Mandeep Singh, Shamsher Singh, Lalit Kumar Upadhyay, Varun Kumar, Simranjeet Singh (all hockey); Yogesh Kathuniya, Nishad Kumar, Praveen Kumar, Sharad Kumar (all para athletics), Suhash Yathiraj (para badminton), Singhraj Adhana (para shooting), Bhavina Patel (para table tennis) and Harvinder Singh (para archery).   Dronacharya: Life-time: T.P. Ouseph (athletics), Sarkar Talwar (cricket), Sarpal Singh (hockey), Ashan Kumar (kabaddi), Tapan Kumar Panigrahi (swimming); R egular: P. Radhakrishnan Nair (athletics), Sandhya Gurung (boxing), Pritam Siwach (hockey), Jai Prakash Nautiyal (para shooting) and S. Raman (table tennis).   Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar: Manav Rachna Educational Institution and Indian Oil Corporation Limited for encouragement to sports through Corporate Social Responsibility.   Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Trophy: Panjab University .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manpreet-also-to-get-the-khel-ratna/article37332931.ece
04 November 2021||Paris,||Ronaldo bails out United yet again||Cristiano Ronaldo scored another late goal to rescue Manchester United in the Champions League on Tuesday, as his former club Juventus and Bayern Munich both secured qualification for the last 16 with two group games to spare. Ronaldo fired in from the edge of the box a minute into injury time to snatch United a 2-2 draw with Atalanta in Italy and keep it on course to qualify from Group F. He had earlier cancelled out Josip Ilicic’s opener to equalise at the end of a slick team move in first-half stoppage time. However, having lost Raphael Varane to injury before that, United went behind again in the 56th minute when Duvan Zapata ran through, evading Harry Maguire before slotting in. The goal was initially disallowed for offside before being given after a VAR review, but Ronaldo thwarted the hosts again with his ninth goal in 11 appearances since returning to Old Trafford and his record-extending 139th goal in the competition.  Ole Gunnar Solskjaer’s side are level on seven points atop the group with Villarreal. Captain Paulo Dybala’s brace helped Juventus to a 4-2 win over Zenit Saint Petersburg in Turin as it kept up its 100 percent record in Group H to secure a last-16 place. Juve is three points clear of reigning European champion Chelsea, which beat Malmo 1-0 in Sweden with a second-half Hakim Ziyech goal. Thomas Tuchel’s side needs one more point to be certain of advancing. Robert Lewandowski netted a hat-trick as Bayern steamrollered Benfica 5-2 in Germany to make it four wins from four in Group E, securing its progress and leaving it requiring a single point to clinch first place. Meanwhile managerless Barcelona boosted its qualification hopes, Ansu Fati’s goal in Ukraine securing a second straight 1-0 win over Dynamo Kiev to lift it up to second above Benfica.  The results: Group E: Dynamo Kyiv 0 lost to Barcelona 1 (Fati 70); Bayern Munich 5 (Lewandowski 26, 61, 84, Gnabry 32, Sane 49) bt Benfica 2 (Morato 38, Nunez 74).   Group F: Villarreal 2 (Capoue 36, Danjuma 89) bt Young Boys 0; Atalanta 2 (Ilicic 12, Zapata 56) drew with Manchester United 2 (Ronaldo 45+1, 90+1).   Group G: Sevilla 1 (Ocampos 15) lost to Lille 2 (David 43-pen, Ikone 51); Wolfsburg 2 (Baku 3, Nmecha 60) bt RB Salzburg 1 (Woeber 30).   Group H: Malmo 0 lost to Chelsea 1 (Zieych 56); Juventus 4 (Dybala 11, 58-pen, Chiesa 78, Morata 82) bt Zenit 2 (Bonucci 26-og, Azmoun 90+2) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ronaldo-bails-out-united-yet-again/article37332588.ece
04 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Madras Race Club to host Invitation Cup in March||Around 650 horses, including 182 two-year-olds, will take part in the 30-day Chennai racing season 2021-2022. The highlight of the season will be the 60th running of the Indian Turf Invitation Cup in March 2022. The highlight of the season will be the 60th running of the Indian Turf Invitation Cup in March 2022, said Nirmal Prasad, secretary of the Madras Race Club, at a press conference on Wednesday. . The season scheduled to begin on Nov. 5 (Friday) will now start on Nov. 7. (Sunday) because of persistent rains rendering underfoot conditions not conducive for racing. The concluding meeting will be on March 6, 2022.  Stakes money The stakes money on offer is Rs. 12,97,00,000 for 196 races, including the Indian Turf Invitation Cup weekend races to be held on March 5 and March 6, 2022. Apart from the Invitation weekend, 48 cup races have been framed and the total value of the cups and trophies to be presented is Rs. 48,00,000. Twenty four ‘A’ Licence and 30 ‘B’ Licence trainers, including Deepesh Narredu, Adhiraj Singh Jodha and Behram Cama from the RWITC, and 34 ‘A’Licence and 80 ‘B’ Licence jockeys would be seen in action. Outstation horses Outstation horses will be permitted to participate in the Deepak Khaitan Memorial Guindy Gold Cup, Dr. M.A.M. Ramaswamy Memorial Trophy, South India Sprinters Trial Stakes, South India Stayers Trial Stakes, Christmas Cup, Madras Gold Vase (Gr. III), Guindy Grand Prix (Gr. III), South India 1000 Guineas (Gr. II), South India 2000 Guineas (Gr. II), South India Oaks (Gr. I), Coromandel Gromor South India Derby Stakes (Gr. I), and South India St. Leger (Gr. II). The auction sale of two-year-olds will be held on Jan. 13 (Thursday) and Jan. 14 (Friday). For races to be held at Bengaluru, Mysuru, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Pune, Kolkata, and Delhi, inter-venue betting would be conducted at the Chennai and Udhagamandalam race courses. The entrance fee in Chennai will be Rs. 160 (members enclosure), Rs. 40 (first enclosure) and Rs. 20 (second enclosure). Online betting Patrons can bet online, on both domestic and international races, on playindiaraces.com and play.madrasraceclub.com .  Racing dates: November: 7, 10 (S. Rangarajan Memorial Trophy), 11, 18, 24 & 26 (Deepak Khaitan Memorial Gold Cup).   December: 2 (K. Srinivasan Memorial Trophy), 10, 11 (South India 1000 Guineas Gr.II), 16 (G. Narasimhan Memorial Trophy), 17 (South India 2000 Guineas Gr .II), 25 (Christmas Cup) and 31.   January 2022: 1 (South India Oaks Gr II), 6, 7, 13, 14 (Coromandel Gromor South India Derby Stakes Gr. I and Dr. M.A.M. Ramaswamy Memorial Trophy), 21 (South India Trial Stakes), 27 & 28 (Madras Gold Vase Gr.III).   February: 3 (South India Sprinters Trial Stakes), 10, 11 (South India St. Leger Gr.II), 16, 17 (Guindy Grand Prix Gr. III), 23 (G. Kasturi Memorial Trophy) & 24.   March: 5 & 6 (Indian Turf Invitation Cup weekend races)   Note: The above dates are subject to change .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/madras-race-club-to-host-invitation-cup-in-march/article37332966.ece
04 November 2021||Chennai,||TN has wherewithal to go deep in the tournament||Tamil Nadu has the depth and the ability to go a long way in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 competition. The side’s group matches begin in Lucknow on Thursday. The loss owing to fitness of the side’s talismanic captain Dinesh Karthik notwithstanding, Tamil Nadu has an effective blend of youth and experience. The team is in Elite Group ‘A’, where the other sides are Maharashtra, Punjab, Odisha, Puducherry, and Goa. As the defending champion, however, some pressure is bound to be on Tamil Nadu when it takes on Maharashtra in its opening fixture that will begin at 8.30 a.m. Vijay Shankar and his men will be up against a team led by the in-form and light-footed Ruturaj Gaikwad. Surface moisture In a morning-start game in Northern India during this period of the year, there is bound to be moisture on the surface and the ball will seam around. In a conversation with The Hindu , the team’s new coach M. Venkataramana said, “The pitch is slightly green.” Winning the toss and inserting the opposition will be the best strategy. The surface should dry out during the chase. Capable combination Tamil Nadu has a capable left-right new ball combination in T. Natarajan and Sandeep Warrier. The two can get the ball to leave or come into the batsmen from varying angles. Then, the side possesses two promising left-arm spinners in Sai Kishore and M. Siddharth. M. Ashwin, with his potent googly, is always a threat in this format where the batsmen have to go after him. B. Aparajith has been handy with his off-spin. Vijay Shankar and J. Kousik are the pace bowling all-rounders; they lend options to the side. The batting has strokeplayers with N. Jagadeesan and Hari Nishaanth at the top of the order. Aparajith, Vijay Shankar and Shahrukh Khan add weight to the line-up. The young and talented Sai Sudarshan is likely to make his debut for Tamil Nadu on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-has-wherewithal-to-go-deep-in-the-tournament/article37332968.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Rahane’s experience will be vital: Muzumdar||When Ajinkya Rahane made his Mumbai debut in 2006, Amol Muzumdar was the captain. Cut to Wednesday, Rahane will lead Mumbai in its Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy opener against Karnataka while Muzumdar will be in his maiden assignment as Mumbai head coach. Muzumdar, an eight-time Ranji Trophy winner, stressed on Rahane’s importance in the team. “He has been on the circuit for 15 years and is one of the main players in the Test arena. I feel Mumbai cricket needs his presence right now. “His calmness and ability to handle any situation is something to look forward to for everyone in the group. His experience will be vital.” While Muzumdar is confident that the squad is ready to hit the ground running, having had an extensive training regimen since July, he is certain that losing four key players due to COVID-19 will not affect the fortunes of the team. “We didn’t want to panic. Things have been settled and the replacements are here... we are ready to get going,” he said. Though Muzumdar will be focusing on bringing the Ranji Trophy home, he felt that the Mumbai cricket fraternity should change its attitude towards the limited-overs game. Need of the hour “To change with the times is the need of the hour. I am not saying Ranji Trophy isn’t important... it’s extremely important. There’s no doubt in my mind that the Ranji Trophy is the ultimate goal,” Muzumdar said. “But white-ball cricket’s importance is increasing all over India with each passing day. It’s important to prepare for it and take it as seriously as the Ranji.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahanes-experience-will-be-vital-muzumdar/article37333303.ece
04 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,||Athul, Pavithra are champions||Palakkad’s third-seeded Athul John Mathew and Ernakulam’s top-seeded Pavithra Naveen won the under-19 boys and girls singles titles in the all-Kerala junior badminton tournament which concluded at the Rama Varma Club and Alpite Sports Centre here on Wednesday. Alappuzha’s S. Akshit and S. Megha bagged the under-17 boys and girls singles titles.  The results: Boys: Under-19 singles final: Athul John Mathew (Pkd) bt Shehil Muhammed (Knr) 21-16, 15-8 (retd); s emifinals: Athul bt S.D. Aadithyan (Tvm) 25-27, 21-19, 21-18; Shehil bt Fazim Abdu Anzar (Tsr) 21-19, 21-23, 22-20.   Under-17 singles final: S. Akshit (Alp) bt S. Abhishek (Ekm) 21-11, 21-9; semifinals: Akshit bt S.M. Aman Suresh (Tvm) 16-21, 21-10, 21-9; Abhishek bt T.S. Arjun (Alp) 19-21, 21-19, 21-12; Doubles final: A.V. Akshay (Tvm) & Joseph Dilraj (Tsr) bt T.S. Arjun & S. Athul Krishna (Alp) 17-21, 22-20, 21-18.   Girls: Under-19 singles final: Pavithra Naveen (Ekm) bt Diya Arun (Ekm) 21-11, 21-15; semifinals: Pavithra bt C.H. Keerthika (Knr) 21-10, 21-11; Diya bt Saniya Baby (Ekm) 21-9, 22-20.   Under-17 singles final: S. Megha (Alp) bt C.H. Keerthika (Knr) 21-17, 21-18; semifinals: Megha bt Farza Nazrin (Tvm) 21-17, 17-21, 21-17; Keerthika bt Nayana S. Oasis (Koz) 21-11, 21-15; Doubles final: C.H. Keerthika & Nayana Oasis (Koz) bt Meenakshi Vinu & Nanda Ghosh (Tvm) 21-15, 21-16.   Mixed doubles finals: Under-19: Adhin K. Ajay & Diya Arun (Ekm) bt Robens V. Roney (Alp) & K.S. Sanusree (Koz) 22-20 21-11. Under-17: S.M. Aman Suresh & Nanda Ghosh (Tvm) bt Joseph Dilraj (Tsr) & C.H. Keerthika (Knr) 21-15, 21-17.   Boys: Under-19 doubles final: Fazim Abdu Anzar & Sridhar Sreekumar (Tsr) bt C.H. Chandrajith (Knr) & Uday Prakash (Koz) 22-24, 21-15, 26-24.   Girls: Under-19 doubles final: Gayathri Nambiar (Koz) & T.R. Gowri Krishna (Pta) bt Anaswara Ajai (Ekm) & S. Megha (Alp) 12-21, 21-10, 21-11 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/athul-pavithra-are-champions/article37333242.ece
04 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||The long wait finally ends for Lekha||For former World boxing champion K.C. Lekha, the long wait is finally over. The 2006 world champion had craved for recognition and applied for Arjuna and Dhyan Chand Awards since her retirement in 2013. But every year, Lekha was left frustrated and disappointed when she found her name missing from the list of awardees. She is finally relieved after being conferred the Dhyan Chand Award for Lifetime Achievement this year. “Better late than never. It is a great relief as I had given up all hope. I missed out on the Arjuna Award when I was active. It was painful to see boxers whom I had defeated being given the Arjuna Award ahead of me. “I dedicate this award to my coaches, parents and all those who supported me in my career,” said the G.V. Raja awardee, who is also Kerala’s only world champion in any discipline till date. The former athlete-turned-boxer is sad that Kerala, which once dominated women’s boxing, is now struggling to win a medal in the National championship.  Lekha blamed the present day boxers of lacking dedication and is ready to groom and train youngsters if given an opportunity. “I think the present lot lack dedication despite being given the best of facilities and training. They don’t have the will to work hard and instead, look for short-term gains. We were more dedicated and had to fight many battles both on and off the ring. “I have a diploma in coaching and want to give something back to this sports. I want to start an academy in Kannur and my dream is to produce champions. But my present job doesn’t offer me any time or opportunities to chase that dream,” said a Lekha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-long-wait-finally-ends-for-lekha/article37333244.ece
04 November 2021||Saarbrucken (Germany),||Srikanth and Sourabh advance||K. Srikanth and Sourabh Verma advanced to the pre-quarterfinals, even as H.S. Prannoy and Aakarshi Kashyap made first round exits, in the HYLO Open Super 500 badminton tournament here on Wednesday. Srikanth, seeded sixth, beat Koki Watanabe of Japan 21-15, 21-10 in 32 minutes, while Sourabh received a walkover in his first round match against Max Weisskirchen of Germany. Prannoy went down 21-16, 17-21, 7-21 to the lower-ranked Irish shuttler Nhat Nguyen in a match that lasted 57 minutes.  The results (first round): Men: K. Srikanth bt Koki Watanabe (Jpn) 21-15, 21-10.   Sourabh Verma w/o Max Weisskirchen (Ger); Nhat Nguyen (Ire) bt H.S. Prannoy 16-21, 21-17, 21-7.   Women: Neslihan Yegit (Tur) bt Aakarshi Kashyap 21-7, 23-21 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srikanth-and-sourabh-advance/article37332877.ece
04 November 2021||BENGALURU,||Dravid appointed India Head Coach||Former India captain Rahul Dravid has been appointed as the Head Coach of the senior Indian men’s cricket team, the BCCI announced on Wednesday. Dravid takes over from Ravi Shastri, whose term ends after the ongoing ICC T20 World Cup. Dravid, among the finest batsmen India has produced, was unanimously appointed by the Cricket Advisory Committee comprising of former international cricketers Sulakshana Naik and R.P. Singh. Dravid’s innings will commence with the home series against New Zealand later this month. ‘Absolute honour’ “It is an absolute honour to be appointed as the new Head Coach of the Indian cricket team, and I am really looking forward to this role. Under Shastri, the team has done very well, and I hope to work with the team to take it forward. “Having worked closely with most of the boys either at NCA, under-19 and India ‘A’ set up, I know they have the passion and desire to improve every day. “There are some marquee multi-team events in the next two years, and I look forward to working with the players and the support staff to achieve our potential,” Dravid said in a statement. Dravid’s former India teammate and BCCI President Sourav Ganguly stated, “BCCI welcomes Rahul Dravid as the Head Coach of India’s senior men team. Rahul has had an illustrious playing career and is one of the greats of the game. “He has also served Indian cricket as Head of National Cricket Academy (NCA) with distinction. Rahul’s effort at the NCA has nurtured several young cricketing talents who have gone on to represent the country on the international stage. I am hopeful that his new stint will take Indian cricket to new heights.” “The Board congratulates Shastri (Team Director & Head Coach), B. Arun (Bowling Coach), R. Sridhar (Fielding Coach) and Vikram Rathour (Batting Coach) on a successful tenure. Under Shastri, the Indian cricket team adopted a bold and fearless approach and performed creditably both in home and away conditions,” the BCCI stated. Two Test series wins in Australia — in 2018-19 and 2020-21 — count among the highlights of Shastri’s tenure. Earlier this year, Dravid donned the role of interim head coach for the Indian team’s limited-overs tour of Sri Lanka. Shastri was with the Indian team on the Test tour to England, which was being held at the same time. In the thick of it Dravid has served as the NCA Director, and as the coach for the India Under-19 and India-A sides. Under Dravid’s guidance, India won the 2018 ICC Under-19 World Cup in New Zealand. Speculation surrounding Dravid’s appointment has been doing the rounds for months now and increased when he formally applied for the position around a week ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dravid-appointed-india-head-coach/article37332880.ece
04 November 2021||DUBAI,||Guptill runs hot as New Zealand holds off Scotland||Martin Guptill hit 93 and became only the second man to pass 3,000 T20I runs as New Zealand defeated Scotland by 16 runs at the ICC T20 World Cup on Wednesday. New Zealand made 172 for five before Scotland battled to score a respectable 156 for five in its 20 overs. It was the Kiwis’ second win in three games. The 35-year-old Guptill, who put on 105 for the fourth wicket with Glenn Phillips, made his runs off 56 balls with six fours and seven sixes after New Zealand was asked to bat. His first six off Alasdair Evans in the sixth over took him past the 3,000-mark in the format, second only to Virat Kohli. Chasing a target of 173, the Scots were 76 for two in 10 overs. Matthew Leask gave the team some hope with a brisk, undefeated 42 off 20 balls with three fours and three sixes. However, the experienced New Zealand attack held on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/guptill-runs-hot-as-new-zealand-overcomes-scotland/article37332886.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Honoured, says Neeraj||Selected for the prestigious Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award after winning a historic gold in the Tokyo Olympics, star javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra said on Wednesday that he will continue to work hard and bring more laurels for the country. “I am honoured to be awarded the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna alongside some outstanding sportspersons. “Aap sabhi ke sahyog aur support ke liye tahe dil se dhanyavad (thank you from the bottom of my heart for the support from all of you),” the 23-year old tweeted. More success “Koshish ye hi rahegi ki aise hi apne performances se desh ke liya aur success haasil kar paun! (I will continue to work to achieve more success for the country through my performances).”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/honoured-says-neeraj/article37332922.ece
04 November 2021||BENGALURU,||‘To qualify for Asian Games is my main target’||The last fortnight has been life-changing for Ridhima Veerendra Kumar. Over nine competitive days at the National Aquatic Championships here, she won nine golds and a silver, broke two National records and swept the backstroke races across the junior and senior divisions. By the end of it, she was picked in the four-member Indian team for the FINA World Short Course Championships in Abu Dhabi this December — the lone woman — and at 14 will be among the competition’s youngest swimmers. Hard work pays “I didn’t expect to do as well,” Ridhima says, with a faint but confident smile. “Not this big, definitely. But I knew I had done the work. This was the first full month of racing after COVID-19 [lockdown] and at the end of the Nationals, my body was a bit worn out. But it feels good. All the hard work during the lockdown was worth it.” The highlight of her success was her showdown with Olympian Maana Patel, seven years her senior. In juniors, she bettered two of Maana’s records and in seniors she beat the Gujarat swimmer to the gold across 50m, 100m and 200m. “How much ever I tried to avoid, it was at the back of my mind,” says Ridhima. “But I knew that I had also trained for it and was as strong as her.” Eye on timings Gold medals weren’t her targets, but timings. And she only missed rewriting Maana’s National record in 50m backstroke by 0.05 seconds and in 100m backstroke by 0.07. “I just swim to get a time and it doesn’t matter even if I get the silver. I am half a second off the best Indian performance in 100m (Maana’s 1:03.77 in Belgrade). If I keep going at this pace, I can better it. To qualify for Asian Games 2022 is my main target.” Her run at the nationals and her age can give the impression that Ridhima has just exploded on to the National scene. But her coach at the Basavanagudi Aquatic Centre, John Christopher, believes her rise has been more steady than steep. “Four years back she was 1:11 in 100m backstroke and slowly she has progressed to 1:04,” Christopher says. “By March-May, I expect her to go 1:03. I won’t say that she will go 1:01. I won’t say that she will be in the Olympics. She just has to put her head down and keep working.” In that quest, Ridhima has her parents’ full backing and with a brother who played national-level basketball and father volleyball, she has people who understand the hardships of a sportsperson. The Delhi Public School (South) student appears primed for success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/to-qualify-for-asian-games-is-my-main-target/article37332933.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ramkumar advances||Ramkumar Ramanathan defeated Aldin Setkic of Bosnia and Herzegovina 7-6(7), 4-6, 6-3 in the first round of the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament in Eckental, Germany on Wednesday.  Other results:   €44,820 Challenger, Bergamo, Italy: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Radu Albot (Mda) & Artem Sitak (Nzl) bt Anirudh Chandrasekar & Vijay Sundar Prashanth 6-2, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Singles (first round): Nikita Volonski (Aus) bt Rishabdev Raman 6-4, 6-2.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Mirko Martinez (Sui) & Ajeet Rai (Nzl) bt Zakai Stone (US) & Amaan Siddiqui 6-4, 6-2.   Warren Wood (US) & Tushar Sharma bt Wissam Abderrahman & Mohamed Amin Oueslati (Tun) 7-6(5), 3-6, [10-8].   $60,000 ITF women, Nantes, France: Singles (first round): Anhelina Kalinina (Ukr) bt Karman Kaur Thandi 6-3, 6-3; Sada Nahimana (Bdi) bt Ankita Raina 4-6, 6-1, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF women, Heraklion, Greece: Singles (first round): Karen Mathiens (Fra) bt Sowjanya Bavisetti 6-3, reted.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Nicole Gadient & Corina Mader (Sui) bt Emira Stafford (US) & Jennifer Luikham 7-6(3), 6-2.   $15,000 ITF women, Castellon, Spain: Singles (first round): Carlota Martinez Cirez (Esp) bt Sathwika Sama 6-0, 6-1.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Maria Josefina Zehnder (Arg) & Sathwika Sama w.o. Mihaela Djakovic (Srb) & Chantal Sauvant (Ger).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-advances/article37332934.ece
04 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Award a recognition for women’s cricket’||“The Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award is truly something special in my career and I am really grateful to each and every one who has supported me over the years,” said Mithali Raj on Wednesday. “I feel this prestigious award is a recognition for women’s cricket itself in India. The ignorance about women’s cricket which was there when I started playing the game is not there any more thanks to the efforts by many, especially the BCCI,” Mithali said in a chat with The Hindu after the official confirmation of her getting the Award. “To be in the company of such illustrious athletes who got this award also makes me feel great,” she said. “I am sincerely grateful to BCCI honorary secretary Jay Shah, president Sourav Ganguly, Union Sports Minister Anurag Thakur, my employers Indian Railways, all the coaches in different phases of my career, my seniors — who played before me and were an inspiration for me to play the game with such passion — fellow players and most importantly the support staff for its untiring efforts,” she said from Pune. “This is a huge motivation especially when I am chasing my dream to win the World Cup for India next year in New Zealand. That is one trophy which I have been longing to win,” Mithali said. “I dedicate this award to my parents for their wonderful support, especially in my early days when not many took women’s cricket that seriously,” she added. Mithali’s mentor-cum-coach R.S.R. Murthy said it was one of the best days of his life. “She truly deserves this and I hope it will only inspire her to keep going and bring more laurels to the country,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-recognition-for-womens-cricket-mithali/article37332936.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Perfect platform to catch the eye of IPL scouts||The Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy (SMAT), which commences on Thursday, is timed perfectly to give cricketers the chance to grab the attention of IPL teams ahead of the mega auction. The first tournament of the 2021-22 domestic calendar season features 38 teams, split into five Elite groups and one Plate group. Group matches will be held in six centres — Lucknow, Guwahati, Baroda, Delhi, Haryana and Vijayawada — while all knockout matches will be held at Delhi. Standout performers in this 19-day tournament are sure to attract the attention of IPL scouts. Venkatesh Iyer (Madhya Pradesh and Kolkata Knight Riders), Shahrukh Khan (Tamil Nadu and Punjab Kings), Chetan Sakariya (Saurashtra and Rajasthan Royals) and Mohammed Azharuddeen (Kerala and Royal Challengers Bangalore) are some of the players who have used this tournament recently as a springboard to grab IPL contracts. “This is a big platform, especially for the white-ball season coming up. There are a lot of things to look forward to with the big IPL auctions coming up. Everybody will be looking forward to doing well here and getting noticed by the IPL teams,” Karnataka captain Manish Pandey said. In-form players Several names who shone bright in the recent IPL will be seen in action here. Orange Cap holder Ruturaj Gaikwad (Chennai Super Kings) and dashing wicketkeeper-batsman Sanju Samson (Rajasthan Royals) lead Maharashtra and Kerala respectively, while Prithvi Shaw (Delhi Capitals and Mumbai) and Mayank Agarwal (Punjab Kings and Karnataka) will look to build on their fine IPL form. Defending champion Tamil Nadu, placed in Elite-A at Lucknow, will miss the services of the Dinesh Karthik. All-rounder Vijay Shankar will lead the side in Karthik's absence. The tournament will serve as a memorial to Saurashtra cricketer Avi Barot, who passed away due to cardiac arrest last month at the age of 29. Barot was brilliant in the previous edition of SMAT, scoring 283 runs at average of 56.6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/perfect-platform-to-catch-the-eye-of-ipl-scouts/article37332587.ece
04 November 2021||Bhubaneswar,||ISL: Odisha FC announces squad||Odisha FC on Wednesday announced its squad for the Hero Indian Super League 2021-22 season. The Bhubaneswar-based team is gearing up for the opening match against Bengaluru FC on November 24 at Vasco, Goa.  The squad includes six foreigners — Mongil, Hector Rodas, Javi Hernandez, Aridai Cabrera, Liridon Krasniqi (AFC) and Jonathas De Jesus — while seven youngsters — Lalhrezuala Sailung, Sawhney, Thoiba Singh Moirangthem, Isak Vanlalruatfela, CVL Remtluanga, Akshunna Tyagi and Nikhil Raj have been classified as developmental players.   The squad: Goalkeepers: Kamaljit Singh, Arshdeep Singh, Ravi Kumar. Defenders: Gaurav Bora, Lalruathara, Sahil Panwar, Hendry Antonay, Lalhrezuala Sailung, Sebastian Thangmuansang, Deven Sawhney, Victor Mongil, Hector Rodas. Midfielders: Thoiba Singh Moirangthem, Vinit Rai, Paul Ramfangzauva, Isaac Vanmalsawma, Isak Vanlalruatfela, Liridon Krasniqi, Javi Hernandez, Jerry Mawihmingthanga, Nandhakumar Sekar, CVL Remtluanga, Nikhil Raj.   Forwards: Akshunna Tyagi, Daniel Lalhlimpuia, Aridai Cabrera, Jonathas Cristian De Jesus .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/isl-odisha-fc-announces-squad/article37333035.ece
04 November 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Australia needs a win to stay afloat||Australia will take on Bangladesh in a must-win Group 1 Super 12 contest of the ICC T20 World Cup here on Thursday. It needs to beat Bangladesh and then the West Indies on November 6 to keep its qualification hopes alive. Even then its fate will hinge on England beating South Africa on Saturday. Bangladesh is at the bottom of the points table with four losses. Australia exposed Glenn Maxwell, its best batter, to a raging England attack by sending him at No. 4. Either Marcus Stoinis or Matthew Wade could be promoted to take the sting out of the bowling in such situations. Mitchell Marsh, who was dropped for the clash with England to include Ashton Agar, could return against Bangladesh. Bangladesh could bring back Mustafizur Rahman in place of Nasum Ahmed. Taskin Ahmed bowled superbly for his two for 18 against South Africa. He will be one to watch. Rangana Herath, Bangladesh spin-bowling coach, remains optimistic despite his team’s poor run. “We need to maintain that winning mindset and build confidence.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-needs-a-win-to-stay-afloat/article37332875.ece
04 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nothing short of a dream, says Chhetri||The first footballer to be conferred with the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award, Indian maestro Sunil Chhetri on Wednesday said the 16-year journey has been nothing short of a dream. Since his India debut on June 12, 2005 against Pakistan in Quetta, Chhetri has rewritten the country’s football history many times and he has now added another feather in his cap by being named for the country’s highest sporting award. “I am thrilled, I am really thankful and honoured. I have always said that it is a dream that I have gone through, and it would not have been possible without my family, teammates and coaches I have played under,” Chhetri said. “It has been amazing to play for the National team for so many years and the number of matches. It has been an outstanding journey,” said the 36-year-old India captain in an AIFF release. With 80 strikes from 125 internationals, Chhetri is currently tied with Argentine superstar Lionel Messi for the number of goals among active players.  On his role models, Chhetri said: “The amount of encouragement and inspiration around us is a lot, we just have to keep looking. The hunger of trying to learn more is needed and you will seek out from so many people. “There were many who came out to help people during the pandemic, be it financially or on the ground. They put their lives in danger. These people are extraordinary! If anyone is looking for inspiration, it is all around.”  If anyone is looking for inspiration, it is all around||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nothing-short-of-a-dream-says-chhetri/article37332923.ece
04 November 2021||PARIS,||Djokovic shakes off the rustiness to progress||World No. 1 Novak Djokovic had to work hard for a three-set victory over Hungarian Marton Fucsovics at the Paris Masters on Tuesday in his first match since losing the U.S. Open final, and missing out on a calendar Grand Slam, in September. He showed signs of rustiness in the French capital on his return to action in the second round, after getting a first-round bye, eventually winning 6-2 4-6 6-3. The first set was comfortable, and it looked like the Serbian would mark his return with a routine success, but Fucsovics rallied in the second, breaking twice to take the set. Djokovic looked to be in trouble in the deciding set, with Fucsovics playing the better tennis, but from 1-1, 30-30, the Serb won 10 points in a row to take charge of the match. World No. 3 Stefanos Tsitsipas retired from his second-round match against Australian Alexei Popyrin with what appeared to be a right arm injury. The 23-year-old Greek was trailing 4-2 during the first set when he called the trainer on court before shaking hands with his opponent to signal his retirement. Felix Auger-Aliassime and Pablo Carreno Busta dropped out of contention for the ATP Finals by losing in the second round.  The results: Second round: Novak Djokovic bt Marton Fucsovics 6-2, 4-6, 6-3; Casper Ruud bt Alexander Bublik 6-4, 6-0; Alexei Popyrin bt Stefanos Tsitsipas 4-2, retd.; Dominik Koepfer bt Felix Auger-Aliassime 6-3, 7-5; Hugo Gaston bt Pablo Carreno Busta 6-7(3), 6-4, 7-5.   First round: Marcos Giron bt Frances Tiafoe 6-7(5), 6-4, 6-3; Gael Monfils bt Miomir Kecmanovic 4-6, 7-5, 6-3; Marin Cilic bt Alejandro Davidovich 6-3, 6-4; Diego Schwartzman bt John Millman 7-6(2), 5-7, 6-2;||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-shakes-off-the-rustiness-to-progress/article37332889.ece
04 November 2021||DEHRADUN,||Minnu Mani stars in Kerala’s win||A fine all-round show by Minnu Mani (four for 12 and 31 not out) helped Kerala beat Jharkhand by seven wickets at the Senior Women’s One-day tournament here on Wednesday.  The scores: Jharkhand 98 in 41.4 overs (Sonia 32, Keeerthy K. James 3/28, Minnu Mani 4/12) lost to Kerala 102 for three in 26.5 overs (I.V. Drishya 33 n.o., Minnu Mani 31 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/minnu-mani-stars-in-keralas-win/article37333241.ece
04 November 2021||Pune,||Sneh Rana stars for Railways||Sneh Rana’s unbeaten 61 enabled Railways to beat Tamil Nadu by eight wickets in a BCCI-Sr. women Elite-B round-3 cricket match here on Wednesday.  The scores: TN 111 in 44.2 overs (M. D. Thirushkamini 38, S. Anusha 25, D. Hemalatha 4/19, Meghna Singh 3/23) lost to Railways 117/2 in 21.5 overs (Sneh Rana 61 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sneh-rana-stars-for-railways/article37332965.ece
04 November 2021||Dubai,||Bumrah jumps to joint 24th||India’s Rohit Sharma moved up a place to 23rd in the batting chart while pace spearhead Jasprit Bumrah jumped 10 places to joint 24th in the ICC men’s T20 rankings on Wednesday.  Pakistan captain Babar Azam’s two successive half-centuries in the T20 World Cup have helped him overtake England’s Dawid Malan and grab the No. 1 position for batters. Babar is at the top for the sixth time. Sri Lanka leg-spinner Wanindu Hasaranga has topped the bowling chart for the first time.    Meanwhile, Sri Lanka leg-spinner Wanindu Hasaranga has topped the bowling chart for the first time in his career after two successive three-wicket hauls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bumrah-jumps-to-joint-24th/article37333010.ece
04 November 2021||PRAGUE,||Slovakia stuns USA||Underdogs Slovakia pulled off a stunning 2-1 win over the United States at the Billie Jean King Cup on Tuesday. Even though the U.S. had to make do without the services of its top-four players, Danielle Collins and Shelby Rogers had been expected to steer the 18-time champion to victory considering the highest ranked player in the Slovakian camp was World No. 83 Anna Karolína Schmiedlova. However, after the two teams split the singles matches, the Slovak pairing of Viktoria Kuzmova and Tereza Mihalikova displayed nerves of steel to beat Caroline Dolehide and Coco Vandeweghe in the doubles. Germany crashed out of the competition, after a 3-0 loss to Switzerland for a second defeat in Group D.  The results: Group A: Russia bt Canada 3-0; Group B: Australia 2 bt Belgium 1; Group C: Slovakia 2 bt USA 1; Group D: Switzerland bt Germany 3-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/slovakia-stuns-usa/article37332590.ece
04 November 2021||BELGRADE,||Nishant and Sanjeet also bow out||After young boxer Akash Kumar (54kg) secured India's first medal at the ongoing AIBA men's World Championships on Tuesday by advancing to the semifinals, the others bowed out. Narender Berwal (+92kg), five-time Asian medallist Shiva Thapa (63.5kg), Nishant Dev (71kg) and Asian champion Sanjeet (92kg) were eliminated. While Berwal was outmanoeuvered by Azerbaijan's Mahammad Abdullayev and lost 0-5, Thapa was rattled by the pace and aggression of Turkey's 19-year-old Kerem Oezmen and lost 0-5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/four-indian-boxers-bow-out/article37332878.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Pakistan women’s cricket team in quandary||Three more Pakistani women cricketers tested positive for COVID-19 to take the total count to six as country’s cricket board is in a limbo to assemble a proper squad ahead of its home series against West Indies. Earlier, three other players also had tested positive for COVID and are already in quarantine from the rest of the squad in the camp set up in Karachi. A Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) official said that currently 12 out of the 18 players announced for the series are training at the National stadium where the first ODI is slated on November 8. Windies team arrives  The West Indies women’s team led by Stephanie Taylor have already reached Karachi and are presently undergoing a three-day isolation at the team hotel and they will start training from Friday. The official said the PCB was carrying out PCR tests on a daily basis in the Pakistan women’s camp so the six positive cases had come as a surprise. “All possible bio-secure bubble regulations are being implemented and enforced but in the existing circumstances cricket has learnt to co-exist with Covid-19,” he said. Pakistan and West Indies will play three ODIs in Karachi and these matches will serve as an opportunity for both teams to get the desired competitive match practice ahead of the ICC World Cup Qualifier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-womens-cricket-team-in-quandary/article37332585.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||District athletics championships||The 51st Chennai district athletics championships will be held at the Nehru Stadium on November 6 and 7. Nearly 1500 athletes will be taking part in the meet. There will be 53 events each in the boys’ and girls’ sections in the age categories of u-12, 14, 16, 18, and 20 years. Those selected from the meet will participate in the 35th Tamil Nadu inter-district junior championships at NPR College, Dindigul, from Nov. 26 to 28.     P.M. Rogabarani and G. Bala have been elected unopposed as president and secretary respectively of the Tamil Nadu Gymnastics Association (TNGA) after the results were announced by the Madras High Court-appointed Returning Officer L. Chandrakumar. In a release, Gymnastics Federation of India said: “We further confirm that the TNGF with the aforesaid office-bearers is the only affiliated State Gymnastics Association in respect to the State of TN.”  Other office-bearers: Vice-presidents: V. Premkumar, S.K. Ramanathan, J. Sankar, P. Satheesh Kumar, P. Selvaraj, R. Sivaji, Vikram Naidu; Jt. secretaries: Arul Prakash, G. Gobu, M. Pushpa; Treasurer: Sharon Suares; Assistant secretaries: J.P. Miniappan, A. Rajesh Kumar, T. Raju .    Ram’s Table Tennis Club will organise the Chennai District TTA State-level open tournament for boys and girls aged u-11, 13, 15, 17 at Sri Krishnaswamy College for Women, Anna Nagar, on November 20 and 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/district-athletics-championships/article37332964.ece
04 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Amrit and Diya triumph||Amrit Dhankar and Diya Chaudhary won the boys and girls titles respectively in the AITA Championship series junior tennis tournament at the CLTA Complex on Wednesday.  The results (finals):   Under-14 boys: Amrit Dhankar bt Parmath Kaushik 3-6, 6-3, 6-1.   Under-14 girls: Diya Chaudhary bt Rhosyn William 6-2, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/amrit-and-diya-triumph/article37333036.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Familiar beats||Sasikumar is familiar with the reputation he has earned along with Samuthirakani through their films. Of being part of films where they impart knowledge and a truck load of social messages. The reason he signed up for the Ponram-directed MGR Magan was because he is at the receiving end of advice. “In this film, people have a thing or two to tell us [him and Samuthirakani] which was something new,” says Sasikumar, over a phone call, during a shoot break from his upcoming film with debutant director Hemanth Kumar. Excerpts: What are your thoughts about Ponram’s films? His films have a strong entertainment quotient with comedy and familial values. Ponram is a friend of Kani and that is how I got to know him. He wanted to make a comedy film with us both, since we are not that serious in real life. The equation our characters share in MGR Magan , is what Kani and I are off-screen.  You had earlier spoken of how you cannot pull off a comedy role. What changed with MGR Magan ? Yes, there have been failed attempts before. But MGR Magan is not a full-fledged comedy. There is family emotion with a strong message. I liked the bond I share with Sathyaraj sir and Saranya amma in the film. Aren’t you tired of village-based films? Not at all. Amma va amma dhan solla mudiyam... You cannot call her aunt. When directors approach me for films, they think of me based on the characters I have played before. I am what I am because of those films. Also, what is wrong with village films? It all boils down to the presentation.  Asuravadham and Enai Noki Paayum Thotta seem to have tried changing your image… Yes, they did. In fact, Pagaivanuku Arulvai has also presented me in a new light. I am trying to do what I can within my capacity. Now that digital platforms have changed the way films are made, would you say you can experiment more now? OTT platforms have broken the language barrier. Today, we have films coming from all genres. In my upcoming film with Kazhugu Krishna, I play a sound engineer and it is set in a city. What about a film like Easan (2010)? Do you think it would have worked today with an OTT release? No. I think Easan would have worked in theatres today. It was way ahead of its time and Chennai back then was not known for this clubbing culture. Audiences couldn’t connect to the city portion. Even if films like Easan and Asuravadham may not have worked, it leaves you with the satisfaction of having done something good for society. When are you planning your next directorial? I am wrapping up all my acting commitments as soon as possible. Starting January, I’ll begin work on my directorial. MGR Magan streams on Disney+Hotstar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/familiar-beats/article37332764.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||A Mexican squeeze||When Chef Joacil Ramirez ran out of chillies, he called his mother. She promptly went to the market, with her son on video call to pick out guajillo chillies and a list of other ingredients he needed for dinner, including a fiery block of Achiote paste and bags of fragrant masa flour. Then came the tough part of the assignment: She had to figure out how to send it from her home in Puebla, Mexico, to Chennai. At newly opened Tinga, the city’s first taqueria, Chef Joacil chuckles about his endless hunt for authentic Mexican ingredients. Determined to keep prices affordable, in the tradition of old school Mexican taquerias, he and his partners are balancing a tightrope between economics and ambition. Annie Gali was captivated by Mexico, after holidaying there. Gero Francais runs the Aqua Lim resort in Tulum, a Mexican town on the Caribbean coastline of the Yucatán Peninsula, known for its beaches and dramatic ruins of an ancient Mayan port city. “We loved the experience of sitting in these tiny places and eating tacos, with sauce dripping down to elbows,” chuckles Annie, nimbly squeezing past the counter with practised ease to serve customers in the cheery, compact space. She adds, “Hence our tag line — messy if done right!” Explaining that they were determined not to compromise on flavours, Giro says they spent four months working on the recipes with Chef Joacil, figuring out what local ingredients could be used, making a note of what needed to be imported, and cutting open a lot of avocados. “We paid for extra baggage, and Chef Joacil brought the first lot of ingredients with him from Puebla,” says Giro, adding “And then his mom sent him the second lot.” Now that supply chains are up and running again, after the challenges of the pandemic, they are importing a regular supply of masa for their tortillas, as well as chillies and spices. Along with Chef Saravanan, who was formerly with The Park hotel, the team first set up a central kitchen in Porur, making Tinga’s signature fresh sauces from scratch, planning to focus on takeaway across the city. Then, a few days ago, they launched their outlet on TTK Road, and though it is small — to a sorry-I-put-my-elbow-in-your-empanada degree — it has been packed with enthusiastic customers ever since. It is quickly evident why: Chef Joacil launches the meal with fried plantain balls in a rich tomato sauce, which are a satisfying balance of sweet and savoury notes. Then come steamy cassava balls stuffed with cheese, and hibiscus-stuffed empanadas. (The sun dried petals add a delicate floral note.) The juicy minced chicken empanadas that follow have enticingly crisp edges, and are served with dollops of chipotle mayonnaise and a chiffonade of pickled onions. Discussing what drew him to India, Chef Joacil, who was working with Gero at Aqua Lim, says he was intrigued by the idea of starting Chennai’s first taqueria. “Mexican food has so much flavour, and I want Indians to taste it the way it is made at home,” he states, sliding chicken tinga tacos across the table. Originating in his home town of Puebla, the saucy tinga, rich with smoky chipotle, oregano, thyme and other spices, is bright with flavour and cradled by light, fluffy tacos. The team brings out an army of sauces that include black mayonnaise dark with roasted peppers, a zingy green jalapeno dressing and the addictive salsa macha, with garlic and guajillo chillies. There is careful attention to detail: Takeaway boxes come with detailed instructions on how to eat each item as well as a QR code that takes you to the Chef’s playlist so you can groove to a nachos-appropriate background score. It is a lot of packaging though, and they should find ways to cut frills and plastic to be more eco friendly. Eat at Tinga if you can: nothing beats tacos straight out of the kitchen. Sure it’s a bit of a squeeze, but on the bright side, you can end your meal with churros hot from the pan: Sweet, airy and sticky with warm chocolate.  Tinga is at Old No. 253, New, 316, TT Krishnamachari Road, Alwarpet. Call 9962203203||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-mexican-squeeze/article37332759.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||In search of the elusive truth||Jai Bhim , a Tamil film directed by TJ Gnanavel, depicting a legal drama with actor Suriya in the lead role, brings to life the struggles of Sengani, a woman from the Irula tribal community, in seeking justice. Rajakannu, Sengani’s husband, is nabbed by the police on false charges of theft. When he goes missing, the police claim he has fled. With the help of lawyer Chandru, played by Suriya, Sengani files ahabeus corpuspetition and so the story unfolds. The film is based on true incidents from a case that took place in Vriddhachalam, dealt by Justice K Chandru in 1993 when he was practising as a lawyer. Justice Chandru, retired from the Madras High Court and who now lives in Chennai, has disposed of 96,000 cases during his tenure, a feat which he says is possible with planning, organisation and classification of cases. On average, as a judge he would listen to 75 cases a day. In this interview, he reflects on the film, the nature of truth and law as a practice. How did you feel watching Jai Bhim ? The first time I saw the film, I was watching like anyone else. Soon, in many of the scenes depicting the lawyer, I recognised some of my mannerisms and noticed actions and dialogues which I might have used earlier. The scenes kept reminding me of my life 30 years ago. In the film, lawyer Chandru strongly believes that the truth will stand by his client and get her justice — it only needs to be uncovered. What is your personal experience in this matter? In normal circumstances, the victims, or the affected people, without being tutored will tell the correct sequence of events. Only if you start adding your own masala to their story will they be confused and when confronted make a spectacle of themselves. Therefore, when the woman came to me, I recorded whatever she said about the event leading to the disappearance of her husband and prepared my case on that basis. Later, I read out her statement and translated this into Tamil and got it verified by her. Therefore, when she was put on the witness stand, she said exactly what was in her petition without being contradicted even once by the other side. ...The odds against the poor and deprived getting justice in the courts are heavy. Nevertheless, we put up a brave face against adverse weather. Even when asked how long our poor clients will withstand the tortuous litigation, we used to retort, “As long as they get justice, the fight will go on.” Besides such bravado, we also do some background work and try to understand our limitations, and at times, have also reached compromises, which may not be fully to our satisfaction. The conviction to fight till the end comes in because even before moving the court we do solid research and only when satisfied fully, are cases filed. People make decisions based on their perception of reality — which they believe to be the truth. If you grant that each person is not lying when they call different things “truths”, truth itself becomes multilayered… I know truth is always relative. But that does not mean that because of its relativeness we always run after an approximation of the truth. Take the case of Sengani in the film. That her husband Rajakannu was found missing is a truth. Therefore, our pursuit was to get him back alive or dead; the termhabeas corpusliterally means “to produce the body”. We moved the High Court and filed ahabeas corpuspetition seeking for a direction to the police to produce Rajakannu; he was last seen in the police station, and therefore, the police were responsible to answer the court about his whereabouts. It is only when the police started setting up a false case to hide their felony, the question of a pursuit to unravel the truth arose. In such circumstances truth is not an elusive term, but rather absolute. After filing thehabeas corpusand recording the statement of the victim woman, I did not have any other material to prove the murder in the lock up by the police themselves. While they had full infrastructure to prop up new stories, we started our work to find out the whereabouts of the other two persons related to Rajakannu who were found missing. There my work of lawyering stopped and the work of crime investigator started. It is only when we were able to locate those two in far off Kerala and brought them to speak about the happenings in the lock up that the second stage of the case began. It is in that sense that the truth was elusive and our pursuit of the same was rather dogmatic and necessary in an adversarial jurisdiction. What are the things a lawyer must guard against? I always advise young lawyers that in this profession they do not require a six-pack body but keeping the six-ounce brain sharp is necessary. What is to be guarded against is the lure of quick money, lavish living and lack of legal literacy. You have to be doubly strong to overcome the heavy odds stacked against the deprived by the society and the State. In the legal profession, the incubation period needed for a young lawyer to earn sufficient income is quite long. That’s why those who come from families of lawyers have a better deal than first-generation lawyers. What did you do in the early years as a lawyer to understand people, society and the law itself? I never even dreamt of becoming a lawyer. I was a student activist of a Left movement. After graduation, I decided to do community service and full-time political work. I travelled the length and breadth of Tamil Nadu, lived with different people and understood the plurality of our society and culture. Thereafter, I decided to do law, mostly to continue my student politics. But during my student days, the Emergency (1975-1977) was declared and a vast majority of people were deprived of their constitutional rights. It was at that stage that I decided that law should be used as a tool for winning the rights of the people.  The odds against the poor and deprived getting justice in the courts are heavy. Nevertheless, we put up a brave face against adverse weather.... The conviction to fight till the end comes in because even before moving the court we do solid research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-search-of-the-elusive-truth/article37332776.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Our planet, our parent||Nine years ago, Soumik Datta turned down an invitation from Beyoncé and Jay-Z to tour with them. His reason is self-effacing. He says he was not ready for it. But Soumik’s choice of projects informs us that popularity is not something he fervently pursues. Right from his early days, he veered away from conventions. Growing up in London in his early teens, Soumik played the sarod. His band, Circle of Sound, which he formed with an Austrian friend, was a mix of drums and sarod, alaap and bass, jor and hip-hop. He collaborated with folk percussion artiste Cormac Byrne to rescore Satyajit Ray’s 1969 film Goopy Gyne Bagha Byne , mixing contemporary orchestra with Indian classical and folk sounds. This April and May, he, with a 40-member team of musicians and dancers, performed in front of empty seats in Britain’s iconic cultural centres like the British Museum and the Royal Albert Hall. The idea was to break the silence with new music in these spaces shut down during the pandemic. Soumik’s latest work, Songs of the Earth , an animated musical short film, emphasises this issue. The film premiered on November 2 at the COP26 summit in Glasgow. There could not have been a better place and time, says Soumik. The occasion is not a coincidence. Soumik made Songs of the Earth after winning a British Council Climate Change creative commission in February to develop a film and music project with Earth Day Network. Soumik wrote, scored, and directed the film. Indian illustrators Sachin Bhatt and Anjali Kamat did the animation. The 24-minute film tells the story of Asha, a young climate refugee from Bengal, who searches for her father through the flood banks of the Sundarbans delta, burning forests and melting polar ice caps. Soumik explains why he chose this story. “The thing with climate change is that it is difficult for people to understand what the numbers mean. We might not relate to coral reefs dying, burning forests in Australia and South America, or polar bears going extinct. But we relate to human stories and relationships. So at the heart of the story, I wanted a relationship between a daughter and her father. It is also a metaphor for our planet being our parent.” The film’s music stands out. It is a blend of vocals, saxophone, drums, sarod, cello, and sounds of leaves, wind and waves. As with Soumik’s other projects, this one also has a fusion of different styles. At one point, it even sounds peppy. Soumik agrees. “As an artiste, I respond more when what I am watching and what I am listening to do not always fit (with each other). That’s when you start questioning. If they fit, it becomes background, your brain embraces it, and you don’t really question it. With this project, we tried to create something that is visually arresting, sonically arresting, and thought-provoking at the same time.” The music album of the film is available on major audio streaming platforms. Despite addressing distressing topics like deforestation and migration crises, Soumik says his work tries to spread hope.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/our-planet-our-parent/article37332739.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||The light comes home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-light-comes-home/article37332734.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Power in your hands||On stage, a scene of domestic violence plays out. As the actors play their part (most often, autobiographical), an audience member interrupts, raises questions and the narrative veers. This disruptive exchange is vital, believes Theatre of the Oppressed, a school of thought pioneered by Brazilian writer and politician Augusto Boal that invites the audience to be involved in the decision-making that happens on stage. In this case for instance, the audience’s takeaway perhaps lies in the realisation of how patriarchy still remains ingrained in our psyche. Also referred to as forum theatre, this form has found its footing in India, through the Jana Sanskriti Centre for Theatre of the Oppressed in West Bengal. Initially operated out of the Sundarbans, and established in 1985, the outfit now has a wider network in the country under Sonjoy Ganguly, Boal’s protégé and friend. Last week in Chennai, he took on mental health and conducted a workshop for Chennai’s SCARF India. Through a week-long session, thespian and activist Sonjoy Ganguly initiated a dialogue between people with mental illnesses and their caregivers, doctors and facilitators to open a channel of stigma-free communication. Conversations around mental health set the stage for interaction. The priority here is “healing”, he says, later in conversation with MetroPlus . “Theatre has always got a healing effect. It develops an understanding of our reality outside, and the reality inside. It offers a space where the actors and spectators undertake an intellectual journey together,” says Ganguly. Ganguly’s work evolves from the belief that every individual has the capacity for creativity. In the workshop that will have a second phase soon, he introduces techniques through which the participants can introspect, “as their own spectators”. He adds, “Most of the conventional theatre does theatre for the oppressed. This is theatre of the oppressed. Here, they themselves are the actors, and the spectators. This is a space where they can connect, and collectively address the problem they face.” It is often believed that marginalised communities don’t see art or the intellectual space it provides, a necessity. “Who decides whether or not they need that intellectual space?” he asks. The form wishes to make the artform accessible to all, since conventional theatre-making often ends up being “eliticised”, catering to a niche audience. Which is also why, it is an ideal tool to discuss mental health. When Ganguly started his work, his collaborators and actors were not literate. So he devised a process called “scripting the play” instead of “playing the script”. “In this process, games are improvised as social metaphors. While playing the games, you get connected to your external reality. From there, come stories,” says Ganguly. Stories are often invited from the actors themselves, which is then told through games and exercises. The goal is not to solve problems. “These problems that have a history can’t be solved on stage”. As the audience or the artiste, the goal is to understand these problems, not merely know that they exist. “This understanding or critical thinking breaks the passivity in your mind. You stop being the victim. You become active,” he adds.  Theatre has always got a healing effect. It develops an understanding of our reality outside, and the reality inside sonjoy Ganguly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/power-in-your-hands/article37332783.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Battle hymn of an offbeat parent||“My father has not spoken to me since he read the book. I’m ready to be abandoned by my family this Diwali. Right now, I identify as a crazy woman who is determined to embarrass her family,” says Tahira Kashyap Khurrana, writer and filmmaker, laughing over a phone call from Mumbai. Tahira’s book The 7 Sins of Being A Mother , published by Juggernaut, has just released and has been hailed as humorous, honest and ribald in equal measure. The breezy, confessional-style book investigates modern Indian parenting at large, and Tahira’s experiences of motherhood in particular. With dashes of wry humour interspersed with slices of life that spill out of her bedroom and the labour room, the book travels beyond the family dining table Tahira colonised to write it. Tahira is the author of four books and travels between Mumbai, where she lives with her actor-husband Ayushmann Khurrana and her two children, and Chandigarh, her hometown where she was raised and the first part of the book is based. “This book is for women of every kind, who are always under scrutiny. who have to tick all the white boxes, suppress their libido while pregnant, be holier than thou and put their family first. I don’t judge if you nurse your child into toddler-hood. But don’t judge me for topping my baby’s feed with formula milk when I’m unable to. What do you mean ‘never mind’ when I tell you I’ve had a Caesarean?” asks Tahira. All this, while her ‘boy’, as she refers to Ayushmann, goes about living his life without a blip. In the book, Tahira takes the seven cardinal sins and examines them in the context of parenting. “I speak for all mothers who may not feel maternal at first and are judged; for those who are made to feel guilt because they forgot their baby in a restaurant like I did. It’s not okay to do that, but I’m sure if the father had done the same the people in the lift would’ve laughed with him and not stared in horror like they did at me. It’s the way guilt is weighed in on the mother, more so in patriarchal societies, that rankles. Now, there is realisation that self-love is important, although mother’s guilt is inbuilt in our DNA,” she says. Through her experiences with nannies and nurseries, surgery and chemotherapy, swear words and sexual abuse, Tahira aims to liberate her reader from fear and guilt. Her views are subjective, often debunking the glorification of motherhood, without sounding obnoxious. “Women are complex creatures with shades of light and dark. If there is a syllabus to be a Bollywood wife and mother, I’ve clearly failed that test. But it’s important that my kids don’t feel alienated by my parenting, that they are able to discuss love, life and everything in between with me.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/battle-hymn-of-an-offbeat-parent/article37332767.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Past forward||“Why not Sanskrit?” Dushyanth Sridhar, a Bangalore-based speaker and researcher on Indian scriptures, will soon be posing this question to audiences across the globe when his Sakuntalam releases. An adaptation of Kalidasa’s Abhijnana Sakuntalam , Dushyanth (in pink shirt, in the photograph)hopes to recreate a historical world in his upcoming Sanskrit film. “If people can watch a Korean series called Squid Games , they will surely understand Sanskrit and warm up to Sakuntalam ,” says a confident Dushyanth, who was recently in the city to supervise post-production work. The journey began during a chance conversation he had with a friend, Srinivas Kanna, who is associated with the film industry. “He suggested I take up filmmaking, but I was apprehensive as it was absolutely the opposite of what I was doing at that point (religious discourses). But I knew the immense reach of cinema.” Then, he thought about Sakuntalam and Kalidasa’s storytelling nature. Given his proficiency and exposure to the language, Dushyanth decided to do it himself. “I became a filmmaker by chance.” Starring debutants Shubham Sahrawat and Payal Shetty in the lead, and YG Mahendran, Mohan Raman and TV Varadarajan in vital roles, Sakuntalam promises to be an aesthetic adaptation of a popular literary work. “The drama in Sakuntalam is so dynamic. India is not just about the aghoris in Varanasi, or the garbage piled up at Perungudi… there is much more than it. There is so much in the past to observe.” He is trying to get audiences to do that with his film, which will have dialogues in Sanksrit and Prakrit, with subtitles in English. Dushyanth could have chosen to deliver this message via a lecture in a sabha or a video online — but he opted for the cinematic medium instead. “Cinema is a powerful tool and has a great reach. I was not nervous on set, but it did take a few days for me to warm up to this new medium,” says Dushyanth. Dushyanth deliberately roped in some seasoned names, including National Award-winners Pattanam Rasheed and Lenin for make-up and editing. “It took away so many of my worries, thanks to the technical pampering I received.” The rise of OTT platforms and exposure to different kinds of cinema in the recent past augurs well for the team of Sakuntalam , says Dushyanth. “Once the entire product is ready, we will take it to OTT platforms. It also has global appeal and will interest scholars of linguistics across the world. Some people describe Kalidasa as the Shakespeare of India, but it is actually the other way round: Shakespeare is the Kalidasa of Europe.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/past-forward/article37332772.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||On a ride with RRR||Director SS Rajamouli’s teaser of his upcoming film RRR (Rise, Roar, Revolt) is making waves. The film boasts a power-packed ensemble, starring Jr NTR, Ram Charan, Ajay Devgn, Alia Bhatt, Olivia Morris, Samuthirakani, Alison Doody, and Ray Stevenson. After being delayed due to the pandemic, RRR is set for a theatrical release on January 7, 2022. Drawing inspiration from the Motorcycle Diaries and the lives of freedom fighters Komaram Bheem and Alluri Sitarama Raju, RRR narrates a fictional tale set in the 1920s, in which Ram Charan’s role is characterised by fire and NTR’s part is signified by the element, water.  RRR stands for Roudram Ranam Rudhiram in Telugu and Raththam Ranam Rowthiram in Tamil. The makers of the film recently tied up with multiplex chain operator PVR, which has now altered its brand identity and has been renamed PVRRR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/on-a-ride-with-rrr/article37332769.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||In search of the elusive truth||Jai Bhim , a Tamil film directed by T.J. Gnanavel, depicting a legal drama with actor Suriya in the lead role, brings to life the struggles of Sengani, a woman from the Irula tribal community, in seeking justice. Rajakannu, Sengani’s husband, is nabbed by the police on false charges of theft. When he goes missing, the police claim he has escaped from prison. With the help of lawyer Chandru, played by Suriya, Sengani files ahabeus corpuspetition and so the story unfolds. The film is based on true incidents from a case that took place in Vriddhachalam, Cuddalore district, dealt by Justice K. Chandru in 1993 when he was practising as a lawyer. Justice Chandru, who retired from the Madras High Court and now lives in Chennai, has disposed of 96,000 cases during his tenure, a feat which he says is possible with planning, organisation and classification of cases. On average, as a judge, he would hear 75 cases a day. In this interview, he reflects on the film, the nature of truth and law as a practice. How did you feel watching Jai Bhim ? The first time I saw the film, I was watching like anyone else. Soon, in many of the scenes depicting the lawyer, I recognised some of my mannerisms and noticed actions and dialogues which I might have used earlier. The scenes kept reminding me of my life 30 years ago. In the film, lawyer Chandru strongly believes that the truth will stand by his client and get her justice — it only needs to be uncovered. What is your personal experience in this matter? In normal circumstances, the victims, or the affected people, without being tutored will tell the correct sequence of events. Only if you start adding your own masala to their story will they be confused and when confronted make a spectacle of themselves. Therefore, when the woman came to me, I recorded whatever she said about the event leading to the disappearance of her husband and prepared my case on that basis. Later, I read out her statement and translated this into Tamil and got it verified by her. Therefore, when she was put on the witness stand, she said exactly what was in her petition without being contradicted even once by the other side. The odds against the poor and deprived getting justice in the courts are heavy. Nevertheless, we put up a brave face against adverse weather. Even when asked how long our poor clients would withstand the tortuous litigation, we used to retort, “As long as they get justice, the fight will go on.” Besides such bravado, we also do some background work and try to understand our limitations, and at times, have also reached compromises, which may not be fully to our satisfaction. The conviction to fight till the end comes in because even before moving the court we do solid research, and only when satisfied fully are cases filed. People make decisions based on their perception of reality — which they believe to be the truth. If you grant that each person is not lying when they call different things “truths”, truth itself becomes multilayered… I know truth is always relative. But that does not mean that because of its relativeness we always run after an approximation of the truth. Take the case of Sengani in the film. That her husband Rajakannu was found missing is a truth. Therefore, our pursuit was to get him back alive or dead; the termhabeas corpusliterally means “to produce the body”. We moved the High Court and filed ahabeas corpuspetition seeking for a direction to the police to produce Rajakannu; he was last seen in the police station, and therefore, the police were responsible to answer the court about his whereabouts. It is only when the police started setting up a false case to hide their felony, the question of a pursuit to unravel the truth arose. In such circumstances truth is not an elusive term, but rather absolute. After filing thehabeas corpusplea and recording the statement of the victim, I did not have any other material to prove the murder in the lock-up by the police themselves. While they had full infrastructure to prop up new stories, we started our work to find out the whereabouts of the other two persons related to Rajakannu who were found missing. There my work of lawyering stopped and the work of crime investigator started. It is only when we were able to locate those two in far off Kerala and brought them to speak about the happenings in the lock-up that the second stage of the case began. It is in that sense that the truth was elusive and our pursuit of the same was rather dogmatic and necessary in an adversarial jurisdiction. What are the things a lawyer must guard against? I always advise young lawyers that in this profession they do not require a six-pack body but keeping the six-ounce brain sharp is necessary. What is to be guarded against is the lure of quick money, lavish living and lack of legal literacy. You have to be doubly strong to overcome the heavy odds stacked against the deprived by the society and the state. In the legal profession, the incubation period needed for a young lawyer to earn sufficient income is quite long. That’s why those who come from families of lawyers have a better deal than first-generation lawyers. What did you do in the early years as a lawyer to understand people, society and the law itself? I never even dreamt of becoming a lawyer. I was a student activist of a Left movement. After graduation, I decided to do community service and full-time political work. I travelled the length and breadth of Tamil Nadu, lived with different people and understood the plurality of our society and culture. Thereafter, I decided to do law, mostly to continue my student politics. But during my student days, the Emergency (1975-1977) was declared and a vast majority of people were deprived of their constitutional rights. It was at that stage that I decided that law should be used as a tool for winning the rights of the people.  The odds against the poor and deprived getting justice in the courts are heavy. Nevertheless, we put up a brave face against adverse weather... The conviction to fight till the end comes in because even before moving the court we do solid research Justice K. Chandru Retired Judge, Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-search-of-the-elusive-truth/article37333223.ece
04 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Repeated election losses expose fissures in BJP in West Bengal||Repeated losses in by-elections seem to have exposed the fissures in the State unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Senior party leader and former Meghalaya Governor Tathagata Roy has targeted a section of the party leadership for the recent humiliating defeats. The BJP lost all four Assembly seats in West Bengal that went to the polls on October 30 to the Trinamool Congress with huge margins. Mr. Roy has taken to the social media to express his anger. “BJP forfeits deposits in 3 out of 4: a party with potential to form a government in 2021! By handing over W Bengal to TMC, not only is BJP doomed in W Bengal; also doomed are the State and Bengali Hindus as a people. All 3 on a downhill journey from which they’ll never return...[sic],” Mr. Roy tweeted on Wednesday. The former West Bengal BJP president has for the past few months been critical of some leaders, but after Tuesday’s defeats his attack has become more direct. “Some people are shocked that I have publicly condemned the BJP leaders. I did not say a word in public before the election. I said it inside the party. But after the setback in the election, when it was seen that there was no attempt at analysis and, on the contrary, they were patting their backs saying “3 to 77”... in such circumstances one has to speak out,” Mr. Roy tweeted on Wednesday. Uphill task In his tweets and public utterances, the veteran leader has been saying that it will be an uphill task for the BJP leadership in the State. He has made it clear that he had not blamed “Narendra Modiji and Amit Shahji for welcoming undesirable elements” into the BJP in West Bengal and the “responsibility for this debacle will rest squarely on the shoulders of the KDSA team”. The ‘KDSA team’ refers to national general secretary and in-charge of West Bengal Kaliash Vijayvargiya; former State president and national vice-president Dilip Ghosh; and BJP leaders Shiv Prakash and Arvind Menon who had key responsibilities during State Assembly elections. Not only has the BJP lost by-elections in all the seven seats held after May 2021, but five elected representatives of the party had switched sides and joined the TMC. The defectors to the TMC included the likes of Mukul Roy and Rajib Banerjee who joined the BJP with much fanfare before the 2021 Assembly elections. While leaders like Dilip Ghosh have reacted angrily to Mr. Roy’s remarks, a few leaders feel that he is raising the right issues. “There are some people who do not get opportunity to speak and they tweet,” Mr. Ghosh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/repeated-election-losses-expose-fissures-in-bjp-in-west-bengal/article37333240.ece
04 November 2021||Chandigarh,||Amarinder ‘coward’, ‘crybaby’: Sidhu||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday once again trained his guns on former Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, calling him a “fraud”, “coward” and a “crybaby”. Mr. Sidhu also dubbed the former Chief Minister as a “spent cartridge” and a “dying duck in a thurderstorm, a lost cause”, a day after the veteran leader resigned from the Congress and announced the name of his party, Lok Punjab Congress. Meanwhile, Punjab Ministers Pargat Singh and Amarinder Singh Raja Warring also attacked the former Chief Minister over his party and bonhomie with the BJP. Capt. Amarinder had resigned as the Punjab Congress chief after a bitter power tussle with Mr. Sidhu. On Capt. Amarinder indicating in his resignation letter to Congress national president Sonia Gandhi that he would “expose” the MLAs embroiled in illegal sand mining, Mr. Sidhu in an interaction with reporters in Amritsar asked, “Was he sleeping all these years?” If there was mafia during his regime, then who was earning the money, he asked. Mr. Sidhu dubbed him as the “world's biggest coward”, questioning why he did not act if he found any wrongdoing. ‘Spent cartridge’ Replying to a question, Mr. Sidhu said, “I don’t want to talk about spent cartridges.” “He is a fraud person. He has become a ‘rondu bachha’ (crybaby). It is said when a person ages he becomes like a child, he has become a ‘rondu bacha’ now,” the Punjab Congress chief said. “You are a dying duck in a thunderstorm, a lost cause,” he added hitting out at Capt. Amarinder. Mr. Sidhu also claimed that people of Punjab hate the former Chief Minister. “We changed a failed Chief Minister," he said, referring to the resignation of Capt. Amarinder as the Punjab CM. “People of Punjab will have to decide whether they stand with those who fight for Punjab or with those who fight for power,” Mr. Sidhu said. He said he never hankered for posts and all along stood for Punjab’s interests. Mr. Sidhu also made a mention of Tuesday's meeting of party MLAs and other senior leaders, in which Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was also present.  Punjab roadmap Replying to a question, Mr. Sidhu said policies are not for two months but a roadmap is given for five years. “Sidhu will stand with the roadmap of Punjab,” he said. When asked what all can be achieved by the Channi government in a short span as the Punjab Assembly polls are only a months away, Mr. Sidhu replied, “When there is right intent, good policy and political will, everything is possible”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/amarinder-coward-crybaby-sidhu/article37333232.ece
04 November 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra by-election result: ruling MVA learns from its past mistakes||The defeat of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate at the hands of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition of the Shiv Sena, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) to retain the Deglur-Biloli Assembly seat in Nanded district is indicative of a well-coordinated strategy on the MVA’s part in its struggle with the BJP in Maharashtra. The bypoll, that had been necessitated following the death of sitting Congress MLA Raosaheb Antapurkar due to COVID-19-related complications in April this year, had witnessed an unusually high voter turnout of 63% — more than the voter turnout in Deglur-Biloli during the 2019 State Assembly election itself. The BJP’s high-decibel campaign came a cropper as Congress’ Jitesh Antapurkar (the deceased MLA’s son) effortlessly trounced his BJP rival Subhash Sabne by a huge margin of more than 41,000 votes, turning a potential close contest into a one-sided win for the MVA, and a prestige win for his party, the Congress. However, analysts say that despite Nanded being Congressman and former Chief Minister Ashok Chavan’s stronghold, victory for the MVA was far from certain and required careful strategising to match the BJP’s relentless campaign. Less than six months ago, the ruling MVA, and the NCP in particular, were dealt a rude shock when the BJP scored a major upset win in the Pandharpur by-election in May this year. The bypoll was held after the death of sitting NCP MLA Bharat Bhalke who had passed away due to post-COVID-19 related complications. The Pandharpur by-election had been a particularly humiliating setback for the NCP (and the MVA) as it was considered a ‘safe seat’ for the ruling parties given that even the local bodies were fully in the NCP’s kitty. “Even considering the restrictions imposed by the pandemic, the campaigning for Pandharpur was marked by lethargy and overconfidence. Coordination between the three parties was poor and the Sena and the Congress did not campaign wholeheartedly. In stark contrast, campaigning for the Delgur by-poll was done on a war footing by the three parties, particularly by senior Congressman Ashok Chavan, who supervised virtually everything from the booth-level onwards,” says senior political analyst Vivek Bhavsar. Another factor that proved to be the BJP’s undoing in Deglur was lack of a strong, indigenous candidate. Instead, the party was compelled to ‘import’ Subhash Sabne, a former Shiv Sainik whose defection to the BJP alienated his followers. “In contrast with Mr. Sabne, Raosaheb Antapurkar was a local leader of immense stature in Deglur. The deceased MLA had retained the ‘common touch’ till his last breath, and was known to lead a simple life, shunning ostentation. Besides the sympathy ‘factor’, Jitesh Antapurkar is a highly-qualified candidate, someone on whom the youth in the region can pin their hopes on,” says Mr. Bhavsar. According to him, the BJP’s overly ‘aggressive campaigning’ may have actually worked against the party. The run-up to the bypoll saw Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis campaigning frenetically along with State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil. “However, the BJP took on Ashok Chavan by hinting raids by Central agencies against businesses linked to him…such overtly strongarm tactics, at a time when the perception is that of the Centre’s blatant misuse of agencies against non-BJP parties, may have put off voters and worked against the BJP,” said a local election watcher. The contest certainly was a prestige fight for Mr. Chavan, who left no stone unturned to retain his party’s supremacy over the Deglur and can take credit for being the ‘architect’ of the MVA win. “In contrast, no leader from the NCP — not even Ajit Pawar — had paid much attention to Pandharpur, which had led to the MVA losing a seat which ideally should have been won by them. This mistake was corrected in the Deglur contested by making Mr. Chavan responsible for engineering the MVA’s win,” observes Mr. Bhavsar. Major setback for BJP The BJP had also suffered a major setback on the eve of the bypoll itself, with former Nanded MP Bhaskar Patil Khatgaonkar — Mr. Chavan’s brother-in-law — quitting the BJP and re-joining the Congress fold. Mr. Khatgaonkar, a former three-time MP, returned back to the Congress which he had exited seven years ago along with former MLA Omprakash Pokarna. His defection seriously undercut the BJP’s chances as the former is considered to be an influential leader in the constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtra-by-election-result-ruling-mva-learns-from-its-past-mistakes/article37333230.ece
04 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Gehlot emerges stronger after sweep in bypolls||On the verge of completing three years during his third stint as Rajasthan Chief Minister, Ashok Gehlot has emerged stronger after the victory of the party at both the Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad seats in the Assembly bye-lections. With Mr. Gehlot’s consolidated position, the tussle between the rival factions in the ruling party will get diminished in the coming days. Mr. Gehlot is likely to carry out the much-awaited Cabinet reshuffle and make political appointments shortly after the Deepavali festival. The exercise will be taken up on Mr. Gehlot’s own terms with an explicit message that the Congress can form the Government again if the 2023 elections are fought under his leadership. Faced with Mr. Gehlot’s heightened stature, the faction-ridden Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party is set to grasp the significance of former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje, who was sidelined during the selection of candidates. After the tickets were denied to the leaders considered close to her, Ms. Raje was conspicuous by her absence in the election campaign. The BJP may attribute its humiliating defeat at the both seats, where it was relegated to third and fourth positions, to the alleged misuse of government machinery, but its disregard of the sentiments of the local party workers deprived it of getting advantage of the sympathy factor. The prolonged farmers’ agitation and unchecked rise in petrol, LPG and edible oil prices were also among the major factors responsible for the defeat. While the rift in the BJP may intensify with the blame for the poor show being shifted on State president Satish Poonia, the Congress high command has received a message in no uncertain terms that Mr. Gehlot’s popularity remains intact. The bypolls campaign was entirely controlled by the Chief Minister, who addressed half-a-dozen rallies in the two constituencies, while his former deputy Sachin Pilot went to the region only once, on the day of filing of nominations. As part of the electoral strategy, Mr. Gehlot selected MLA Gajendra Singh Shaktawat’s wife Preeti Shaktawat as the party candidate in Vallabhnagar despite the deceased legislator having been a staunch loyalist of Mr. Pilot. Mr. Shaktawat was one of the 18 MLAs who had shifted outside the State along with Mr. Pilot during his rebellion last year. ‘New supporter’ As Ms. Shaktawat has won riding on the sympathy wave, Mr. Gehlot can be said to have got a “disgruntled MLA” in his favour. Moreover, the Congress has snatched the Dhariawad seat from the BJP, which had won there in the last two Assembly elections, and increased its tally to 108 in the 200-member House, further strengthening the position of Mr. Gehlot in the State politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gehlot-emerges-stronger-after-sweep-in-bypolls/article37333234.ece
04 November 2021||Kolkata,||Ensure only green crackers are used on Deepavali and Kali Puja in Bengal: HC||The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday directed that all necessary efforts be made by the West Bengal government to ensure that only green crackers are used during Deepavali-Kali Puja and other ensuing festivals, observing that the sincerity of the State would be reflected in enforcement mechanism. The Supreme Court had on Monday set aside a Calcutta High Court order that banned all firecrackers in West Bengal, allowing use of only certified green crackers. A vacation Bench of the High Court, comprising Justices Rajasekhar Mantha and Kesang Doma Bhutia directed that all necessary efforts must be made by the State to “ensure that only green crackers are used and the sincerity of the state would be reflected in enforcement mechanism.” It noted that the Pollution Control Board has specified timings and restrictions on the use of firecrackers on the festive days and that only green firecrackers would be allowed to be used during the festive season. It said that the responsibility of enforcement of the orders of the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal has already been fixed on the home secretary and the commissioners and superintendents of police of the districts concerned in the State. Observing that the court is conscious of the fact that it is not possible to inspect and ensure that green crackers are being used at every nook and corner of the State, the division Bench said “the importance and need for maintaining clean environment and clean air is the responsibility of one and all”. It said that all citizens must follow and ensure that even the green firecrackers used do not cause discomfort to others. It also observed that “Rights under Article 21 (Protection of Life and Personal Liberty) of the Constitution are required to also factor in rights under Article 19(1)(g) (Right to practice any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business) of the Constitution of India.” Admitting the petition for hearing, the Bench said that the Supreme Court order of November 1 permitted the petitioner to file a comprehensive fresh writ petition before the High Court, with a further direction that all necessary parties particularly the State and the Pollution Control Board as also the firecracker manufacturers must be heard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ensure-only-green-crackers-are-used-on-deepavali-and-kali-puja-in-bengal-hc/article37333226.ece
04 November 2021||Bhopal,||Officer, wife hurt in elephant attack||Trilok Bansal, Superintendent of Police Gaurela-Pendra-Marwahi (GPM) district in Chhattisgarh, his wife and few officials were injured when they were attacked by a group of elephants, forest officials said on Wednesday. The duo fell on the ground when they were trying to escape from the elephants in Amaru forest range in Pendra on Wednesday evening, they added. On receiving the information about the movement of a herd of elephants, Trilok Bansal and his wife with a party reached Amaru forest range in Pendra, an official said. A female elephant charged at the IPS officer and his wife, which prompted them to flee. In a bid to escape from the attack, the officer and his wife fell on the ground and were injured. In the meantime, understanding the situation, the forest personnel and the villagers distracted the elephants by screaming. “It was the timely distraction that possibly avoided another human-elephant conflict,” Mr. Tripathi said. The administration is planning to shift the injured officer and his wife to Apollo Hospital in Bilaspur on the advice of doctors who treated the couple at the district hospital. As per the government records, in the last three years, 204 people were killed in elephant attacks in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/officer-wife-hurt-in-elephant-attack/article37333227.ece
04 November 2021||Mumbai,||Cruise drug case: D’Souza moves HC for pre-arrest bail||Samville D’Souza, whose name had cropped up in connection with the pay-off allegations in the cruise drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was arrested, approached the Bombay High Court on Wednesday seeking pre-arrest bail. Mr. D’Souza in his plea claimed that Kiran Gosavi, a witness of the Narcotics Control Bureau in the case, had taken Rs. 50 lakh from the actor’s manager Pooja Dadlani to get Aryan Khan released, and the amount was returned after the NCB arrested the 23-year-old in the case. He further claimed Mr. Gosavi had informed him that no drug was found in Aryan’s possession and that he was innocent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cruise-drug-case-dsouza-moves-hc-for-pre-arrest-bail/article37333238.ece
04 November 2021||November 04 2021 00:00 IST,||Lights all the way||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lights-all-the-way/article37333237.ece
