05 November 2021||November 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Vineet’s Magic Mantra A strange find||Story so far: Vineet is grounded by his dad and has to clean the house for Deepavali, as part of his punishment. Vineet stepped into the puja room. Tall marble statues of gods and goddesses clothed in silk stared at him from the altar. Books swamped the shelves on the walls. “I want you to remove all the books. Don’t keep them on the ground, place them on the carpet. Dust the shelves and wipe them with a dry cloth,” dadi instructed. Vineet spread the red velvet carpet, which the family used during ceremonies, on the floor and put the books on it one by one. Some were so heavy that he nearly dropped them. Sitting on four cushions, her back resting against the wall, his grandmother watched. After a tiring hour and more, Vineet had cleared the shelves of all the books. “Good. You are a fast learner,” dadi smiled. Working hard Picking up book after book, he dusted them and placed them back on shelves. Halfway through his job, he turned to his grandmother. She had gone to sleep. “I had better hurry, or I’ll end up spending the entire day here,” he muttered. Lifting a fat book, he shook it vigorously. A cloud of dust floated up and a few loose sheets of paper drifted to the floor. Vineet grabbed and shoved them back into the book. Surprise A piece of blue paper caught his eye. Bending down, he lifted it. It was not part of the book. It had been neatly folded and tucked inside. Curious, Vineet opened the piece of paper. In a strange writing was a four-word Sanskrit mantra: Sarva Lokah Vasmaye Vasmaye.  Below it was written: When chanted with sincerity, this mantra ensures that people around the chanter do his bidding. But the chanter should always be in a constant physical contact with the mantra. If the paper is lost, stolen, or misplaced, its efficacy ceases. Vineet rolled his eyes. “Does something like a magic mantra exist? Useless bit of paper.” He crushed it into a ball and shoved it into his jeans pocket. His grandmother would have thrown a fit if her prayer room was littered with paper. To be continued  “I had better hurry, or I’ll end up spending the entire day here...||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/vineets-magic-mantra-a-strange-find/article37336051.ece
05 November 2021||November 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Adventure in the big city||Madhuri and Ajay hopped out of the train at the buzzing railway station at Chennai. Their favourite Uncle Swarup had recently moved from Mumbai to Chennai and opened a footwear store at the new Sitapur market. Madhuri spread open a map of Chennai, while Ajay attempted to locate the area. “After all, it’s a new locality,” he said, peering at the map. “No wonder it doesn’t show up here.” “The best thing to do will be to call Swarup mama,” declared Madhuri. “Gosh!” exclaimed Ajay after several failed attempts. “We have to find this grand location on our own.” A man, who overheard their conversation, chipped in. “Sitapur? Which cabbie hasn’t heard of this new township?” Madhuri and Ajay smiled. They boarded a black-and-yellow taxi and sped towards the central hub of the city. “Never thought it would be so easy,” exclaimed Madhuri. At the market The taxi arrived at a busy crossroads, with tall buildings all around. “Okay, get down here,” said the cabbie, “ And find your way to...” “I don’t know his address,” said Madhuri, “My uncle’s name is Swarup Tripathi and he sells footwear.” “Don’t worry,” the taxi driver encouraged, “many people buy footwear in Sitapur… not many sellers, you see.” While walking around, they met a few young boys huddled together on the road. “Would any of you know a gentleman called Swarup Tripathi? He owns a footwear store...,” asked Madhuri “Well,” replied one boy. “We know a Swarup who sells South Indian delicacies.” “Not him,” said Ajay, promptly. “Wait,” said Madhuri, “Does he have a thick beard and does he wear specs?” “No…no…no,” answered another boy. “His wife helps him in the restaurant kitchen,” added a third. “Our uncle is a sworn bachelor,” said Madhuri “Ah…by the way,” called out one lad, “Did you mean Jungle Walks-n-Wears?’ “That sounds like uncle’s store, all right…” “Okay,” the boy stood and pointed. “Take the third lane, left turn… leave two lanes… right turn…and ask someone…” They walked down the roads, following directions. After some time, their legs ached and stomachs rumbled hungrily. After 15 minutes or so, they reached Jungle Walks-n-Wear, only to discover that the owner wasn’t their uncle. “What do we do now?” wondered Madhuri. Opposite the store was a small eatery: Madhuri Yummy South Indian Delicacies.  “Come, let’s eat something,” suggested Ajay. An attractive middle-aged lady approached them with a menu card. “A masala dosa and one onion uttappam, ” Ajay placed his order. “Five plain idlis for me,” added Madhuri. As soon as the food was served, they dug into it. “I’m Madhuri,” smiled the lady, “Did you enjoy the meal?” “What a coincidence,” said Ajay, “She is Madhuri too. We live in Kolkata.” “Looks like we’ll finish our trip on the roadside … with no Uncle Swarup!” sighed Madhuri. Found! When they reached the cash counter, a clean-shaven bespectacled man leapt up from his chair. “Madhuri and Ajay! What a surprise!” “Uncle Swarup?” Ajay’s jaws dropped in amazement. “Your beard? it’s gone?” “What about your footwear showroom? How come you’re here?” quipped Madhuri. Uncle Swarup raised his hands in surrender. “And what about...?” Ajay stared at the other Madhuri. “Well,” laughed Uncle Swarup, “my shoe business did not work. Then, I met this charming lady, a beard-hater, a terrific cook...” “So?” asked Ajay. “She’s your aunt,” winked uncle.  Madhuri fished out a map of Chennai, while Ajay attempted to locate the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/adventure-in-the-big-city/article37336087.ece
05 November 2021||November 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Those freaky feathered friends||Each morning, if I haven’t already been shaken out of my slumber by the sonorous ‘ koo-oo-oo, koo-oo’ of the Koel at 4.00 a.m., I wake to the cheery ‘ cheer, cheer’ of sparrows jostling with each other on my balcony while they breakfast on the bird feed. The next ritual is diving into the water bowl and shaking themselves vigorously, sending forth fountains of spray. Soon it is time for the gang of squawking parakeets to feast on peanuts with dramatic gestures; sometimes fondling each other affectionately, or quarrelling vociferously and tugging at each other’s tails. This party of green is rudely interrupted when a solitary Jungle Crow enters the scene. Noisily flapping their wings, the parakeets take off in haste. From not very far off, I hear the shrill soprano chattering of the White-breasted Kingfisher happily swinging on the TV cable and announcing success at hunting down its prey — be it a dragonfly, lizard or fish. During the day Once the early-morning performers exit their stage, I step out for a whiff of fresh air and what do I see? A pair of Red-vented Bulbuls taking turns to stand guard over their chicks in their cup-shaped nest inside the bougainvillea bush and hunt for food. I gaze at the swaying mango leaves and get a glimpse of something yellow. It’s a Black-hooded Oriole! The bird doesn’t quite approve of my excitement and goes back into hiding, voicing its protest in fluty tones. Later, as I sit to work at my computer, I am startled by a clear and loud ‘ To-meet, to-meet, to-meet’ . I watch, amused, as my latest visitor — the Tailor Bird — tries to meet its lady love. When this song ends, the Magpie Robin, clad in a coat of lack-and-white feathers, begins its plaintive heart-wrenching ballad. It likes to do this from atop the coconut tree fronds while its lady love, not far off, listens in stupefied awe. In the afternoon, I settle down for a siesta and who should come along but the Purple-rumped Sunbird for its drink of nectar from the Thunbergia flowers. It announces its arrival with a high-pitched ‘ chee-chee’ . In spite of its long, curved beak, it has learnt to ‘nip in the bud’ by taking a short cut directly into the nectar in the calyx — thus saving time and energy. Many more of my feathered friends reside in my colony and bring great joy, colour and music to my life. They have shown amazing resilience and are the urban survivors, enduring the loud sounds of drilling, construction work, and honking cars, and the decline in the number of trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/those-freaky-feathered-friends/article37336093.ece
05 November 2021||November 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Awakening the Pharaoh||In 1891, when British archaeologist Howard Carter arrived in Egypt, most of the ancient tombs in the Valley of the Kings had been discovered. Yet, little was known about King Tutankhamen who died when he was 19 years old. On the morning of November 4, 1922, Carter was working at the entrance to the tunnel leading to the tomb of Ramses VI when he noticed a large cellar. When he looked inside, he knew he had discovered the tomb of King Tutankhamen. On November 26, Carter and Lord Carnarvon — Carter’s financial backer and fellow archaeologist — entered the tomb. They were the first to enter the tomb in more than 3000 years! In the centre of the room was a wooden box with gold inlay. Below this were two more boxes, also inlaid with gold. Carter discovered the mummy of Tutankhamen adorned with necklaces, rings, crowns and sticks — all made of pure gold. To remove these, the excavation team had to separate the skull and the main bones. After they had collected the jewellery, they reassembled the skeleton and placed it in a wooden coffin. Over the years. Carter and his team explored the four-room tomb uncovering an incredible collection of objects. Most of these treasures are now housed in the Cairo Museum. Curse of the Pharaohs According to legend, anyone who disturbed the tombs of the pharaohs would be cursed. As luck would have it, shortly after unearthing King Tut’s tomb, Lord Carnarvon was found dead due to blood poisoning. Carnarvon’s half-brother also died of blood poisoning. Sir Archibald Douglas-Reid, a radiologist who was invited to study the body, died of a mysterious illness. George Jay Gould, a visitor to the tomb, died from a fever. Objects from the tomb were gifted to Carter’s friend Sir Bruce Ingram, whose house burnt down not long after. King Tut Tutankhamun was the son of the powerful Akhenaten. He was was in power from 1332 to 1323 BCE. There are many theories as to how he died. He was tall, but physically frail and had a crippling bone disease.  They were the first to enter the tomb in more than 3000 years!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/awakening-the-pharaoh/article37336099.ece
05 November 2021||November 05 2021 00:00 IST,||When it is clear and dark||Novemberspells the onset of winter. While the northern hemisphere reels in cold and harsh winters, the south welcomes the sun as temperatures begin to rise. The night sky also a time of astronomical activity, with active meteor showers, planetary close approaches and a few more surprises.     Taurids Meteor Shower: A long-running minor meteor shower producing only about 5 to 10 meteors per hour, what makes it interesting is its unusual separate streams. The first is produced by dust grains from Asteroid 2004 TG10 and the second by debris from Comet 2P Encke. The shower runs annually from September 7 to December 10 and peaks on the the night of November 4. The New Moon will leave dark skies for an excellent show. Best viewing will be just after midnight from a dark location far away from city lights. Meteors will radiate from the constellation Taurus, but can appear anywhere in the sky.  Uranus at Opposition: The blue-green planet will be at its closest approach to Earth on November 5 and its face will be fully illuminated by the Sun. It will be brighter than at any other time of the year and visible all night long. This is the best time to view Uranus. Due to its distance, it will only appear as a tiny blue-green dot even with the most powerful telescopes.    L eonids Meteor Shower: This produces only up to 15 meteors per hour at its peak but is unique for its cyclonic peak about every 33 years. The last of these occurred in 2001. The Leonids is produced by dust grains from Comet Tempel-Tuttle, which was discovered in 1865. It runs annually from November 6 to 30 and peaks on the night of November 17 and morning of November 18. Unfortunately, the nearly full Moon will dominate the sky, blocking all but the brightest meteors. But, if you are patient, you should still be able to catch a few good ones. Best viewing will be from a dark location after midnight. Meteors will radiate from the constellation Leo, but can appear anywhere in the sky.  Full Moon :The Moon will be located on the opposite side of the Earth on November 19, as the Sun and its face will be fully illuminated. Known to early Native American tribes as the Beaver Moon because this was the time of year to set the beaver traps before the swamps and rivers froze, it is also known as the Frosty Moon and the Dark Moon.  Partial Lunar Eclipse: A partial lunar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes through the Earth’s partial shadow, or penumbra. Only a portion of it passes through the darkest shadow, or umbra. During this type of eclipse, a part of the Moon will darken as it moves through the Earth’s shadow. The eclipse will take place on November 19 and be visible throughout most of eastern Russia, Japan, the Pacific Ocean, North America, Mexico, Central America, and parts of western South America.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/when-it-is-clear-and-dark/article37336109.ece
05 November 2021||November 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Picture perfect||Across 1 Painting of a scenery (9) 6 Picture (5) 7 Liquid that flows through a pen (3) 8 ____ colours: type of paint (5) 10 Taken using a camera (5) 13 A small nick or cut (5) 14 Large eye-catching informative picture in public spaces (6) 16 This precious metal is used in Thanjavur paintings (4) 18 Permanent colour for cloth or hair (3) 19 Connects any two points (4) 20 Thermal imaging uses a ____ detector (4) Down 1 A shade of yellow, also a fruit (5) 2 Past tense of draw (4) 3 Animation (7) 4 Comes in twos (4) 5 A quick pencil drawing (6) 9 Pictorial representation of a geography (3) 10 Pale shades (6) 11 Number of colours used in a monochrome painting (3) 12 A single continuous movement of brush (6) 15 A shade of pink, also a flower (4) 17 A point (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/picture-perfect/article37336068.ece
05 November 2021||November 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are.||Who was the first woman to land on the moon?  So far, no woman has landed on the Moon. The 12 astronauts who have walked on the Moon are Buzz Aldrin, Neil Armstrong, Alan Bean, Gene Cernan, Pete Conrad, Moss Duke, James Irwin, Stuart Roosa, Jack Schmidt, Dave Scotts, Al Shepard, and Jim Young. However, in December 2020, NASA introduced a team of 18 astronauts who will train for its Artemis moon-landing programme, which will will land the first woman on the Moon in 2024.   How do dolphinscommunicate?  Dolphins can whistle, chirp, and even scream to show feelings such as excitement or fright. In general, they primarily make two kinds of sounds — clicks and whistles. The first is used to sense their surroundings through echolocation. This is the process by which dolphins emit sound waves, after which they detect and interpret the echoes that bounce off of other creatures and objects in the water. They use whistles to communicate with other members of their species and other species too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article37336046.ece
05 November 2021||November 05 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article37336042.ece
05 November 2021||November 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Captivating Congo||The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) is the second largest country in the continent. Located in central Africa, it surrounded by the Central African Republic, South Sudan, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Tanzania, Zambia, Angola and the Republic of the Congo. The country straddles the Equator, and has around half of Africa’s hydro-electric potential, and an abundance of copper, gold, cobalt, uranium, and oil deposits. Its capital, Kinshasa, is the largest French-speaking city in the world, and its currency is the Congolese Franc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/captivating-congo/article37336063.ece
05 November 2021||November 05 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article37336083.ece
