06 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Duty cuts, stock limits helped curtail edible oil prices: Govt.||The prices of most major cooking oils dropped about Rs. 5-10 a litre in Delhi and as much as Rs. 20 in some other cities in the run-up to Deepavali, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said on Friday, giving credit to the stabilisation of global prices as well as measures such as duty cuts and stock limits. However, the national average retail prices for cooking oils showed little change, and mustard oil, which is only produced domestically, continued to see rising prices. “International edible oil prices remain high, but have stabilised over the past week. Interventions by the Central Government along with the State Governments’ proactive involvement and the cut in wholesale prices by major private players have led to retail prices cooling down much more than in the international market,” Mr. Pandey told journalists. Apart from the cuts in duties and cesses, the Centre had used stock limits to help control prices of both edible oils and pulses this year, using the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act. The amendments to the Act, which were passed by Parliament last year but suspended by the Supreme Court in January due to opposition by farm unions, would not have allowed the imposition of stock limits given the current rate of price hikes. ‘COVID-19 a major cause’ “These are extraordinary times. These are not normal times. Global commodity prices are extremely high. COVID-19 is a major factor, disrupting supply chains, closing down industry. There is insufficient labour in the oil production industry in many countries. Given the extraordinary circumstances, it is right to invoke this,” said Mr. Pandey, explaining why the Government had chosen to use the same legal provisions it had sought to remove through last year’s amendments. The retail prices of most major cooking oils were 35-45% higher than a year ago. However, a clear decline in prices was seen in Delhi from the beginning of the week till the Deepavali eve, with prices falling Rs. 5-10 a kg over the three-day period. Some smaller centres saw greater declines, such as the Rs. 18 a kg fall in palm oil in Aligarh and the Rs. 20 a kg fall in sunflower oil prices in Meghalaya. Nationally, the palm oil prices fell about Rs. 1.45 a kg, while soybean oil increased the same amount. Mustard oil, which accounted for 11% of the domestic consumption basket, saw a Rs. 2.29 a kg increase in prices, although Mr. Pandey hoped that the 12-15% increase in mustard acreage this winter would cool down prices once the harvest comes in. With regard to Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), Mr. Pandey said there were no plans to extend the free ration scheme introduced as COVID-19 relief last year beyond November 30 “as the economy is also reviving and the OMSS [or open market sale scheme] is also exceptionally good.” PMGKAY provides five kg of free foodgrains a month to the 80 crore beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act, who are already eligible for subsidised grain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/duty-cuts-stock-limits-helped-curtail-edible-oil-prices-govt/article37349654.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu focuses on second dose coverage||Tamil Nadu is focusing on improving the uptake of the second dose of COVID-19 vaccination. With nearly 65 lakh persons due for the second dose now, the Department of Health is taking up door-to-door verification with a line-list of beneficiaries through mobile vaccination camps across the State. The State has vaccinated 71% of its eligible population with the first dose. However, its second dose coverage stands at 31%, with only two of the 38 districts managing to achieve 50% coverage — The Nilgiris (58%) and Chennai (50%). According to the data from the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, 50,44,862 persons were due for the second dose of Covishield and 14,11,437 persons for the second dose of Covaxin as on November 2. For instance, a little over six lakh persons are due for the second dose of Covishield and nearly 2.50 lakh persons were due to receive Covaxin in Chennai. “The second dose coverage needs improvement,” said T. S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. “The number will increase now because of the huge coverage through mega vaccination camps.” He said there was a plan to improve the coverage of the second dose as well as that of the first dose by going to villages through mobile vaccination camps. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said there were multiple reasons for the slow uptake of the second dose. “We found different reasons in each area. Availability of vaccines was one of the reasons. Delay in getting the World Health Organization’s approval for Covaxin also contributed. Since COVID-19 cases have drastically reduced, compared with the earlier period, people tend to procrastinate too,” he said. While the Department would continue to target those who were yet to get the first dose, it would adopt a focussed approach towards improving the second dose coverage. District-wise lists of those due for the second due were being prepared, and health teams would reach out to those who had not taken the first dose and were delaying the second dose, he said. As part of the efforts to start mobile camps, the Department is set to launch the initiative in Chennai too. It will be launched in Nochikuppam, Besant Nagar, Kottivakkam and Neelankarai on Saturday. T. Jacob John, retired professor of virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore, said that improving the second dose coverage was extremely important. “But do people know why they need the second dose? Has public education on the purpose of the second dose reached them,” he asked. “If people do not take the second dose, the problem is that mortality will continue.” Reluctance factor “If there is a big second dose gap, do we know the reasons for the reluctance among people? The government should take up a State-wide survey of the reasons for reluctance. Is it anti-vaccination or simply fear or bad experience after the first dose? This is a mixed picture,” he said. He added that as of now, the pressure in the mind of people was over. “People should be told of the risks of not taking the second dose. Those at risk of a severe disease including persons with co-morbidities, who had undergone organ transplants or have malignancies and senior citizens require a booster dose. How can you plan for booster doses without pushing for the second doses? Information, education and communication is important in improving vaccination.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-focuses-on-second-dose-coverage/article37349909.ece
06 November 2021||CHITTOOR,||Nominations end for Kuppam civic poll||The three-day nominations phase of the Kuppam municipal elections came to a close amidst mild tension on Friday, with the TDP cadres alleging tearing off of nomination papers of its candidate by YSRCP activists. Sources said TDP candidate for Ward 14, V. Venkatesh, was proceeding to file his nomination along with his supporters when YSRCP cadres had allegedly grabbed the papers and tore them away. In the melee, three activists of the TDP were reportedly injured. After the entry of the police, the candidate procured fresh papers to file his nomination.  Barring the episode, the process went off peacefully with 240 nominations filed for 25 wards. The YSRCP candidates filed 89, TDP 126, Congress 14, BJP 5, and Jana Sena Party one nomination.   Currently, TDP MLA N. Rama Naidu along with senior party cadres is camping in the town to oversee the campaign strategy. The YSRCP’s campaign plan is being handled by the party MLA from Tamballapalle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nominations-end-for-kuppam-civic-poll/article37349642.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,||891 cases booked for cracker rule violations||The Chennai police have booked 891 cases so far for bursting crackers in violation of the stipulated timings. Following the orders of the Supreme Court and the guidelines of the State government, people were allowed to burst crackers between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. on Deepavali day. Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal had instructed police officers to monitor the situation and take action against those violating the timings. A senior police officer said: “We were booking cases for violations from Monday. The maximum number of cases were booked on the day of Deepavali, Thursday. They were booked under Section 286 (Negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) of the Indian Penal Code or provisions of the City Police Act and environmental laws. Fines were collected from the violators since it is a bailable offence.” The police stepped up vigil and booked 796 cases on the day of Deepavali alone against those violating the timings. In all, 891 cases have been booked since Monday. As many as 204 cases were booked in 2019 and 428 cases were booked in 2020 for a similar violation. This year, the police booked over 250 cases against temporary cracker shops for violation of guidelines and conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/891-cases-booked-for-cracker-rule-violations/article37349894.ece
06 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,||Eight killed in two road accidents in Anantapur||Eight persons died and three others were injured grievously in two accidents on National Highway No. 44, 10 km apart, at Pamidi and Midthur early on Friday morning in the district. An unknown vehicle believed to be a heavy lorry, while proceeding from Kurnool to Anantapur, hit a large autorickshaw at 5.30 a.m. while taking a U-turn at Pamidi. Five women labourers in the autorickshaw died on the spot, while another woman died in the hospital while being treated. Three other grievously injured were shifted to Gooty Government Hospital, said Pamidi circle inspector Eranna. The deceased have been identified as Sankaramma, 48, Nagaveni, 35, Chowdamma, 35, Savithri, 40, Subbamma, 45, and Nagamani, 42. They all hailed from Koppalakonda village in Garladinne mandal. Singanamala MLA Jonnalagadda Padmavathi announced Rs. 10,000 immediate personal assistance to the family members of of the deceased. The State government announced an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh to the next of kin of each deceased, said AP School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Secretary Aluru Sambasiva Reddy. Communist Party of India (Marxist) secretary V. Rambhupal demanded an ex gratia of Rs. 25 lakh. The police personnel were scanning all CCTV footage on NH 44 to identify the vehicle that caused the accident. All the victims were going to a field for plucking cotton. Meanwhile, a car with Karnataka registration, proceeding from Anantapur to Kurnool, hit two pedestrians at Midthur village in Peddavadgur mandal while they were crossing the national highway at 6.15 a.m. The deceased were identified as Yakobu, 60, and Chakali Narayanaswamy, 62, said Peddavadagur sub-inspector Ramesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/eight-die-in-two-road-accidents-in-anantapur/article37349662.ece
06 November 2021||NEW DELHI/WASHINGTON,||U.S. jabs still out of reach in India due to indemnity issue||More than six months after the Government announced it would fast-track clearances for foreign COVID-19 vaccines to India, “facilitate quicker access” and “encourage imports”, indemnity issues are still holding up the import of all American vaccines to India, including Pfizer, Johnson and Johnson (J&J) and Moderna. With the Australia-India-Japan-U.S. Quad pressing ahead with plans to produce J&J vaccines at a facility in Hyderabad, officials indicated that the indemnity clause, required by U.S. companies to avoid legal liability for their vaccines, could mean that India will produce the vaccines only for export, and not to supply them domestically. “Talks are on and yes indemnity clause is also being discussed. India has put across its stand and we are in dialogue,” a senior Health Ministry official said, without specifying any timeline . The issue has been pending since External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar travelled to the U.S. in May 2021 to speak about U.S. supplies of vaccines during the second wave of the pandemic. Subsequently, after U.S. Vice-President Kamala Harris spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the U.S. offered India a batch of Moderna vaccines through the COVAX network in June. The shipment was stopped at the last minute, however, as Indian Embassy officials declined to sign indemnity clauses, explaining that no Indian manufacturer had been given a liability waiver yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/us-jabs-still-out-of-reach-in-india-due-to-indemnity-issue/article37349656.ece
06 November 2021||TIRUPATI,||State’s first EV battery swapping unit launched in Tirupati||As part of accomplishing its larger goal of making the temple city a ‘zero-emission zone’, the New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (NREDCAP) formally inaugurated the State’s first battery swapping station in Tirupati on Friday. More outlets soon Apart from this facility at the HP fuel station opposite Mahati auditorium, more will be opened soon at the Tirupati railway station, APSRTC central bus station, Alipiri, Srinivasa Mangapuram, Srikalahasti and Kanipakam to create a network so as to facilitate easy swapping of batteries. In another first, NREDCAP Vice-Chairman and Managing Director S. Ramana Reddy formally flagged off five retrofitted electric autorickshaws. “Post the pilot phase, we are looking to expand the network to 20 ‘Hot-Swap stations’ and 200 vehicles in the city in the coming months,” said Mr. Ramana Reddy. The network would be expanded to Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Kakinada and Rajamahendravaram in a phased manner. “Battery swapping, a process that gets rid of manual intervention in the form of plugging connectors, also makes economic sense for the auto fraternity because their operational expenditure drops by 30% and their earnings start to increase,” General Manager C.B. Jagadeeswara Reddy said. “An autorickshaw can exchange the discharged battery for a charged one in just two minutes and pay online only,” said Arun Sreyas, co-founder of RACEnergy, which developed the network of swappable batteries and the charging station. Retrofit kits The company would provide retrofit kits to convert existing diesel autorickshaws to electric. NREDCAP Officer on Special Duty A. Ramanjaneya Reddy also took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-first-ev-battery-swapping-unit-launched-in-tirupati/article37349665.ece
06 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||In Kedarnath, PM hails India’s ‘rishi tradition’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday invoked the “rishi tradition” of India as he inaugurated several development works in Kedarnath, Uttarakhand, including the unveiling of a statue of Adi Sankara and monuments related to his samadhi . Significantly, Uttarakhand will be going to the polls in early 2022. Mr. Modi emphasised the Government’s work in reviving cultural and religious centres, including the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya and the building of a better ropeway to access the Hemkund Sahib gurdwara in Uttarakhand. He was addressing a meeting after offering prayers at the temple and unveiling the Adi Sankara statue. Recalling the 2013 devastating floods in Kedarnath that caused extensive damage, he said: “People who used to come here used to say that will this, our Kedar Dham, stand up again? But my inner voice was saying that it will stand with more pride than ever before.” ‘Holistic path’ Talking about Adi Sankara, the Prime Minister, who personally supervised the plans for the restoration of the samadhi and building of the statue, said, “ Shan karoti saha Shankar ” that is, the one who does welfare is Shankar. “There was a time when spirituality and religion started getting linked with stereotypes and outdated practices. Whereas, Indian philosophy talks about human welfare and looks at life in a holistic way. Adi Sankara did the work of making society aware of this truth,” he noted. “A grand temple of Lord Shri Ram is coming up in Ayodhya. Ayodhya is getting its glory back. Just two days ago, the whole world saw the grand celebrations of ‘deepotsav’ in Ayodhya. Today we can imagine how the ancient cultural form of India must have been,” he observed and said that today’s India was confident of its heritage. The theme of reviving cultural and religious centres was echoed by BJP chief J.P. Nadda and Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. “With the visit to the Kedarnath temple, Prime Minister Modi has performed a ‘mahayagya’ to re-establish the traditions of ‘Sanatan Dharma’,” remarked Mr. Chouhan, while Mr. Nadda pointed out that Adi Sankara did much to revive and re-establish ‘Sanatana Dharma’, and the Government under Mr. Modi was conscious of it. Mr. Modi reviewed projects worth Rs. 130 crore that had been completed so far, including the Saraswati Ashtapath, Tirth purohit houses and the Garud Chatti bridge over the Mandakini river. The Prime Minister also laid the foundation stone for projects worth Rs. 180 crore, including the redevelopment of the Sangam Ghat, and a hospital and administrative offices for those managing the Kedarnath shrine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-poll-bound-uttarakhand-pm-hails-indias-rishi-tradition/article37349652.ece
06 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Work on Common Central Secretariat set to start||The construction of the first three office buildings of the new Common Central Secretariat along the Rajpath is likely to take off this month, sources in the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) said. The CPWD had awarded the construction and five-year maintenance contract on October 27 to Larsen & Toubro Ltd. for Rs. 3,141.99 crore, the largest ever in the Central agency’s history. The buildings are proposed to be constructed on the plot of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts campus. When it starts, the CCS project would be the third component of the larger Central Vista revamp to be under construction, after the new Parliament building and the redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue. It has a targeted timeline of 24 months for completion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/work-on-central-secretariat-set-to-start-this-month/article37349955.ece
06 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||Namaz in the open will stop soon: VHP leader||Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) leader Surender Jain claimed on Friday that the local administration had agreed that offering namaz in the open was illegal and promised to gradually put an end to the practice in the next few weeks. He was speaking to media persons on the sidelines of the ‘Govardhan Puja’ held at Sector 12A by Hindu right-wing groups in protest against the offering of namaz at the site. BJP leader Kapil Mishra and Surajpal Ammu were also present. Muslim community representative Altaf Ahmad said they decided not to hold namaz at three sites — Sector 12, Sector 47 and Sector 18 — in view of the ‘Govardhan Puja’ and as advised by the police. The namaz was peacefully held in the remaining sites, but Mr. Ahmad claimed that “there was a lot of fear, and Muslims were careful not to have any sort of confrontation with vigilante groups”. Mr. Jain said the designation of 37 places for namaz three years ago was a one-day arrangement, and was not ratified by the administration. “The administration has conceded its mistake and categorically told our office-bearers that offering namaz in the open is illegal and not allowed. They have requested three weeks’ time to stop it. But we don’t trust them. It is good if they keep their word, or we will once again take to the streets. But we will not allow the highways to be blocked,” said Mr. Jain, international secretary-general of the group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/namaz-in-the-open-will-stop-soon-vhp-leader/article37349671.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi’s post-Deepavali air quality hits five-year low||Delhi’s air quality entered the “severe” category on Friday for the first time this season after people in the city burst firecrackers on Deepavali night despite a blanket ban. The Capital registered its worst post-Deepavali air quality in five years, as per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Several other cities in the National Capital Region (NCR) such as Faridabad, Gurugram and Greater Noida and towns in north India such as Agra and Baghpat fared no better on Friday. The AQI (air quality index) of Delhi was 444 at 6 a.m. on Friday. The AQI of the day was 462, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the previous 24 hours. Delhi’s AQI a day after Deepavali in 2020 was 435, while it was 368 in 2019, 390 in 2018, 403 in 2017 and 445 in 2016. A higher value of AQI indicates more air pollution. The current air pollution levels “affect healthy people and seriously impact those with existing diseases”, according to the CPCB. “Firework emissions on the night of Diwali degraded air quality from very poor to severe category as predicted by SAFAR. Last 24 hr PM2.5 level is higher as compared to 2020 but much less than that in 2018. However, it may be noted that local winds have picked up since morning and now the fast dispersion is expected,” said government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). Relief ahead According to SAFAR, without any more firecracker emissions the AQI is likely to improve to “very poor” category by Saturday night, but relief is expected only from Sunday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhis-post-deepavali-air-quality-hits-five-year-low/article37349956.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,||30 arrested for job scams, 58 cases booked||The police arrested 30 persons for involvement in job frauds as part of “operation scam” — a special drive to weed out such instances of cheating. Fifty eight cases have been filed. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had asked Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu to take stringent action against fraudsters who cheat job aspirants. Following this, the police had launched a special drive. A press release from the office of the DGP said the fraudsters had received money from job aspirants with promises to get them jobs in government departments, railways and banks and went on to cheat them. The accused, who were arrested on Wednesday, included the personal assistant of former minister O.S. Manian, Seshadri from Thanjavur, former MLA Parithi Ilamvazhuthi’s wife Rani Elizabeth, Harinath, who claimed to be influential with former minister K.A. Sengottaiyan and Education Department and Kannan, a secretariat staff. All the 30 accused were arrested on Wednesday and lodged in prisons.Public have been asked to be vigilant and not to fall prey to such fraudsters. The public can contact police headquarters control room at 044-28447701 and 28447703 (Fax), 9498105411(WhatsApp) and State police control room at 044-23452359 or city police grievance cell at 044-23452380 for getting information on the persons who cheated job aspirants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/30-arrested-for-job-scams-58-cases-booked/article37349895.ece
06 November 2021||Vijayawada,||Naidu slams ‘attack’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged the State Election Commissioner (SEC) to take action against those responsible for attacking and causing injuries to V. Venkatesh, the TDP candidate in the Kuppam municipal election. In a letter to the SEC on Friday, Mr. Naidu said it had come to his notice that the YSRCP activists had attacked Mr. Venkatesh, the party candidate for the 14th Ward in the municipality, at around noon. “The attack has been carried out by YSRCP leader Muniswamy and his henchmen,” Mr. Naidu alleged. The TDP filed a lunch motion petition in the A.P. High Court seeking removal of Lokeswara Varma, the election officer for the Kuppam Municipality election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/naidu-slams-attack/article37349647.ece
06 November 2021||Washington,||Pfizer says COVID-19 pill cuts death risk by 90%||Pfizer Inc. said on Friday that its experimental anti-viral pill for COVID-19 cut rates of hospitalisation and death by nearly 90% in high- risk adults, as the drugmaker joins the race to bring the first easy-to-use medication against coronavirus to the U.S. market. Currently, all COVID-19 treatments used in the U.S. are administered intravenously or by injection. Competitor Merck’s COVID-19 pill is already under review at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) after showing strong initial results, and on Thursday the United Kingdom became the first country to approve it. Pfizer released preliminary results of its study of 775 adults on Friday. Participants were unvaccinated, with mild-to-moderate COVID-19. Those taking the company’s drug along with another antiviral had an 89% reduction in their combined rate of hospitalisation or death after a month, compared with patients taking a dummy pill. Fewer than 1% of patients taking the drug needed to be hospitalised and no one died. In the comparison group, 7% were hospitalised and there were seven deaths. “We were hoping that we had something extraordinary, but it’s rare that you see great drugs come through with almost 90% efficacy and 100% protection for death,” said Dr. Mikael Dolsten, Pfizer’s chief scientific officer, in an interview. Pfizer said it will ask the FDA and international regulators to authorise its pill as soon as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pfizer-says-covid-19-pill-cuts-death-risk-by-90/article37349648.ece
06 November 2021||Hyderabad,||High-profile gambling racket busted||In a major crackdown on banned gambling in the city, the Hyderabad city police on Thursday night busted a high-profile gambling racket organised by a businessman Aravind Agarwal on Deepavali. Acting on specific intelligence, the police raided a residential complex at Begumpet, and found several persons, including an MLA of the ruling TRS, indulging in playing cards against money, which is banned by the State government. Sources in the department confirmed that the MLA from north Telangana was present at the Deepavali party hosted by the businessman and took part in gambling. The Begumpet police booked case against five persons, including the party organiser, and seized Rs. 12 lakh in cash. MLA’s name ignored "While Rs. 10,000 was on the table, remaining cash was kept aside by Agarwal," the officer said, adding that the legislator's name was not included in the First Information Report. The police officials did not divulge details despite repeated calls and messages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/high-profile-gambling-racket-busted/article37350051.ece
06 November 2021||Hyderabad,||Minor found dead||The body of a minor girl was found under mysterious circumstances near Vengal Rao Park at Dwarakapuri Colony under Punjagutta police station here on Thursday. The girl, who is aged about five years, had bruises on her neck. “We are analysing the video footage of surveillance cameras in the area to verify who dumped her body on the road. She was not sexually assaulted,” an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minor-found-dead/article37350053.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||City’s carnival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/citys-carnival/article37350057.ece
06 November 2021||Coimbatore,||Three held for stealing elephant tusks||The Forest Department on Thursday arrested three persons on charges of stealing a pair of tusks from the carcass of a wild elephant in Boluvampatti forest range limits, near Coimbatore, last month. Officials said that the accused -- V. Maruthupandy (27), K. Raman alias Thambi (50) and V. Chinnan (50), all residents of Thanikandi tribal settlement in Boluvampatti forest range -- stole the tusks and hid them in the forest with the intention of selling them. The elephant’s skeleton, with its tusks missing, was found by the frontline staff of the Department in a reserve forest area on October 24. Forest Veterinary Officer A. Sukumar, who examined the skeleton, was of the view that the tusks could have been removed from the skeleton of the elephant around 40 days after the its death. The cause of death could not be ascertained. The Department conducted extensive searches inside the forest and found a pair of tusks hidden under bushes, nearly 430 metres from the place where the skeleton was found. DNA examination A DNA examination confirmed that the tusks belonged to the dead elephant.According to District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar, the tusks were produced before a court on November 1. With the assistance of fingerprint experts and the cyber cell of police, the accused were identified as Maruthupandy, Raman and Chinnan. The accused allegedly confessed to the Forest Department officials that they spotted the carcass when they went to the forest to collect bamboo shoots and a type of wild spinach. They stole the tusks and hid them inside the forest with the intention of selling them, said the officer. The three were arrested and produced before a magistrate on Thursday. They were remanded in judicial custody in Bhavani sub-jail in Erode district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-held-for-stealing-elephant-tusks/article37349920.ece
06 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Offline mode for Class VIII from Monday||Class VIII students in the State will have offline mode from Monday, a week earlier than scheduled owing to the conduct of the National Achievement Survey (NAS) in schools on November 12. The decision was taken following recommendations from Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K. The NAS is a survey of students’ learning undertaken by the Union Ministry of Education for Classes III, V, VIII, and X students of State schools, aided schools, private unaided recognised schools, and Central schools. It helps determine effectiveness of school education through an assessment framework developed by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT). Class IX The decision to begin offline mode for Class VIII students will not have any bearing on the scheduled date of November 15 for Class IX. Plus One classes are also expected to begin on November 15. All COVID-19 protocols will be observed for class VIII students. Schools reopened on November 1 after a long COVID-19 break of 19 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/offline-mode-for-class-viii-from-monday/article37350101.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Safety net||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/safety-net/article37349658.ece
06 November 2021||Vijayawada,||‘Cut VAT on petrol, diesel’||JSP Political Affairs Committee chairman Nadendla Manohar demanded that the YSRCP government cut the Value-Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel in order to reduce their prices in the State. In a release on Friday, Mr. Manohar said several States had reduced VAT after the Central government slashed the excise duties on fuels (Rs. 5 on petrol and Rs. 10 on diesel) keeping in view the enormous burden on the common people. BJP protest today Meanwhile, the BJP decided to stage protests across the State on Saturday to exert pressure on the State to cut VAT on petroleum products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cut-vat-on-petrol-diesel/article37350291.ece
06 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||4 kg gold seized at Vizag railway station||A man coming from Kolkata, by the Howrah–Yeshvantpur Super-Fast Express (train no. 02873), was arrested at the Visakhapatnam railway station and 3.98 kg of gold, valued at Rs. 1.91 crore, was seized from his possession by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), Visakhapatnam Regional Unit, on Thursday. Based on specific intelligence, the DRI sleuths intercepted the man coming from Kolkata and seized 3983.5 gm of gold, which was in the form of bars and pieces of different shapes and sizes, valued at Rs. 1.91 crore. Preliminary investigation revealed that the smuggled gold was routed from Bangladesh and was melted and recast into gold bars and pieces of different shapes and sizes and made into ornaments at Kolkata. The accused was arrested under the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962. and sent in judicial remand. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4-kg-gold-seized-at-vizag-railway-station/article37349663.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Festive hue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/festive-hue/article37350294.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,||CBSE schools begin practical exams for Class XII students||With the term 1 board examinations in major subjects beginning on December 1 for CBSE Class XII students, many schools have started practical examinations or are scheduling them for the week after the Deepavali holidays. This year, CBSE students will have their board examinations at the end of term 1 and term 2, and both examinations will be in different formats. Scheduling and conducting practical examinations have been left to the schools. This is among the changes that the CBSE has made to the examination pattern this year because of the COVID-19 pandemic. “Unlike the previous years, an external examiner does not have to oversee the practicals. Schools have been given the flexibility to conduct the exams on their own this year. They will have to upload the marks on the CBSE portal before the written examinations begin,” said C. Satish, director-general, ABS group of schools. Several schools are scheduling the practical examinations for the early part of November so that students will have adequate time for revisions. Examinations in some minor subjects, too, are set to begin from November 16. The term 1 examination will be a 90-minute paper with only multiple-choice questions. And for students, this is a new format. “We have started conducting the practical exams, and they will be over by early next week. Thereafter, subject teachers will begin revisions, and chapter-wise questions have been prepared for the same,” said K. Manoharan, principal, SBOA School. As the format is new, it is important for students to have a good understanding of all concepts and be well prepared before the examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbse-schools-begin-practical-exams-for-class-xii-students/article37349911.ece
06 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||BJP leaders face farmers’ wrath in Haryana||BJP leaders faced the ire of protesting farmers in Haryana in separate incidents on Friday. While farmers broke the windscreen of the car of the party’s Rajya Sabha MP Ramchandra Jhangra in Hisar, 30-odd leaders were held hostage inside a temple in Rohtak for several hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-leaders-face-farmers-wrath-in-haryana/article37350147.ece
06 November 2021||Chhattisgarh,||Chhattisgarh sets up cells to monitor social media||The Chhattisgarh Government is forming a social media monitoring team in districts to screen overall trends and track negative impact posts on social media platforms. The special team will screen posts relevant to Government-related activities, said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chhattisgarh-sets-up-cells-to-monitor-social-media/article37350148.ece
06 November 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab: Sidhu withdraws resignation as Cong. chief||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday said he had withdrawn his resignation as the party’s Punjab chief but declared that he would not reassume charge till the State’s new Advocate-General is removed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-sidhu-withdraws-resignation-as-cong-chief/article37350149.ece
06 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||BJP leaders face farmers’ wrath in Haryana||BJP leaders faced the ire of protesting farmers in Haryana in separate incidents on Friday. While farmers broke the windscreen of the car of the party’s Rajya Sabha MP Ramchandra Jhangra in Hisar, 30-odd leaders were held hostage inside a temple in Rohtak for several hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-leaders-face-farmers-wrath-in-haryana/article37349672.ece
06 November 2021||Chhattisgarh,||Chhattisgarh sets up cells to monitor social media||The Chhattisgarh Government is forming a social media monitoring team in districts to screen overall trends and track negative impact posts on social media platforms. The special team will screen posts relevant to Government-related activities, said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chhattisgarh-sets-up-cells-to-monitor-social-media/article37349673.ece
06 November 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab: Sidhu withdraws resignation as Cong. chief||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday said he had withdrawn his resignation as the party’s Punjab chief but declared that he would not reassume charge till the State’s new Advocate-General is removed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-sidhu-withdraws-resignation-as-cong-chief/article37349674.ece
06 November 2021||Patna,||Hooch death toll rises to 33 in Bihar||The death toll in the latest hooch tragedy in Bihar climbed to 33 on Friday. Arrests were made and errant officials punished in connection with the sale of spurious liquor, even as Chief Minister Nitish Kumar called for a fresh campaign to dissuade people from drinking alcohol in the dry State. However, officials in West Champaran and Gopalganj districts claimed only 25 of the deaths could be confirmed as having been caused by the consumption of spurious liquor. In West Champaran, alleged hooch trader Ram Prakash Ram (50), besides Dhani Lal Ram (40), Jhakkad Paswan (64) and Vikas Ram (25), died in hospital. They were residents of Dakshin Telhua village in the Nautan police station limits, where local people consumed liquor on the eve of Deepavali. Pranav Kumar Pravin, Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Champaran Range, said the death toll in West Champaran rose to 14 with the four casualties. Seven people were undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Bettiah town. Hospital superintendent Pramod Tiwari said, “Among those who died, three were brought dead. Bodies are being handed over to the bereaved family members after postmortem examinations.” Those undergoing treatment included a 70-year-old person who lost his eyesight on Friday morning, a common side-effect of consumption of spurious liquor. Mr. Pravin said, “Two officials — Manish Sharma, the in-charge of Nautan Police Station, and a village chowkidar — have been placed under suspension for their laxity. One of the alleged sellers died, while another, Munna Ram, is absconding and a search has been launched to nab him.” However, according to sources in the local administration, two others who died were cremated by their family before word spread about the hooch tragedy. In Gopalganj, District Magistrate Nawal Kishore Chaudhary confirmed 17 deaths in the Mohammedpur police station area but said that only 11 of these could be blamed on consumption of spurious liquor. “Three persons — residents of a village in the Mohammadpur police station limits — had been cremated by family members before post-mortem. Family members of another three deceased resisted post-mortem claiming that the deaths were on account of natural causes,” Mr. Chaudhary said. Superintendent of Police Anand Kumar said Ranjan Kumar, the in-charge of Mohammadpur police station, and a chowkidar had been suspended, and three alleged sellers — Chhote Lal Sah, Jitendra Sah and Ram Pravesh Sah — arrested. He said searches conducted in various places in the area had led to recovery of 100 litres of spurious liquor. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, in Patna, vowed stern action against those found responsible for the tragic deaths but expressed dismay over people continuing to consume galat cheez (wrong thing) during festivals. Replying to questions from presspersons outside the Assembly, where he went to attend the swearing-in of two newly elected MLAs , Mr. Kumar said, “I will conduct an in-depth review of the enforcement of prohibition in the State. But, it appears that we need another extensive campaign to spread awareness about the ill-effects of drinking.” Sale and consumption of alcohol were completely banned in the State in April, 2016. Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav tweeted attacking Mr. Kumar over the hooch deaths and accusing those in his governmentof being involved in sale of spurious liquor. BJP State spokesperson Nikhil Anand hit back, asserting that it was the Opposition party which was working hand-in-glove with the spurious liquor traders but had the temerity to come out with “baseless allegations” against the ruling dispensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hooch-death-toll-rises-to-33-in-bihar/article37349567.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||Fuel price cut not enough: Cong.||Claiming that the Narendra Modi Government increased diesel prices by as much as Rs. 26 in 2021 before announcing an excise duty reduction of Rs. 10 on the eve of Deepavali, the Congress on Friday said it would go ahead with its agitation against inflation from November 14. Congress general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal said the reduction was not adequate and the party’s jan jagran abhiyan between November 14 and 29 would go ahead as announced earlier. Asked why the Congress-ruled States had not reduced the value-added tax (VAT) and other local tax components, Mr. Venugopal said the party “will look into it but already States such as Chhattisgarh have lower rates compared with others”. “During UPA [United Progessive Alliance] rule, the tax component was around Rs. 9 but now it’s between Rs. 27 and Rs. 32. If they reduce this excise duty, petrol would be around Rs. 50 a litre. If the Centre brings down taxes, the States will also do,” Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel told presspersons in Raipur. He said that the Congress Government in Chhattisgarh did not add even a rupee to VAT charged during the previous BJP Government in the State. “Look at the lies about the loot. The Modi government this year alone has increased the price of diesel by Rs. 26. By reducing the price by Rs. 10, they are trying to garner credit and say a big Deepavali gift has been given,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told presspersons. Calling the Centre’s cut in excise duties on petrol and diesel an “eyewash”, Mr. Venugopal said the Congress would go ahead with its agitation over inflation and increase in fuel prices later this month. Several other Congress leaders including former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra linked the excise duty cuts to the “setback” to the BJP in the recent byelections in Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka. “This isn’t a decision taken from the heart but out of fear. The answer to the loot by an extorting government should be given in the upcoming election,” Ms. Vadra tweeted on Thursday. “The results of the 30 Assembly and 3 LS by-elections have produced a by-product. The Centre has cut excise duties on petrol and diesel! It is a confirmation of our charge that fuel prices are high mainly because of high taxes. And our charge that high fuel taxes is because of the greed of the central government,” Mr. Chidambaram tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cut-in-fuel-prices-an-eyewash/article37349577.ece
06 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Work on Central Secretariat set to start||The construction of the first three office buildings of the new Common Central Secretariat (CCS) along the Rajpath is likely to begin in November, according to Central Public Works Department (CPWD) sources. On October 27, the CPWD awarded the construction and five-year maintenance contract to Larsen and Toubro Ltd. for Rs. 3,141.99 crore. This was the largest-ever contract in CPWD history, said senior officials. An official said that L&T was mobilising its resources, and work was likely to start this month. The project has a targeted timeline of 24 months for completion. The buildings are proposed to be constructed on the plot of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) campus, which has been shifted to the former Janpath Hotel temporarily. The new IGNCA campus would be built at Jamnagar House. As part of the Central Vista redevelopment, the Centre has proposed a CCS of nine office buildings and a conference centre on Rajpath to accommodate all Ministries. The existing structures on the plots, including the IGNCA, Shastri Bhavan, Nirman Bhavan, Udyog Bhavan and Krishi Bhavan, are proposed to be demolished to make way for the new buildings, according to the plan drawn up by the Centre’s consultant, HCP Design, Planning and Management. Large expanse While inviting bids for the three buildings of the CCS, the CPWD had estimated the cost to be Rs. 3,254 crore. The tender document said the total built-up area of a building would be 4.46 lakh square metres spread over two basements, a ground floor, an upper ground floor and six storeys. The three buildings would be constructed on the same plot, with connected basements and a common boundary wall. The tender document stated that each building would be split into cores and wings. The wings would be the components where workplaces would be located, while the cores would have shared amenities and utilities. When it starts, the CCS project would be the third component of the larger Central Vista revamp to be under construction, after the new Parliament building and the redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/work-on-central-secretariat-set-to-start/article37349596.ece
06 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Wankhede not to head probe now||The cruise drugs case allegedly involving Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, has been transferred from the Mumbai zone of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to a special team of its Delhi headquarters for further investigation. With this, NCB Mumbai Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede will no longer be supervising the case. “A Special Investigation Team [SIT] comprising officers from the Operations Branch of NCB headquarters has been constituted by the NCB Director-General to take over six cases from the NCB Mumbai zonal unit, which have national and international ramifications...,” Sanjay Kumar Singh, the Deputy Director-General of NCB headquarters, said on Friday. In a statement, Mr. Singh said the decision was taken in order to conduct a deeper investigation to find out forward and backward linkages in these cases. “No officer or officers have been removed from their present roles and they will continue to assist the Operations Branch investigation as required until any specific orders are issued to the contrary. It is reiterated that the NCB functions across India as a single integrated agency,” he said. The move came weeks after various charges were levelled against the Mr. Wankhede, who was supervising the investigation in the cruise drugs case, by Maharashtra Government Minister and Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik and others. Mr. Wankhede denied all the allegations. On October 26, he briefed his superiors at the agency's Delhi headquarters on the developments in the case. Complaint with panel During his second visit, Mr. Wankhede lodged a complaint with the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) Chairperson, Vijay Sampla. The NCSC is examining the complaint. Alleging that he was “tortured”, the NCB officer had raised suspicion that a conspiracy was being hatched to implicate him in a false case. Meanwhile, the NCB’s vigilance department is looking into the graft charges made by an independent witness in the case. The agency has so far arrested 20 accused persons in connection with the case. Among them is Aryan Khan, who was granted bail by the Bombay High Court 25 days after his arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wankhede-not-to-head-probe-now/article37349558.ece
06 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||BJP leaders face farmers’ wrath||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders faced the ire of farmers in Haryana in separate incidents on Friday. While farmers protesting against the agricultural laws broke the windscreen of the car of the party’s Rajya Sabha member Ramchandra Jhangra in Hisar, 30-odd party leaders, including a former Minister, were held hostage inside a temple in Rohtak for several hours. Mr. Jhangra was in Narnaund village to inaugurate a community hall around noon when farmers gathered in large numbers, to protest against his visit to the village. The protest turned violent when the mob broke the windscreen of Mr. Jhangra’s car. The police used mild force to disperse the crowd and detained two persons, said Nitika Gahlaut, Superintendent of Police, Hansi. Kuldeep Satrod, 40, sustained head injuries in the incident. In another incident, former Haryana Minister Manish Grover and several other BJP leaders were held hostage by protesting farmers in Rohtak during the day when they went to a temple at Kiloi village to watch the live telecast of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s programme in Kedarnath. Dozens of farmers surrounded the temple, preventing the leaders from leaving its premises, and also deflated the tyres of the leaders’ cars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-leaders-face-farmers-wrath/article37349574.ece
06 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. doing ‘petty politics’ over fuel prices, says BJP||The BJP on Friday alleged that the Opposition parties were doing “petty politics” over high fuel prices by not reducing the value-added tax (VAT) in the States ruled by them, two days after the Centre reduced the excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs. 5 and Rs. 10, respectively. At a press conference at the BJP headquarters in New Delhi, party spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said the Opposition attacked the Centre over high prices of diesel and petrol but did not follow suit in the States rules by them when the Union Government slashed the excise duty. “States ruled by the party have slashed VAT on fuel to add to the relief provided to the common man by the Centre, but the States ruled by the Opposition parties like the Congress, Trinamool Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party have not done so,” he said. “If the Centre and the BJP-ruled States can give relief to people, then why not the Congress-ruled States.” Noting that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had dubbed the Central Government a “pickpocket” over the high fuel prices and used the “extortion” barb at it, Mr. Bhatia said it appeared that there was no bigger “pickpocket” than the Congress. “The VAT on petrol in the Congress-ruled Rajasthan is Rs. 32.19, and it is Rs. 31 in the Opposition alliance-ruled Maharashtra now compared Rs. 21.86 and Rs. 20.46 in the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-doing-petty-politics-over-fuel-prices-says-bjp/article37349580.ece
06 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Stubble burning significantly affects lung health: study||Pollution from stubble burning significantly reduced lung function and was particularly harmful to women in rural Punjab, says one of the largest studies of its kind in India, correlating the effect of air pollution on health. The study was conducted in six villages of Patiala, Punjab, and spanned two phases. The first was in October 2018 and again the following summer from March to April 2019 and the second phase was undertaken in the same villages during late October-November, 2018. The latter is the period when crop burning peaks and the two timeframes were considered to measure the change in air quality during both periods. Close to 3,600 participants, from 10-60 years of age, were included in the study. While the links between particulate matter pollution and respiratory health are widely documented, there have been limited studies in India that have clearly linked the impact of poor air quality to lung health. It emerged from the study that the concentrations of PM2.5, the category of unburnt carbon particles considered most harmful to respiratory health, was found to increase more than twice between the two phases, from 100 g/m3 to 250 g/m3 (when crop burning peaks). These levels are around 10-15 times the prescribed air quality standards prescribed by the World Health Organisation though the permissible standards set by India’s Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) are higher. During the crop residue burning period, a two- to three-fold increase was noted in most of the respiratory symptoms, including wheezing, breathlessness on exertion, cough in the morning and at night, skin rashes, runny nose or itchiness of eyes, across all age groups (10-60 years). The highest number of respiratory complaints were reported in the population aged 40-60 years and the lowest in the younger age group (10-18 years) during the crop burning period. Particulate matter There was decline in lung function with increase in PM2.5 concentration across all age groups even after controlling for several other exposure variables, such as the influence of cooking fuel, ventilation, and distance of accommodation from the road. The authors reported a 10-14% decline in lung function in men and nearly 15-18% decline in women across all age categories. The study, authored by researchers at The Energy Resources Institute, Delhi, has contributions from experts from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, and the Punjab Agricultural University. The findings, which have not been peer reviewed as yet, appear on the website of the CPCB, which has supported the study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stubble-burning-significantly-impacts-lung-health/article37349650.ece
06 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Pak. move not to attend NSAs’ meet unfortunate’||Pakistan’s non-participation in the upcoming regional conference of the National Security Advisers (NSAs) reflects the country’s mindset regarding Afghanistan, said an informed source on Friday. The statement also declared that China too has been invited to the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan to be held on November 10. “Pakistan’s decision is unfortunate but not surprising. It reflects its mindset of viewing Afghanistan as its protectorate. Pakistan has not attended the previous meetings of this format. Its media comments against India are an unsuccessful attempt to deflect attention from its pernicious role in Afghanistan,” said the official regarding Pakistan’s non-participation in the conference which will be attended by the NSAs of all the Central Asian Countries, Iran and Russia. Indian NSA Ajit Doval will chair the meeting. Pakistan and China were both invited for the meeting but Pakistan’s NSA Moeed Yusuf earlier declined to participate in the meeting saying, “spoilers can’t be peacemakers.” No confirmation The official indicated that China has not yet sent a confirmation and that formal responses “are awaited”. The statement declared that India has an “important role to play” in the process of consultation and coordination among the regional countries about Afghanistan. “The enthusiastic response [from the participating countries] is a manifestation of the importance attached to India’s role in regional efforts to promote peace and security in Afghanistan,” added the source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pak-move-not-to-attend-nsas-meet-unfortunate/article37349561.ece
06 November 2021||UDAIPUR,||IIM project to understand rural consumer behaviour||Focusing on the consumer needs of southern Rajasthan’s tribal population, a Consumer Culture Lab (CCL), established at the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Udaipur, has taken up research to find out the correlation between the choices of rural populace, Internet penetration in villages and the challenges faced by those at the bottom of the pyramid. Researchers have extensively toured the tribal-dominated region to understand the ground realities. The CCL was set up in 2020 as a unique initiative to develop an atmosphere of creative research in the field of management in order to bridge the knowledge gap and shift the focus on consumer culture and qualitative explorations. Italso highlighted new opportunities for rural people to bring forth their narratives through social media. The latest project launched by the CCL involves a social and anthropological study of the tribal population in Udaipur, Dungarpur and Banswara districts in Rajasthan. It would make a “softer aspect” of cultural practices affecting consumer behaviour available to the business analytics which had so far depended solely on data mining and statistical analysis, IIM-Udaipur Director Janat Shah told The Hindu.  Unexplored area Professor Shah said the CCL had made an intervention in a hitherto unexplored realm of digital anthropology, which would make a significant impact on big data analysis to anticipate consumer trends and help make cogent business decisions. “If the product maker or service provider observes a consumer in his cultural perspective, his choices can be understood in a better way,” he said. About 30 students of IIM-Udaipur have volunteered to visit the remote villages and study the underlying phenomenon of the tribals’ choices and preferences in the consumption of various commodities. This has enabled the researchers to develop a nuanced understanding of the way of life, indigenous food practices, celebration of festivals and social interactions among the tribal population. Some of the assignments have assessed the opportunity gaps for the village youths, financial and digital inclusion in villages and the daily workload of rural women and its impact on their health. Findings on malnutrition and open defecation were presented to the local administration to facilitate government intervention. Regular interaction with tribals, who comprise 85% of the population in the region, will not only inculcate sensitivity among the management graduates to relevant issues, but will also equip them to formulate policies and come up with new strategies for rural development, Prof. Shah said. Interaction with devices Faculty member Rajesh Nanarpuzha, supervising the CCL’s operations, said this year’s theme was identified as “understanding consumer in the digital heartland” to study how the villagers were interacting with devices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iim-project-to-understand-rural-consumer-behaviour/article37349565.ece
06 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Kerala to Kendrapara, a bus takes Odisha migrants home||Bharat Behera has just returned from a long bus journey covering 2,000 km — from India’s southwestern coast to its eastern coast. And, no, it was not an adventure trip. Mr. Behera’s coast-to-coast bus trip from the industrial hub of Perumbavoor in Ernakulam district of Kerala to the nondescript village of Bagapatia — a rehabilitation colony for climate refugees in Odisha’s Kendrapara district — was unthinkable and unheard of two years ago and was spurred by the COVID-19 pandemic. With hundreds of youth from Odisha migrating to plywood industries of Kerala every year, buses, which were once hired by desperate migrant workers during the first wave of the pandemic in 2020, have now become the travel mode of choice. “In April 2020, when train services were stopped due to COVID-19 emergencies, we did not have any option to return home. At that moment our company came to our rescue, hiring a bus for us. We returned home safely,” Mr. Behera recalls. As the economy reopened but with few train services resuming, it became difficult for the plywood factory owners in Kerala to arrange tickets for the workers from Kendrapara to Kerala. It was then that some enterprising bus service providers in Kerala thought of starting regular long-distance services. Today, a bus leaves Bagapatia every Friday and reaches Perumbavoor by the evening of the following Sunday. Bagapatia, a coastal village, houses around 570 families from Satabhaya villages that have been steadily devoured by the sea over last three decades. Few opportunities Livelihood opportunities in the village are few. “Of a population of 4,000 in Bagapatia, nearly 1,700 villagers — both men and women — migrate to Kerala and Tamil Nadu to work,” Mr. Behera said. “Most men in lower-middle class families leave for Kerala soon after they appear for the Class 10 examinations. Of late, girls in large numbers have also started travelling to Kerala and Tamil Nadu to work in textile industries,” said Sudarshan Rout, a resident of Bagapatia. To cash in on the demand, travels agencies like CocosKerala have jumped in to cater to the migrant workers. “Initially, we used to charge in lakhs for taking migrant workers from Kerala to Odisha, that required crossing four States. Now, the service has been streamlined. The fare is around Rs. 3,000,” said Mr. Srikumar, who manages CocoKerala. Kendrapara is yet to be connected with passenger train services and the nearest major train station is Cuttack. “The workers leave behind their elderly parents and wives for most of the year. If close to 70% of able-bodied men choose to migrate from one village, the situation in the coastal region can well be imagined,” said Jyoti Prakash Brahma, who has been studying migration for several years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coast-to-coast-commute-for-the-villagers-of-odisha/article37349588.ece
06 November 2021||Srinagar,||Stationing of CRPF personnel in Srinagar halls invites flak||Stationing of additional CRPF companies in community marriage halls in Srinagar in the wake of growing militant attacks has locals and Mayor up in arms. There is growing concern among the locals after the marriage halls and government accommodations were taken over by the security personnel in congested localities such as Suthra Shahi and Illahi Bagh, where such facilities are also used by children as recreation centres. “The SMC [Srinagar Municipal Corporation] wasn’t consulted on this decision. These community halls are integral to social and community functions and are constructed in areas where people don’t have huge houses and lawns,” SMC Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu said. The Srinagar municipality has raised the issue with the Divisional Commissioner. “The Divisional Commissioner has assured me that alternative options will be explored. I have strongly urged for this. It is very important that community facilitation services are not hampered,” Mr. Mattu said. Officials said hundreds of CRPF personnel were being shifted from north and south Kashmir to Srinagar. The augmentation came days after Union Home Minister Amit Shah presided over security review meetings during his three-day tour of the Union Territory last month. Multiple targeted attacks by militants left seven civilians dead in the city in October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mayor-locals-object-to-jawans-presence-in-marriage-halls/article37349572.ece
06 November 2021||Srinagar,||JeI leader advises cadres to be peace-loving citizens||An internal note circulated by a senior leader of the banned Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) in the Kashmir Valley has asked its cadres to be “peace-loving citizens” and “obey the law of the land”. The JeI has faced multiple raids by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) since August. “Hope all cadres belonging to the JeI, before the ban, obey the law of the land as peace-loving citizens, giving chance to the law enforcing agencies to take any action against them,” the note, accessed by The Hindu , reads. It also stated: “The Jamaat before the ban was not involved in any illegal or unlawful activity whatsoever. It was a socio-religious organisation working since Partition. It has always respected the law of the land as an organisation.” The JeI was banned in February 2019 as “an unlawful association” under Section 3 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 immediately after the Pulwama attack left 40 Central Reserve Police Force jawans dead in south Kashmir. Secessionist activities The NIA lodged a fresh case on February 5, 2021 “in connection with separatist and secessionist activities of the JeI”, and accused the members of “collecting funds domestically and abroad, which are being used for violent and secessionist activities”. About 73 locations in 14 districts in J&K, where the outfit’s cadres live, were raided by the NIA in August and October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jei-leader-advises-cadres-to-be-peace-loving-citizens/article37349582.ece
06 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Goa Maritime Conclave to discuss security challenges||At the third edition of the Goa Maritime Conclave (GMC) next week, Navy chiefs and the heads of maritime agencies of the Indian Navy and 12 other littoral states of the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) will deliberate on the significance of interoperability to effectively deal with emerging and future maritime security challenges in the region, the Navy said on Friday. The biennial GMC under the aegis of the Naval War College, Goa is scheduled to be held on November 7 and 9 on the theme “Maritime security and emerging non-traditional threats: a case for proactive role for IOR Navies”. “There would also be extensive deliberations in the domains of hydrography and maritime information sharing,” the Navy said in a statement. “As part of the conclave, visitors would also be afforded an opportunity to witness India’s indigenous shipbuilding industry at the ‘Make in India exhibition’ and the capabilities of Deep Submergence Rescue Vessel (DSRV) for submarines at the Marmugao Port Trust, Goa.” Multinational platform At GMC-21, Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh would be hosting dignitaries from Bangladesh, Comoros, Indonesia, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritius, Myanmar, the Seychelles, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Thailand. With the IOR becoming the focus of the strategic landscape in the 21st century, the GMC aims to “bring together regional stakeholders and deliberate on the collaborative implementation strategies in dealing with contemporary maritime security challenges”, the statement said. The GMC is the Indian Navy’s outreach initiative providing a multinational platform to harness the collective wisdom of practitioners of maritime security and the academia towards garnering outcome-oriented maritime thought, the Navy added. The Defence Secretary and the Foreign Secretary would also be addressing the conclave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/goa-maritime-conclave-to-discuss-security-challenges/article37349598.ece
06 November 2021||Chandigarh,||Sidhu puts riders, takes back resignation||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday said he had withdrawn his resignation as the party’s Punjab chief but declared that he would not reassume charge till the State’s new Advocate-General is removed. Even while announcing that he was withdrawing his resignation as Punjab Pradesh Congress president, Mr. Sidhu continued to target the new Charanjit Singh Channi government. The cricketer-turned-politician had resigned from the post on September 28, triggering a fresh crisis in the party’s Punjab unit ahead of next year’s Assembly polls, resulting in the ouster of then Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. . Mr. Sidhu has opposed the appointment of Advocate-General A.P.S. Deol and Director-General of Police Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, considered Channi’s choices. He had earlier indicated that these two appointments were part of the reason he quit. Mr. Sahota had headed the SIT formed by the previous SAD-BJP government to probe incidents of desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in 2015. And as a lawyer, Mr. Deol had represented former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, who headed the State police six years ago during the incidents of sacrilege and a police firing on protesters. “It is not any personal ego,” Mr. Sidhu said, arguing that the offices of the A-G and the DGP are crucial to take the Bargari sacrilege and drug trafficking cases to their logical conclusions. Firing a salvo against his own government, Mr. Sidhu said all he was asking was what the Channi government had done in the past 50 days on the sacrilege case and on making a special task force report on drug cases public. The party would not be able to face the people on the sacrilege and the drugs issue. The Congress had come to power in 2017, promising action on these issues. Mr. Sidhu’s detractors claim that he is looking at the possibility of becoming CM if the Congress returns to power in the State after the Assembly polls just months away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhu-withdraws-resignation/article37349569.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Stubble burning impacts lung health, says study||There was decline in lung function with increase in PM2.5 concentration across all age groups even after controlling for several other exposure variables, such as the influence of cooking fuel, ventilation, and distance from road. The authors reported a 10-14% decline in lung function in men and nearly 15-18% decline in women across all age categories.  The study, authored by researchers at The Energy Resources Institute, Delhi has contributions from experts from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, and the Punjab Agricultural University. The findings, which have not been peer reviewed as yet, appear on the website of the CPCB, which has supported the study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stubble-burning-impacts-lung-health-says-study/article37349959.ece
06 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||Seek public opinion on inheritance Bill: activists||Political leaders and activists in matrilineal Meghalaya have advised the Khasi Hills Autonomous District Council (KHADC) to seek public opinion before tabling an inheritance Bill aimed at “equitable distribution of parental property among siblings”. The KHADC is scheduled to introduce the Khasi Inheritance of Property Bill, 2021, during the autumn session of the council on November 8. Congress veteran and leader of the Opposition in the KHADC, Pynshngainlang N. Syiem, said any new legislation dealing with customs and tradition should be placed in the public domain before it is introduced. He said he would suggest this to the council’s executive committee. “The practice in the earlier days was for the khatduh, or youngest daughter, to get the lion’s share of the ancestral or parental property. But things have changed, and most parents are now giving a share to all the siblings,” he told journalists in State capital Shillong. Michael Syiem of Maitshaphrang Movement, a local NGO focused on customs, said his group has been campaigning on the issue of inheritance for three decades. The matter should be debated within the family first, he said. He favoured public consultation on the Bill since two other matrilineal communities – Garos and Jaintias – have a similar custom and there needs to be common legislation that will be applicable beyond the Khasi hills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seek-public-opinion-on-inheritance-bill-activists/article37349600.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Pfizer says COVID-19 pill cuts death risk by 90%||Patients taking the company’s drug along with another antiviral had an 89% reduction in their combined rate of hospitalisation or death after a month, compared with patients taking a dummy pill. Fewer than 1% of patients taking the drug needed to be hospitalised and no one died. In the comparison group, 7% were hospitalised and there were seven deaths. Study participants were unvaccinated, with mild-to-moderate COVID-19, and were considered high risk for hospitalisation due to health problems like obesity, diabetes or heart disease. Treatment began within three to five days of initial symptoms, and lasted for five days. Once Pfizer applies for Emergency Use Authorisation, the FDA could make a decision within weeks or months. Pfizer reported few details on side effects but said rates of problems were similar between the groups at about 20%. An independent group of medical experts monitoring the trial recommended stopping it early, standard procedure when interim results show such a clear benefit. The data have not yet been published for outside review, the normal process for vetting new medical research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pfizer-says-covid-19-pill-cuts-death-risk-by-90/article37349854.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,||National painting contest to be held||Club Mahindra has announced the National Painting Competition 2021 in association with The Hindu Young World to be held online. The online registration and submission portal closes on November 23. The topics for the prelims are: Sub-Juniors (Classes 3-5) — My best holiday memory, Best resort holiday with family, The perfect holiday destination. Juniors (Classes 6-8) — Holiday with grandparents, Best recreational activity at a resort, My favourite holiday memory with cousins. Seniors (Classes 9-12) — The best view from our resort room, My dream destination, An unforgettable holiday memory with friends. Participants paint on A3 size (11.7 x 16.5 inches) drawing sheet on any of the given topics. The physical art work should reach the nearest The Hindu office before November 25. If the participant qualifies for the finale, the date and details will be intimated through the registered email ID. For registration and details log on to www.ywc.thehindu. com/clubmahindra.\ For clarifications, call toll-free number 1800 102 1878 from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (Monday to Saturday) There will be three top prizes and seven consolation prize winners in each category. The winning paintings also stand a chance to be displayed at select Club Mahindra resorts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/national-painting-contest-to-be-held/article37349560.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Duty cuts, stock limits helped curtail oil prices’||Apart from the cuts in duties and cesses, the Centre had used stock limits to help control prices of both edible oils and pulses this year, using the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act. The amendments to the Act, which were passed by Parliament last year but suspended by the Supreme Court in January due to opposition by farm unions, would not have allowed the imposition of stock limits given the current rate of price hikes. Extraordinary times “These are extraordinary times. Global commodity prices are extremely high. COVID-19 is a major factor, disrupting supply chains, closing down industry,” Mr. Pandey said. “There is insufficient labour in the oil production industry in many countries. Given the extraordinary circumstances, it is right to invoke this,” he said explaining why the Government had chosen to use the same legal provisions it had sought to remove through last year’s amendments. The retail prices of most major cooking oils were 35-45% higher than a year ago. However, a clear decline in prices was seen in Delhi from the beginning of the week till the Deepavali eve, with prices falling Rs. 5-10 a kg over the three-day period. Some smaller centres saw even greater declines, such as the Rs. 18 a kg fall in palm oil in Aligarh and the Rs. 20 a kg fall in sunflower oil prices in Meghalaya. Nationally, the palm oil prices fell about Rs. 1.45 a kg, while soybean oil increased the same amount. Mustard oil, which accounted for 11% of the domestic consumption, saw a Rs. 2.29 a kg increase in prices, although Mr. Pandey hoped that the 12-15% increase in mustard acreage this winter season would cool down prices once the harvest comes in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/duty-cuts-stock-limits-helped-curtail-oil-prices/article37349855.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S. vaccines still out of reach due to indemnity||When asked about the lack of progress, at least two of the U.S. vaccine manufacturers told The Hindu that they are still in talks with New Delhi on indemnity. “We are in ongoing discussions with the Government of India to accelerate availability of the Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine. It is premature for us to speculate on the timing of our vaccine deliveries,” a spokesperson for J&J told The Hindu in an email. Under the Quad agreement that was reached between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President Joseph Biden, America will partially fund the production of one billion J&J vaccines by the Hyderabad-based Biological E. On October 25, U.S., Japanese and Australian diplomats even attended a special event in Hyderabad along with MEA officials to mark a U.S. financing arrangement for $50 million to expand the company’s capacity to produce COVID-19 vaccines. This decision will facilitate quicker access to such foreign vaccines by India. Biological E declined to comment on plans for the vaccine’s distribution, but a government official told The Hindu that the Quad initiative at present is only “export-oriented” as it is meant for South-East Asian countries, and any domestic Indian distribution would depend on the liability issue being resolved. Separately, a representative for Pfizer also confirmed that indemnity talks are ongoing but there has been no breakthrough yet. “In markets that do not have the legal or legislative protections that are available in the United States, we work with governments to find mutually agreeable solutions, including contractual indemnity clauses,” said Pfizer’s global media relations head for Asia, Roma Nair, pointing to 152 countries and territories where Pfizer/BionTech have shipped more than two billion doses to this year, where the clause has been accepted. On April 13, the Ministry of Health and Family welfare had announced that in view of the shortage of vaccines, the government would allow all vaccines that have been approved for emergency use by the U.S., European Union, UK and Japan, or listed by the WHO to receive EUA in India, and later eased the requirements for bridging trials as well.  (With inputs from Sriram Lakshman in Washington and Bindu Shajan Perappadan in New Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-vaccines-still-out-of-reach-due-to-indemnity/article37349570.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||In Kedarnath, PM hails India’s ‘rishi tradition’||“A grand temple of Lord Shri Ram is coming up in Ayodhya. Ayodhya is getting its glory back. Just two days ago, the whole world saw the grand celebrations of ‘deepotsav’ in Ayodhya. Today we can imagine how the ancient cultural form of India must have been,” Mr. Modi observed and said that today’s India was confident of its heritage. The theme of reviving cultural and religious centres was echoed by BJP chief J.P. Nadda and Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. “With the visit to the Kedarnath temple, PM Modi has performed a ‘mahayagya’ to re-establish the traditions of ‘Sanatana Dharma’,” remarked Mr. Chouhan, while Mr. Nadda pointed out that Adi Sankara did much to revive and re-establish ‘Sanatana Dharma’, and the Government under Mr. Modi was conscious of it. Mr. Modi reviewed projects worth Rs. 130 crore that had been completed so far, including the Saraswati Ashtapath, Tirth purohit houses and the Garud Chatti bridge over the Mandakini river. He also laid the foundation stone for projects worth Rs. 180 crore, including the redevelopment of the Sangam Ghat, and a hospital and administrative offices for those managing the Kedarnath shrine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-hails-indias-rishi-tradition-in-uttarakhand/article37349571.ece
06 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||Two shot dead in Manesar during festival||Two persons were shot dead and four sustained bullet injuries in an attack by half-a-dozen armed assailants on the family members of a former Sarpanch at a village in Manesar here on Thursday. The injured include an eight-year-old boy, who is said to be out of danger. The police suspect personal enmity to be behind the attack. According to the First Information Report, the assailants barged inside the house of former Sarpanch Gopal around 8 p.m. and opened indiscriminate fire at the family members. They first hit Vikas Raghav, 21, and Yash, 8, celebrating Deepavali in front of the house and then turned to a room to shoot Rajesh, Balram, Sohanpal and Praveen. All six sustained multiple bullet injuries in the attack. Mr. Rajesh drove his son Vikas to Medanta Hospital, but he was declared brought dead. Later, Sompal died during treatment. Mr. Praveen is critically ill. Mr. Rajesh, Balram and Yash are admitted to the hospital. Balram and Sompal are sons of former Sarpanch Gopal. Yash is the son of Balram. Mr. Rajesh, the complainant, has named four people in the FIR, including Yogendra alias Rinku. He said that Balram and Sompal had murdered Mr. Yogendra’s brother Manoj in 2007 and were convicted in the case. The duo was out on bail for the past seven years. The police said the matter is under investigation, but no arrests have been made so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-boy-shot-dead-in-manesar-during-festival/article37349578.ece
06 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Bengal Minister Subrata Mukherjee dies at 75||Senior West Bengal Minister Subrata Mukherjee passed away in Kolkata on Thursday. He was undergoing treatment at the State-run SSKM Hospital. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was among those who visited SSKM Hospital after the Trinamool Congress leader breathed his last. “He was expected to be discharged from the hospital tomorrow. He suffered a cardiac arrest and passed away,” Ms. Banerjee said. She described Mr. Mukherjee’s death as a “great loss” . Mr. Mukherjee, who was a key Minister in the Mamata Banerjee Cabinet, was 75. He held several portfolios, including the Panchayat department. He started his career with the Congress and, at 26, was one of the youngest Ministers in the Congress government led by Siddhartha Sankar Ray. He switched sides and joined the Trinamool Congress in 1999. In his political career spanning over five decades, Mr. Mukherjee had represented several Assembly constituencies in Kolkata, including Chowringhee. He was elected as an MLA from Ballygunge in the 2021 polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-minister-subrata-mukherjee-dies-at-75/article37349585.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||I-T searches on dry fruit firms in J&K, Punjab||The Income Tax Department’s searches against people engaged in the business of dry fruits in Jammu and Kashmir and Punjab have led to the detection of unaccounted-for income exceeding Rs. 200 crore, officials said. During the searches, the department found digital evidence indicating that an assessee group had been inflating purchases of dry fruits over the years. It is alleged that unaccounted-for cash was being received back by the directors of the group against payment made to various entities for such purchases. The department found that one group maintained a parallel set of books of accounts and that there was a huge difference between the sales and purchases recorded in both books. “One of the groups was also indulging in unaccounted purchases and sales of dry fruits. Excess stock to the tune of Rs. 40 crore has been found,” said the department, adding that a benami proprietary concern was also being run. In both groups, the claim of deduction under Section 80IB of the I-T Act was found to be fake and estimated at Rs. 30 crore. The department further stated that they froze 14 bank lockers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-t-searches-on-dry-fruit-firms-in-jk-punjab/article37349599.ece
06 November 2021||Kanpur,||30 more test positive for Zika virus in Kanpur||Thirty more people have tested positive for Zika virus here, taking the total number of those infected in the district to 66, including nine Indian Air Force (IAF) personnel, a senior official said on Friday. Of those infected, 45 are men and 21 women, according to officials. The first case in Kanpur was reported on October 23 when an IAF warrant officer tested positive for Zika virus. “Thirty more people have tested positive in Kanpur,” District Magistrate Vishak G. Ayyar said. Samples were collected from various pockets in the neighbouring areas of IAF station hangars and sent to the lab at King George’s Medical University, Lucknow for testing. Thirty of them came back positive for Zika virus, he said. Zika is a mosquito-borne virus and hence, getting rid of mosquitoes is the safe way out, he said. To check the spread of the disease, health teams are undertaking sanitisation programmes, including anti-larvae spraying and identifying fever patients, screening seriously ill people and pregnant women. Health teams have been asked to step up door-to-door sampling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/30-more-test-positive-for-zika-virus-in-kanpur/article37349857.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Police have no power to seize cars in drunk driving cases’||During drunk driving checks, a person found under the influence of alcohol should not be allowed to drive or ride the vehicle. However, a person (who is not in an intoxicated condition) accompanying that driver or rider shall be permitted to drive that vehicle on production of driving license. This is subject to section 202 of the Motor Vehicles Act-1988. If no person is accompanying such ‘intoxicated’ driver or rider, the police should inform nearest relative or friend of the driver or rider to take custody of the vehicle. If none is available to take custody of the vehicle, police should take ‘temporary possession’ of the vehicle. It should be kept at the nearest police station or any other appropriate authorised place for safe custody, the judge said. The judge stated that earlier the court had held that police do not have powers under the MV Act to take custody of vehicles being driven by persons under influence of alcohols. Directions were also issued in the past to release vehicles seized in drunk driving cases on production of vehicle’s registration certificate, photo identity proof and driving license.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-have-no-power-to-seize-cars-in-drunk-driving-cases/article37350251.ece
06 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Can’t quash case for delay in inquiry: SC||The Supreme Court has held that delay in completion of the Preliminary Enquiry (PE) is not a ground for quashing a corruption case. The PE is only an enquiry to gather prima facie information to register an FIR and not an investigation under the Code of Criminal Procedure, a Bench of Justices M.R. Shah and A.S. Bopanna observed in a recent judgment. “While considering the prima facie case for the purpose of registering the FIR, some enquiry/investigation is bound to be there. However, the same shall be only for the purpose of finding out a prima facie case for the purpose of registration of the FIR,” Justice Shah clarified in the judgment. The court said whatever enquiry was conducted at the stage of PE could by no stretch of imagination be considered as investigation under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). An investigation under the CrPC could only be after registration of the FIR. Further, the Court said a corruption case could not be quashed by a lower court merely on the ground that “some more time” was taken to find out whether the allegations against the suspected person were prima facie true and warranting the registration of an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cant-quash-case-for-delay-in-inquiry-sc/article37349562.ece
06 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam ‘tea tribes’ get medical quota||The Assam Cabinet on November 4 approved the reservation of seats in the State-run medical colleges for students from the “tea tribes” community. Assam has eight Government medical colleges. Adivasis associated with tea plantations are considered a major vote bank that swung from the Congress to the BJP. “Seats for MBBS and BDS reserved for the tea garden communities have been proportionately divided between the Brahmaputra Valley and the Barak Valley,” Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said. The Cabinet decided to reserve 24 MBBS and three BDS seats for the tea garden community working across 803 major estates and numerous small tea gardens; 18 for Brahmaputra Valley and six for Barak Valley students. Two BDS seats are for the Brahmaputra Valley and one for the Barak Valley students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-tea-tribes-get-medical-quota/article37349563.ece
06 November 2021||Srinagar,||TRF man flees shoot-out in Srinagar||A “wanted” militant of The Resistance Front (TRF) escaped a covert operation by the police on Friday at the SKIMS Medical College and Hospital in Bemina, Srinagar, after engaging them in a brief shoot-out. Police sources said a special team of the police in civilian attire engaged the TRF militant in a gunfight on the parking lot of the hospital. Panic triggered However, the militant opened fire from his pistol and escaped from the spot. The shoot-out between militant and security forces triggered panic outside the busy medical college. A police spokesperson said there was a “brief firefight” between militants and security forces at the SKIMS Hospital and “they managed to escape, taking advantage of civilian presence”. No arrest Additional personnel were rushed to the spot after the shoot-out and the area was cordoned off for a search operation. However, no arrests were made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trf-man-flees-srinagar-shoot-out/article37349575.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||Duty cut too little, too late: Left parties||Left parties have called the slash in the Central excise duty on fuel, announced on Deepavali eve, as too little, too late and that it was the adverse bypoll results that forced the Government’s hand. The Central excise duty on petrol was cut by Rs. 5 a litre and Rs. 10 a litre on diesel. Many BJP-ruled States followed the announcement with a cut in the State excise duty. Even then, the petrol price is above Rs. 100 in major cities. CPI general secretary D. Raja said the decrease was nominal, especially since it came amid a daily hike in prices. “People have been going through hardships because of the cascading effect on the prices of essential commodities because of the exorbitant fuel prices,” he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nominal-cut-in-fuel-prices-not-enough-cpi/article37349583.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Choked capital||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/choked-capital/article37349590.ece
06 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Wave of protests planned ahead of Odisha CM’s visit||The Congress and the BJP have planned a wave of protests during Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik’s visit to Kalahandi district on November 8. They have demanded the ouster of Minister Dibya Shankar Mishra over the issue of a teacher’s murder in the district. The man accused is said to have close links to the Minister. Mr. Patnaik is visiting Kalahandi district to distribute smart health cards at Bhawanipatna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wave-of-protests-planned-ahead-of-odisha-cms-visit/article37349594.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||CBI books two Delhi-based companies and others for bank fraud||The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked two Delhi-based companies and their directors in separate cases for allegedly misappropriating funds taken from banks. In the first case, the agency has named CBS Steel Private Limited and its directors, Pradeep Singla, Yashpal Singla and Vikas Singla, for allegedly cheating the Union Bank of India to the tune of Rs. 32.89 crore. The CBI has named Era Infra Engineering Limited and six others in the second case, in which they have been accused of cheating the Punjab & Sind Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-books-two-delhi-based-companies-and-others-for-bank-fraud/article37349597.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||Name Jammu airport terminal after my father: Karan Singh||Senior Congress leader Karan Singh wants the new terminal building in Jammu airport to be named after his father, Hari Singh, who ruled the erstwhile princely state. In a letter to Jammu and Kashmir Lt. Governor Manoj Sinha, Mr. Singh wrote that it was his father who built the airport for his personal use and it was used by the royal family for many years. He made a similar request to the Civil Aviation Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/name-jammu-airport-terminal-after-my-father-karan-singh/article37349602.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Daily infections fall below 900||With fresh COVID-19 cases dropping below 900 in Tamil Nadu on Friday, three districts — Mayiladuthurai, Perambalur and Ramanathapuram — logged no fresh case. Across the State, 875 people tested positive and 13 died of the infection. Chennai and Coimbatore continued to record cases in three digits — the former saw 106 and the latter 102. While Chengalpattu recorded 80 cases, Erode and Tiruppur logged 68 and 62 infections respectively. There were 56 cases in Salem and 41 in Namakkal. As many as 11 districts reported under 10 cases each. Of these, Pudukottai and Ranipet reported a single case each. The new cases took the State’s tally to 27,07,368, and the toll to 36,204. Of the 38 districts, 28 saw no COVID-19 deaths. There were three deaths in Chennai and two in Coimbatore. Among the deceased was a 29-year-old woman from Coimbatore who had no co-morbidity. She was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on November 2 and died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. As many as 1,012 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,60,419. The active caseload dropped to 10,745. Of these, Chennai accounted for 1,265 and Coimbatore 1,208. The number of samples tested dropped to 1,05,832, taking the total count to 5,17,29,726. The State’s positivity rate stood at 0.8%. Only nine districts had a positivity rate of over 1%. Of them, Tiruppur had the highest at 1.4%. A total of 33,733 people, including 20,234 aged 18 to 44, were vaccinated, taking the overall coverage in government centres to 5,67,76,971. The coverage in private centres touched 26,73,253.  The State’s test positivity rate stood at 0.8%. Only nine districts had a positivity rate of over 1%. Of them, Tiruppur had the highest at 1.4%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-infections-fall-below-900/article37349878.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Azadi Ka Amrit expo spotlights T.N. role||In the last scene of Veerapandiya Kattabomman , Sivaji Ganesan, playing the lead role, would walk majestically towards the gallows. Questions were asked whether it was a cinematic portrayal or whether Kattabomman, the Poligar or Palyakarar of Panchalamkurichi, actually exhibited an unflinching gait? “When he went out to be executed, he walked with a firm and daring air and cast looks of sullen contempt on the Poligars to his right and left,” Major Bannerman writes in his report on the trial and execution of Kattabomman. The report is on display at an exhibition organised by the Tamil Nadu Information Department to mark the 75th anniversary of Indian independence. Last regret “When he reached the foot of the tree on which he was hanged, he regretted having left his fort in the defence of which it would have been better for him to have died,” the report adds. The British officer writes that it was reported to him that on his way to the place of execution, Kattabomman had expressed some anxiety about his brother (Oomaithurai), who had a speech disability. “Kattabomman had compelled the government to inflict upon him such a rigorous punishment by repeatedly acting in contempt of the company’s authority and at last an open rebellion,” the report reads. V.P. Jayaseelan, Director, Department of Information and Public Relations, said the exhibition entitled, Tamil Nadu in the Freedom Struggle, was part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahatsov’, organised nationwide. The exhibition is being held at the Chennai Mofussil Bus Terminal at Koyambedu. “We have decided to extend the exhibition for a week from November 8 because of the tremendous response,” he said. Court order The manuscript of Major Bannerman’s letter and the sword and other weapons used by Kattabomman are on display. It also has a copy of the order of the High Court rejecting the appeal from freedom fighters V.O. Chidambaram and Subramania Siva against their conviction. “The sentence was reduced. Though their plea against their transportation to Andaman was rejected, they could not be sent there because the prison was full,” said A.R. Venkatachalapathy, Professor, Madras Institute of Development Studies, who has written extensively on V.O. Chidambaram. The exhibition has sections spotlighting the unsung heroes of the freedom movement, women freedom fighters and Mahatma Gandhi and Tamil Nadu, besides cartoons of poet Subramania Bharathi and events that secured a permanent place for Tamil Nadu in the history, Mr. Jayaseelan said. “We have highlighted the achievement of M.A. Eswaran, who spent 10 years in prison. He was the driving force behind the construction of the Bhavanisagar dam,” he said. Eswaran agreed to support T. Prakasam for premier of the Madras Presidency on one condition: he construct a dam, known today as Bhavanisagar. “Not many know that Subbaiah, a freedom fighter from Theni, was lodged at the Alipore jail for a year. There are many unsung heroes,” Mr. Jayaseelan said. The exhibition also showcases the chair used by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at Chennai Central Prison and the umbrella used by Gandhi, besides the events between 1920 and 1947 and Gandhi’s visit to Tamil Nadu from the archives of The Hindu . Exhibition extended The State Government has extended the exhibition, organised by the Department of Information and Public Relations, till November 14. It is open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m, according to the release.  The exhibition has sections spotlighting the unsung heroes of the freedom movement, women freedom fighters and Mahatma Gandhi and Tamil Nadu V.P. Jayaseelan, Director, Department of Information and Public Relations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/azadi-ka-amrit-expo-spotlights-tn-role/article37349919.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tambaram is now city municipal corporation||The Governor has promulgated an Ordinance to establish the Tambaram City Municipal Corporation in Chennai. Tambaram City Municipal Corporation will include the municipalities of Pallavapuram (Pallavaram), Pammal, Anakaputhur and Sembakkam and the town panchayats of Chitlapakkam, Madambakkam, Perungaluthur, Peerkangaranai and Tiruneermalai. The Ordinance said these municipalities and town panchayats located south of Chennai city were urbanising rapidly and they were contiguous. “Further, there is a need to upgrade the civic infrastructure such as street lights, water supply, sewerage, solid waste management and roads in these localities, in order to fulfil the aspirations of the people.” Better administrative structure, human resources and integrated planning were required to address these issues. “Hence, consolidation of these local bodies into a single larger urban local body, namely, City Municipal Corporation is considered to be essential. Besides offering an appropriate administrative set up, it will help in optimising the resources for effective delivery of services to the general public.” The Ordinance also referredto an announcement made by Minister for Municipal Administrationin the Assembly to form the Tambaram City Municipal Corporation. “Accordingly, for the constitution and administration of Tambaram City Municipal Corporation, the government has decided to undertake a legislation adapting the provisions of the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation Act, 1981 (Tamil Nadu Act 25 of 1981), with such modifications as are necessary,” it said. A Mayor, a council, a standing committee, a wards committee and a commissioner would be the municipal authorities of the Municipal Corporation. The Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 would cease to apply to the local area comprised within Tambaram with effect on and from the date of the commencement of the ordinance. Until a new Special Officer was appointed by the government, the Special Officer of the municipality would be deemed to be the Special Officer of the corporation. The Special Officer would hold office until the day the first meeting of the council is held after ordinary elections to the corporation. A copy of the Ordinance promulgated can be accessed in The Hindu portal at:https: //bit.ly/tambaramGO||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tambaram-is-now-city-municipal-corporation/article37349900.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Air quality index in Chennai worsens after Deepavali||As Chennai celebrated Deepavali on Thursday, the quality of the air that we breathed plunged to very poor level as most monitoring stations recorded air quality index (AQI) levels above 300. As the evening progressed into night, the smog (a combination of smoke and water droplets) was so thick that visibility became very poor and motorists had to switch to high beam lights. According to the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), the AQI, which is the average of the main pollutant on a particular day, hovered around 350 at the five stations it monitored. In its report issued on Friday, it said that pollution levels soared to Besant Nagar (342), T. Nagar (385), Nungambakkam (369), Triplicane (378) and Sowcarpet (371) on the day of the festival. The AQI tells us that levels of 301-400 mean very poor air quality. The report showed that there was a substantial increase in values of PM10 and PM2.5 in these stations as compared to 2020. Values of PM10 ranged from 187 microgram/cubic metre to 283 microgram/cubic metre. Similarly, values of PM2.5 ranged from 175 microgram/cubic metre to 257 microgram/cubic metre. The prescribed standard for both pollutants is 60 microgram/cubic metre. The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board attributed the increase in air pollution level and AQI values mainly to high relative humidity (90% and above), low wind speed and heavy bursting of crackers during the permitted time. Other monitors The Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) Sameer App showed high levels of pollution. Some stations like Manali, Arumbakkam, Perungudi and Royapuram recorded maximum levels of 500 microgram/cubic metre. Some locations like Alandur and Manali registered high levels of ground Ozone. Poovulagu Nanbargal’s G. Sundarrajan said that some monitors had recorded very high levels such as 895 at Alandur though the TNPCB had conducted surveys only at five locations and places like Manali, Perungudi and Alandur were not included in that. “Seeing the very high pollution levels, we can only call for cracker-free celebrations to prevent people and animals from being poisoned,” he said. Former TNPCB Member Secretary K. Karthikeyan said a study of geospatial distribution of air pollutants and meteorological conditions were important for bursting of crackers when done in tonnes and during restricted hours. The CPCB should prepare a clean air action plan, he said. Kannan Bhaktavatsalam, a resident of Thoraipakkam, said that because of the noise and pollution, elders, babies and pets were disturbed. “Every year, the various boards seem to wake up to the problem of pollution only during Deepavali and Bhogi. What is needed is year-round planning and, if need be, even rationing of crackers to keep pollution under check. We should not take away the fun of the festival, but at the same time ensure that generations to come can celebrate it in the same style,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/citys-air-quality-worsens/article37349898.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Surplus water released from Cholavaram reservoir||After the Poondi reservoir, the Water Resources Department (WRD) has started releasing water from Cholavaram reservoir that is used as a buffer source for the city’s water supply. The department is monitoring the water-level at Chembarambakkam and Red Hills reservoirs that are nearly 80% and 84% full respectively. Officials said the Cholavaram reservoir gets inflow from Tamaraipakkam anicut through lower supply channel. As the water level had to be kept at one foot below the full reservoir level, nearly 215 cusecs (cubic feet per second) was released into a 1.5-km long Poochikaal channel that joins the Kosasthalaiyar river. “We decided to release some amount of water into the channel instead of diverting it to Red Hills reservoir as the water level is nearly 18.75 feet against its full reservoir level of 21.20 ft. The tanks upstream of the waterbody are yet to fill up and the shutters may be opened only when the water level crosses 19.2 ft. A spell of rain of 80 mm-90 mm will be needed for the storage to increase,” said an official.  Similarly, the water level at Chembarambakkam reservoir is closely monitored. At present, water level stands at 21.18 ft against its maximum level of 24 ft. Once the level touches 22 ft, the department plans to discharge water into the Adyar river to maintain the minimum gap of 600 million cubic feet in the reservoir. Some of the major tanks in Sriperumbudur and Pillaipakkam, which are located upstream of Chembarambakkam, are yet to reach their maximum level, the officials said. Meanwhile, a temporary causeway on Melanoor-Meyyur Road across the river and downstream of Poondi reservoir was damaged as the Kosasthalaiyar continues to carry about 1,000 cusecs of surplus water released from Poondi. The river has a carrying capacity of about 80,000 cusecs of water. Residents said they had to take a detour of at least 10 km to reach Meyyur now. Girija Pushparaj of Eraiyur village said people now had to travel by bus via Vengal and Periyapalayam to reach Meyyur as the causeway had been damaged. Minister for Milk and Dairy Development S.M. Nasar and officials of Tiruvallur district administration inspected the site on Friday. As the water discharge may be decreased from Poondi on weekend, steps were being taken to repair the causeway. Moreover, work to build a Rs. 14.95-crore bridge across the river proposed during the previous regime would be accelerated, the Minister said in a press release.  We decided to release some amount of water into the channel instead of diverting it to Red Hills reservoir as the water level is nearly 18.75 feet against its full reservoir level of 21.20 ft||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-cholavaram-reservoir/article37349905.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospitals in Chennai see a number of patients with eye injuries||Eye hospitals in the city have treated scores of persons with eye injuries sustained during Deepavali celebration. While 28 persons were treated for cracker-related eye injuries at the Government Eye Hospital in Egmore, private hospitals in the city saw at least 10 to 12 cases each in a day. Although many were superficial injuries, a few required intense, prolonged treatment. Ophthalmologists say at least half the injured were bystanders. On Thursday, the Regional Institute of Ophthalmology Government Ophthalmic Hospital treated 28 persons. Almost half of them were children aged below 12, said director M.V.S. Prakash. “Incidence of cracker injuries have come down drastically in the last two years. Earlier, the cases used to exceed 100 per day,” he said. Dr. Agarwal’s Eye Hospital treated 10 cases, of which nine were mild injuries that did not affect sight, said S. Soundari, medical director, Chairman Amar Agarwal blamed lack of adult supervision, low awareness about risks in lighting different types of fireworks and ignoring safety guidelines. ‘Pedestrians affected’ Mohan Rajan, chairman and medical director of Rajan Eye Care Hospital, said: “It is unfortunate that innocent pedestrians are affected due to the negligence of one group. Ocular injuries in children not only result in physical disability but also affects them psychologically, leading to personality disorders and creating a barrier to future opportunities.” Lalit Kumar, chairman Department of Ophthalmology, Amrit Hospital, Sowcarpet, said: “Every Deepavali, we treat 10 to 12 patients. Usually, they are bystanders in the 15 to 35 age group.” On Friday, a pregnant woman was treated for corneal injury. She was a bystander. “Luckily, it was not severe. We have treated her with medication. When a cracker bursts the particles fly at high speed and hit the eye, leading to bleeding injury or corneal laceration or sclearal cut,” he said. Sankara Nethralaya’s senior vitreoretinal consultants Rajiv Raman and Sneha Giridhar say no fire cracker is safe for the young as they burn at temperatures 10 times the boiling water. “We get cases every day for two months after Deepavali and they come from across the country. Some of them would have undergone one or two operations but they require multiple procedures to gain some amount of vision,” said Dr. Rajiv. Despite the maximum treatment there are long term consequences, he added. These specialists suggest wearing protective eyewear and maintaining a safe distance while bursting crackers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-bystanders-suffer-eye-injuries-caused-by-crackers/article37349901.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Homes for visually challenged completed in Tiruvallur||For visually impaired Alli and her husband, paying their monthly house rent of Rs. 3,000 is the biggest challenge. Though she has an MA, B.Ed, she has been enrolled under the MGNREGA 100 days programme and is managing to survive. The Tiruvallur district administration has now completed the construction of houses for Ms. Alli and 15 others like her near Uthukottai. The houses were sanctioned in 2016-17, but left incomplete due to various reasons. “We petitioned the Collector in June and he told us one thing — that he would not force us come to him again. In fact, we did not even submit a written petition. He kept his word, and last week, we were taken to the houses,” said Ms. Alli, happy with the construction. “It does not matter even if we go hungry in our own house. Nobody can question us,” said Ms. Alli, who has left her 5-year-old son at her sister’s place for getting to work. M. Rajesh, another beneficiary, who also has polio and needs assistance to move around, said the district administration had arranged work for five visually challenged persons with an automobile spare parts company. “They will give us work that we can do at home. It would be great if more people get jobs like this. Many of us depend only on the disabled pension. The only trades we know are caning chairs and book binding, and nowadays these are not of much use,” he said. Pattashanded over Collector Alby John saidpattashad also been handed over to 53 visually impaired persons. “Many of them either sell small trinkets or items on local trains and are now out of jobs. They will get homes in the next round. For the present batch of 16 persons, we are trying to see if some kind of an employment centre can be started near their homes. We can even ensure the supply of essentials to their area,” he said. An activist, who did not want to be named, said CCTV cameras could be installed on the streets in the area, and the police could monitor the locality, since it was a bit away from other habitations. He said a mini bus service was needed from or through their locality to ensure that they are able to commute to their places of work and back, as the nearest bus stop was over a kilometre away. The homes are getting their final touches now, with power and water supply being provided. The beneficiaries are expected to move in about three weeks time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/homes-for-visually-challenged-completed-in-tiruvallur/article37349914.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The essence of Adyar captured in essays||For those who have walked to Nataraja Stores and bought its famed sugar-boiled sweets, shopped for clay pots from the potters near Eros, and cycled to Sardar Patel Road to have an ice cream at the Aavin Parlour, Adyar is not just not another locality, it is the best address to have on your postcard. Author and historian K.R.A. Narasaiah, whose works have been chosen for awards four times by the State government, in his recently launched book Amazing Adyar, A Suburb To Be Proud Of has managed to beautifully capture the essence that is Adyar. His articles on institutions that brought life to an otherwise sleepy former suburb, and the people who have lived or are still living there, which were recorded by him over a seven-year period and published in neighbourhood newspaper Adyar Times, have been brought out in book form for the benefit of those who love the locality. Himself a resident of Adyar for many years, Mr. Narasaiah has recorded the details of great institutions such as the Cancer Institute, Avvai Home, M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation, Vishranthi, Bala Vidyalaya Trust for the Hearing Impaired, Pathway, Vidya Sagar, PII-RIND, Hamsadwani and the Catalyst Trust, which have not only contributed to the growth of Adyar, but also immensely served the public at large. Two libraries that even those living in Adyar for a long time would have missed have caught his eye — the U.Ve. Swaminatha Iyer Library on the premises of the Olcott Memorial School and the Prof. K.V. Sarma Research Foundation Library in Venkatratnam Nagar. The former was established by Rukmini Devi Arundale and contains rare manuscripts that need proper preservation, and the latter was started by the Indologist Sarma and is being used by many researchers and students. His and others’ works on astronomy, mathematics, physics, chemistry, botany and architecture find a place in this library. ‘River’s ethos’ Former West Bengal Governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi, in his foreword, has said how the river Adyar has lent its name and ethos to an area with such generosity, consistency and selflessness that those who say the word, pronounce or write it, do so forgetting the river. Nearly 35 institutions, their founders or those who had worked for their betterment have found space in the 409-page book published by the Palaniappa Brothers and priced at Rs. 385 each. Many more people and organisations need to be written about, which perhaps warrants a second volume by the author, who is adept at writing in both Tamil and English.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-essence-of-adyar-captured-in-essays/article37349916.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM gives away welfare aid to members of Irula, Narikurava communities||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday distributed house pattas and other welfare aid to members of the Irular and Narikurava communities, visiting their tenements in Poonjeri village near Thirukkazhukkundram in Chengalpattu district. Ashwini, a member of the nomadic Narikurava community, had recently flagged the denial of dignity to her tribe after they were prevented from partaking food during Annadhanam at the Sthalasayanaperumal temple. Following this, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Minister P.K. Sekarbabu partook of the feast with them, at the same temple, and at the time, Ms. Ashwini expressed her desire to meet the Chief Minister. She also highlighted the hardship faced by her community in the village. “On the invitation extended by Ms. Ashwini and another woman, Bhavani, Mr. Stalin visited their tenements and interacted with their families,” an official release said. He also reviewed the basic amenities in the area and assured the residents that action would be taken to ensure that drinking water, electricity and road facilities are made available, and steps taken to improve their livelihood. On Thursday, Mr. Stalin distributed pattas and community certificates in the village, and launched welfare schemes and development works, worth Rs. 4.53 crore. House pattas were given away to 282 people from the Irula and Narikurava communities. Ration cards, electoral ID cards, community certificates and assistance from banks, among other things, were distributed among the people. House pattas for plots, estimated to be worth Rs. 3.52 crore, were distributed under the Chief Minister’s Special Regularising Scheme. Six people were given orders for receiving old-age pension, 21 individuals got ration cards and 18 received electoral identity cards. As many as 88 people from the Irula community received ST community certificates and 34 members of the Narikurava community received MBC community certificates. Twenty-five people received cards registering them in the Tamil Nadu Narikurava Welfare Board, 18 got orders for undergoing training to produce ornaments and 12 received loan assistance of Rs. 1 lakh each under the MUDRA scheme. Banks loans of Rs. 10,000 each was given to 33 people for undertaking small businesses. Approval for implementing the Kalaignar Urban Development Scheme in the area was given. Rural Industries Minister T.M. Anbarasan, MP G. Selvam, Thiruporur MLA S.S. Balaji, officer on special duty in the Chief Minister’s special cell Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, Chengalpattu Collector A.R. Rahul Nadh and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-gives-away-welfare-aid-to-members-of-irula-narikurava-communities/article37349882.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur SP launches drive against job scam||R.P. Chandrasekar, a well-educated youth from Pennalurpet village, Uthukottai, was looking for a government job. In 2018, a person who called himself Kiruba promised him a job in Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) for payment of a fee. The job aspirant paid Rs. 21 lakh in many instalments through RTGS. So far, he has got neither the job nor the money back. In February, K. Malliga, 65, of Indira Nagar, Tiruttani, was on a tour to Puducherry. A couple, Iyappan and his wife Manjula, became friends with her during the journey. The couple pretended to be influential and promised her a teacher’s post at a government school. The woman immediately sold her seven sovereigns of jewellery and paid the couple Rs. 2 lakh. The duo failed to get the job and threatened the woman when she demanded her money back. In 2018, D. Sathyaraj, 29, Bommarajipet, Pallipet, was introduced to a few people at Tiruvallur railway station. Sathyaraj and five others paid Rs. 2 lakh each to Pushparaj as he assured office assistant posts in Southern Railway, Chennai Division. Likewise, 40 candidates have paid Rs. 2 crore for jobs. Pushparaj and his associates were arrested by police in August. Similarly, more than a dozen cases of job fraud are under investigation of District Crime Branch, Tiruvallur. Tiruvallur SP R.V. Varunkumar said some youth are desperate to get a government post by any means, even by paying bribes. Making use of this, some fraudsters, who collect details of aspirants from any job portal or social media post and contact them, cheat the candidates. Also the victims who lose money hesitate to lodge a complaint fearing social backlash. “Now, we are trying to identify those fraudsters and arrest them besides initiating appropriate legal action to save the youth from falling prey to fraudsters. We have launched an operation — ‘job scam-clean up’ — to crackdown on fraudsters. Special hunt will be launched to nab the accused. The victims can directly approach me with their complaints. The cases will be immediately booked and action taken,” said Mr. Varunkumar Those who are not able to come in person can contact the SP on the phone (6379904848) and send WhatsApp messages, said the police.  The victims can directly approach me with their complaints. The cases will be immediately booked and action taken R.V. Varunkumar SP, Tiruvallur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvallur-sp-launches-drive-against-job-scam/article37350290.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eighth mega camp postponed to Nov. 14||The eighth mega COVID-19 vaccination camp, scheduled to be held on Saturday (November 6), has been postponed to November 14, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. The decision to postpone the camp was made following appeals and representations from healthcare providers/staff and associations due to the holiday declared by the government for the day after Deepavali and weekend. Besides, the India Meteorological Department has predicted rain due to the northeast monsoon in 15 districts on Saturday, he told reporters on Friday. With the second dose pendency remaining close to 65 lakh, the Minister urged those due to receive it not to wait and get vaccinated at the daily centres. Collectors have been instructed to take up work to reach the homes of people and identify and vaccinate those yet to take the first dose and those due for the second, he said. Inspecting the Government Arignar Anna Memorial Cancer Hospital, Kancheepuram, he said the new cancer burden was around 70,000 a year in the State. Construction work had already been taken up to upgrade the hospital into a centre of excellence at a cost of Rs. 118.46 crore. The work will be completed in five to six months, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eighth-mega-camp-postponed-to-nov-14/article37349876.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac Deepavali sales down by 4.67% this year||Despite opening up all its bars ahead of the festive season, Tasmac saw its Deepavali sales dwindle by 4.67%, when compared with last year. The final sales figure stood at Rs. 444.03 crore. On November 3, sales touched Rs. 214.61 crore, and the next day, it went up to Rs. 229.42 crore. Last year, Tasmac earned Rs. 465.79 crore in two days through retail liquor sale during Deepavali. On the day of the festival, liquor worth Rs. 237.91 crore was sold. On the day before the festival, on November 13, Tasmac registered sales worth Rs. 227.88 crore. “Despite COVID-19 the sales numbers were good last year, because liquor prices were hiked before the festive season,” a source said. “People’s income levels continue to be low, and not all sectors have got good bonuses this year,” he said. Those tracking the industry have said sales could go up slightly over the weekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-deepavali-sales-down-by-467-this-year/article37349880.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK urges govt. to reduce VAT on fuel prices||AIADMK coordinator and co-coordinator O. Panneerselvam and Edappadi K. Palaniswami, in separate statements on Friday, urged the DMK government to immediately reduce the Value Added Tax (VAT) on fuel prices. Referring to the Union government’s recent slashing of excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs. 5 and Rs. 10 respectively, Mr. Palaniswami recalled many States effecting a reduction in VAT on fuel prices. “But the DMK government has effected a reduction only in petrol prices, though it said in its election manifesto that it would effect a reduction in the prices of both petrol and diesel,” he said. Mr. Panneerselvam urged the Chief Minister to take steps to reduce VAT on petrol and diesel by at least Rs. 2 and Rs. 4 a litre respectively, if not like some States that had reduced it by Rs. 7 a litre. “Though people expect VAT on fuel to be reduced by Rs. 7 a litre like many other States, the DMK government should at least come forward to reduce VAT on petrol and diesel,” he said. If the DMK government comes forward to reduce VAT at these rates, Mr. Panneerselvam said the fuels would cost Rs. 99.4 and Rs. 87.43 a litre respectively. “This will lead to a reduction in the prices of essentials,” he said. An election issue BJP State president K. Annamalai asked why the DMK government was silent about reducing State tax on fuel, considering the party had made it an election issue and had said the State government would reduce the taxes on fuel if the Union government reduced its taxes. He said when the DMK was in the Opposition, it had demanded a reduction in State taxes on fuel. “Now, the Central government has reduced its taxes by Rs. 5 on petrol and Rs. 10 on diesel,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-urges-government-to-reduce-vat-on-fuel-prices/article37349891.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRM opens sensory garden in Chennai||The SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre has opened a sensory garden on its premises. The garden, developed by the College of Occupational Therapy, will help children with lower sensory perceptions. “This sensory garden will follow the concept of learn, apply and play,” said Lt. Col. Dr. A. Ravi Kumar, pro vice-chancellor (medical and health sciences). He said it is a new concept to help the parents of children with processing deficiency. A. Sundaram, dean (medical), said awareness of the garden would help parents identify the problem early in the children and get the right treatment at the right time. The garden includes “multi-sensory environment such as tactile, visual, auditory, orfactory, gustatory and vestibule,” said Ganapathy Sankar, dean of the College of Occupational Therapy. “The purpose is to experience therapy through play and meet the physical, mental and socialisation needs of children with sensory processing problems.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srm-opens-sensory-garden/article37349917.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||15 treated for burns at KMC||Fifteen persons — 11 as outpatients and four as in-patients — were treated at the Department of Plastic, Burns and Reconstructive Surgery of Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital for burns sustained during Deepavali celebrations on Thursday. According to details provided by the hospital authorities, five of the injured were children. Last year, nine persons were treated for burns as outpatients and two as in-patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-treated-for-burns-at-kmc/article37349896.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man drowns in canal||A 52-year-old man drowned while cleaning a canal near his house in Pulianthope. The canal was choked with garbage. The name of the victim was given as Muthu, 52, who was a daily wage earner and resident of Vasuki Nagar, Pulianthope. Since the free flow of water was obstructed by plastic waste and garbage in the canal, Muthu and his family members got down to clean it on Thursday evening. Suddenly, Muthu went missing and a search was launched. The rescue operation was suspended since it was too dark. When it resumed in the morning, Fire and Rescue Services personnel retrieved his body. A case has been registered in Pulianthope police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-drowns-in-canal/article37349903.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Waive gold loans: EPS||AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday urged the State government to waive gold loans of up to 5 sovereigns from both nationalised and private banks. He said, “The government issued a namesake government order a couple of days ago over the waiving of gold loans. But it does not make any mention about the waiving of loans obtained from national and private banks.” He urged the State government to pump out stagnant water from waterlogged areas, ascertain the damage incurred by farmers due to the rain and announce compensation. He said the State should ensure the availability of fertilizers for farmers. “This government has not taken action to relieve farmers of their hardships,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/waive-gold-loans-eps/article37349912.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Court rejects plea of woman accused in graft case||A special court has dismissed a petition filed by wife of S. Pandian, a former superintendent of Directorate of Environment, seeking the return of her jewellery which were seized by Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC). Last July, the DVAC booked a case against Mr. Pandian and his wife A. Latha on charges of amassing Rs. 7.14 crore wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income. During the search, police found Rs. 1.37 crore unaccounted cash, 3.081 kg of gold worth Rs. 1.22 crore, silver articles, diamonds, 18 property documents and other items. In her petition before the special court, Ms. Latha sought return of her jewellery and said they had proper account for it. However, the court rejected her petition saying that no document had been produced to support her claim and also because investigation into the case was at a nascent stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-rejects-plea-of-woman-in-graft-case/article37349906.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Joy of Giving’ room opened at KMC||The Madras Anchorage Round Table 100 (MART 100) recently refurbished a ‘Joy of Giving’ room at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. A press release said the items donated by members of the public would be kept for the use of the needy in the room. MART 100 had placed items worth Rs. 50,000. Dean R. Shanthimalar said these items were mainly for poor patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/refurbished-joy-of-giving-room-opened/article37349907.ece
06 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corporation’s solid waste management facing problems||Garbage on streets, overflowing bins, and delayed removal are becoming a common sight thanks to the Coimbatore Corporation solid waste management (SWM), which is bursting at the seams. The Corporation sources said the civic body had started facing problems in the recent past – for the last four to six months, to be specific – to remove the waste generated because of logistical issues. Though the old, perennial issues of waste generators not handing over segregated waste remained, the logistical issues had a cascading, direct effect on the streets. The waste collected by pushcart workers and waste auto drivers went to bins and from there to transit stations through lorries. At the two transit stations – Peelamedu and Ukkadam – the operators compressed the waste to take it to Vellalore for processing. Though the operation capacity of each of the plants was 200 tonnes a day – 20-25 tonnes an hour in an eight-hour shift, each had started handling at least 300 tonnes a day in the recent past. More waste meant longer working hours, more lorries to deliver the waste, longer queues of lorries and that had led to a situation where the time taken for lorries to empty waste and return to wards to collect the next round of waste had increased. Consequently, the lorries that usually made three or four sorties a day made one or two fewer, the sources said and explained that as lorries made fewer trips, the Corporation was unable to dispose of on the same day the waste collected and dumped in bins. The next was the Corporation’s delay in operationalising the micro compost centres it had built and completing the centres it proposed to build to process at the local level the wet, degradable waste. The idea was to minimise the transport of waste to the Vellalore dump yard. But of the proposed 69 micro compost centres, the Corporation had built fewer than 25 and of those ran fewer than 10 centres, the sources said. Those were the Corporation’s side of the problems. At the generation end, the waste from houses and commercial establishments were mostly in mixed fashion – degradable and non-degradable waste together – and that increased the waste handlers’ problem in segregating those to be sent to the right places. Besides, the dumping of waste in the open resulted in the waste entering drain to choke sewage flow. The Corporation collected 1,000 to 1,100 tonnes waste a day. It handed over around 600 tonnes waste a day at the two transit stations, from where the Coimbatore Integrated Waste Management Company Pvt. Ltd., took it to Vellalore for processing. Of the remaining 500-odd tonnes, the Corporation processed not more than 30 tonnes at the micro compost centres and another 50 tonnes at its vermin compost plants in Vellalore. It dumped the remaining 400-plus tonnes in the open in Vellalore. The sources said for the Corporation to remedy the problem, it must rebuild the transit station in Ganapathy - closed to facilitate the Gandhipuram flyover work, operationalise all micro compost centres and strengthen collection infrastructure. If the Corporation were to address the problem in SWM in a piecemeal fashion by looking for ad-hoc solutions, the sources said the city could witness more challenges in the days to come.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporations-solid-waste-management-facing-problems/article37349939.ece
06 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Chamber of Commerce calls for reduction in fuel prices||The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, has urged the State government to reduce the fuel prices as done by many other State governments. The Chamber president C. Balasubramanian said in a press release the Union Government has slashed fuel prices by reducing excise duties on petrol and diesel by Rs. 5 and Rs. 10 a litre respectively. This cut, which came into effect on November 4, will bring relief to consumers and is expected to spur the overall economic cycle. Rabi crop It will also help farmers for the rabi crop, ease inflation and give a boost to consumption. States, such as Gujarat, Assam, Tripura and Goa, have assured a further cut in fuel prices and Karnataka has announced petrol price cut by Rs. 12 and diesel by Rs. 17. Uttar Pradesh announced a tax cut of Rs. 7 a litre on petrol and Rs. 2 a litre on diesel. The Tamil Nadu government should also come forward to reduce the prices of diesel and petrol. If the State government announces a cut in the prices, it will benefit all sectors across the State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chamber-of-commerce-calls-for-reduction-in-fuel-prices/article37349942.ece
06 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Getting community certificate to be made easy||The Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department will speed up the process of issuing community certificates to applicants from tribal communities, said Minister N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj in Coimbatore on Friday. The Tribal Welfare Minister said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had directed the Department to expedite the process of issuing community certificates to applicants from tribal communities. “The Department will process such applications as soon as possible. The delay is often caused due to various verifications. If either of the parents of the applicant has the community certificate, the processing is easy. It takes time to process the certificate when both parents do not have the document. The Department will still expedite the processing and issuing of certificates,” she said. The Minister visited M. Shangavi, a 19-year-old girl from the Malasar tribal community from Pichanur near Coimbatore, who scored 202 marks in NEET. Ms. Shangavi got her community certificate in May 2020, after the intervention of the then Collector, after having struggled for two years. Ms. Selvaraj said applications for community certificates could now be made online too. She told journalists that the Chief Minister called Ms. Shangavi over the phone and congratulated her two days ago. She visited the tribal settlement on Saturday to congratulate the medical aspirant, identify the issues of the people and hear their grievances. “All of us know how society will progress when women get educated, as said by Thanthai Periyar. She [Ms. Shangavi] dreams of becoming a doctor, and has struggled for two years and has now scored 202 marks in NEET. I came here in person to appreciate and encourage her. She should be a role model for other tribal students. I have assured all assistance from the Department and in my personal capacity to her. Since I felt that a laptop would be useful for her studies, we have given her one,” she said. The Minister said students from tribal communities often lagged behind in education. Proper education can bring progress in their lives and they can become self-reliant, she said. Ms. Selvaraj said only after visiting the place on Friday did she come to know that many houses did not have electricity connection. Instructions have been given to the Collector to take necessary steps to provide electricity connections and voter IDs to the residents, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/getting-community-certificate-to-be-made-easy/article37349885.ece
06 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three die after consuming liquor on Deepavali day||Three persons were found dead in a suspected case of alcohol overdose in Coimbatore on Thursday. The police and forensic surgeons also suspect that the men, all wall painters, could have consumed thinner along with liquor. M. Parthiban (35), and S. Sakthivel (61) from Arunthathiyar Street and A. Muruganandam (57) from Mariamman Kovil Street at Pappanaickenpalayam died after they consumed liquor in an abandoned house. According to the police, the three men consumed alcohol around 6.30 a.m. Muruganandam and Sakthivel fainted on the road while Parthiban managed to walk to his house. The police said that the trio became unconscious and they were rushed to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital where doctors declared them brought dead. Personnel from the Race Course police station rushed to the place after being alerted by neighbours. They found the bottle of liquor which the trio had consumed. The police said that the three men could have mixed thinner with the liquor. However, this has to be confirmed in the post-mortem findings, said the police. Sample of the liquor will also be tested, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-die-after-consuming-liquor-on-deepavali-day/article37349944.ece
06 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for job fraud||The District Crime Branch (DCB) on Friday arrested a 30-year-old man on charges of cheating a job aspirant of Rs. 50 lakh by promising to arrange a government job. S. Sekar, Deputy Superintendent of Police, (DCB), said that K. Mohan, a resident of Dasanur near Mettupalayam, was arrested based on a complaint. According to the DCB, A. Logesh (28) of R.S. Puram lodged a complaint against Mohan, his mother K. Mani (51) and his wife Shobana Priya (27), accusing them of cheating him of the money on the pretext of arranging a government job. The alleged cheating took place between January 20, 2019 and January 20, 2020. As per the complaint, Mohan claimed that his relatives worked in Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission. The accused collected Rs. 50 lakh on various occasions but did not arrange the job. Mohan was arrested and remanded in judicial custody while Mani and Shobana were at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-job-fraud/article37349946.ece
06 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Flood alert issued to people along river banks||Water Resources Department has asked people living along Palar river banks to remain vigilant as the water level in the Thirumoorthy Reservoir was nearing the full reservoir level. In a communique, the department officials in Thirumoorthy Nagar said the water level had touched the 55.05 feet mark on Friday afternoon in the reservoir whose full reservoir level was 60 feet. As the inflow was heavy, the officials said they expected the water to touch the full reservoir level and overflow. Therefore, people living along the river banks would do well to stay vigilant, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flood-alert-issued-to-people-along-river-banks/article37349940.ece
06 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 102 new cases in Coimbatore||A total of 102 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Friday. The Health Department said that 1,208 persons were undergoing treatment and 124 persons recovered on Friday. Two persons died , taking the death toll to 2,425. The district had a test positivity rate of 1.2%. Tiruppur district reported 62 new cases. The district had 722 active cases and 76 persons recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-102-new-cases-in-coimbatore/article37349945.ece
06 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly - revised and recreeded.||Coimbatore Productivity Council will organise "Quality Conclave- 2021" on November 19 at the Indian Chamber of Commerce & Industry Hall, Coimbatore. Sessions will be held on quality, apart from a demonstration of best practices and a debate. The registration fee is Rs. 1,700 for a member and Rs. 1900 for a non-member. For details, contact 9952404302 / 7373663002.   Indian Bank Coimbatore Zone conducted home and vehicle loan mela here recently. Imran Amin Siddiqui, Executive Director of Indian Bank, inaugurated the event and said that apart from this event, in all branches of the bank in the zone, loans were given to 198 women self-help groups to the tune of Rs. 8.85 crore. Besides, the bank sanctioned Rs. 18 crore for home and car loans.   A 21-day free training programme on ‘CNC Machine Operator and Programmer’ organised by Coimbatore Industrial Infrastructure Association in collaboration with Rotary Club of Coimbatore Metropolis concluded recently. A release said that the valedictory event was held for the batch of 20 students and that they were placed in industries in and around Coimbatore.    Sundaram Finance has released an awareness video on COVID-19 vaccination. A press release said that teams from its branch network are carrying out awareness programmes across the State, including Coimbatore, according to a press release.   Coimbatore North Round Table 20 recently planted 1,500 saplings as part of an initiative to create a Miyawaki forest at Shivram Nagar in Vilankurichi. A release said that the saplings were planted on the plot allocated by the Coimbatore Corporation and that it was a joint project organised in collaboration with Schneider Electric and Communitree.   Daimler India Commercial Vehicles and Prabal Trucking inaugurated BharatBenz dealership at Mettupalayam. Rajaram Krishnamurthy, vice-president of marketing, Sales, and Customer Service, DICV said, the new dealership will help cater to the increasing demand for BharatBenz trucks and buses in the region.   ICAR-Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore, in association with the Society for Sugarcane Research and Development organised ‘Cane-ovate’, a national-level workshop for innovative sugarcane farmers. Harmandar Singh, Additional Chief Secretary and Commissioner of Sugar, Government of Tamil Nadu, said in his valedictory address that the successful cane farmers in the State should share among other farmers their experiences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly-revised-and-recreeded/article37349941.ece
06 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water enters farmland after breach in Thadapalli sub-canal||A breach in Thadapalli sub-canal that carries water to Gugalur areas led to water entering over 300 acre of farmland where cultivation of paddy has begun and also in land that was prepared for cultivation, on Friday. At present, water is being released from Kodiveri anicut into Thadapalli canal to irrigate 17,654 acre in Gobichettipalayam Taluk. While many farmers have begun planting paddy crop in the main field, many have prepared their field and kept ready for planting. Gobichettipalayam received 110 mm rainfall in the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, leading to copious rainwater entering the canal at many places. This led to breach in the sub-canal at Thottipalayam after which water entered farmlands in the area. Water entered over 100 acre in which paddy was just planted while water entered over 200 acre that were kept ready for planting.  MLA visits Former AIADMK Minister and Gobichettipalayam MLA K.A. Sengottaiyan inspected the inundated farmlands and interacted with the farmers. He instructed the Public Works Department to immediately plug the breach and asked them to inspect the canal so that breach did not occur again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-enters-farmland-after-breach-in-thadapalli-sub-canal/article37350041.ece
06 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain in Gundri Hills damages Kadambur Road||Heavy rain in the Gundri Hills has caused extensive damage to the already unmotorable Gundri – Kadambur Road. Villagers have sought the authorities concerned to repair the road on a war-footing. Over 6,000 people reside in 15 hamlets in the Gundri village panchayat located in Sathyamangalam Taluk. The hamlets can be reached after traversing the 15 km road from Kadambur, including a 9.5 km road that passes through the Guthiyalathur Reserve Forest in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve. The forest road, which was re-laid 10 years ago, has been severely battered in the rain. In the absence of a primary health centre or healthcare facility in the Hills, pregnant women and patients need to reach Kadambur through the unmotorable road. The villagers wanted repair works carried out immediately and a road re-laid at the earliest. “Bends at many places are in poor condition and extremely dangerous for motorists,” they added. Villagers said that their demand to the district administration seeking better road facility was yet to be unfulfilled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-in-gundri-hills-damages-kadambur-road/article37350046.ece
06 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain in districts||Gobichettipalayam and Gunderipallam in Erode districts received over 100 mm rainfall each during the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. Heavy rain led to water stagnation on agricultural land and on roads at many areas across the district affecting flow of vehicles. The district received a total rainfall of 677 mm. The rainfall recorded in other places are Gobichettipalayam 110 mm, Gunderipallam 102 mm, Nambiyur 84 mm, Elanthakuttaimedu 81.6 mm, Ammapettai 66.4 mm, Kavundapadi 46.2 mm, Kodiveri 42 mm, Varattupallam 41 mm, Sathyamangalam 35 mm and Bhavani 32 mm. Salem district recorded a total of 248.40 mm with the maximum being recorded in Salem with 66 mm. The rainfall recorded in other places are Attur 63.2 mm, Pethanaickenpalayam 24 mm, Edappadi 18.4 mm, Anaimaduvu 16 mm and Veeraganur 13 mm. Namakkal district recorded a total of 259.60 mm rainfall with Rasipuram receiving the maximum of 84 mm. The rainfall recorded in other places is Tiruchengode 58 mm, Kumarapalayam 47.60 mm, Puduchatram 32 mm and Erumapatti 19 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-in-districts/article37350037.ece
06 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Driver electrocuted||A 28-year-old lorry driver was electrocuted when he came into contact with a livewire at Hasanur on Friday. The rear wheel of the wood-laden lorry, driven by Manjunathan of Kadumangalur in Karnataka, got stuck in the slush at Semmanthittu in Hasanur due to rain. The lorry owner arrived at the spot and Manjunathan along with his assistant was removing the rope tied over the logs when he came into contact with the wire. He was taken to the Government Hospital at Sathyamangalam where doctors declared him dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/driver-electrocuted/article37350047.ece
06 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 68 new COVID-19 cases||Erode on Friday reported 68 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,04,641. While 59 persons were discharged, 734 are under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 689. Salem district reported 56 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 1,00,086. While 45 persons were discharged, 606 are under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 1,688. Namakkal district reported 41 cases, taking the tally to 52,472. While 49 persons were discharged, 458 are under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 502. Krishnagiri reported 12 new cases and the number of active cases stood at 194 as of Friday. A total of 43,643 cases were reported so far in the district. Dharmapuri saw 14 fresh cases. There were 168 active cases. As of date, a total 28,500 cases were reported in the district so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-68-new-covid-19-cases/article37350042.ece
06 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Flood alert issued to 10 villages||Following the discharge of 1,500 cusecs of surplus water from Gunderipallam Reservoir near Kongarpalayam village in Gobichettipalayam taluk, flood alert was issued to 10 villages on Friday. Heavy rain in Gundri and Kadambur hills led to the reservoir receiving copious rainfall in the early hours of Friday and about 1,500 cusecs was discharged initially. The reservoir with a storage capacity of 1.08 tmc attained its full level of 42 feet in the morning and the inflow was discharged fully. This resulted in Public Works Department officials issuing warning to people in Kongarpalayam, Vinobanagar, Vaniputhur, Kavundampalayam, Arasankottai and other villages in the area. The discharge from the reservoir dropped to 600 cusecs in the evening. The length of the earthen reservoir is 722 metre and its water spread area is 56.2 hectare with catchment area spread across 72.23 sq km. Water from the dam helps in irrigating 2,498 acre. Farmers have been demanding desilting of the reservoir that was constructed in 1978.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flood-alert-issued-to-10-villages/article37350043.ece
06 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||In view of maintenance works at the following sub-stations, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.: Vendipalayam, November 6 : Vendipalayam, Konavaikal, Molagoundampalayam, Kollampalayam Housing Unit, Nochikattu Valasu, Solar, Solar Pudur, Nagaratchi Nagar, Jeeva Nagar, Transport Nagar, Lakkapuram, Puduvalasu, Parisal Thurai, Karukkampalayam, Nadarmedu (all areas), 46 Pudur (19 Road area) and Shastri Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37350048.ece
06 November 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for posts of Juvenile Justice Board members||Applications are invited from eligible candidates for the posts of members of Juvenile Justice Board in the district. The Department of Social Defence has sought eligible candidates to be appointed as members of the Juvenile Justice Board constituted under the provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act 2015. The members are appointed on an honorarium basis and one of them shall be a woman. Eligibility The applicant should have been actively involved in health, education, or welfare activities of children for at least seven years, or should be a practising professional with a degree in child psychology, psychiatry, Sociology, or law. The applicant should not be less than 35 years of age, and not above 65 years of age. A person shall be appointed for a maximum of two terms, which shall not be continuous. The application form shall be collected from the District Child Protection Unit, and the duly completed applications shall be submitted to the District Child Protection Officer, District Child Protection Unit, Collectorate, Dharmapuri by November 22. Appointments are based on merit and experience, and the decision of the government shall be final.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-posts-of-juvenile-justice-board-members/article37350039.ece
06 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC advises petitioner to exercise restraint||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court cautioned a petitioner and advised him to exercise extreme restraint while disposing a petition filed by him alleging corruption in procurement of materials for implementing various schemes by government officials. The Bench said that the petition was vague and unsubstantiated. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice M. Duraiswamy observed that when allegations of corruption or wrongdoings are levelled, the fullest particulars with material in support ought to be indicated for the court to take any cognisance thereof. The court was hearing a petition filed by M. Abdulla of Tiruchi district. He sought a Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption probe. The court said that allegations were levelled against several government officials without any specific material. During the course of the hearing, the court asked the advocate of the petitioner to indicate the best material in support of his allegation of corruption. To this, the advocate referred to the purchase of some materials at a cost of Rs. 4,400 per unit by the officials. According to the petitioner such materials were available on the e-commerce website, Amazon, at nearly half the price. The judges observed that the price at which any product was available on Amazon may not be a proper yardstick to assess whether in the acquisition of a similar product by a government body there has been any wrongdoing. It is nobody’s case that the government officials are permitted to obtain products from Amazon, where the quality, the quantity and the availability may not be ascertained beforehand. Though there is also an online portal for government entities to buy therefrom, which is supported by the Union government, not all State governments subscribe to such online purchase methods, the judges said. The court also took cognisance of the report filed by the Director of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption that stated that factual verifications disclosed that the allegations were vague, exaggerated and bald in nature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-advises-petitioner-to-exercise-extreme-restraint/article37350005.ece
06 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Fire calls minimal in southern T.N.’||On the eve of Deepavali, (November 3rd night), there were no fire calls from the public and on November 4th night only three calls from the entire southern region comprising nine districts were received, said Deputy Director of Fire and Rescue Services N. Vijaykumar here on Friday. Ahead of Deepavali celebrations this year, the Fire & Rescue Services personnel had organised 341 awareness programmes and demonstrations across the nine districts over the last 15 days. There are 83 fire stations in south Tamil Nadu which comprises Madurai, Theni, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Thoothukudi, Palayamkottai (Tirunelveli), Nagercoil (Kanniyakumari) and Tenkasi district. With 28 fire tenders, nine District Fire Officers, 12 ADFOs and 78 Station Fire Officers and 1,252 personnel, the department created awareness and educated residents about safe methods of bursting crackers and fireworks. Apart from mock drills held in educational institutions, the fire and rescue service personnel conducted demonstrations in market places, bus stands and railway stations. Pamphlets were distributed through volunteers and the fire control room number was popularised among the public, Mr. Vijaykumar told The Hindu . The objective of the fire and rescue department was to prevent fire in any form and a proactive approach of positioning the fire tenders at vantage locations helped in reaching out to the spot swiftly. Whenever there were calls, the coordination among officers and the personnel including the communication was quick, he pointed out. This season, he said, there were only three calls regarding fire incidents, which too were minor. The personnel immediately reached and put out the fire. In all the three incidents, thatched roofs caught fire after rockets had fallen on them. Out of the 809 applications received for setting up cracker shops in southern Tamil Nadu, 672 were given licences and the rest were rejected, Mr Vijaykumar added.  Thatched roofs caught fire after rockets had fallen on them in all the three incidents. N. Vijaykumar Deputy Director of Fire and Rescue Services||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-calls-minimal-in-southern-tn/article37350023.ece
06 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||A math teacher unfazed by the serpentine challenge||As a mathematics teacher, N. Sivan Pandiyan, 37, inspires a love for numbers and innovates techniques to get his students to answer any challenging question. But it is his self-trained ability to rescue snakes that fascinates his students more. “Your skills matter in both; it takes acute observation, razor-sharp brain, quick reflexes and solution,” he says. At 22, he instinctively rescued a rat snake in his brother’s house. The maiden success put him on a high and he began reading extensively to learn more. Between 2006 and now, he has been on emergency calls and helped over 7,000 snakes return to their wild habitation. And is still counting. His claim is supported by the Forest Office in Madurai, where he is registered as a certified snake rescuer. He has caught cobras, common krait, Russell’s viper, besides several non-poisonous snakes, and released them in the forests of Alagar Koil, Pasumalai, Nagamalai Pudukkottai, depending on the area from where the snake was secured. On an average, he receives 8-10 calls a day. With good rain during the two years of the COVID-19 pandemic, the call load increased to 12-14. With a snake hook, a cotton cloth bag, one-foot PVC pipe and innate confidence, Mr. Siva Pandiyan zooms off on his bike any time of the day and night. “As a child, I was scared of snakes; They were often sighted in our house at the Pasumalai foothills. My family members many times beat them to death. That disturbed me,” he says. The first reaction on spotting a snake is fear and the first instinct is to kill. After each rescue mission, he spends time explaining to the gathered crowd how to identify venomous snakes (only 2% of the 300 species found in India are poisonous). His maths classes begin with an ode to snakes, which, he tells his students, are equally scared to be out of their natural habitat and are compelled to encroach into the places where we live because of deforestation; they come out during monsoons in search of frogs and rats; are farmer’s friend as they can control the rodent population. In the pre-pandemic days, he regularly addressed college environment clubs on how to mitigate snake-man conflicts. He plans to publish free pamphlets on the importance of conserving snakes for a healthy ecosystem. “I do not charge money for my services; some residents pay me a token amount for petrol.” His love for snakes cost him his school teacher’s job in 2019. When he saw a viper in the bathroom, he quietly took it to the nearby dense area, missing his next class. He did not tell anybody thinking it would create a scare. During questioning, the truth came out and the administration, instead of appreciating, asked him to leave as it did not want the information to be leaked. Mr. Sivan Pandiyan takes tuitions now. Snakes continue to intrigue him. He rarely misses shows on wildlife channels. “They are the most peace-loving creatures and will not harm you, unless you harm them,” he says. “My daily yoga helps me remain calm. I maintain eye-contact and even talk to the snakes.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-maths-teacher-squares-up-to-a-serpentine-challenge/article37349889.ece
06 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||New set of judges for HC Bench||A new set of High Court judges will preside over court proceedings in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court from November 8. Justice T. Raja will be the administrative judge for the next three months. A Division Bench of Justices T. Raja and P. Velmurugan will hear public interest litigation petitions and writ appeals from 2018. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran will hear habeas corpus petitions, criminal appeals and writ appeals up to 2017. Justice M. Sundar will hear petitions relating to tax, customs and Central excise, prohibition and State excise, forest, industries and HR & CE. Justice J. Nisha Banu will hear second appeals from 2006 to 2010. Justice Anita Sumanth will hear petitions relating to labour and service of 2018 and 2019. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan will hear petitions relating to general miscellaneous, mines and minerals, land reforms, land acquisition and other land laws. Justice V. Bhavani Subbaroyan will hear second appeals from 2011. Justice G.R. Swaminathan will hear criminal original petitions from 2021. Justice R. Tharani will hear criminal appeals. Justice P.T. Asha will hear civil revision petitions, transfer civil miscellaneous petitions and company appeals, Justice B. Pugalendhi will hear petitions relating to labour and service from 2020. Justice G. Ilangovan will hear criminal original petitions up to 2019 and CBI related cases. Justice S. Ananthi will hear civil miscellaneous appeals, civil miscellaneous second appeal and first appeals. Justice K. Murali Shankar will hear anticipatory bail petitions, bail petitions and criminal original petitions of 2020. Justice S. Srimathy will hear petitions relating to labour and service up to 2017 and Justice R. Vijayakumar will hear second appeals up to 2005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-set-of-judges-for-hc-bench/article37350027.ece
06 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Girl students honoured||Three girl students - R. Priyanka, A. G. Deepasri and S. Ashikarani – were honoured by Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan recenlty. They were honoured for achieving top score in the NEET examination among Corporation school students. According to a press release from the Corporation, from about 15 higher secondary schools in Madurai Corporation, 54 students had taken the NEET examination. Of these students, 26 had passed. The top three girl students are from Avvai Girls Higher Secondary School and EVR Corporation Girls HSS. They scored 414, 301 and 351 marks respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-girl-students-honoured/article37350021.ece
06 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Anticipatory bail granted to main accused in illegal sand quarrying case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has granted anticipatory bail to Manuvel George, a resident of Kerala, the main accused in the Tirunelveli illegal sand quarrying case. The CB-CID is investigating the case. Justice B. Pugalendhi granted anticipatory bail with conditions to Manuvel George after taking into account the fact that the accused had agreed to deposit a sum of Rs. 15 lakh before the court concerned and cooperate in the inquiry. The court had granted him interim anticipatory bail last month after he submitted that he would appear before the CB-CID officials regularly for inquiry. The court directed him to cooperate with the officials in the inquiry. The court also granted anticipatory bail with conditions to five others in the case. Earlier, a Division Bench of the High Court took a serious view of the illegal sand quarrying and transferred the investigation to the CB-CID. The court took note of the fact that government officials from various departments were involved and had facilitated the illegal sand quarrying. Manuvel George was granted licence for storing and processing rough stone, m-sand, gravel and crusher dust in Kallidaikurichi, Ambasamudram in Tirunelveli district. But, he instead indulged in illegal sand quarrying in the adjacent lands, including the Vandala Odai dam. The Tahsildar of Ambasamudram had inspected the site and the illegal activities were brought to light. The Sub-Collector of Cheranmahadevi also inspected the site and after it was ascertained that illegal sand quarrying was taking place, Manuvel George was imposed a penalty of Rs. 9.5 crore for the offence. He had misused the licence granted to him. While transferring the case to the CB-CID, the court had observed that with the connivance of the local revenue and police officials, Manuvel George had illegally transported sand to Kerala for commercial purposes. The court directed the CB-CID to complete the investigation in the case as expeditiously as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anticipatory-bail-granted-to-main-accused-in-illegal-sand-quarrying-case/article37350018.ece
06 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC confirms life term imposed on man for murdering son||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has confirmed the life sentence imposed on a man by the trial court in Tirunelveli for the murder of his four-year-old son in 2012. The man had committed the crime as he thought that his wife was more affectionate to the child and was neglecting him. A Division Bench of Justices V. Bharathidasan and R. Pongiappan upheld the life sentence imposed on Krishna alias David by the I Additional District and Sessions Judge, Tirunelveli, and dismissed the criminal appeal filed by him. The man attacked the child with a billhook, causing the death of his son. The advocate for the petitioner submitted that the man was suffering from mental health issues. However, the State submitted that there was no material available on record to show that at the time of the occurrence the man was suffering from mental health issues. The court took note of the fact that on the day of the occurrence, the man had verbally abused his wife and took their child with him. Subsequently, he attacked the child and criminally intimidated the people who tried to catch him, including his wife. The grievance of the man was that his wife was not affectionate to him and was not taking care of him. There was also a quarrel between the couple before the occurrence. Apart from this, there was no serious dispute between the couple. Taking note of the fact that there was no material on record to show that at the time of the occurrence, the man was suffering from mental health issues and relying on medical records the court observed that the man cannot claim any benefit under Section 84 (Act of a person of unsound mind) of IPC. As already held, the man had committed the offence out of extreme anger and not as a result of unsound mind. The court said that it was of the considered view that the man failed to prove that at the time of the occurrence, he was suffering from mental illness and that he had committed the crime without knowing the nature of the act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-confirms-life-term-imposed-on-man-for-murdering-son/article37350017.ece
06 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||No drinking water supply in some wards in city||Following replacement of wornout iron and steel pipes, drinking water distribution would be suspended for one day on Saturday in some of the wards in Madurai city, according to Commissioner K P Karthikeyan. In a press release here, he said that it had been proposed to replace wornout pipes after complaints came in about leakage and bursts near Arapalayam (Amma bridge) and near Sundararajapuram overhead tank. To attend the works, the Corporation had planned to mobilise technicians and supervisors to get the job completed within a day. During the repair work, the supply had to be suspended and alternative arrangements were being examined by the authorities concerned, Mr Karthikeyan said. The wards which may not get drinking water through taps on Saturday are as follows: Wards (6 to 9), 27, 33-47 in Madurai northern side, which include Aruldosspuram, Thathaneri, Sellur, Meenakshipuram, Kulamangalam Road, Goripalayam, Race Course Colony, DRO Colony, P and T Nagar, B B Kulam, Narimedu, K Pudur, Madhichiyam, Karumbalai and surrounding pockets. In the southern side of the city, Wards 19, 28, 63, 64, 77 and 88-93 comprising HMS Colony, Veeratipathu, Ponmeni, Sammatipuram, Sundararajapuram, Jaihindpuram, TVS Nagar, Muthupatti, Alagappan Nagar, Keerathurai and Villapuram may be affected during the day, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-drinking-water-supply-in-some-wards-in-city/article37350196.ece
06 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Friday stood at 138.80 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 feet) with an inflow of 6,117 cusecs and a discharge of 2,118 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 64.67 ft. (71 feet) with an inflow of 4,175 cusecs and a discharge of 1,369 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 9,433 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37350030.ece
06 November 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||No public darshan for three rituals in temple at Sikkal||The district administration has announced that devotees would not be allowed to have darshan during the three main rituals of the 10-day Kanda Sashti festival to be held from November 4 at Sri Navaneetheswarar Swamy Temple, also known as Sikkal Singarvelar Temple, at Sikkal in the district, apparently to check the spread of COVID 19. Devotees would not be allowed to participate in ‘Sakthivel Vangum’ and ‘Viyarvai Sinthum Katchi’ scheduled to be held on November 8, the ‘soorasamharam’ the next day and the ‘thirukalyanam’ on November 10, Collector A. Arun Thamburaj said in a press release. All the three events would be live streamed onhttps://www.youtube.com /templelivestreamandwww.hrce.tn.gov.in On other days of the festival, devotees would be allowed to have darshan at the temple. Devotees should adhere to personal distancing norms and wear face masks while queuing up for darshan, he said and urged people to extend their cooperation to the temple authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-public-darshan-for-three-rituals-in-temple-at-sikkal/article37350013.ece
06 November 2021||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||19 persons rescued||Nineteen persons, who were stranded in River Cauvery at Jedarpalayam Dam due to flash floods caused by heavy rain, were rescued on Friday. Six persons from Karur, five from Erode and eight persons from Puduchatram, including women and girls, were taking bath in the river. Due to an increase in water flow, they could not return to the river bed. Fire and Rescue Services Department in Tiruchengode and Namakkal were alerted and all of them were rescued using coracles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-rescued/article37350020.ece
06 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||After revision, petrol and diesel prices drop in Puducherry||Within hours of the Union Government having cut excise duty on petrol and diesel, the Puducherry Government reduced the VAT on petroleum products to further extend the relief. The Union Government had cut excise duty on petrol by Rs. 5 a litre and diesel by Rs. 10 a litre and called on the States to lower the VAT to pass on more relief to consumers. On Thursday, the Puducherry Government announced a significant cut in the VAT that brought down the price of petrol by Rs. 12 a litre and diesel by Rs. 19. After the revision, a litre of petrol is the cheapest in Mahe, at Rs. 92.52, while the extent of the net decrease is the highest in Yanam, at Rs. 12.88. The price of diesel is the lowest in Mahe, at Rs. 80.94. It is in the Rs. 83 price band elsewhere — the range of variation is the highest in Yanam, at Rs. 19.11. Chief Minister N. Rangasamy said in a press note that the AINRC-led NDA Government took an immediate decision to lower the VAT after the Union Government cut excise duty on petrol and diesel. He hoped the reduction would benefit members of the public, farmers, industrialists and the transport sector. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said in a release that the file relating to the reduction in the VAT was cleared on a priority basis, and the reduced price had come into immediate effect in the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-revision-petrol-and-diesel-prices-drop-in-puducherry/article37350238.ece
06 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tax on fuel reduced out of fear of losing polls: Congress MP||Puducherry Member of Parliament V.Vaithilingam on Friday said the Union government was forced to cut fuel tax out of fear of losing the upcoming Assembly elections in several States. In a statement, he said the BJP lost several seats in the recently held by-elections. The result had forced the Centre to reduce fuel tax out of fear of losing the elections scheduled to be held next year, he added. Despite the cut, the anger against the Union government will be reflected in the coming Assembly polls, he added. He charged that the All India NR Congress-led National Democratic Alliance government in the Union Territory also feared an electoral setback and was, therefore, not holding the civic elections. The government did not take adequate steps to hold the local body polls due to fear, he alleged. He also demanded holding of caste-wise survey without any delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tax-on-fuel-reduced-out-of-fear-of-losing-polls-congress-mp/article37350243.ece
06 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry is the best-governed U.T., says PAI report||Puducherry has emerged as the best-governed Union Territory in the sixth edition of the Public Affairs Index (PAI 2021) report of the Public Affairs Centre (PAC), a non-profit think-tank, based in Bengaluru. Puducherry notched up a score of 1.345 on an assessment across a range of parameters and led the pack of Union Territories for the second successive year, according to the PAI 2021. Among the six Union Territories, only Puducherry and Jammu & Kashmir obtained positive scores while the remaining four obtained a negative score. Sustainable development The independent and evidence-based study using only Central government data available in the public domain, looked at governance performance in the context of sustainable development defined by three pillars – equity, growth and sustainability, five themes, 14 sustainable development goals and 43 indicators. The index also took into consideration the administration’s response to the pandemic. The PAI heat map also showed that Puducherry topped in equity, growth and sustainability. “Puducherry maintains its 1st rank as last year, followed by Dadra Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu. The poor performers are: Chandigarh at 5th rank and Andaman and Nicobar Islands at 6th. Puducherry with a higher positive correlation coefficient dominates the rankings...,” the report said. On the sustainability front, the report observed that in order for States and Union Territories to attain holistic development, they need to ensure ease of living through keeping in check the pollution levels and should not ignore the factor of cleanliness through solid waste management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-is-the-best-governed-ut-says-pai-report/article37350245.ece
06 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK seeks steps to reduce prices of essential commodities||AIADMK Puducherry secretary (East) A. Anbalagan has urged the Puducherry government to take steps to bring down prices of essential commodities and transport fare in the wake of cut in fuel tax. In a statement, he said following the reduction in excise duty on petrol and diesel by the Union government, the territorial administration has reduced the Value Added Tax to benefit the consumers. After the significant reduction in tax, the prices of petrol and diesel have come down drastically. The territorial administration should now intervene to reduce the prices of essential commodities to pass on the benefits to consumers, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-seeks-steps-to-reduce-prices-of-essential-commodities/article37350241.ece
06 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records one death, 11 new COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death and 11 new cases from about 850 tests on Friday. Mahe reported the fatality to take the cumulative toll to 1,861. The toll by region is: Puducherry (1,456), Karaikal (250), Yanam (107) and Mahe (48). Puducherry logged three of the new cases, which were detected from 848 tests, followed by Karaikal (2) and Mahe (6). No new case was reported in Yanam. The test positivity rate was 1.30%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.30%. With 40 patients recovering from the disease in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 320. The Union Territory has to date recorded 1,28,145 cases against 1,25,964 patients recovered. Of an estimated 19.28 lakh tests conducted so far, over 16.30 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 175 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-one-death-11-new-covid-19-cases/article37350244.ece
06 November 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen reach home||Two fishermen of the district, who were arrested by the Sri Lankan Navy last month on the charge of crossing the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL), returned home in the early hours on Friday after being freed by the Sri Lankan government. Suganthan (23) and Arockia Xavier (32) ventured into the sea for fishing along with Rajkiran (30) in a mechanised vessel on October 18. When they were fishing close to the IMBL near Katchatheevu, a Sri Lankan patrol vessel intercepted their boat. The boat collided with the Sri Lankan vessel in which Rajkiran fell into the sea and died. The body of Rajkiran was subsequently found and later repatriated to Kottaipattinam a few days after the incident. Suganthan and Arockia Xavier were detained by the Sri Lankan Navy on the charge of crossing the IMBL and subsequently arrested. Coastal Security Group sources said Suganthan and Arockia Xavier were freed by the Sri Lankan government authorities and were sent to Chennai from Colombo by a flight in the early hours on Thursday. After landing in Chennai, the fishermen came by bus to Pattukottai where they were received by the Fisheries Department officials. Thereafter, they were brought back home in the early hours on Friday, said a an official. While Suganthan hails from Kottaipattinam, Arockia Xavier is from Rettaiyalam near Kottaipattinam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-reach-home/article37350003.ece
06 November 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Spectator gored to death in ‘manjuvirattu’||A spectator died after being gored by a bull during an illegally-held 'manjuvirattu' at Virachilai on Friday. Police identified the deceased as G. Karuppaiah, 52. During the manjuvirattu, bulls are released to have a free run. The event was held at Thaneer Pandal Thidal without obtaining permission from the police and revenue authorities. The event conducted in connection with Deepavali festival started at around 10 a.m. and came to a close around 2 p.m. Police said Karuppaiah of Parali was watching the event when a bull gored him. He was rushed to Primary Health Centre where the doctors declared him dead. The body was sent to Tirumayam Government Hospital. Acting on a complaint from a Village Administrative Officer, the Panayapatti police registered a case under IPC sections, including 143 (unlawful assembly) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), besides under section 11 (1) (d) of The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and section 7 of the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Jallikattu Act, 2009. The police have cited 10 persons of Virachilai as accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spectator-gored-to-death-in-manjuvirattu-near-pudukottai/article37350004.ece
06 November 2021||Rameswaram,TAMIL NADU||Deepavali: ‘CM should apologise to people for not greeting them’||Demanding an apology from Chief Minister M. K. Stalin, Union Minister L. Murugan said on Friday that by not greeting the people on Deepavali, the CM was practising a modern form of ‘untouchability’. Mr. Murugan told reporters that when millions of people celebrated Deepavali, signifying the end of evil forces, the CM should have greeted the people on the occasion. “Though, Mr Stalin had greeted people celebrating other festivals, he did not greet the Hindus, for whom Deepavali was an important event,” he said and demanded an explanation. The BJP leader was here in Rameswaram to participate in the live streaming of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s function held at Kedarnath. Since Rameswaram was one of the important pilgrim spots in the country, the programme was being telecast live here. The PM, he said, had dedicated the 12-feet tall Adi Shankara statue that was washed during the 2013 floods. Thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for reducing the excise duty on petrol by Rs. 5 per litre and on diesel Rs. 10 per litre, Mr. Murugan hoped the T.N. government would reduce the VAT on petroleum products as promised in their poll manifesto. Already, the BJP ruled States in the country had reduced prices and in some States diesel was less by Rs. 19 per litre. “The full benefit should reach the consumers and this will help the economy to a great extent,” Mr Murugan said. He said that the Union government was fully aware of the issues faced by fishermen and explained that prior to the BJP government taking over in 2014, over 600 fishermen had died. However, it had been a thing of the past now under the leadership of Mr Modi. “All the issues would be sorted out for the fishermen,” he added. BJP MLA Nainar Nagendran, district president Muralidharan and other functionaries were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-should-apologise-for-not-greeting-people-on-deepavali-l-murugan/article37349936.ece
06 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle movement hit on Yercaud-Kuppanur ghat road||Following landslip at many places on Yercaud – Kuppanur ghat road, vehicle movement on the stretch was disrupted on Friday. Heavy rain in Shevaroyan Hills led to landslip on the 17.4-km ghat road, leading to boulders and trees falling on the road at over five spots. Boulders covered the road fully at many places while many trees were uprooted. District Collector S. Karmegam inspected the landslip sites and asked the officials from Public Works Department, Highways Department and Revenue Department to immediately deploy earthmovers and complete the works on a war footing. Officials said vehicle movement on the stretch was completely banned and vehicles were diverted through Hasthampatti – Kondappanaickenpatti Yercaud Main Road to reach Yercaud. Meanwhile, rain in Shevaroyan Hills led to flooding in River Thirumanimutharu that forms in Manjavadi in the hill and flows through the city and other places in the district before confluences with River Cauvery at Nanjai Edayar in Namakkal district. It flows for 55 km in Salem. Likewise, boulders and trees fell on Dhimbam Ghat Road in Erode district affecting the movement of heavy vehicles for two hours. Landslip occurred at two places near the 27th hairpin bend. The Hasanur police along with National Highways Authority of India officials cleared the boulders using earthmovers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicle-movement-hit-on-yercaud-kuppanur-ghat-road/article37350036.ece
06 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Water level nearing 114 ft. in Mettur Dam||Water level at Stanley Reservoir in Mettur Dam is nearing 114 feet against the full reservoir level of 120 feet on Friday. Inflow Officials of the Public Works Department said that at 8 a.m., the inflow stood at 11,772 cusecs and the discharge was 500 cusecs into the canal and 100 cusecs into River Cauvery. The water level stood at 113.59 feet while the storage was 83.61 tmc ft against the capacity of 93.50 tmc ft. Rainfall recorded in the area was 3.80 mm. Bhavanisagar Dam At Bhavanisagar Dam in Erode district, the inflow was 4,922 cusecs while the discharge was 500 cusecs into the Arakkankottai - Thadappalli canals. At 8 a.m., the water level stood at 102.78 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet while the storage was 30.95 tmc ft against the capacity of 32.80 tmc ft. Rainfall in the area was 7.8 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-nearing-114-ft-in-mettur-dam/article37350049.ece
06 November 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Temporary shelters put up to protect harvested paddy||A group of farmers in Melauloor near here put up temporary sheds to safeguard their produce from getting fully wet in rain. Inquiries reveal that the around 90% of the ‘kuruvai’ paddy raised by Melauloor farmers on 3,000 acres in the area was harvested and brought to the Melauloor direct purchase centre for measuring during the last fortnight. As the procurement process got delayed due to the ‘stringent’ adherence of the moisture content rule, farmers were forced to stock their produce in open and dry the same before measuring it in the DPC. In the meantime, the incessant rain posed a threat to the safety of the produce. Though this measure had saved the grain from getting wet directly in the rain, the moisture level in the grains continue to remain above 17% in view of the inclement weather conditions, said R. Mathizhagan of Melauloor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-put-up-temporary-sheds-to-protect-harvested-paddy/article37350009.ece
06 November 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Cases booked for bursting crackers beyond stipulated time||Dindigul SP V. R. Srinivasan said that they had registered 233 cases against 246 people for violating the Supreme Court directive on bursting firecrackers. The Supreme Court had permitted bursting of crackers only between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. and between 7 p.m. and 8 The special teams had registered cases against the violators. Similarly, the police, based on the CCTV camera images, had booked 190 cases and arrested 33 persons so far on charges of unruly behaviour and rash/negligent driving on the Thevar Jayanthi day (October 30). As per the directions of IGP (south zone) T. S. Anbu, the police had booked them for dangerous driving and among other IPC Sections. More arrests were likely, the police said. Thoothukudi At least 97 people were booked for bursting crackers beyond the stipulated timings by the Tamil Nadu government in Thoothukudi district on Deepavali day. While a majority of the people obeyed the diktat, surveillance by the police showed that 97 people across different sub-divisions in Thoothukudi had violated the order, said SP Jeyakumar on Friday and added that they were let off after a warning by the Inspectors of Police concerned. Similarly, 169 motorists, including four-wheeler drivers were caught for drunken driving. The special teams arrested 20 people for selling liquor illegally and 110 bottles were seized from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/233-cases-booked-in-dindigul-for-bursting-firecrackers-beyond-stipulated-time/article37350025.ece
06 November 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||DMK functionary and five others held for assaulting Circuit House staff||A DMK functionary and five others were booked for assaulting a Circuit House staff on Friday. The Thoothukudi Thenbagam police registered cases under IPC Sections 147, 148, 294 b, 324, 332, 506 (2) and 510 among others against Billa Jagan (44) son of Jesu of Chinna Kadai Street and others on charges of assaulting and abusing Sadam Sait (29) son of Nazar, who was working in the Circuit House here. Following a complaint from Sadam Sait, the police conducted inquiry. It was said that Billa Jagan, a state DMK functionary and actor Vijay fans association district president, had reportedly visited the government premises with his friends and shouted at Sait. Some of them were in an inebriated mood. According to the police, Sait had asked them to vacate the campus, which resulted in a war of words. In the melee, some of Billa Jagan’s friends assaulted him. He was admitted to Thoothukudi Government Hospital. A senior officer said that Billa Jagan was a supporter of Minister Anita Radhakrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mman-five-others-held-for-assaulting-circuit-house-staff/article37350019.ece
06 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Rs. 23.60-cr. scholarships given to 8,576 students with disabilities’||Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment A. Narayanaswamy on Tuesday said that the Centre had provided scholarships worth Rs. 23.60 crore to 8,576 students with disabilities in Tamil Nadu. Under the National Action Plan for Skill Development Training, a total number of 3,955 persons with disabilities in Tamil Nadu had been trained at a cost of Rs. 4.89 crore. Distributing aids and assistive devices to persons with disabilities under the Assistance to Disabled Persons for Purchase / Fitting of aids and appliances Scheme of the Union Government at Thanjavur, Mr. Narayanaswamy said his Ministry was implementing various schemes for the welfare of the persons with disabilities in the country. Aids and assistance devices worth Rs. 42. 84 crore have been distributed to 0.92 lakh persons with disabilities in Tamil Nadu alone by organising 410 camps. About 3.93 lakh Unique Disability Identity Cards had been issued for persons with disabilities in Tamil Nadu, he said. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi cochlear implant surgeries had been conducted to enable hearing impaired children since 2014. As many as 3,788 surgeries were conducted for cochlear implants by empanelled hospitals across the country, Mr. Narayanaswamy said. He assured that his Ministry would work for the uplift of vulnerable sections of the society . Mr. Narayanaswamy and Union Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting and Fisheries L. Murugan distributed aids and assistive devices to few persons with disabilities on the occasion. A total number of 1,705 beneficiaries would be provided with 3,270 number of assistive appliances by organising a series of camps at the block level in Thanjavur district. District Collector Dinesh Oliver Ponraj presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-2360-cr-scholarships-given-to-8576-students-with-disabilities/article37350002.ece
06 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rain-damaged roads, a threat to motorists||The poor condition of many city roads, with just a week into the north-east monsoon season, seems to hold ominous forebodings for road users in the city. Some of city roads have already taken a beating much to the chagrin of motorists. Potholes have cropped up on roads maintained by the Corporation and the Highways Department as well. Even roads which were re-laid a few months ago have suffered damages, exposing the quality of work. A case in point is Sivaprakasam Salai, which was among the roads re-laid. The road had developed extensive damage even during the south-west monsoon rain and the contractor was asked to carry out repairs. But potholes have now emerged even on the stretches where the patchworks were carried out, especially in front of the Corporation’s Science Park. Anna Nagar Link Road, one of the arterial roads laid to good standards, too has suffered damages near the sharp turn near the District Court Campus where it joins Bharathidasan Salai. Damages to the Collectorate on the Collector’s Office Road, Rockins Road leading to the Railway Junction, the service lanes beneath the yet-to-be opened road overbridge near the Railway Junction, and other parts stand out as examples of condition city roads. In many other places, the top layer of the roads have been eroded leaving blue metal strewn around. This often results in skidding of vehicles, especially two wheelers, at the spots. Thanjavur Road, which is under the maintenance of the Highways Department, has developed big potholes near the Soolakarai Mariamman Temple, near the Mahalakshmi Road and the Varaganeri Bazaar intersections, says K.Ramachandran, a city resident. “The potholes were filled up temporarily with gravel, but that too had come off,” he said. He points to the poor road condition of the stretch of the road between Cholan Nagar and Pirattiyur on the Dindigul Highway and urged the authorities to take immediate steps to repair the damaged stretches. In many of these roads, the absence of a proper system for draining rainwater is apparently causing the damages to the bitumen surfaces. “The civic body had invested heavily in building storm water drains and drainages, but the structures do not seem to have served the purpose. Water can be seen stagnating at many roads in Thillai Nagar and other places,” observes N.Jamaluddinn, another city resident. Residents in several resident colonies, especially in places such as Kattur where the underground sewer lines were laid recently, have been crying hoarse over the pathetic condition of interior roads. The “deplorable condition” of the interior roads has been highlighted repeatedly in social media posts and memes in recent months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-damaged-roads-pose-threat/article37350012.ece
06 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BJP to stage protest over dam issue||The BJP on Friday accused the State government of entering into a “secret deal” with the Kerala government on the Mullaperiyar dam issue and called for a protest on Monday to condemn the recent opening of the dam’s shutters when the water level was just 136 feet. Party cadre will hold a demonstration and lay siege to the Theni Collector’s Office, its State president K. Annamalai said in Srirangam. He said the State government had given permission orally for the opening of the shutters, and demanded that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin come clean on the “secret deal” with the Kerala government. Only Tamil Nadu has the authority to open the shutters of the dam. But the Kerala Revenue and Water Resources Ministers opened its shutters, he said. Whenever the shutters were opened in the past, the Theni Collector and a Tamil Nadu Minister were present. But that was not the case this time. The DMK and its allies, including the Communists, have “betrayed” the interests of farmers from five districts, he said. The inspection of the dam by Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan on Friday was akin to “performing surya namaskar after one had turned blind,” he said. After giving up Tamil Nadu’s rights, the Minister is now visiting the dam to give lame reasons, Mr. Annamalai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-to-stage-protest-over-dam-issue/article37349883.ece
06 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dip in COVID 19 cases in central region||The Central region on Friday saw a substantial drop in the number of fresh COVID 19 cases with 114 persons testing positive for the virus. Two of the nine districts, Perambalur and Mayiladuthurai, in the region reported no new cases. On Wednesday, the region had reported 148 fresh cases. The number of deaths also seemed to be on the decline with three persons, one each from Karur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts, succumbing to the infection in the region, as per the bulletin of the State Health Department. Though the number of fresh cases was coming down gradually in the district, Thanjavur had the most number of cases in the region with 33 persons testing positive. Tiruchi had 29 fresh cases, Karur 20, Tiruvarur 19 and Nagapattinam 10. Ariyalur reported two fresh cases and Pudukottai 1. Thanjavur continued to have the most number of active cases in the region with 444 patients under treatment, including home treatment. Tiruchi had 407 active cases followed by Tiruvarur with 247 active cases, Karur 228, Nagapattinam 147, Pudukottai 112, Ariyalur 45, Mayiladuthurai 42 and Perambalur 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dip-in-covid-19-cases-in-central-region/article37350014.ece
06 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam was 136.30 feet (143 feet max level) with an inflow of 1,504.95 cusecs and a discharge of 1,368.50 cusecs. The water level in Manimuthar dam was 84.20 feet (118 ft max level) with an inflow of 624 cusecs and a discharge of 10 cusecs. The rainfall (in mm) during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Friday was as follows: Servalaru: 7, Manimutharu: 5.4, Kodumudiyar: 10, Ambasamudram: 3, Cheranmahadevi: 27, Nanguneri: 18, Kalakkad: 52.2, Moolakaraipatti: 52, Palayamkottai: 4 and Nellai: 10 mm, PWD officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37350288.ece
06 November 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Availability of highly toxic pesticides, a cause for concern||Availability of highly toxic pesticides in Tamil Nadu has become a cause for concern among the farmers and like-minded organisations espousing organic farming. The concept organic farming, which was in vogue in the State prior to the “green revolution,” gained grounds, thanks to the efforts made by the late Namalvar and ‘Nel’ Jayaraman to popularise the traditional crop varieties. Their perseverance paid off as a large number of farmers in different parts of the State turned towards organic farming methods and started cultivating traditional varieties such as “Mappillai Samba”, “Karuppu Kouni” among others. The nutritious values of traditional varieties raised through organic farming did attract the health conscious consumers resulting in the upward market trend for these products, according to P. Duraisingam, Chairman, Consumer Research, Education, Action, Training and Empowerment (CREATE). Joining hands with farmers having a flair for organic farming and revival of traditional paddy varieties, the organisation started conducting annual ‘Nel Thiruvizha’ (paddy festival) during the last decade. Claiming that there was a growing awareness towards ecological methods of agriculture and demand for safe and nutritious food among the consumers, he regretted that the State did not have a clear organic farming policy or a roadmap to achieve the status of organic farming State like Kerala, Sikkim and others. Thus, the CREATE, which is also spearheading the ‘save our rice’ campaign, proposed the following recommendations to achieve the status of Organic Tamil Nadu, he added. The first and foremost among them is to forbid the usage of highly poisonous and high-level toxic pesticides in agriculture activities as 27 highly toxic pesticides though banned by the Union Government are freely available in the market through illegal ways. In order to enhance the availability of traditional paddy variety seeds, the Government Seed Farms hitherto involved in seed production of hybrid varieties should be encouraged to diversify into traditional paddy variety seed production. Revival of diverse livestock breeds according to each agroclimatic zones should also be considered since organic manures like ‘panchakavya’, ‘amirtha karaisal’, ‘jeevamirtha’ and others are more effective if indigenous cow breeds’ urine and dung are used in the organic manure preparations, Dr. Duraisingam added. Stressing the need for the formulation of a State Policy for Organic Agriculture and setting up a roadmap for five years to phase out the deadly chemical usage in farming activities, he said children were more vulnerable to the harmful effects of pesticides than adults. He claimed that rural children were at higher risk since they live close to the agriculture zones and fields where chemical pesticides were widely used. Hence, it would be apt to declare agriculture fields located in the radius of dwelling areas and schools in rural areas as “pesticide-free zones”, he added. Inclusion of traditional paddy varieties and millets in the nutritious meal programme, in the diet served to in-patients at government hospitals, in educational institution canteens was also recommended by the organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/availability-of-highly-toxic-pesticides-a-cause-for-concern/article37350006.ece
06 November 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Steps being taken to drain rainwater from paddy fields||The Agriculture and Public Works Departments have in coordination with the Revenue Department initiated steps to drain the rainwater stagnated on 16,000 acres of agriculture fields in Tiruvarur district. According to official sources, the ‘samba’ and ‘thaladi’ crop submerged in rainwater in several parts of the district due the incessant rains during the last few days. The village administrative officers were directed to assess the damage caused to the transplanted crop. Initial assessments revealed that 16,000 acres was affected. While steps were initiated to get the stagnant water drained, the exact damage could be ascertained after the completion of the assessment, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-being-taken-to-drain-rainwater-from-paddy-fields/article37350007.ece
06 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Various factors pose a threat to migratory birds in Ooty Lake||While the Ooty Lake remains a jewel in the crown of the Nilgiris, unregulated tourism, pollution and fishing nets pose a threat to the huge array of migrating birds to the high-altitude lake. In a recent paper, researchers and wildlife biologists, N. Moinudheen, Samson Arockianathan and M.S. Sarath Kumar, studied the “Occurrence of migrating water birds and risks of Ooty Lake in Nilgiris, Western Ghats, India.” The researchers have recorded more than 18 species of water birds, both resident and migratory in the Ooty Lake. They include the Anas acuta (Northern pintail), Anas clypeata (Northern shoveler), Anas querquedula (garganey), and Anastomus oscitans (Asian open bill). While the garganey and the other species are seasonal migrants to the high-altitude lake, there are many species which are commonly spotted, Mr. Moinudheen told The Hindu . These include the Indian spot-billed duck ( Anas poecilorhyncha ), common moorhen ( Gallinula chloropus ), common coot ( Fulica atra ), greater cormorant ( Phalacrocorax carbo) , little greb ( Tachybaptus ruficollis ), pond heron ( Ardeola grayii ), common kingfisher ( Alcedo atthis ), white-throated kingfisher ( Halcyon smyrnensis ), little egret ( Egretta garzetta ), common sandpiper ( Actitis hypoleucos ), as well as the red-wattled lapwing ( Vanellus indicus ), wood sandpiper ( Tringa glareola), and green sandpiper ( Tringa ochropus ), all winter visitors to the lake. The researchers found that species richness and bird abundance increased with shoreline length and wetland size. The researchers have identified a number of threats that could be impacting bird life in the lake, including pollution, unregulated fishing using nylon nets and also disturbance caused by boating and tourism in the lake. “There is a sewage treatment plant at one end of the lake. However, it does not seem to function regularly, meaning untreated sewage from the entirety of Udhagamandalam town makes its way into the lake,” said Mr. Moinudheen, who added that plastic waste from the town also makes its way into the lake, posing another threat to the birds. He said that with the usage of nylon nets for fishing by local residents, there was a high chance that certain bird species could get trapped in them and die. Incidentally, the study also found that the number of birds using the lake increased slightly during the COVID-19 lockdown, when tourism had been stopped in the lake, hinting that high amounts of tourist traffic was also driving away birds from using the water body. “With the push toward eco-tourism in the district, efforts should be undertaken to clean up the plastic waste and the sewage flowing into the lake,” Mr. Moinudheen said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/various-factors-pose-a-threat-to-migratory-birds-in-ooty-lake/article37349950.ece
06 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Former AIADMK MP booked||Former Nilgiris MP C. Gopalakrishnan was booked for criminal intimidation and uttering obscenities after a video of him, naked, began circulating on social media and mobile messaging apps on Thursday. Police said that Mr. Gopalakrishnan had gone to the house of his relatives on Wednesday. An argument is said to have broken out between him and his relatives. Mr. Gopalakrishnan, belonging to the AIADMK and who was the Nilgiris MP between 2014-2019, was seen in the video, circulated on social media, with a bloodied nose and a resident castigating him for his behaviour. A case has been registered against Mr. Gopalakrishnan and two of his relatives in Coonoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-aiadmk-mp-booked/article37349934.ece
06 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 15 fresh cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,947, with 15 new cases reported on Friday. With a total of 48,622 patients having been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 193. The toll stands at 1,132. Other districts In Ranipet district, one case was reported, and the total number stood at 43,473. Tirupattur district reported four fresh cases and the total number of cases stood at 29,328. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of fresh cases detected was 12, which took the total number to 55,042. Of these, 54,212 have been discharged so far, and the number of active cases stands at 162.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-15-fresh-cases/article37350289.ece
06 November 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Man, 7-yr-old son killed as country-made crackers explode near Villupuram||A man and his seven-year-old-son were killed after a sack of country-made crackers which was being transported on his two-wheeler exploded near Kottakuppam on Thursday. Two by-standers also sustained injuries in the incident. Kalainesan, 37, was riding his two-wheeler along with his son, Pradeesh, and a sack of country-made crackers, allegedly manufactured by him with the help of his father-in-law at Ariankuppam. He was proceeding from his father-in-law’s house at Koonimedu to Kakkayankuppam. When the vehicle reached the boundary between Puducherry and Kottakuppam, the crackers exploded killing them instantly. The by-standers, Ganesan and Sharafudhin, have been admitted to Jipmer, the police said. Police have registered a case against the victim’s father-in-law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-7-year-old-son-killed-in-country-made-cracker-explosion/article37349937.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Mullaperiyar row will be resolved amicably’||He said Mr. Vijayan is a seasoned politician and would be aware of the farmers’ problems in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. “I couldn’t visit the dam earlier owing to COVID-19 restrictions... I have planned to visit all major dams soon,” he said. The Minister said AIADMK leader O. Panneerselvam had no right to talk about the issue. “Neither he nor any other AIADMK Minister had ever visited the dam in the last 10 years. Now, they are faulting the functioning of the DMK government.” To a question on water drawal by Kerala, Mr. Duraimurugan said the Central Water Commission had recently introduced the ‘rule curve’ theory. Taking the measurement of storage over the last 30 years, engineers would implement it month on month, depending on the inflow and the rainfall.” He said the authorities would keep a tab on the level and release or store water accordingly. For instance, the level on Friday was 138.80 feet. In the event of a steady inflow, the PWD engineers could store 139.50 feet on November 10 and 142 feet on November 30, he clarified. The Minister said the government would consider the demands of the farmers from the five districts, who have announced a ‘padayatra’. On demand for new dam The Water Resources Minister also ruled out Kerala’s demand for the construction of a new dam. The Supreme Court and various government agencies had acknowledged that the dam was safe. Earlier, DMK workers, accompanying the Minister, were stopped by the police at Lower Camp. Irrigation Secretary Sandeep Saxena, Theni Collector K.V. Muralidharan, PWD Mullaperiyar dam chief engineer Krishnan, R. Subramanian of the Cauvery Technical Cell and senior officers of the Public Works and Revenue Departments also accompanied the Minister during his visit to the dam.  The government will consider the demands of the farmers from the five districts, who have announced a ‘padayatra’ Duraimurugan Water Resources Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mullaperiyar-dam-row-will-be-resolved-amicably/article37349893.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pollution envelops town||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pollution-envelops-town/article37350034.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pollution envelops city||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pollution-envelops-city/article37350195.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Smoke-filled air||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smoke-filled-air/article37350247.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements. Coimbatore||Hash 6 Hotels: “Cake mixing ceremony”, 9.30 a.m.  D J Academy for Managerial Excellence : Talk on “Resume Building & E-mail Etiquette”, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-coimbatore/article37349943.ece
06 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Parts of Kuttanad flooded||Heavy rain that lashed the district in recent days coupled with an increase in flow of floodwaters from the eastern side have inundated several low-lying areas of Upper Kuttanad in Alappuzha district. The water level in major rivers in the region, including the Pampa and the Manimala, has increased significantly. The water level remained above the danger level at Nedumudi and Kavalam, while it was above warning level at Thanneermukkom and Pallathuruthy on Friday afternoon. Several roads, including parts of the Alappuzha-Changanassery road, have been submerged. Farmers fear that the rise in water level would result in flooding of fields being readied for the puncha cultivation and in subsequent delay in sowing. The fresh bout of waterlogging comes barely a month after floods submerged several parts of Upper Kuttanad and Kuttanad and destroyed paddy cultivation in large tracts. According to the Agriculture Department, paddy cultivation in 538.60 hectares and paddy nursery in 141.30 hectares were destroyed due to rain and waterlogging in the district last month.  Several roads, including parts of the Alappuzha- Changanassery road, have been submerged||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parts-of-kuttanad-inundated/article37350173.ece
06 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Boy injured in attack||The Thrikunnapuzha police on Friday registered a case after a 14-year-old boy sustained serious injuries to his eye allegedly after being attacked by his neighbour at Pallana. The injured has been identified as Arun Kumar son of Anil Kumar. The alleged incident happened on Thursday. According to the police, the boy was beaten with a stick by the neighbour for inviting his grandchildren to play with him. The boy who suffered injuries to his left eye was first taken to the Taluk Hospital, Haripad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boy-injured-in-attack/article37350183.ece
06 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Change in rainfall pattern puts Wayanad farmers in a fix||The change in rainfall pattern coupled with pest attacks have emerged as a major concern for farmers in Wayanad, a prominent coffee, arecanut, rice and pepper growing regions in the State. “The distribution of rainfall is important for agriculture, which is derived from the number of rainy days [a day with rainfall of more than or equal to 2.5 mm],” said Sajesh Jan, Assistant Professor, Department of Agriculture Meteorology, Regional Agricultural Research Station (RARS) of the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) at Ambalavayal in the district. Data from the station revealed that there were a total of 88 rainy days during the year, whereas the normal number of rainy days is 147, Dr. Sajesh said, adding that it showed a 40% reduction in rainy days indicating that extreme rainfall events (high intense rain) were more this year too. Incidentally, rain severely affected the Nanja crop. “Since rice plants are in the flowering stage, heavy rainfall affects varieties such as Deepthy, Jeergasala, and Gandhakasala in the form of lodging of crops,” said K. Ajithkumar, Associate Director of Research, RARS. High rainfall may also affect pollination resulting in chaffy grains. Meanwhile, high humidity leads to diseases such as blast and sheath rot. The weather is most favourable for brown plant hopper, caseworm, and stem borer, he added. As regards pepper, intense rainfall is most conducive to the spread of quick wilt disease. Waterlogging too is an issue in low-lying areas. In the case of ginger, the such weather caused rhizome rot and soft rot diseases, while berry drop in Robusta coffee also increased considerably due to fungal diseases, he said. Farming sources said that arecanut production had declined sharply after the spread of yellow leaf disease. Diseases such as bud rot and nut rot (mahali) had ravaged the crop this year owing to heavy rain, sources said. Farmers should ensure proper drainage in farms and adopt appropriate pest and disease management measures in accordance with the practices recommended by the KAU, Dr. Ajithkumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/change-in-rainfall-pattern-puts-wayanad-farmers-in-a-fix/article37350089.ece
06 November 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Conservation of petroglyphs remains on paper||The conservation of prehistoric petroglyphs (rock carvings) on the Thovari hills near the Edakkal caves in Wayanad is yet to be a reality, thanks to the alleged apathy of officials of the Forest and Archaeology departments. The rock carvings at the Edakkal caves have been protected by government agencies but a similar one at Thovarimala, just 5 km from Edakkal, is yet to be declared a protected monument by the Department of Archaeology. Former Wayanad District Collector Kesavendrakumar had asked the State Archaeology Department in 2015 to expedite measures to declare the site as a protected monument and later his successor S. Suhas in 2018 had directed the Deputy Tourism Director to develop the site as a major ecotourism destination in the district . But all the steps to conserve the prehistoric monument remain on paper. Miscreants who reportedly frequent the site had defaced some of the precious carvings by wanton etching. More than 50 motifs have been engraved on the rock walls and many of these resemble the rock carvings of Edakkal. The cave, located in the middle of a vested forest under the South Wayanad Forest Division, also provide visitors with a panoramic view of the place. “Though the Edakkal cave carvings outdo the Thovari carvings in beauty, the interpretive possibility of the carvings at the latter is immense,” says historian M.R. Raghava Varier. “This monument is priceless and should be properly protected,” Dr. Varier, who has done extensive work on the antiquities of Wayanad, said. The rock engravings at Thovari are similar to those at Edakkal in the style of depiction and different in content. The area around Thovari was rich in megalithic monuments and articles such as burials cists, burial urns, and stone circles. The place had also yielded neolithic polished stone axes, he said. However, P.D. Prabhat, Deputy Director, Tourism Department, Wayanad, told The Hindu that they had asked the permission of the Forest Department to allot land to develop the area as a major tourist destination as per the directions of former collectors but the department was yet to take any steps. “We also requested the Archaeology Department to declare the site as a protected monument but it is also yet to be materialised,” Mr. Prabhat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/conservation-of-petroglyphs-remains-on-paper/article37350120.ece
06 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||A slip that would have proved costly||A man in Wayanad has claimed that he was delivered a valid passport by an e-commerce giant along with a passport pouch for which he had placed an order a few days ago. Mithun Babu, a resident of Cheengadi, near Kaniyampetta, said he had ordered for a passport pouch from Amazon on October 30 and he received the product on November 1. When he opened the box he found a passport along with the pouch. The passport belonged to a minor boy from Kunnamkulam in Thrissur. When the issue went viral in social media, his parents contacted Mr. Babu. They had also ordered for the product recently but found it was little smaller for their purpose and returned it without taking back the passport. “The pouch was meant for my husband, but it was found unfit and was returned. However, my son’s passport was put inside the pouch and was not pulled out prior to returning it. It was a mistake on our part,” Asmabi, mother of the boy, said. Without checking “It is suspected that the returned product was not properly inspected by the seller and was sold to me,” said Mr. Babu. He said he reported the incident with Amazon customer care but failed to get a proper response as to what to do with the passport with an executive saying that it would not be repeated and the seller would be instructed to be careful next time. “I spent about 40 minutes speaking with three executives of customer care. But none told me what to do with an important document like a passport. Later, on the advice of a friend, I approached the police and surrendered the passport on Friday,” he said. There was no immediate response from Amazon. The Meenangadi police told the boy’s parents to collect the passport from the station with valid identity proof.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-slip-that-would-have-proved-costly/article37349995.ece
06 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||32 students hospitalised after suspected food poisoning||Thirty-two students of the College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Pookode, under the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University were admitted to the taluk hospital at Vythiri after suspected food poisoning at their hostel on Friday. Their condition is stable and were discharged after being provided medical treatment, District Medical Officer R. Renuka told The Hindu . The college was closed a fortnight ago after many students of the women’s hostel of the college were admitted to hospital after showing symptoms of suspected food poisoning.  A medical team led by District Surveillance Officer Savan Sara Mathew visited the college on Friday and directed the college authorities to super-chlorinate water sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/32-students-hospitalised-after-suspected-food-poisoning/article37350091.ece
06 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Logo for CPI(M) meet released||The logo of the CPI(M) Kannur district conference, which will be held on December 10, 11, and 12 at Eripuram in Madayi as part of the 23rd Party Congress, was released on Friday. CPI(M) district secretary M.V. Jayarajan; member of the State committee P. Jayarajan; T.V. Rajesh, James Mathew, Member of Parliament V. Sivadasan; secretariat members T. K. Govindan Master, P. V. Gopinath, P. Purushothaman, T. I. Madhusoodanan, and the reception team of P. P. Damodaran, K. Padmanabhan, M.V. Rajeev attended function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/logo-for-cpim-meet-released/article37350094.ece
06 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||CPI(M) accords huge reception for Karayis||Senior CPI(M) leaders Karayi Rajan and Karayi Chandrasekharan, who were released on bail in the Fazal murder case, received a huge reception at Thalassery when they arrived there on Friday. The two, arraigned as accused in the murder of Popular Front of India (PFI) activist, Muhammad Fazal, in 2012, were arrested but released a year-and-a-half later with a strict bail condition that they should not leave the limits of Ernakulam district. The High Court has now relaxed their bail condition, making it possible for them to head home. They two leaders were received by the Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary M.V. Jayarajan. Interestingly, they arrived on the same day when the CBI’s investigation report was submitted in the special court in Kochi. The CBI rejected the allegation that the RSS was behind the murder of Fazal and confirmed the first charge-sheet that accused Karayi Rajan and Chandrasekharan as the masterminds behind the murder and Kodi Sunni and his gang as the perpetrators of the crime. Mr. Jayarajan said that CBI’s report was unfortunate. Six innocent persons had been imprisoned for a long time, and a reinvestigation should be carried out to prove their innocence, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-accords-huge-reception-for-karayis/article37350097.ece
06 November 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||Regular classes at CUK from Monday||Regular classes at the Central University of Kerala (CUK) will resume on Monday after a gap of one-and-a-half years of the pandemic-induced break. A decision in this regard was taken during a meeting convened by the campus reopening committee. The second-year postgraduate students of the Science Department will have regular classes in the first phase. Classes for other students will resume on November 18. Classes will be conducted strictly adhering to COVID-19 guidelines. Only vaccinated students having RT-PCR negative certificates and parental consent will be permitted to enter the campus. Vice Chancellor Prof. H. Venkateshwarlu said preparations for reopening had been completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/regular-classes-at-cuk-from-monday/article37350090.ece
06 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KSRTC strike hits commuters hard||Commuters relying on KSRTC services were severely affected on Friday, with bus crew and administrative and workshop staff affiliated to various unions staying away from work, demanding mainly salary hike. A senior official said no bus operated in Ernakulam district on the day, since employees were peeved that their salary had not been revised during the past 10 years. Transport Democratic Federation (INTUC) State secretary Aliyar M.I. said employees affiliated to the INTUC and AITUC unions would keep away from work on Saturday as well to register their protest against delay in salary revision. “Trade union leaders had met Transport Minister Antony Raju on October 20 and served strike notice. We planned to go ahead with the strike, since there was no positive response from the Government,” he added. Trade unions are also opposed to the formation of K-SWIFT that was mooted early this year, since it would be a prelude to privatising the KSRTC. “Rather, the management must reach out to passengers, probe reasons for low patronage on loss-making routes, and rationalise the operation of bus fleet. We may go for an indefinite strike if our demands are not met,” he said. Railway sources said most trains recorded more footfall on Friday than on normal days, especially since the KSRTC’s long-distance buses kept off the road. Crew and trains have been kept ready, in case there is a spontaneous increase in demand, they added. ‘Raise bus fare’ In the meantime, private bus operators, who together own three times the number of buses operated by the KSRTC, have decided to go ahead with their indefinite strike from November 9, demanding that the State Government increase bus fare to a minimum of Rs. 12 and Rs. 1 for every additional kilometre, considering that the price of diesel had gone up from Rs. 64 to over Rs. 90 over an 18-month period. The other demands include fixing of minimum travel fare of students at Rs. 6 from the present Rs. 1 and half the regular fare for more distance travelled. “The confederation of 13 bus operator organisations decided to go ahead with the indefinite strike, since the State Government has turned a blind eye to the massive increase in operational cost during the past 18 months owing to fuel price hike,” said T. Gopinathan, general secretary, All Kerala Private Bus Operators’ Organisation. “Transport Minister Antony Raju had promised steps to see us out of the red when bus operators met him in July, when diesel price was Rs. 82 per litre. Even post the week’s fall in fuel price, its price has fallen to only the rate that was in vogue in October. The tariff for all services is higher than that for regular services on different routes,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-strike-hits-commuters-hard/article37350106.ece
06 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Marginal rise in students attending offline classes||About one-third of students in schools under the General Education Department in Ernakulam are attending offline classes that resumed on November 1. As many as 77,782 students had turned up on campuses in the district on Monday after a long break induced by the pandemic. The number went up marginally to 77,900 on the second day. The authorities seem hopeful that it may go up, if there is no major uptick in COVID-19 cases in the coming days. “We cannot arrive at an accurate estimate of attendance in offline sessions, as only students of classes 1 to 7 and 10 and 12 are allowed in the first phase. Only one-fourth of students in schools having intake capacity higher than 1,000 need to attend the physical mode of learning as per the guidelines,” said Honey G. Alexander, Deputy Director of Education, Ernakulam. The bio-bubble model proposed by the government as part of school reopening had recommended that a small batch of students restrict their interaction to members of the group and a limited number of teachers and staff. Members of a bio-bubble will not mingle with those of another bio-bubble. Officials pointed out that the entire bio-bubble would be directed to go into quarantine, if one member develops COVID-19 symptoms or tests positive for SARS-CoV-2. Teachers check the body temperature of students attending offline sessions using thermal scanners. Special focus is being given to avoiding crowding and sharing of learning materials or food items among students. On the updated status of maintenance works in schools, the authorities said managements had been given three months’ time to replace the roof of buildings made out of asbestos or aluminium sheet. Unaided schools The turnout of students in unaided institutions remains relatively low compared to government and aided schools. Several parents had cited non-availability of school bus services as a hurdle to sending their children to schools. With classes getting over by noon, working parents find it difficult to drop and pick their children within the limited class hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marginal-rise-in-students-attending-offline-classes/article37350113.ece
06 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||C.K. Janu’s voice samples collected||The Crime Branch (CB) unit from Wayanad on Friday collected the voice samples of Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party (JRP) leaders C.K. Janu and Praseetha Azhikode and BJP Wayanad district secretary Prasanth Malayavayal at the Chitranjali Studio at Kakkanad in the alleged election bribery case. The case was that BJP State president K. Surendran had allegedly paid a bribe of Rs. 35 lakh to Ms. Janu to contest as a National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate from Sulthan Bathery in the last Assembly elections. While Ms. Janu is the second accused in the case, Ms. Azhikode and Mr. Malayavayal are witnesses. The CB had already collected the voice samples of Mr. Surendran and Ms. Azhikode last month and submitted them to the Sulthan Bathery Judicial First Class Magistrate Court, which had ordered the collection of voice samples on a plea by the CB investigating the case. The CB plea came after telephone call clips emerged of the alleged conversation between Mr. Surendran and Ms. Azhikode on bribing Ms. Janu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ck-janus-voice-samples-collected/article37350103.ece
06 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man accused of vandalising Joju’s car denied bail||The Ernakulam Judicial First Class Magistrate Court on Friday rejected the bail application of P.G. Joseph, Congress worker, who was arrested on the charge of vandalising the car of actor Joju George at the blockade organised by the Ernakulam District Congress Committee against the rising fuel prices on Monday. Seven booked Mr. Joseph is among the seven persons, including former Mayor Tony Chammany, booked in the case. The counsel for Mr. Joseph opposed the plea by Mr. Joju to implead himself in the case, stating that his application lacked clarity. There were reports that discussions were on to resolve the differences between the actor and the District Congress Committee amicably.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-accused-of-vandalising-jojus-car-denied-bail/article37350111.ece
06 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Land sold by Cardinal not govt. land, HC told||The State Government informed the Kerala High Court on Friday that no part of the 99.5 cents of land sold by Cardinal George Alencherry in Vazhakala village belonged to the Government. In a report submitted before the Kerala High Court, the Government submitted that an inquiry team headed by Beena P. Anand, Assistant Commissioner, Office of the Commissioner of Land Revenue, Thiruvananthapuram, had examined the settlement register of the Thrikkakara sub-registrar office and found that il was registered land. The inquiry team also found that "no parcel of the Government land" was included in the survey number of the settlement deed. The court, while dismissing petitions by the Cardinal against criminal cases registered against him in connection with the sale of Syro-Malabar Church land, had earlier directed the State Government to conduct an inquiry and find out whether one of the pieces of land, 40.27 ares (99.5 cents), sold by the Cardinal originally had encroached government land. Transferred in 1943 The report pointed out that on examination of the certified copy of the settlement deed of 2007, it was found by the team that the details relating to the acquisition of the ownership of the land by Alexian Brothers were clearly mentioned in the deed. It added that the land was registered even during the period of previous Travancore Royal Government itself. The land was transferred in 1943 by Khadar who had got the title over the land to "the Sisters of Destitutes". It was in 1996 that the land was transferred to Alexian Brothers by the Sisters of Destitutes. The court had ordered the inquiry after noticing that the settlement deed by which the Church acquired the property did not reveal how the right over the property was acquired.  Inquiry team finds that "no parcel of the Government land" was included in the survey number of the settlement deed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/land-sold-by-cardinal-not-of-govt-hc-told/article37350104.ece
06 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Over 200 of 311 kiosk spaces at metro stations auctioned in three days||Over 200 of the 311 kiosk spaces at Kochi metro stations have found takers thanks to the resounding response to an aggressive marketing drive by Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) to auction commercial spaces to mobilise revenue from non-ticketing sources. The metro agency adopted a mix of innovation and hassle-free procedures as it embarked on the drive to auction the spaces, each measuring 120 sq.ft., initially for a five-year period. The four-day auction will conclude at the Ernakulam Town Hall on Saturday. KMRL chief general manager A.R. Rajendran said most kiosk spaces would shortly have eateries, packed vegetable outlets, and shops selling mobile phones and electronic items, among others. “Details of the 100-odd kiosk spaces that are still open for grabs have been published on KMRL’s website. They will be re-auctioned on Saturday,” he informed. Encouraging response “The response highly exceeded our expectations, with people coming in from as far as Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, and Kannur. Many of them were returnees from West Asia, who wanted to set up shop here. All that they needed to bring was a Government ID card. Once the auction was over, all approvals were readied in less than 30 minutes. They were given three days to submit the security deposit and another 30 days to open their kiosks,” Mr. Rajendran said. Commercial spaces at the street level fetched premium amounts, followed by those at the concourse and platform levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-200-of-311-kiosk-spaces-at-metro-stations-auctioned-in-three-days/article37350107.ece
06 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man collapses, dies during scuffle||A man was charged with murder after his neighbour collapsed and died during an early morning scuffle on Friday. The accused man was identified as Anilkumar, 51, of Devaswompadam, Varapuzha. The deceased person was identified as Gopi, 62. The two had a history of animosity and had cases registered against them in the past. Yet another scuffle broke out on Friday morning, the police said. “A neighbour has given a statement that he had seen the accused hitting the victim. We have booked the accused under IPC 302,” said the Varapuzha police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-collapses-dies-during-scuffle/article37350110.ece
06 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Trains to be regulated for track maintenance||The Southern Railway has introduced the following changes in the pattern of train services in November, as part of safety-related track maintenance works in the Thiruvananthapuram division. The following trains are fully cancelled on November 18: Train No. 06017 Shoranur–Ernakulam special train scheduled to leave Shoranur at 3.30 a.m., train No. 06449 Ernakulam–Alappuzha special train scheduled to leave Ernakulam at 7.20 a.m. and train No. 06452 Alappuzha–Ernakulam special train scheduled to leave Alappuzha at 6 p.m. Train No. 06341 Guruvayur–Thiruvananthapuram Central special train scheduled to leave Guruvayur at 3.25 a.m. November 17 and 18 will be partially cancelled between Guruvayur and Thrissur, and will run from Thrissur to Thiruvananthapuram. Similarly, train No. 06328 Guruvayur–Punalur special train scheduled to leave Guruvayur at 5.45 a.m. on November 18 will be partially cancelled between Guruvayur and Thrissur, and will run from Thrissur to Punalur. Train No. 06306 Kannur–Ernakulam Junction daily special train commencing journey on November 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 19 (except Thursday) will be short terminated at Shoranur and hence will run from Kannur to Shoranur only. Train No. 06327 Punalur–Guruvayur daily special train commencing journey on November 16 and 17 will be short terminated at Thrissur and hence will run from Punalur to Thrissur only. Train No. 06127 Chennai Egmore–Guruvayur special train commencing journey on November 17 will be short terminated at Thrissur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trains-to-be-regulated-for-track-maintenance/article37350109.ece
06 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||It’s OTT release for Marakkar||Ending days of speculation, it has been announced that actor Mohanlal’s multi-crore movie Marakkar:Arabikkadalinte Simham will have an OTT (over-the-top) release. Antony Perumbavoor, producer of the movie, said here on Friday that he did not receive the support of theatre bodies in the State to release the big-budget film in cinemas. “They failed to make any allowance to release the film in cinemas. I have received nod from Mohanlal and Priyadarshan, director, to opt for an OTT release,” he said. Representatives of trade bodies in the Malayalam film industry were busy over the past few weeks discussing the possibilities of ensuring a theatre release for the film. The Film Exhibitors’ United Organisation of Kerala had agreed to provide around Rs. 15 crore as advance for the film. However, they rejected the proposal to share a part of their earnings if the movie failed to click at the box-office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/its-ott-release-for-marakkar/article37350131.ece
06 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||791 test positive in Ernakulam; TPR 9.8%||As many as 791 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Friday. A total of 775 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in seven cases has not been ascertained. TPR was 9.8%. The regions where positive cases were higher than 20 included Chengamanad (32), Thrikkakara (29), Ezhikkara (21), and Thripunithura (21). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Kunnathunad, Chottanikkara, Elamkulam, Karumaloor, Thammanam, Vennala, Maradu, Kadungalloor, Kadamakudi, Thevara, and Mulavukad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/791-test-positive-in-ernakulam-tpr-98/article37350112.ece
06 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Sand load seized||The police took into a custody a man, who was found driving a vehicle with a load of sand unauthorisedly. The accused is Ali, 33, of Edathala. The police seized the vehicle near the Mangalapuzha bridge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sand-load-seized/article37350108.ece
06 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CM to open Arippara hydroelectric plant today||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the first hydroelectric power project of Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) at Arippara in Kozhikode on November 6. According to a CIAL communication, the plant is expected to generate 14 million units of power annually. The 4.5 MWp run-of-the-river project across the Iruvazhinji river was awarded to CIAL by the Power Department as per the Kerala Small Hydro Power Policy for a lease period of 30 years. The total cost was Rs. 52 crore. It added that CIAL worked on limited storage of water, causing no adverse impact on the environment. A 32-metre-wide and 10-metre-high check dam (weir) is built across the river to divert water to an intake pool. This check dam helps in the storage of water for at least five minutes. There is no need to build a big dam to store water. Therefore, the environmental impact is less.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-to-open-arippara-hydroelectric-plant-today/article37350096.ece
06 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||BJP slams Minister’s stance||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran on Friday said that Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal was offering lame excuses for not lowering the State tax on fuels and his statements would only get on the nerves of the people. He said the Government should reduce State taxes on petrol and diesel if its intentions were sincere. The Minister’s statement that the Government had not hiked the taxes for five-and-a-half years was an admission that it had received a large chunk of the Central tax. The BJP would intensify its agitation against the decision of the Left Democratic Front Government not to reduce the State tax on fuels, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-slams-ministers-stance/article37350121.ece
06 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Tapping fisheries for progress||Fisheries is one potential sector other than tourism capable of accelerating the State's progress and Kerala should chalk out innovative projects to reach the global stage, Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian said here on Friday. The Minister was speaking after inaugurating a modern fish-processing plant, fresh fish stall and a marine resources food court that sells products through the MIMI mobile app at the modern fish market at Karikode. "It is vital for Kerala to increase fish production and strengthen its marketing strategies in fisheries sector. We have to focus more on inland fishing and fish farming for that," he said. Pointing out how countries such as Vietnam and Bangladesh, and States such as Andhra Pradesh emerged as major players in the international export market, he added that marketing strategies should be expanded for economic growth. Chemical-free fish An initiative of the Kerala State Coastal Area Development Corporation’s (KSCADC) Parivarthanam project, MIMI Fish offers chemical-free fish procured from traditional fishers and reliable farms through MIMI outlets and home delivery service. Through the project, the Government aims at bringing about a qualitative socio-economic change in coastal areas and the lives of fishing communities. MIMI Fish, which was launched on August 29 this year, made its first round of extension in early September, as KSCADC opened outlets in 29 places in Kollam district. Apart from fresh fish, MIMI Fish offers a range of value-added products, including fish pickle, fried fish, chammanthi powder, fish curries and dried fish. Kundara MLA P.C. Vishnunath presided over the function. Former Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma was the chief guest. Indian Council of Agriculture and Research- Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (ICAR-CIFT) director Ravi Shankar C.N., Kottankara grama panchayat president Devadas R., district panchayat member N.S. Prasannakumar, Kottankara panchayat vice president Saritha Prathap, Kollam Fisheries deputy director K.K. Suhair and KSCADC managing director Sheik Pareeth also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tapping-fisheries-for-progress/article37350167.ece
06 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Geological study of Edappalayam||The Departments of Geology, Soil Conservation and Groundwater will conduct a study at Edappalayam in Kollam that reported multiple landslips recently. Revenue Minister K. Rajan, who visited the area in Punalur taluk on Thursday, said further steps would be taken on the basis of the study report. "In addition to the aid from Kerala State Disaster Relief Fund, an amount from Chief Minister's Disaster Relief Fund will also be used to provide more financial assistance to disaster-hit residents," he said. Edappalayam in Arayankavu grama panchayat reported multiple landslips on October 29, causing widespread damage to property. While a house and three vehicles were washed away, several houses suffered partial damage. Many parts were inundated in rain, with Ashraya Colony in Edappalayam the worst-hit area. The district administration too had decided to conduct a study to find whether the area was disaster-prone and the houses in Ashraya Colony were habitable during heavy rain. It was also decided to shift families residing in vulnerable zones camps to ensure their safety. The study, in coordination with various departments, is expected to start within a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/geological-study-of-edappalayam/article37350174.ece
06 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Seats vacant at college||The Sree Narayana College of Technology, Vadakkevila, has vacant seats for BA English, BCom with Computer Application, B.Sc Botany, and Biotechnology courses. Interested students should contact the Principal at 0474-2723156 or 9446428423.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seats-vacant-at-college/article37350175.ece
06 November 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Essay contest||As part of observing administrative language week, the District Information Office and the district administration are jointly organising an essay writing competition for college students. The subject of the competition is Bharanabhasha Malayalamakkunathinte Pradhanyam and the word limit is 500. The entries in PDF format should be mailed to malayalamdio2021@gmail by 7 November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/essay-contest/article37350176.ece
06 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Hunger stir by Dalit: mediation bid fails||Attempts by the authorities to bring the indefinite hunger strike launched by a Dalit PhD student at the Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) to a close through consensus broke down on Friday with a mediation endeavour initiated by the District Collector failing to take place as scheduled. The discussion, convened by District Collector P.K. Jayasree, with both the parties did not take place as scheduled after the protesting student had abstained from the meeting, citing ill-health. Following this, the Collector held a brief discussion with varsity registrar B. Prakash Kumar who assured the officials of extending all possible assistance to enable the student complete her research programme. Foremost demand “The registrar has readily agreed to the foremost demand raised by the student to enable her to complete the research. As part of it, the varsity is willing to offer an extension period for her research and will keep the lab and hostel facilities open to her, besides allocating a dedicated research space. With regard to her demand to expel a teacher from service, they said it could be done only in line with the existing rules and procedures and there was no possibility for his dismissal at this point,” said the official. As to whether the official will go and meet the student at the protest venue, the Collector replied in the negative. “We, however, are still open to resolving the issue through discussions if both the parties are willing. In the meantime, a report will be submitted to the State Government detailing on the issue and the action taken'', the official added. The PhD student, who launched the hunger strike in front of the university entrance on October 29, has alleged that she was not allowed to enter the laboratory and faced casteist abuses from Nandakumar Kalarikkal, the joint director of the varsity center. Based on her complaint, the university syndicate had initiated action against the said person, but Mr. Kalarikkal later secured a favourable order from the High Court. During the course of the hunger strike, she also raised sexual harassment charges against one of her fellow researchers. Though the varsity authorities, led by the Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas, held talks with the girl and the representatives of Dalit organisation Bhim Army earlier this week, it broke down after the two parties stuck to their stance with regard to the dismissal of Mr. Kalarikkal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hunger-stir-by-dalit-mediation-bid-fails/article37350169.ece
06 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Koottickal witnesses landslips yet again||The heavy rain that lashed the eastern high-ranges of Kottayam on Friday evening once again brought the region on the edge. As per initial reports, the rain caused landslips in the Mooppanmala and Mlakkara areas near Elamkadu Top in Koottickal grama panchayat late on the day. No causalities were reported. A temporary bridge that connects the village with the Elamkadu town was reportedly washed away, isolating scores of families in the area. Officials said about 16 people, who had returned to their houses from relief camps, were again shifted to camps in view of the rain and landslips. Water level in Pullakayar river witnessed a sudden rise following the back-to-back landslips. Teams of Police and Fire Safety and Rescue personnel were despatched to the location. Authorities have issued high alert in the high-range areas and the downstream valley, taking into account the possibilities of further landslip and floods. The landslips on Friday were reported even as Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has scheduled a visit to Koottickal on Saturday. The village had been hit by a series of deadly landslides earlier last month, which claimed atleast 13 lives and damaged property worth several crores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/landslips-hit-koottickal-again/article37350171.ece
06 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||VACB moots probe against architect||The Kozhikode unit of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) has recommended to take up a case against the architect and former chief engineer of the Kerala Transport Development Finance Corporation (KTDFC) in connection with the flaws in the construction of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus terminal and commercial complex on Mavoor Road in the city. Vigilance officials said the preliminary report detailing the irregularities in the construction of the Rs. 74.63-crore complex six years ago would be submitted to VACB Director Sudheesh Kumar in a couple of days. Complaints Based on complaints over the construction of the terminal, the Vigilance Department was tasked to conduct an inquiry. The Vigilance team also went through a submission by the team from the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, headed by P. Alagasundara Moorthy, which had found structural weakness in the building. The panel had stated that 20% of the pillars of the terminal were structurally weak and required immediate strengthening. Now, it was up to the Vigilance headquarters to go ahead with registering a case and carrying out a thorough investigation, officials said. Report inconclusive However, the officials said the report was not conclusive and would require further probe. The KTDFC had constructed the twin tower, which was inaugurated on June 1, 2015. The first tower has 10 floors and the second 11 floors, including space for parking. Sources said the Vigilance report had pointed out that the complex had been constructed without the prior approval of the Kozhikode Corporation. An application for the building plan was submitted only after the completion of the structure. The Transport Department has constituted a five-member committee to study and give recommendations on a report by the IIT-M within two weeks. Meanwhile, the KTDFC has served notices on tenants in the KSRTC bus terminal and commercial complex to close down their operations to carry out the proposed repair and rehabilitation of the building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacb-recommends-probe-into-bus-terminal-construction/article37350095.ece
06 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Gold worth Rs. 2.22 cr. seized from passengers at Calicut airport||The Calicut Air Intelligence Unit has seized gold worth Rs. 2.22 crore from inbound Gulf passengers who tried to smuggle the contraband through the Calicut International Airport in the past two days. Based on information from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), the premier intelligence and enforcement agency of the Centre on anti-smuggling matters, Customs officials recovered the gold in four cases. The total market value of seized gold on Thursday was Rs. .1.52 crore, officials said. In one of the cases, gold in compound form weighing 1.005 kg concealed inside the body of Mohammad Avad of Malappuram, who had arrived from Doha, was seized. Similar case In another case, gold, also in compound form weighing 1.008 kg, concealed inside the body of Habeeb Rahiman from Malappuram, who also arrived from Doha, was seized The third seizure pertained to a passenger, Sayyid Faisal of Kannur, hiding the gold weighing 1.940 kg inside the pouch of an underwear. He arrived from Dubai. Customs officials on Friday seized two gold pieces having 24 carat purity and weighing 1.659 kg from a Palakkad native, Muhammed Faisal, who arrived from Dubai. The gold pieces were cleverly concealed behind twin speakers of a bluetooth speaker set of the passenger in his checked-in baggage, officials said. Currency Meanwhile, following an input received from the airline security staff , sleuths seized Saudi Riyal valued at Rs. 7,08,700 from a Sharjah-bound passenger of Kasaragod who had concealed foreign currency in his check-in baggage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-worth-rs-222-crore-seized-from-passengers-at-calicut-airport/article37350098.ece
06 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Govt. restricts Kalpathy fete to 200 people||The State Government has permitted the conduct of the Kalpathy chariot festival in a restricted manner. Only 200 people can be allowed in open space and 100 inside the temple. Following the government decision, the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday issued a notice to the organisers of the festival seeking an action plan on conducting the festival from November 7 to 17 by restricting to 200 people. District Collector Mrunmai Joshi sent the notice to the managing trustees of Kalpathy Sri Visalakshi Sametha Sri Viswanatha Swami Temple and Old Kalpathy Sri Lakshmi Narayana Perumal Temple, the Brahmaswam trustee of Chathapuram Prasanna Mahaganapathi Temple, and the secretary of New Kalpathy Manthakkara Mahaganapathi Temple. They have been asked to submit the action plan before 11 a.m. on Saturday.  “The DDMA will give permission for the festival on the basis of the action plan the organisers submit tomorrow (Saturday). The gathering should not exceed 200 at any cost,” said Additional District Magistrate Manikandan K. Hopes dampened The government decision restricting the festival to 200 people has dampened the hopes of the organisers, who had zestfully prepared for the annual event by sprucing up the chariots of respective deities. The festival will now have to be conducted in a symbolic manner without allowing the crowds and by restricting to rituals without fanfare. The traditional chariot festival of Kalpathy used to attract thousands of people annually, turning the entire village into a fortnight-long carnival. With the government restrictions, the festival will miss the giant chariots being pulled by hundreds of people. Pulling the chariot is considered an auspicious act, and hundreds of men usually come forward to take the deities around the village in their respective chariots. However, according to the organisers, small chariots can be used even within the restrictions. The festival had not taken place in 2020 also because of the COVID-19 restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-restricts-kalpathy-fete-to-200-people/article37350282.ece
06 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Anupama appears before women’s panel||Anupama S. Chandran, the young woman who has alleged that her child was given away for adoption without her knowledge, appeared before the Kerala Women’s Commission on Friday morning. The commission was conducting a sitting to address complaints from Thiruvananthapuram district. Anupama’s parents had submitted in writing that they would not be appearing as the matter was sub judice. The commission directed Anupama’s parents to present her educational certificates which, she said, had been retained by them, at the panel headquarters before 3 p.m. on Saturday. Though the commission had asked the police, Women and Child Development Department, and the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare to present detailed reports on Anupama’s complaint, these had not been received. The commission sent letters yet again seeking the reports. Twenty-five complaints were disposed of on the first day of the sitting. Police reports were sought on 10 complaints. On one complaint, counselling was recommended for the parties involved. As many as 126 complaints were postponed to the next adalat for reasons including non-appearance of the parties. The adalat will continue on Saturday. Commission chairperson P. Satheedevi; members M.S. Thara, E.M. Radha, Shiji Sivaji, and Shahida Kamal; director Shaji Sugunan; and law officer P. Girija participated in the sittings.  Panel sitting aimed at addressing various complaints from district On Anupama’s complaint, panel seeks reports from police, other agencies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anupama-appears-before-womens-panel/article37350184.ece
06 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State tax on fuel turns a political issue||The demand that the State Government slash local taxes on petrol and diesel is threatening to turn into a major political issue. The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) wanted the Left Democratic Front (LDF) Government to follow the Centre’s example and reduce the State’s levy on fuel to cushion the inflationary fallout of the spiralling international price of crude. Both parties have warned of street protests if the State Government did not provide fuel tax relief to consumers. ‘States denied their due’ The Government on Friday scrambled to explain its inability to reduce the local levy on fuel and sought to pin the blame on the Centre. Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal said the Centre had preserved the prohibitive cess on fuel while reducing excise duty, thus denying States their due share of the federal levy.  The CPI(M) has interpreted the Centre’s action as Uttar Pradesh election ploy that ran against the grain of fiscal federalism. There were no immediate elections in Kerala, and the fuel tax campaign targetting the State Government might not be politically perilous for the LDF. However, the CPI(M) apprehended that the protests could re-energise the flailing Opposition and dovetail with the protest against K-Rail (SilverLine). Moreover, people directly felt the squeeze of high fuel and cooking gas prices on essential commodities and everyday goods and services. Amplified by social and mainstream media, they aired their resentment daily at petrol pumps, hotels, provision stores and markets. The CPI(M) is holding local level party conferences, and it could not ignore the drumbeat of discontent. The party’s State secretariat is likely to calibrate a counter-campaign soon. Meanwhile, Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran has warned the Pinarayi Vijayan Government of “sleepless nights.” ‘Provide relief’ The Government should provide fuel tax relief to consumers or face popular wrath, he said. United Democratic Front (UDF) convener M.M. Hassan asked the LDF to follow the example of a COVID-19 era thief who stole from a house but returned the valuables to the residents after the pandemic abated, and he tided over his financial difficulties. BJP State president K. Surendran asked the Government to face street protests or slash fuel prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-tax-on-fuel-turns-a-political-issue/article37350125.ece
06 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2,000 librarian posts lying vacant||Schools have reopened and the Government is advocating books and reading in schools to alleviate the stress that children are under after months away from the classroom. However, nearly 2,000 librarian posts are estimated to be vacant in government and aided higher secondary education (HSE) schools in the State. Twenty-one years after deciding to appoint librarians to higher secondary schools, no posts have been sanctioned by the Government. This is despite court orders, say those looking to get appointments to posts of librarians. Chapter 32 of the Kerala Education Rules provides for creation of posts of librarian in grade 3 and 4, as does the Kerala Higher Secondary Education Subordinate Service Rules, 2001, say the job aspirants. Yet, no action has been taken by successive governments to make the appointments, say those who have studied library science in colleges under universities in the State and other States or pursued courses conducted by the Kerala State Library Council. Hundreds of such youngsters are unemployed, they say. CBSE, ICSE schools Librarian appointments are made in Kendriya Vidyalayas and Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas. CBSE and ICSE school in the State also have to appoint librarians if they want to get recognition. Libraries and librarians are critical to students’ academic growth and all-round development. Higher secondary students, particularly, need libraries for reference and higher studies. However, the State Government which has implemented the Public Education Rejuvenation Mission is dithering on appointments of librarians who can be crucial in promoting students’ creativity and guiding them to the world of books, particularly in these post-COVID times. Functioning of libraries is far from effective in schools, they say. A schoolteacher is given additional charge of the library along with teaching duties. Schools may have library periods but students have no idea of what it entails. The Prof. Lebba committee of 2014 and the Khader commission of 2019 have also submitted reports on the need for libraries and librarians, to no avail. The Government, they allege, has failed to implement court verdicts on appointment of librarians in aided schools.  In January last year, the High Court had given the government two months to implement its order issued on November 30, 2017. The court observed that though posts were created, no sanction was given to appoint librarians. The Government’s contention that the concurrence of the Finance Department was needed had no merit. The State Government then approached the Supreme Court, but its petition was dismissed. On October 5 this year, the High Court observed that no steps had been taken for implementation of its order, and granted one more month to the Government for the same. However, even on October 25, the Government told the State Assembly that it was considering a report of the Director of General Education on appointment of non-teaching staff, including librarians, in higher secondary schools, say the library science job aspirants.  The Government has failed to implement court verdicts on appointment of librarians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2000-librarian-posts-lying-vacant/article37350187.ece
06 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Khursheed alleges plot behind 2G auction scam||Former Union Minister for External Affairs and Congress leader Salman Khursheed pointed at a conspiracy to discredit the second United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government using the 2G spectrum auction. Addressing a press conference here, Mr. Khursheed said former Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) Vinod Rai’s recent confession that he had misread the auction and saw corruption, where it did not exist, was suggestive of such a plot. ‘Wrongful prosecution’ The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had echoed Mr. Rai’s insinuation and demanded an inquiry that ended in the wrongful prosecution of UPA Ministers and MPs. Mr. Rai had pegged corruption in the 2G spectrum auction at Rs. 1.76 crore. He and the BJP had alleged that the sale had the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s approval. Both should apologise to Mr. Singh, Mr. Khursheed said. The UPA government had auctioned 2G spectrum at an international rate to fast-track social and economic benefits of mobile and data network coverage. The BJP and others had attempted to cast aspersions on the far-sighted and ultimately fruitful venture. Mr. Khursheed said the successive BJP government rewarded the ‘plotters’ with top posts. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) appointed Mr. Rai as chairman of the Banking Recruitment Board with a rank befitting a Union Cabinet Minister. General V.K. Singh has been a Cabinet Minister for the past seven years and twice MP. Kiran Bedi served as governor of the Union Territory of Pudussery. Baba Ramdev became a billionaire overnight, Mr. Khursheed alleged. Anna Hazare stopped his tirade against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. New Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who tomtom the BJP- sponsored anti-UPA propaganda, also benefitted, he added. The special judge who tried the 2G spectrum case had doubted the legality of the chargesheet in the case, Mr. Khursheed said.  The BJP and others had attempted to cast aspersions on the far-sighted and ultimately fruitful venture||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/khursheed-alleges-plot-behind-2g-auction-scam/article37350168.ece
06 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cumulative cases at 50 lakh mark||The State logged 6,580 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 62,219 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, has crossed 50 lakh and now stands at 50,01,835 cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stands at 33,048 with the State adding 314 deaths to the official list on Friday. These include 46 deaths which occurred in the past few days, 157 undeclared deaths of the period before June 2021 and 111 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following appeals filed by families Kerala’s case fatality rate, which stood around 0.4%, has now climbed to 0.66%. 7,085 recoveries The State’s active case pool had 73,733 patients on Friday, with 7,085 recoveries. According to the Health Department, only 7.3% of the active cases are currently in treatment centres. ICU occupancy of COVID patients dropped below the 1,000 mark for the first time in several months on Thursday and now stands at 984. The number of patients requiring ventilator support dropped significantly to 419. On Friday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 442. Hospitalisations have dipped and at present, 6,626 persons are being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals across the State. Capital tops chart Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 878, followed by Ernakulam 791, Thrissur 743, Kollam 698, Kozhikode 663, Kottayam 422, Pathanamthitta 415, Idukki 412, Kannur 341, Alappuzha 333, Wayanad 285, Malappuram 240, Palakkad 234 and Kasaragod 125 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cumulative-cases-at-50-lakh-mark/article37350123.ece
06 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Monetising of local bodies’ assets flayed||Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan has demanded that the Union Government withdraw its directive to grama panchayats to sell their assets to the private sector to raise funds. In a press release recently, the Minister said the directive issued by the Panchayati Raj Secretary was proof of the Union Government literally selling off the country to the corporates. The NITI Aayog, which prepared the monetising plan for the Union Government, has formulated the plan for monetising the grama panchayats’ assets too. Corporate agenda The State Government is trying to turn the grama panchayats, which are meant for decentralised governance and to implement People’s Plan projects, into centres to implement the corporate agenda. Those who believe in democracy should oppose this move aimed at upsetting the Constitution and democracy, said Mr. Govindan in the press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/monetising-of-assets-of-local-bodies-flayed/article37350185.ece
06 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Khader report to be implemented in phases||A timetable has been prepared for implementing the Khader committee report this year, General Education Minister V. Sivankutty has said. He was inaugurating a multi-storey building at Government Upper Primary School, Kunnathukkal. He said the report would be implemented in a phased manner, The Khader committee was constituted by the government to study ways of improving school education till Class XII. Mr. Sivankutty said six lakh new students had taken admission to government and aided schools in the State this year. This had become possible owing to the quality of public education in the State, he said. The Minister said many concerns had been raised following the announcement of school reopening on November 1, but the decision was getting a lot of support now. C.K. Hareendran, MLA, presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/khader-report-implementation-in-phases/article37350100.ece
06 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Medical college teachers threaten strike||The faculty of government medical colleges across the State are going on strike from November 9, to protest against the Government’s refusal to implement the pay revision of doctors. On Tuesday, doctors under the banner, Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association (KGMCTA), will organise protest marches to the offices of the Principals of all Government Medical Colleges and stage dharna. Plans to intensify stir In a statement here, KGMCTA said they intended to intensify the agitation till the issues they were raising were resolved favourably. It said that though the pay revision of medical college faculty was to have been implemented in 2016, the Government delayed it till 2020 and the pay revision GO was issued after doctors went on agitation. However, though the pay revision order was issued in September last year, most doctors had not even received the pay slip as per the revised salary. The KGMCTA said that they had pointed out various anomalies in the pay revision order. However, the Government had not yet done anything to resolve these anomalies.  ‘Though the pay revision was to be implemented in 2016, the Govt. delayed it till 2020’ Most doctors have not received revised salary yet, they say||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-college-teachers-call-for-stir/article37350178.ece
06 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister hails revenue officials||Village officers have a key role to play in making village offices people-friendly and free of corruption, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said. He was speaking at a quarterly online interaction with village officers in the State on Friday. He lauded the officials of the Revenue Department who have been working tirelessly towards the Government’s aim of providing land and land documents to everyone, apart from smart services. The department employees have also played a key role in disaster relief work. He said that corruption would not be tolerated in the department. However, the Government will go to any extent to protect honest officials. The Minister spoke on the various steps taken on issues raised by the village officers in the previous meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-hails-revenue-officials/article37350273.ece
06 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Attack on Dalit man: doctor ‘held’ in Ooty||Danish George, the main accused in the attack on a Dalit youth at Chirayinkeezhu, has reportedly been held from Ooty. Danish, a doctor, had absconded after assaulting Mithun Krishnan, who is married to Danish’s sister Deepthi George, and making casteist remarks against him. The incident took place on October 31. According to the police complaint filed by Mithun’s mother Ambika, Danish had objected to the marriage as Mithun hails from a Scheduled Caste community. Mithun, who sustained head injuries, was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. Based on Ambika’s complaint, the Chirayinkeezhu police had filed charges against Danish under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the IPC sections dealing with wrongful restraint and ‘voluntarily causing hurt.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/attack-on-dalit-man-doctor-held-in-ooty/article37350276.ece
06 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Book marks 200th birth anniversary of Dostoevsky||The Russian House in Thiruvananthapuram, formerly the Russian Cultural Centre, has come out with a collection of articles in Malayalam on Fyodor Dostoevsky to mark the 200th birth anniversary of the acclaimed author. The book, Malayalikalude Dostoevsky , is a compilation of articles by 11 noted writers, including Perumbadavam Sreedharan, Paul Zachariah and George Onakkoor, on how the author of such novels as Crime and Punishment , The Brothers Karamazov and The Idiot influenced the Malayali psyche and Malayalam literature. The volume has been edited by Kavitha Nair, assistant director, Russian House. With his insightful portrayal of the internal workings of the human mind — the regrets, turmoil and guilt that churn its depths — Dostoevsky remains an eternal source of fascination in world literature, Perumbadavam Sreedharan writes in a short bio of the Russian author. Writer Paul Zachariah shares his experiences of writing a screenplay for a documentary based on Mr. Sreedharan's award-winning novel Oru Sankeerthanam Pole , which deals with the life of Dostoevsky. Women in his works Others who have contributed to the 160-page work include K. Jayakumar, N. Prabhakaran, K,P. Mohanan, B. Ekbal, John Mundakkayam, Mangad Ratnakaran, Joly Varghese and P. Jayalakshmi. The articles also seek to look closely at Dostoevsky the man and the writer, his literary contemporaries and influences, the women in his works and his place in world literature. ''All major novels of Dostoevsky found early Malayalam translations that helped introduce the writer to Keralites. This includes N. K. Damodaran's translations of The Brothers Karamazov ( Karamazov Sahodaranmar ), The Insulted and the Injured ( Ninditharum Peeditharum ) and Demons ( Bhoothavishtar ),'' said Ratheesh C. Nair, the Honorary Consul of Russia in Thiruvananthapuram. Serving humanity In the foreword to the book, Nikolay R. Kudashev, Ambassador of Russia to India, noted: ''It is inspiring that the writer’s philosophy of ‘serving all humanity’ is consonant to the concept of inter-civilizational dialogue that both Russia and India promote on the international arena.'' The Russian House has been organising a series of events to mark the 200th birth anniversary of Dostoevsky.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/book-marks-anniversary-of-dostoevsky/article37350165.ece
06 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Fiscal federalism under threat, says Pinarayi||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said fiscal federalism is under threat in India. Chairing the first meeting of the recently reconstituted State Planning Board here on Friday, Mr. Vijayan said an imbalance in favour of the Centre and against the State had crept into the federal structure. The States were facing a severe resource crunch. Hence, the Centre-State fiscal balance should be recast in favour of States, the Chief Minister said. The Government and Planning Board was intent on revitalising the State’s post-COVID-19 economy. Sustained development and welfare were the State’s goals, and Kerala still followed the five-year Plan pattern. The 13th Five-year Plan aspired to build on the State’s achievements in several sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fiscal-federalism-under-threat-says-pinarayi/article37350172.ece
06 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Stone laid for women and children ward at MHC||The foundation stone for a special ward for women and child inmates of Mental Health Centre (MHC), Peroorkada, was laid on Thursday. The ward is the first of such initiatives in mental health centres in the State. The Technopark-based Gemini Software Solutions is constructing the building for the ward using their corporate social responsibility funds as part of the District Legal Services Authority’s ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ programme. Kerala High Court judge N. Anilkumar inaugurated the function for laying the foundation stone. Gemini Software chief executive officer Ranjith Darwin laid the foundation stone. V.K. Prasanth, MLA, presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stone-laid-for-women-and-children-ward-at-mhc/article37350271.ece
06 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||WCD building renovated||People look to the Women and Child Development (WCD) Department with a lot of hope. It is important to meet those expectations, Minister for Women and Child Veena George has said. She was speaking after inaugurating a renovated building to house the offices of the District Women and Child Development Officer and the District Child Protection Officer here on Friday. The Minister said the department had a huge responsibility, and an environment and facilities required to discharge those had been put in place. The department’s own building had been renovated at a cost of Rs. 33 lakh. This would improve the department’s functioning in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wcd-building-renovated/article37350272.ece
06 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||878 new cases in district||The district reported 878 new COVID-19 cases and 1,202 recoveries on Friday. The test positivity rate stood at 11.4%. In all, 11,468 people are under treatment for the infection in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/878-new-cases-in-district/article37350274.ece
06 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KWC prepares draft for Act amendment||The draft proposals on amending the Kerala Women’s Commission (KWC) Act will be submitted to the Government without delay, Kerala Women’s Commission chairperson P. Satheedevi has said. She was speaking after the second round of discussions on preparing the draft of the Act recently. Changes in sections Ms. Satheedevi said amending various sections of the Act to include penal powers, their limitations, and nature of complaints to be considered for effective execution of the commission’s decisions was under consideration. Commission’s standing counsel in the High Court A. Parvathi Menon presented the draft recommendations. The first round of talks was held in January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwc-prepares-draft-for-act-amendment/article37350186.ece
06 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||GST evasion: checks to be strengthened||Inspections will be tightened to curb tax evasion on goods, including gold, the State Goods and Services Tax (GST) Department said on Friday. The department had stepped up surveillance after tax evasion on gold, areca nut and plywood came to light. More recently, smuggling of gold in vehicles has become rampant. The State GST Intelligence was specially constituted to prevent tax evasion on goods and services. Hindering inspections by GST officials would attract stern action, the department said.  Rampant tax evasion on gold, areca nut, plywood||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gst-evasion-checks-to-be-strengthened/article37350126.ece
06 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Yellow alert in nine districts for two days||Nine districts are on yellow alert on Saturday and Sunday for isolated heavy rainfall, said the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday. The districts are Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Idukki, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea on Saturday as squally weather is expected along the Kerala coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alert-in-nine-districts-for-two-days/article37350127.ece
06 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Resolve dam row through dialogue’||Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine on Friday questioned the wisdom of taking an emotional approach on the Mullaperiyar dam issue. Instead, the matter should be sorted out through dialogue by Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Tamil Nadu’s stand that the matter could be discussed by both the Governments was laudable, he said. Kerala was ready to provide its neighbour with enough water, Mr. Augustine said, reiterating the Kerala Government’s demand for a new dam at Mullaperiyar to ensure the safety of the people. “The two States should arrive at a consensus by discussing the matter. That such a situation is arising gives hope,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resolve-dam-row-through-dialogue/article37350128.ece
06 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Wild boar menace severe on Thrissur outskirts||Wild boars are on the rampage on the outskirts of Thrissur city. They are roaming around in groups destroying crops and can be seen on the road and habitations even in broad daylight. The menace is severe at Cherur and Evannur, close to the city. “The Maitri Residents Association cleaned the roadsides at Evannur, where the local people used to dump garbage. We cultivated vegetables there. But wild boars destroyed everything,” says Sebastian Joseph, an office-bearer of the association. Risk to motorists Evannur has eight student hostels. Students are afraid of going out at night even to have food. Around two dozen wild boars are roaming the area day and night posing a threat to pedestrians. They pose risk to motorists too, especially for two-wheeler riders. Recently a few boars chased children who were playing in front of their house. The association urged the forest authorities to kill the animals to protect the lives and property of the residents. “There are hundreds of wild boars and peafowl on the vast campus of the Kerala Police Academy and Government Engineering College at Cherur. They come in groups to destroy crops in neighbouring areas. People are not able to cultivate anything in the area,” says Mr. Joseph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wild-boar-menace-severe-on-thrissur-outskirts/article37350284.ece
06 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Dhanlaxmi Bank records profit of Rs. 10.45 crore||Dhanlaxmi Bank has recorded net profit of Rs. 10.45 crore for the first half of financial year 2021-22. The bank recorded operating profit of Rs. 42.11 crore for the half year ended September 30. Total business of the bank reached Rs. 18,889 crore as on September 30, 2021 from Rs. 18,496 crore as on September 30, 2020 registering growth of 2.13% year on year. Deposits recorded a year-on-year growth of 4.22% to reach Rs. 11,918 crore as on September 30, 2021 from Rs. 11,436 crore as on September 30, 2020. As on September 30, 2021, bank’s overall capital adequacy stands at 13.64%. Book value of the shares stands at Rs. 34.57 as on September 30. “The bank would continue its focus on CASA, retail advances, including gold loans, non-interest income and NPA recovery during the current year,” according to Chandran L., General Manager of the bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dhanlaxmi-bank-records-profit-of-rs-1045-crore/article37350232.ece
06 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Girl fatally knocked down by bike||A 14-year-old girl was fatally knocked down by a motorbike on her way to school at Peramangalam on Friday. The deceased was identified as Akhila Rajkumar of Peringannur. She was a Class X student of Durgavilasam School, Peramangalam. The motorbike hit Akhila when she was crossing the road to school. Though the critically injured girl was rushed to hospital, her life could not be saved. Another death In a similar accident, another student was hit by a car at Ramavarmapuram a few days back. Ahalya of Ramavarmapuram was hit by a car, when she was going to buy milk. The girl succumbed to her injuries couple of days back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/girl-fatally-knocked-down-by-bike/article37350233.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||RTC buses keep off road||The unions have maintained that pay has not been revised during the past nine years. Though the Chief Minister had promised to implement pay revision by June, there has been no progress on this front, according to the unions. On Thursday, the Government decided to impose dies non for striking employees. But the unions went ahead with the strike. ‘Essential service’ Addressing a press meet on Friday, the Minister accused the unions of not giving him sufficient time to hold discussions with the Chief Minister on pay revision. The Government would consider declaring KSRTC an essential service if the trade unions continued with the strike. “They did not give me even 30 hours to discuss the demand with the Chief Minister,” said Mr. Raju. “There was no need to take a rushed decision on pay revision. We cannot approve of such a tendency of putting people to difficulties and pressuring the Government. The Government will certainly consider declaring the KSRTC an essential service if the unions continue with such moves,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rtc-buses-keep-off-road/article37350130.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Missing the buzz||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/missing-the-buzz/article37350093.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safe in captivity||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safe-in-captivity/article37350181.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||United stance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/united-stance/article37350235.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Stillness all around||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stillness-all-around/article37350278.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pedalling in protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pedalling-in-protest/article37350281.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Having a free run||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/having-a-free-run/article37350189.ece
06 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Demolition of Kapico villas still in limbo||Though nearly two years have passed since the Supreme Court ordered the demolition of the illegally constructed villas of Kapico Kerala Resorts Pvt. Ltd on Nediyathuruthu island in Vembanad Lake, the move to demolish the structures remains in limbo. It was on January 10, 2020 that the Supreme Court dismissed appeals by Kapico against a Kerala High Court decision banning the construction of resorts and removal of structures on the backwater island. The court observed that the constructions had violated coastal and environmental regulations. Though the responsibility of demolishing the structures lies with the Panavally grama panchayat, the local body, following the court verdict, sought the help of the State Government citing its lack of expertise and finance to carry out the task. Demolition plan Earlier this year, a special committee was constituted to carry out an environmental impact assessment study and preparing a plan for the demolition of the structures but has yet to submit its report. The Public Works Department (Buildings wing), which was asked to prepare a Detailed Project Report to demolish constructions in the resort, too is dilly-dallying in filing the report. Officials, meanwhile, said Kapico had submitted their own demolition plan but no decision had been taken on it. "Once the environmental impact study report is submitted, we will go ahead to demolish the resort. The resort has also submitted a plan, which is under consideration. If they fail, steps will be taken at the Government-level to comply with the court order," said Alappuzha District Collector A. Alexander. Officials said the razing of the structures would have to be done in a careful manner as there was a chance of debris, including hazardous waste, falling into the lake during the demolition and transportation. Alleging inordinate delay in the implementation of the court order, the Kerala Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedi (TUCI) said they would move a contempt petition in the apex court. Kapico constructed 54 villas and a main block among other facilities over a period of six years from 2007. In March 2013, the High Court ordered the demolition of Kapico along with the illegal structures constructed by Vaamika Island (Green Lagoon Resort) on Vettila Thuruthu, also in Vembanad Lake. The High Court then directed to remove unauthorised structures within three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/demolition-of-kapico-villas-still-in-limbo/article37349612.ece
06 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 students taken ill after having mid-day meal||Fifteen students of Mandal Parishad Primary School at Thippareddipalli in Yadiki Mandal of the district reportedly fell ill after having mid-day meal and were shifted to Tadipatri Government Hospital. The stu dents were shifted in an SUV to Tadipatri immediately after they started vomiting. After primary treatment at the Tadipatri hospital, all the students were shifted to the Government General Hospital in Anantapur for better treatment. The medical officer deputed to Tadipatri by District Medical and Health Officer Y. Kameswara Prasad advised shifting of children to the GGH and treatment by the paediatricians. Anantapur Government General Hospital Superintendent A Jagannath told The Hindu that all students were out of danger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-students-taken-ill-after-taking-mid-day-meal/article37350206.ece
06 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bengaluru honey trap racket busted||Bengaluru city police have busted a honey trap racket and arrested four persons, including a 30-year-old woman. A retired school principal was victimised by the ring on October 2. Nandini Layout police, acting on a complaint he lodged in the last week of October, busted the ring. The principal, looking to open a bar and restaurant, was trying to procure an excise license, and the woman was introduced by one of his acquaintances as a broker who could fix the deal. She called him to her friend’s house in Laggere and as the man was in the house, three men barged into the house claiming to be from a Kannada organisation, alleged that they had caught them indulging in prostitution red-handed, and fleeced the retired principal of Rs. 3 lakh to let him go. Police suspect the same gang has similarly fleeced more than 20 men over the last few months. A further probe is on. In an eerily similar case, a 40-year-old engineer was called by a woman he had befriended on social media to a hotel room. Given the similar modus operandi , police have not ruled out the same gang carrying out the second incident as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bengaluru-honey-trap-racket-busted/article37349620.ece
06 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka ends night curfew, allows races||The Karnataka Government has withdrawn night curfew from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. in the entire State. The Government also permitted horse racing with adherence to COVID-19 norms. Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar issued the order on November 5. The order states: “Night curfew, which is being imposed from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m., is herewith withdrawn.” Night curfew had been in force in Karnataka for the past few months following the second wave of COVID-19. Now with a sharp decline in COVID-19 cases, the Government has withdrawn night curfew. COVID protocol The Chief Secretary, who is also chairman of the executive committee of the State Disaster Management, said horse racing is permitted to resume, while strictly adhering to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and SOPs issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department of the State government. The number of racing patrons attending horse racing should be strictly as per the seating capacity of the venue, and only fully vaccinated people would be allowed to enter the racing premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-ends-night-curfew-allows-races/article37349606.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Case delay: Madras HC apologises to SC||The Madras High Court has apologised to the Supreme Court for taking six years to dispose of a writ petition filed by an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer accused of extorting Rs. 3 crore from a woman involved in an economic offence and not keeping up the hope and trust that the apex court had reposed on the High Court in 2015 by expecting it to dispose of the case at the earliest. Dismissing the writ petition now, Justice C.V. Karthikeyan wrote: “I must append a note of apology. The High Court had not kept up the hope and trust of the honourable Supreme Court. The matter was heard in full after more than six years (since the Supreme Court had directed the High Court to take a relook into the matter) and the controversy is hopefully disposed of by this order.” The judge pointed out that the petitioner Pramod Kumar was serving as Inspector General of Police (West Zone) in 2009 when a case was booked by Tiruppur Central Crime Branch against three directors of Pazee Forex Trading India Private Limited. They were accused of accepting deposits worth crores from the public by promising attractive returns. Subsequently, one of the directors Kamalavali Arumugam went missing on December 8, 2009 and a woman missing case was booked at Tiruppur North Police Station. The woman surfaced on December 11, 2009 and she claimed to the police that she was abducted by unknown persons. However, on further inquiry, the woman accused Inspector of Police V. Mohan Raj of having demanded Rs. 3 crore from her for not taking action against her in the economic offence case. She also claimed to have enacted a drama of getting abducted and told the police that she had already paid Rs. 2.95 crore since she was subjected to threats and harassment. Thereafter, the woman missing case was altered into a case of extortion. During interrogation, the Inspector reportedly told the sleuths that he got involved into the issue only on the instructions of the then IG (west zone). CB-CID issued summons to the IG and questioned him. Meanwhile, disposing of a criminal petition filed by the investors of Pazee, the High Court transferred the investigation in the economic offences case as well as the extortion case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) since they were connected. The CBI arrested the IG on May 2, 2012. He filed a writ petition in August 2012 to restrain the CBI from investigating the case since it had not obtained prior sanction from the Centre to prosecute him. A single judge dismissed the writ petition on December 5, 2012. A writ appeal was also dismissed by a Division Bench of the High Court on April 29, 2013. However, when the matter was taken on further appeal, the Supreme Court on March 17, 2015 remanded the writ petition to the High Court for a fresh hearing. In the meantime, the CBI filed final reports before two different special courts in the economic offence case as well as the extortion case. While the trial had commenced in the economic offence case, the extortion case was kept in suspended animation due to Supreme Court orders. Dismissing the 2012 writ petition once again after a full fledged hearing, Justice Karthikeyan directed the special court for CBI cases to proceed since prima facie materials were available against the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/case-delay-madras-hc-apologises-to-sc/article37349604.ece
06 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Remove poll official’||The TDP on Friday filed a lunch motion petition in the A.P. High Court seeking removal of Lokeswara Varma, the election officer for the Kuppam Municipality election. Mr. Varma, who is Municipal Commissioner at Punganur, is posted as election officer at Kuppam. The TDP’s petition contended that the official was working in favour of the YSRCP. The petition is likely to come up for hearing on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/remove-poll-official/article37350222.ece
06 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor denizens join Karthika festivities||The Karthika month, which commenced on Friday, has led to devotional fervour all over Chittoor district, with thousands of people worshipping at the Shivite temples from Satyavedu to Kuppam. Shiva temples at Srikalahasti, Moghili, Ramagiri, Surutupalle, Kailasakona, Sadasivakona hillock and Talakona and these centers are fully spruced up for the month-long festivities The tri-State junction of Chittoor district holds a special significance for this month, thanks to the amalgamation of the cultures of Telugu, Kannada and Tamil. Coming as a happy development, the COVID-19 daily tally in Chittoor district stood at just four on Friday, lowest since April 2020. During this month, Srikalahasti will be the cynosure of Chittoor, as thousands of devotees from all over the South, particularly from Tamil Nadu, throng the temple to perform the famous Rahu-Ketu puja. The copious rains since June this year have contributed to gush of waters at Kailasakona, Sadasivakona, Talakona, Moolakona, Kaighal, Gangana Sirasu, Ubbalamadugu and Bhupateswara Kona, the scenic forested locations with Shiva temples. Post the pandemic, one of the unique features of the month – Vanabhojans – is expected to be celebrated across the district this year. Hundreds of villagers conduct outings followed by community luncheons at some of the scenic and forested locations, with family members, friends and relatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/post-pandemic-chittoor-denizens-join-karthika-month-festivities/article37350208.ece
06 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Police can’t seize vehicles in drunk driving cases’||Justice K. Lakshman of Telangana High Court on Friday made it clear that police do not have power to detain or seize a vehicle on the ground that the person driving or riding the vehicle was under the influence of alcohol. Delivering verdict in a batch of writ petitions challenging powers of police to seize vehicles during drunk drive checks, the judge said any breach of the direction issued in the matter would amount to contempt of court and action would be initiated against police officers concerned. The magistrate directed the police officers to file charge-sheets in drunk drive cases within three days if they deem it fit to do so against driver, owner (or both) of the vehicle. The detained vehicle should be released by the police after completion of prosecution, by intimating to the Road Transport Authority officials. Justice K. Lakshman also instructed magistrates to receive the charge-sheets within three days from the date of seizure of vehicles in compliance with rule 448-A (iv) of Telangana State Motor Vehicle Rules-1989. The judge made it clear that police officers should strictly adhere to the procedure laid down under rule 448-A. If no one comes forward to claim the seized vehicle, the police can proceed in accordance with the law. During drunk driving checks, a person found under the influence of alcohol should not be allowed to drive or ride the vehicle. However, a person (who is not in an intoxicated condition) accompanying that driver or rider shall be permitted to drive that vehicle on production of driving license. This is subject to section 202 of the Motor Vehicles Act-1988. If no person is accompanying such ‘intoxicated’ driver or rider, the police should inform nearest relative or friend of the driver or rider to take custody of the vehicle. If none is available to take custody of the vehicle, police should take ‘temporary possession’ of the vehicle. It should be kept at the nearest police station or any other appropriate authorised place for safe custody, the judge said. The judge stated that earlier the court had held that police do not have powers under the MV Act to take custody of vehicles being driven by persons under influence of alcohols. Directions were also issued in the past to release vehicles seized in drunk driving cases on production of vehicle’s registration certificate, photo identity proof and driving license.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-cannot-seize-vehicles-in-drunk-driving-cases-hc/article37350052.ece
06 November 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students held filming woman changing clothes inside showroom||Two students were arrested by the Jubilee Hills police on Thursday for allegedly peeping into women’s trial room of H&M fashion outlet and for recording the video while she was changing clothes. The accused were identified as Kirit Aasat, 24, of Kalyan Nagar in SR Nagar, and K Gaurav Kalyan, 19, from Vengal Rao Nagar. According to Jubilee Hills inspector S Rajashekar Reddy, at around 4.30 p.m. the young lady raised an alarm when she noticed a person recording the video on a mobile phone while she was changing clothes at the trail room situated on the first floor. “They were recording the video from the partition gap from the adjacent trail room. Immediately, she came out screaming and her family members along with the store staff caught them,” Mr. Reddy said. They were handed over to the police party. The youngsters first recorded a 30-second video and later when they tried to record another clipping, the victim noticed them and raised an alarm. H&M store manager Aman Suri was also booked by the police for negligence as he is responsible for the safety of customers and failed to ensure full separation for men and woman trail rooms. Notices were issued to store management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-held-filming-woman-changing-clothes-inside-showroom/article37350075.ece
06 November 2021||JANGAREDDYGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ten hurt as workers in edible oil company clash||Ten labourers working in a private edible oil company suffered injuries when two groups clashed near the firm. The injured were from Bihar and Madhya Pradesh and are stated to be out of danger. West Godavari SP Rahul Dev Sharma said, on Thursday night the two groups clashed after celebrating Deepavali. About 150 migrant workers were engaged by the company. Jangareddygudem DSP B. Ravi Kiran said that the police visited the place and picked up suspects. “The situation is under control and a police picket has been arranged,” the DSP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ten-hurt-as-workers-in-edible-oil-company-clash/article37350204.ece
06 November 2021||KARIMNAGAR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCCL rolls out plan to ramp up production||Aiming to surpass the annual coal production target in the current fiscal, the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) has rolled out an action plan to scale-up coal production by optimally utilising the state-of-the-art technologies like continuous miners to produce around 330 lakh tonnes of coal by March 31, 2022. Against the stipulated production target of 680 lakh tonnes (68 million tonnes) for 2021-22, the government-owned coal mining giant produced 352 lakh tonnes of coal in the last seven months ending October in this financial year, SCCL sources said. The SCCL registered a growth of 60% in coal production as compared to the same period last year. The coal output during the corresponding period of previous year was a meagre 220 lakh tonnes. This was largely due to the disruption in coal production caused by the COVID-19 pandemic last year. About 367 lakh tonnes of coal was transported by the company in the last seven months, registering a growth of 68% on the coal dispatches front and ensuring uninterrupted supply of coal to the thermal power stations as per the fuel supply agreements (FSA), Singareni Collieries Company Limited sources said. The SCCL has set in motion an action plan to ramp up coal production and dispatches area-wise in the SCCL coal fields within the next five months to surpass the annual production target. The plan of action envisages maximising the use of the modern machinery such as the remote-controlled continuous miners presently installed in PVK-5 incline and Kondapuram underground coal mines in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district and GDK-11 incline and Vakilpalli underground coal mines in Peddapalli district. Special focus has been laid on enhancing coal production in the Adriyala longwall project, considered country’s largest mechanised underground mine, in Peddapalli district. SCCL Chairman and Managing Director N Sridhar recently reviewed the action plan with the SCCL directors and the general managers of 11 areas of the company via a videoconference from the Singareni Bhavan in Hyderabad. Outlining the strategies for augmenting coal production and dispatches, he called upon all the Singarenians to strive assiduously to catapult the company to surpass the set targets of coal production and dispatches by the end of this fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sccl-rolls-out-plan-to-ramp-up-production/article37349615.ece
06 November 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||No role for RSS workers in Fasal murder: CBI||A report by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) submitted before the special CBI court here on Friday stated that workers of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) had no role in the Muhammad Fasal murder case. The agency reiterated its earlier finding that the political murder was executed by a gang led by M.K. Sunil Kumar, alias Kodi Suni, who has been convicted in the murder of Revolutionary Marxist Party leader T.P. Chandrasekharan. The CBI had arrested eight persons, including Karayi Rajan and Karayi Chandrasekharan, Communist Party of India (Marxist) leaders. Kodi Suni was named the first accused in the case. According to the agency, the murder was masterminded by the Karayi brothers and executed by others. The Kerala High Court had asked the CBI to carry out a further probe after the victim’s brother cited the disclosure of a confession by ‘Kuppi’ Subeesh, an RSS worker, that Fasal was hacked to death by RSS workers, including himself. Fasal, who was a worker of the National Development Front (now Popular Front of India), was murdered at Thalassery on October 22, 2006. The report submitted by the CBI pointed out that Subeesh was forced to make a confession while in police custody in another murder case. The RSS worker had later retracted his alleged confession stating that he was tortured by the police into making the confession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-role-for-rss-workers-in-fasal-murder-cbi/article37349607.ece
06 November 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman constable found dead||An Armed Reserve (AR) police constable, J. Prasanthi (23), was found dead in her room in the town. Police found her body hanging from the ceiling on Thursday, said Deputy Superintendent of Police Sk. Masum Basha. A native of Somaram village, Nandigama mandal, Krishna district, Prasanthi had been staying in a house along with her colleagues, at Lakshmanapuram Gate in the town. No other person was there in the house when the incident took place, said CI Anka Babu. “The reason for her extreme step is not immediately known. We are questioning her room-mates and colleagues. A case has been registered,” said Mr. Masum Basha. The body was handed over to her family members after the postmortem, said SI Nagaraju, who is investigating the case. Persons in distress or suicidal tendencies may call ‘1091’ for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-constable-found-dead/article37350302.ece
06 November 2021||MALAPPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police search Nilambur forests for Maoists||The police, led by its Thunderbolt commando wing, conducted a wide search in the jungles of Nilambur following reports of frequent visits by Maoists to tribal hamlets near the Government Seed Garden Complex at Munderi near Nilambur. Maoist groups had visited the hamlets of Vaniyampuzha, Iruttukuthi, and Kumbalappara in recent days and interacted with the tribespeople in spite of an enhanced presence of the police in the forest region. The police officers supervising the Maoist operations faced embarrassment as a Maoist group emerged at a tribal colony within minutes of the police team leaving the hamlet. The frustration and anger at the intelligence failure was evident in the massive search conducted in the forest. However, according to police sources, no trace of the ultra groups that visited the tribespeople was found during the search. Bid to woo tribespeople The efforts of the police in wooing the tribespeople by engaging them in socio-cultural activities and by planting informers among them seem to have backfired with the Adivasis realising that there would be no change in their plight in immediate future. Their pleas for facilities, including safe houses and power connection, are yet to be heard by the authorities. The Maoists, who visited a hamlet across the river Chaliyar three weeks ago, had spent the whole night there. They had reportedly told the tribespeople not to fall prey to the offers being made by the police and the government. They were told to stand for their rights and to insist on their demands. What surprised the police was the courage being displayed by the Maoists to visit the hamlets in spite of the police having informers among the tribespeople. It had taken two days for the police to get to learn about the visit of the Maoists to Vaniyampuzha hamlet. The police suspect that some tribespeople are working as double agents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-search-nilambur-forests-for-maoists/article37349613.ece
06 November 2021||Mysuru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relentless rain in Mysuru region; coffee farmers seek help||Mysuru district recorded 68 mm of rainfall during the 24-hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on Friday following incessant overnight rains. According to the Indian Meteorological Department, this is the highest for November in the last 10 years. Mysuru district has received 304 mm of rainfall against a normal of 156 mm from October 1 to November 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/relentless-rain-in-mysuru-region-coffee-farmers-seek-help/article37349605.ece
06 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deepavali celebrated with fervour in Prakasam||As the weather cleared up in Prakasam district and the COVID-19 caseload also declined, people celebrated Deepavali with religious fervour and enthusiasm. Members of the Ongole Friends Club set on fire a 40-ft Narakasura effigy, stuffed with crackers, to mark the decimation of the demon king by Lord Krishna. Revellers occupied every inch of space to capture the event on their mobile phones as a girl posing as Satyabhama, an incarnation of Mahalakshmi, shot an arrow. The C.V.N. Reading Room centre came alive with milling crowd enjoying the fire works for about 30 minutes. Tiny-tots dressed like Lord Krishna and Satyabhama were the cynosure of all eyes. Meanwhile, artistes hogged the limelight enacting the ‘Narakasura Vadha’ episode. Cracker shop owners too did a good business as people thronged the shops at the PVR Boys High School grounds||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deepavali-celebrated-with-fervour-in-prakasam/article37350211.ece
06 November 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 2 crore donation for govt. hospital||MP Margani Bharat has said that Andhra Paper Limited would give Rs. 2 crore for the construction of an emergency block in the district govt. hospital here. Addressing the doctors and other hospital staff, he said that the company would extend the aid as part of its corporate social responsibility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-2-crore-donation-for-govt-hospital/article37350209.ece
06 November 2021||THEKKADI/IDUKKI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Mullaperiyar row will be resolved amicably’||Tamil Nadu’s Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan on Friday assured Kerala that it need not have any apprehension about the Mullaperiyar dam’s safety. He said the work to strengthen the main dam had already been done in compliance with the Supreme Court’s direction. To strengthen the baby dam, it was necessary to remove three trees near it, he said. “After strengthening the baby dam, we will approach the Supreme Court and then the water level will be raised to 152 feet,” he said, after inspecting the dam. The Minister said the relationship between Tamil Nadu and Kerala was good, and the row would be resolved amicably. He was accompanied by Ministers I. Periasami, P. Moorthy and R. Sakkarapani, MLAs and officials. Irrigation Secretary Sandeep Saxena, Theni Collector K.V. Muralidharan, PWD Mullaperiyar dam chief engineer Krishnan, R. Subramanian of the Cauvery Technical Cell and senior officers of the Public Works and Revenue Departments. Mr. Duraimurugan told reporters that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan had a special relationship and the issue would be sorted out soon. He said Mr. Vijayan is a seasoned politician and would be aware of the farmers’ problems in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. “I couldn’t visit the dam earlier owing to COVID-19 restrictions... I have planned to visit all major dams soon,” he said. The Minister said AIADMK leader O. Panneerselvam had no right to talk about the issue. “Neither he nor any other AIADMK Minister had ever visited the dam in the last 10 years. Now, they are faulting the functioning of the DMK government.” Water level To a question on water withdrawal by Kerala, Mr. Duraimurugan said the Central Water Commission had recently introduced the ‘rule curve’ theory. Taking the measurement of storage over the last 30 years, engineers would implement it month on month, depending on the inflow and the rainfall.” He said the authorities would keep a tab on the level and release or store water accordingly. For instance, the level on Friday was 138.80 feet. In the event of a steady inflow, the PWD engineers could store 139.50 feet on November 10 and 142 feet on November 30, he clarified. He said the government would consider the demands of farmers of the five districts, who have announced a ‘padayatra’. He also ruled out Kerala’s demand for the construction of a new dam. The Supreme Court and various government agencies had acknowledged that the dam was safe. Earlier, DMK workers, accompanying the Minister, were stopped by the police at Lower Camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mullaperiyar-dam-row-will-be-resolved-amicably/article37349873.ece
06 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala RTC buses off the roads as staff go on protest||Bus services of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) have been disrupted across the State since Thursday midnight, following a strike by various employees’ unions demanding a pay revision. On Friday, scores of people were seen stranded at various bus depots, especially in southern districts which are completely dependent on the State-run transport service. Attendance in government offices and schools in some areas that are completely dependent on the KSRTC was affected. The KSRTC’s fleet remained completely off the road till Friday night after the Kerala State Road Transport Employees Association (KSRTEA) affiliated to the CITU, and the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh-affiliated Kerala State Transport Employees Sangh (KSTES) called a 24-hour strike. As INTUC-affiliated Transport Democratic Federation (TDF) and the union affiliated to the AITUC have called for a 48-hour strike, the services could be disrupted partially on Saturday too. Talks failed The unions decided to go ahead with the strike following the failure of the talks related to pay revision with Transport Minister Antony Raju and top officials of the KSRTC earlier this week. The unions have maintained that pay has not been revised during the past nine years. Though the Chief Minister had earlier promised to implement pay revision by June this year, there has been no progress on this front, according to the unions. On Thursday, the Government decided to impose dies non to dissuade the employees from going ahead with the strike. However, the unions decided to go ahead with the strike. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, the Minister accused the unions of not giving him sufficient time to hold discussions with the Chief Minister on pay revision. The Government would consider declaring KSRTC an essential service if the trade unions continued with difficulties. “The Government is currently spending Rs. 80 crore every month to provide salaries to the KSRTC employees. Even during the COVID-19 lockdown period, when the KSRTC was not running any services, the salaries and pensions were provided without fail. With the pay revision being demanded by the unions, the Government will have to spend Rs. 30 additionally crore every month. But, they did not give me even 30 hours to discuss this demand with the Chief Minister,” said Mr. Antony. Could have waited He said that the unions could have waited for a few days as the next salary would be paid only next month, and any revision would get reflected only in next month’s salary. “There was no need to take a rushed decision on pay revision. We cannot approve of such a tendency of putting people to difficulties and pressuring the Government. Why should the public be troubled for a dispute between the unions and the management? The Government will certainly consider declaring the KSRTC an essential service if the unions continue with such moves,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-rtc-buses-off-the-roads-as-staff-go-on-protest/article37349609.ece
06 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD EO inspects development works||The TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar reddy on Friday inspected various developmental works on the first ghat road leading to Tirupati. He underlined the need to enhance hygiene in the surroundings of the rest rooms and strictly implement the ban on the use of plastic and sale of plastic water bottles by the shop keepers along the footpath. He also checked the progress of works at GNC toll plaza and the ongoing improvement works at the 29th curve on the ghat road. He told the engineering officials to take up levelling works on either side of the footpath. The forest officials were directed to take up greenery works along the pathway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-eo-inspects-development-works/article37350212.ece
06 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD observes Adi Shankara fete at Mangapuram, Vontimitta||Commemorating the opening of the renovated Adi Shankaracharya Samadhi at Kedarnath by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Friday observed special rituals at its Srinivasa Mangapuram and Vontimitta temples in Chittoor and Kadapa districts respectively. The temples are believed to have been visited by the ‘Jagadguru’ during his countrywide tour (Desa Sanchara) to establish Advaita Siddhanta. TTD Joint Executive Officer V. Veerabrahmam paid floral tributes to the portrait of Adi Shankaracharya on Sri Kalyana Venkateswara temple premises in Srinivasa Mangapuram and launched the special spiritual programmes. As the TTD arranged giant LED screens at both temples, hundreds of devotees gathered at the shrines to witness the live telecast of the opening fete of the Samadhi at Kedarnath. The students of Sri Venkateswara College of Music and Dance performed ballets while artistes from the Annamacharya Project presented sankirtans and Harikatha Parayanam. The scholars roped in by the TTD’s Hindu Dharma Prachara Parishat (HDPP) delivered religious discourses on the life of Adi Shankaracharya. As the event was simultaneously conducted at 13 shrines across the State, BJP leaders and members swarmed the temples in large numbers. BJP State co-in-charge Sunil Deodhar and State spokesperson G. Bhanuprakash Reddy visited the Kalyana Venkateswara temple and paid tributes to the Jagadguru. The Prime Minister’s live address and the unveiling of the Shankaracharya statue drew wide applause.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-observes-adi-shankara-fete-at-mangapuram-vontimitta/article37350214.ece
06 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waterlogging: long-term plan on sewer lines mooted||Municipal Commissioner P.S. Gireesha inspected the waterlogged sewer lines in the city on Friday in an attempt to ascertain the damage caused by the rain in the last couple of weeks. The visit assumes significance after the videos of the nearby Madhura Nagar getting inundated in the absence of Underground Drainage System (UDS) becoming viral. Speaking to the media, he said waterlogging had turned into a nagging issue and promised to solve it with a long-term plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waterlogging-long-term-plan-on-sewer-lines-mooted/article37349666.ece
06 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cut VAT on petrol, diesel: JSP||JSP Political Affairs Committee chairman Nadendla Manohar demanded that the YSRCP government cut the Value-Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel in order to reduce their prices in the State. In a release on Friday, Mr. Manohar said several States had reduced VAT after the Central government slashed the excise duties on fuels (Rs. 5 on petrol and Rs. 10 on diesel) keeping in view the enormous burden on the common people. “The YSRCP government is expected to follow suit but it has so far not taken a decision to that effect. Assam, Goa, Gujarat, Karnataka, Manipur and Tripura have wasted no time in bringing down the VAT soon after the Centre took the lead,” Mr. Manohar said. The State government was levying VAT and various types of cess on petrol and diesel. “Mainly, a huge amount of road cess is being collected from people but to no avail as roads across the State are in a bad shape,” he alleged. ‘High prices’ The State government should ease the burden on account of the high prices of petroleum products being borne by the people by reducing the taxes in its purview to some extent, the JSP leader insisted.  The Centre has slashed the excise duties on fuels. But the YSRCP government, instead of following suit, has so far not taken a decision on it. Nadendla Manohar JSP leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cut-vat-on-petrol-diesel-jsp/article37350218.ece
06 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to procure 7,000 MW solar power from SECI from 2024||Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy has said the government will procure 7,000 MW of solar power from Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) from the year 2024 in tranches with due approvals from the AP Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) to supply power to 18 lakh farmers for nine hours during daytime through a special Discom, which will ensure free power to the farmers for the targeted 25-year period. “The AP-Transco and the Discoms have strengthened their networks at a cost of Rs. 3,762 crore in the last two years. A total of 20 new substations have been set up by the Transco and 162 by the Discoms to cater to the additional demand,” Mr. Srinivasa Reddy said in a press release. The Minister mentioned that the price of Rs. 2.49 /kWh was as per the tender-realised price of the SECI, and that the tariff would be determined in compliance with the provisions of the Electricity Act by the APERC. The tendering would be done by the SECI and not the Government of Andhra Pradesh, he added. Mr. Srinivasa Reddy insisted that the scheme of power purchase from the SECI comes with a waiver of Inter-State Transmission System (ISTS) charges for 25 years. In contrast, central grid charges would have to be paid if the project was to be set up in A.P. “Moreover, if the project is outside AP, the cost of power evacuation, substations etc. need not be borne by the State, and the landed cost of power will be relatively cheaper,” he said. “If the project is established in Kurnool, Anantapur etc, power has to first flow to Tamil Nadu and Karnataka through the central grid because the power flow in India is from north to the south. Parallelly, power flows from Odisha to Srikakulam down to Krishna and Guntur districts where the demand exists,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-to-procure-7000-mw-solar-power-from-seci-from-2024/article37350221.ece
06 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Raids conducted on trains to check ganja smuggling||In a joint operation, officials of the police and Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), Railway Protection Force(RPF) and Government Railway Police(GRP conducted raids at railway and bus stations across the State on Friday. Private and transport vehicles were also checked at the toll plazas on the National Highways. Police registered 23 cases and booked 26 persons for allegedly smuggling ganja, Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL), gutkha, cigarettes, ID liquor and silver during the special drive. The teams seized 40 kg ganja, 21,607 gukha packets, 6,907 kg silver, 600 cigarettes and 32 litres of arrack. West Godavari district Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma said that police were checking vehicles at the tollgates, shops and other suspected places. The raids were continuing till late in the night. The SEB Commissioner said ganja, valued at more than Rs. 100 crore, has been destroyed in 550 acres under ‘Operation Parivarthana’ in Motugudem mandal in East Godavari district, Peddabayalu, G. Madugula and G.K. Veedhi mandals in Visakhapatnam Rural district. “Operation Parivarthana was taken up in 13 habitations in the two districts so far. The Odisha police joined the AP Police in the operation and has intensified raids in Andhra Odisha Borders (AOB),” Mr. Vineet said. ‘8,273 kg ganja seized in 3 years’ Speaking at a press conference, City Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu said the police and Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) sleuths seized ganja, weighing about 8,273 kg and worth Rs. 8.13 crore, in Vijayawada Police Commissionerate limits in the last three years. Police arrested 560 persons for allegedly peddling and consuming ganja and confiscated 93 vehicles for allegedly transporting the contraband, Mr. Srinivasulu. Investigation officers recovered Rs. 10.70 lakh cash from the smugglers and booked 252 cases against them. Police held awareness camps and counselling sessions for about 120 ganja addicts, the Police Commissioner said. The Vijayawada police bound over 7,129 persons (under Sections 107 and 110 Cr.Pc) from 2019 to 2021 for creating law and order problems, and instructions have been given to the Station House Officers to keep a vigil on the suspects. Police opened rowdy sheets against 116 persons and history sheets against 607 offenders. As many as 18 persons involved in repeated crimes were expelled from the Commissionerate limits, Mr. Srinivasulu said. The SEB and Police registered 2,619 cases for smuggling Duty Paid Liquor and Non-Duty Paid Liquor and arrested 4,806 persons for illegally transporting liquor. Police seized 1,419 vehicles for involved in the Excise cases from January 2020 to November 4 this year, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/raids-conducted-on-trains-buses-to-check-ganja-liquor-smuggling/article37349661.ece
06 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kin of deceased RTC staff to move court for jobs||Kin of the employees of Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) who died while in-service, and were promised jobs on compassionate grounds under Bread Winner Scheme (BWS), have decided to take legal recourse, seeking justice. The decision follows their protracted efforts to draw the authorities’ attention to their woes on account of an inordinate delay in providing them the promised jobs. The 900-odd job applicants have been running from pillar to post since 2016, in vain. “Despite such long gap, we were hopeful of getting jobs in the RTC, which is now merged in the government and has been renamed as Public Transport Department (PTD). But circulars issued by the APSRTC authorities on August 21 last year and September 26 this year, directing the officials concerned to provide jobs to the kin of PTD employees who died while in service from January 1, 2020 onwards, dashed our hopes,” said K. Annamaiah, whose father K. Raju died in 2016 while working as a shramik (helper) in the organisation for 30 years. “It is five years since he died and I am still waiting for my appointment orders,” he said ruefully. Mr. Annamaiah is one of the 900-odd job applicants waiting for their appointment letters since 2016. “Ignoring our applications, the officials are talking about appointing the kin of only those employees who succumbed to Covid and kin of PTD employees who died while in service from January 1 in 2020,” he said. A set of instructions has been issued for making appointments on compassionate grounds. The candidates should apply within one year from the date of the death of the employee, they should have completed 18 years of age and minor children should complete 18 years of age within two years from the date of death of the employee. The applicant from the family should either be the spouse, a dependent child, dependent widow, daughter or deserted daughter without receiving any property from her husband, married daughter in case of only daughter, adopted child if the adoption was done prior to five years of death or a daughter who was unmarried at the time of submission of application and got married later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kin-of-deceased-rtc-staff-to-move-court-for-jobs/article37350304.ece
06 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power from Adani Solar will cost more at Discom level: TDP||TDP legislator and Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee Payyavula Keshav on Friday sought to know why the State government decided to purchase 9,000 MW from Adani Solar at Rs. 2.49 per unit when all other States in the country had rejected the same considering it too costly. Addressing the media , Mr. Keshav said no State had come forward in the past 22 months to accept the offer of Adani Solar. “But the YSRCP government is going for the dubious deal without proper evaluation,” Mr. Keshav alleged. Where was the need for Andhra Pradesh to buy power from Adani Solar at Rs. 2.49 per unit when Gujarat had called tenders for Rs. 1.99 per unit? The Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) also called a tender at a lower rate of Rs. 1.99 in November 2020, Mr. Keshav pointed out. Power from Adani Solar would cost Rs. 3.50 to Rs. 4.50 per unit at the Discom level and not Rs. 2.49 as was being claimed, the TDP leader alleged. The YSRCP government had given the Rs. 30,000-crore project on nomination basis without going for tenders. The officials concerned would have to be held accountable for this, Mr. Keshav said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-from-adani-solar-will-cost-more-at-discom-level-tdp/article37350227.ece
06 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu decries ‘attack’ on TDP contestant in Kuppam||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged the State Election Commissioner (SEC) to take action against those responsible for attacking and causing injuries to V. Venkatesh, the TDP candidate in the Kuppam municipal election. YSRCP leader blamed In a letter to the SEC on Friday, Mr. Naidu said it had come to his notice that the YSRCP activists had attacked Mr. Venkatesh, the party candidate for the 14th Ward in the municipality, at around noon. “The attack has been carried out by YSRCP leader Muniswamy and his henchmen in order to prevent Mr. Venkatesh from filing his nomination papers,” Mr. Naidu alleged. The TDP president complained to the SEC that about 25 persons had waylaid and beaten up Mr. Venkatesh when he approached the nomination centre at MFC Junior College in Kuppam. “The goons rained blows on Mr. Venkatesh, snatched away his nomination papers, tore them up, and destroyed them. Also, they took away his cell phone,” Mr. Naidu alleged in his letter. HC directive When a few followers of Mr. Venkatesh tried to intervene, the miscreants tried to attack them too. The attackers fled, leaving Mr. Venkatesh in an unconscious state, Mr. Naidu alleged. He also brought to the notice of the SEC a High Court directive (WP No. 25596, dated November 2, 2021) ordering that security be provided to candidates aspiring to contest the municipal election. Demanding that immediate action be taken against the culprits, Mr. Naidu sought provision protection to all the candidates intending to file nominations. “Also, additional police force is needed in order to ensure smooth, free and fair conduct of election,” Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-decries-attack-on-tdp-contestant-in-kuppam/article37350225.ece
06 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||List of retired bureaucrats helming newly-created posts grows||The State government has appointed a retired Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer, A. Gitesh Sarma, as Special Officer (International Cooperation). According to information, the government has created the new post in the General Administration Department (GAD) to accommodate Mr. Sarma, a 1986 batch officer, who had retired from service as Secretary (West) in the Ministry of External Affairs. As Special Officer, Mr. Gitesh Sarma has been entrusted with the responsibility of coordinating with the embassies of all countries, supporting the AP Economic Development Board, and advising different State government departments on international cooperation, according to an order issued by Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma. The government has issued a G.O. in this regard. Thus, Mr. Gitesh Sarma joins the growing list of retired bureaucrats drafted by the State government to helm newly-created posts, some of them of the rank of a Cabinet Minister. Former Chief Secretary Ajeya Kallam had been appointed Principal Adviser to the State government in the Cabinet rank. Another former Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney had been posted as Principal Adviser to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. She was later made the State Election Commissioner (SEC). Similarly, another former Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das had been appointed as Chief Adviser to the Andhra Pradesh government and positioned at A.P. Bhavan in New Delhi. In the same way, retired IAS officers M. Samuel had been drafted to oversee the implementation of Navaratnalu, while another retired IAS officer L. Premachandra Reddy had been asked to deal with the issues related to the A.P. Reorganisation Act. Another retired IAS officer, Ashwini Kumar Parida, had been appointed as Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB), while Veena Ish, also a retired IAS officer, was taken in as Vigilance Commissioner. The government had appointed retired IPS officer Ram Prawesh Thakur as member of the Commissionerate of Inquiries. Similarly, retired IPS officer Busireddy Malla Reddy had been posted as Joint Managing Director (Vigilance) of AP-Transco. Former Union Finance Secretary Subhash Chandra Garg had been appointed Adviser to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for resource mobilisation. The State government had appointed retired High Court judge V. Kanagaraj as Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh State Police Complaints Authority. Prior to it, Mr. Kanagaraj had been appointed as State Election Commissioner, The High Court, however, struck down the appointment and reinstated Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar as SEC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/list-of-retired-bureaucrats-helming-newly-created-posts-grows/article37350226.ece
06 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Gajula alankaram’ for goddess Durga||Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam priests will decorate the presiding deity goddess Kanaka Durga with bangles on Saturday, as part of ‘Gajuala alankaram’. The precincts of the temple would also be decorated with colourful bangles on the occasion. The deity is decked up with bangles coinciding with Yama Dwitiya, second day after Amavasya- Deepavali. Referring to legends, they say that the festival of Yama Dwitiya is a symbol of affection and warmth between brother and sister which is celebrated on the second day after Deepavali. Lord Yama is worshipped on this occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gajula-alankaram-for-goddess-durga/article37349668.ece
06 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karthika masam takes off on religious note||Karthika masam, considered an auspicious month in the Telugu calendar, got off to a religious start on Friday with devotees visiting Shiva temples after taking a dip in the Krishna river. Various temples in the city were illuminated with colourful and fancy lights. The Sivalayam atop Indrakeeladri, Patha Sivalayam in One Town, Governorpet Kasi Visweswara Swamy temple, Ramalingeswara Swamy temple in Yanamalakuduru, Rama Koti temple at Satyanarayana Puram and the Sivalayam at Ramavarappadu are among the temples most visited during the month. The temple managements arranged queue lines and took other steps to ensure social distancing among visiting devotees. Special pujas like Rudrabhishekam, Laksha Bilwarchana, Sahasra Lingarchana and Rudra homam would be performed during the month. The rush at the temples is expected to go up from Monday. In West Godavari district, devotees thronged the Sri Someswara Swamy Devasthanam at Bhimavaram and Sri Ksheera Ramalingeswara Swamy temple at Palakol, which are among the Pancharama Kshetrams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karthika-masam-takes-off-on-religious-note/article37350303.ece
06 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘8,273 kg ganja seized, 560 held in 3 years’||The police and the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) sleuths seized ganja, weighing about 8,273 kg and worth Rs. 8.13 crore, in Vijayawada Police Commissionerate limits in the last three years, said City Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. Police arrested 560 persons for allegedly peddling and consuming ganja and confiscated 93 vehicles for allegedly transporting the contraband, Mr. Srinivasulu said in a press conference held here on Friday. Investigation officers recovered Rs. 10.70 lakh cash from the smugglers and booked 252 cases against them. Police conducted awareness camps and counselling sessions for about 120 ganja addicts, the Police Commissioner said. The Vijayawada police bound over 7,129 persons (under Sections 107 and 110 Cr.Pc) from 2019 to 2021 for creating law and order problems, and instructions have been given to the Station House Officers (SHOs) to keep a vigil on the suspects. Rowdy sheets opened Police opened rowdy sheets against 116 persons and history sheets against 607 offenders. As many as 18 persons involved in repeated crimes were expelled from the Commissionerate limits, Mr. Srinivasulu said. The SEB and Police registered 2,619 cases for smuggling Duty Paid Liquor (DPL) and Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) and arrested 4,806 persons for illegally transporting liquor. Police seized 1,419 vehicles for involved in the Excise cases from January 1, 2020 to November 4, this year, he said. Raids were conducted to prevent the banned gutkha smuggling and sale and booked 407 cases. Police arrested 604 persons involved in the racket and seized the banned products, valued about Rs. 6.32 crore, Mr. Srinivasulu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/8273-kg-ganja-seized-560-held-in-3-years/article37349659.ece
06 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM invited to Navy Day fete on Dec. 4||Eastern Naval Command Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief Vice-Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Friday, and invited him to the Navy Day celebrations to be held in Visakhapatnam on December 4. Vice-Admiral Singh informed the Chief Minister that a Naval ship, INS Visakhapatnam, would be launched soon in Mumbai, and apprised him of the preparations for the Presidential Fleet Review and the annual Naval exercises called ‘Milan’ to be held in February 2022. The Chief Minister felicitated Vice-Admiral Singh. Captains V.S.C. Rao and Vikas Gupta, Civil Military Liaison Officer Commander Sujit Reddy, and Flag Lieutenant Shivam Kandari were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-invited-to-navy-day-fete-on-dec-4/article37350216.ece
06 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSCHE partners with German varsity to help students expand horizons||A comprehensive approach to education where teachers can get students to participate in the classroom and every course is linked to a project will pave the way for self-learning of the students, said Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE) K. Hemachandra Reddy on Friday. Delivering keynote address at a round table discussion on “What is Engineering? What is the difference between Science and Engineering”, organised by the Council, in collaboration with the German Varsity for Advanced Studies and Indo-Euro Synchronisation, to create a platform to discuss new avenues of partnerships in higher education between India and Germany. The collaborative platform “German-AP Forum for Higher Education” proposes to host round table action plan for six months, beginning from November 5, to improve education standards and international opportunities for students of Andhra Pradesh. Prof. Reddy threw light on key aspects such as self-learning of students, exchange between the industry and academia, best practices from the industry taught in the classrooms, summer school concept and the mandatory internships that provide hands-on experience to the young learners. Referring to the advanced technology in Germany, he said “our technical education will benefit enormously from the German practices.” The online session was moderated by founder president of German Varsity for Advanced Studies, Germany Raj VVN, Vice-Chancellor of JNTU-Anantapur G. Ranga Janardhana was the guest of honour while special addresses were delivered by Research Director, European Center for Mechantronics, FH Aachen University, Germany Dr. Gunther Starke and Dr. Bertram Lohmuller from Sustainable Development Studies, Steinbeis University, Germany and Managing Director, EABW, Stuttgart, Germany.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsche-partners-with-german-varsity-to-help-students-expand-horizons/article37349669.ece
06 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP State-wide protest today||In order to exert pressure on the State government to reduce the Value-Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel, BJP State president Somu Veerraju has called for a State-wide protest on Saturday. In a release on Friday, Mr. Veerraju took objection to the government’s reluctance to cut VAT on petroleum products, and questioned what prevented it from taking the step when the Centre itself brought down the excise duty. Party cadres would stage demonstration at all district and Lok Sabha constituency headquarters from 11 a.m. to 12 noon, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-state-wide-protest-today/article37350219.ece
06 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC list of selected candidates released||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has declared and made available on its website –https://psc.ap.gov.in– the list of provisionally selected candidates to the post of lecturer in Government Polytechnic Colleges, Technical Education Service, for Mining, Geology, Ceramic Technology, Bio-Medical Engineering and Commercial and Computer Practice subjects. In a statement on Friday, APPSC Secretary said the list was also displayed on the notice board of the commission’s office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appsc-list-of-selected-candidates-released/article37350228.ece
06 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police seize illegal firecrackers in city||Police in the last two days served notices on many people and booked a number of cases against them for unauthorisedly storing and selling firecrackers at shops and private places without obtaining permission in the city. The police teams have seized huge quantities of firecrackers at various places in the last couple of days. At a few places, several persons were found making firecrackers in their houses without following any norms or obtaining the required licences. One such case came to light in One Town on Thursday, after a fire accident. Two persons sustained burn injuries in the accident, which occurred in a house while they were allegedly making firecrackers at Town Kotha Road on Thursday night. According to police, two persons named Srinivas and Prasad had procured the ingredients from various places and were preparing firecrackers in their home illegally. While testing the firecrackers, some sparks fell on the material, causing a fire accident. Both of them were shifted to King George Hospital and the condition of the duo is said to be stable. One Town police have registered a case. Similarly, Gopalapatnam police led by Inspector M. Appa Rao arrested a person for allegedly preparing firecrackers at his house a couple of days ago. Police seized firecrackers worth around Rs. 16,000 from him. In Madhurawada region, PM Palem police conducted raids at several places and booked six cases against people who were found selling firecrackers unauthorisedly in shops. Inspector of PM Palem police station Ravi Kumar said that firecrackers worth around Rs. 1 lakh were seized from the persons. All the persons had purchased the firecrackers from a few traders and are selling them in their places without obtaining any permissions. II Town Police led by Inspector K. Venkat Rao conducted raids at three places and seized firecrackers worth Rs. 34,000. Police found that people were selling the firecrackers in pan shops and on push carts illegally. “Easy money is the only motive behind these cases. We have been conducting meetings with the locals and creating awareness over storing and selling firecrackers illegally, especially in residential areas, which could lead to fire accidents,” Inspector Venkat Rao said. On Wednesday and Thursday, Gajuwaka police conducted raids and registered 12 cases against those selling firecrackers illegally. Gajuwaka police said that they have served notices to the people. Firecrackers worth Rs. 2 lakh were seized from them. Similarly, Kancharapalem police have also booked three cases against those selling firecrackers illegally. The police have served 41 A notices to the people and have seized firecrackers worth Rs. 18,000 worth firecrackers. Pendurthi police caught a van with firecrackers worth Rs. 2 lakh. Though there were bills for the purchase, the police seized the stock as the trader had no permission for selling firecrackers. Several cases were booked at Akkayyapalem and other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-seize-illegal-firecrackers-in-city/article37350308.ece
06 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC bypolls: talks on for unanimous election||Hectic parleys are on between the two major political parties — YSR Congress and TDP — to see that the candidates for the two wards under the GVMC that are listed for the bypolls are elected unanimously without any opposition. The bypoll is scheduled for November 15 and the election will be held for Ward 31 and 61. Vanapalli Ravi Kumar, the TDP corporator from Ward 31, died in April this year of COVID-19 a month later after he was elected, and Dadi Surya Kumari, the YSRCP corporator from Ward 61, died of a massive heart attack in March just three days after she was elected. Both the TDP and YSRCP have come to a common consensus that they would not field their candidates in both the wards, as a mark of respect for the former elected candidates. Vanapalli Gayatri Phani Kumari, wife of Ravi Kumar, has filed her nominations from Ward 31 on Friday and Konathala Sudha, daughter of Surya Kumari, has filed her nomination from Ward 61. Speaking to The Hindu , both YSRCP city president Vamsi Krishna Srinivas Yadav and Peela Srinivasa Rao, TDP floor leader in the GVMC council, said that they would not be fielding their candidates and efforts are on to see that the candidates are elected unanimously. ‘Talks on with other parties’ It is learnt that BJP and Congress have fielded their candidates from Ward 61 and JSP, Congress and two independents have filed nominations from Ward 31. If required, we will talk to the other political parties and request them to withdraw their nominations and efforts are on to convince them, said Mr. Srinivasa Rao. A total of 23 nominations have been received from other parties for the two wards. MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy on Thursday said that both the TDP and YSRCP have agreed to the arrangements and we all welcome the move. But other parties also have to agree, he said. Out of the 98 wards that had gone to polls in March, this year, the YSRCP had won 58, followed by TDP (30), while four were won by Independent candidates, three by JSP, and one each by the BJP, CPI and CPI (M).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-bypolls-talks-on-for-unanimous-election/article37350315.ece
06 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govardhan Puja celebrated by Hare Krishna Movement||Govardhan Puja festival was celebrated by Hare Krishna Movement at CMR Function Hall at Venkojipalem here on Friday evening. The puja, celebrated a day after Deepavali, signifies the lifting of the Govardhan hill by Lord Krishna 5,000 years ago to save his devotees from the wrath of King Indra. The hill is still present in the land of ‘Vrindavan’ in Mathura district in Uttar Pradesh. By lifting Govardhan hill, Lord Krishna established His supremacy and declared that His devotees will always be protected. The festival also signifies the importance of cow protection as Lord Krishna personally performed the festival by offering varieties of food items made from cow milk and ghee as a sacrifice to Govardhan hill. Devotees of Lord Krishna, from all around the world, celebrate this festival. The devotees visit the holy place of Govardhan hill, which is spread over 25 km. They circumambulate the hill as a mark of vrata (sacrifice) on this day. During the circumambulation, they offer milk, ghee and various items made from ghee to Lord Krishna in Govardhan temple. Devotees of Hare Krishna Movement, Visakhapatnam, performed the festival in the same style. A replica of Govardhan hill was made with 100 kg of cake and 200 varieties of sweets, ragi laddu, ragi janthikalu, kaja, mysore pak, rose flowers, puffed rice, nippatlu, ravva laddu, chagodies, coconut laddu, sampangi flowers, sugar ariselu, jaggery ariselu, kova, moong dal, nuvvula laddu, dry fruits laddu and lemon water. The replica of Govardhan hill, offered to Lord Krishna, was distributed as Maha Prasadam to all the devotees. Rasagulla, gulabjamun, sandesh, paneer and doodh peda will be offered to the deity and ‘Go puja’ was performed. Devotees circumambulated the Govardhan replica four times and it is said in the scriptures that they would accrue the same benefit as that of circumambulating the original Govardhan hill. As part of Deepotsavam, the venue was lit with multiple traditional lamps. The programme was organised by Hare Krishna Movement, under the guidance of Sri Niskinchana Bhakta Dasa, president Hare Krishna Movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govardhan-puja-celebrated-by-hare-krishna-movement/article37350311.ece
06 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Literature that focuses on societal good stays timeless’||Literature and poetry that focus on societal good remain timeless and that is the reason why epics like Ramayana and Mahabharata continue to inspire even today, said Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Friday. Speaking at the golden jubilee celebrations of Visakha Sahiti, a literary organisation, he observed that literature is a vehicle through which a nation’s greatness and glory are mirrored. He also said that writers, poets, intellectuals and journalists should accord priority to societal good in all their writings and works. “A country’s culture and traditions play an important role in shaping literature. “We will be able to protect our culture if we preserve our folk literature,” he added. Referring to the richness of Telugu language, he said that every aspect of our life, including our attire, food habits, festivals, customs and occupations, are mirrored by literature. ‘Preserve Telugu’ He said that protecting and preserving Telugu and other Indian languages will enable the sustenance of our culture and provide guidance to future generations for charting the right path. The Vice President expressed his happiness that primary education is being imparted in Koya language through Telugu script at 920 schools in eight districts of Andhra Pradesh. He said it was necessary to be proficient in one’s own mother tongue before learning other languages. He urged parents to take necessary steps in this regard. He also urged writers to pay attention to children’s literature and suggested them to find new ways to popularise such literature. He recalled the contributions of well-known writers Mullapudi Venkataramana and Chintha Deekshithulu in this regard. He lauded Visakha Sahiti for its efforts in popularising Telugu literary works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/literature-that-focuses-on-societal-good-stays-timeless/article37350301.ece
06 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Advise tribals on alternative crops, ITDA officials told||Collector A. Mallikarjuna said that officials from the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) should work on creating awareness among the tribals to shift to alternate crops for farming instead of ganja. Investment for the crop should be low but production and sales should be high. In this regard, the ITDA should provide the required facilities to the tribals, the Collector said. The Collector was addressing ‘Ganja Crop Destruction Coordination Meeting’ at his chambers with officials from various departments, here on Friday. Speaking to the officials, Mr. Mallikarjuna said that the officials should inspect two or three panchayats and check the soil condition before advising the tribals on what plants to grow. He said that the State government has put special focus on ganja destruction in the Agency. The Collector also instructed the officials concerned to take strict action against those involved in ganja smuggling and transportation. Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao and Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy also spoke. Parivartana As part of the ‘Parivartana’ anti-narcotics programme, the district police organised an awareness programme for a large number of students at Paderu in Visakhapatnam. The Rural police have created awareness about the dire consequences of being involved in ganja smuggling and how people can lead a peaceful life by shifting to alternate crops to eke out a livelihood. They also advised the youth to stay away from ganja and other narcotics. Students should focus on skill development and land good jobs, the police said. They also asked the students to create awareness about the same among their parents, friends and neighbours to bring about a change in them. On the occasion, the students formed a human formation depicting the slogans ‘No to Ganja’ and ‘Parivartana’. Circle Inspector of Paderu Police Station, B. Sudhakar and Sub-Inspector G. Lakshmana Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/advise-tribals-on-alternative-crops-itda-officials-told/article37350313.ece
06 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||61 COVID-19 cases in last two days||The district has recorded 61 new COVID-19 cases in the last 48 hours, ending Friday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,58,368, according to a health bulletin released by the health department on Friday. While 20 new cases were recorded on Friday, 41 cases were recorded on Thursday. The death toll stands at 1,097 as no COVID-19 death was reported since Wednesday. During the same time period, 62 persons who were undergoing treatment for the virus have completely recovered. Recoveries increased to 1,56,533. The active cases have declined to 738.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/61-covid-19-cases-in-last-two-days/article37350309.ece
06 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Varahalu Chetty passes away at 93||Matta Varahalu Chetty, founder of the Book Centre and a well-known public intellectual, passed away in his sleep at his son Dr Raghu Ram’s residence in Detroit, U.S. The 93-year-old, a widely respected pioneer in book trade, handed over the business to his son Gurunath and nephews six years ago, and moved to Detroit. He leaves behind two sons and three daughters. Varahalu Chetty and his late brother Narasimha Murty founded the Book Centre on the Main Road in 1956 which was visited frequently by the academia including professors and vice-chancellors. The late Dr. K.R. Srinivasa Iyengar described Book Centre as a ‘mini university’. The Book Centre shifted to Dwarakanagar two decades ago and the late Narasimha Murty’s sons are now managing it. The legendary self-effacing Varahalu Chetty was close to stalwarts like Tenneti Viswanadham and Vavilala Gopalakrishnayya. He shunned publicity and turned down their suggestions to contest for the post of an MLA or MLC. An era has ended in Vizag’s public life, intellectuals in the city said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/varahalu-chetty-passes-away/article37350298.ece
06 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Emulate freedom fighters’||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu called upon the youth of the country to take inspiration from the sacrifices made by the freedom fighters and contribute to achieve a harmonious and inclusive society. He was delivering a talk after releasing a book on the life and parliamentary debates of Umar Alisha, the former pontiff of Sri Viswa Vignana Vidya Adhyatmika Peetham, here on Friday. “Building a society free of discrimination will be the real tribute to freedom fighters,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/emulate-freedom-fighters/article37350314.ece
06 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja valued at Rs. 80 lakh seized, three arrested||Dry ganja weighing 790 kg and valued at about Rs. 80 lakh was seized from the possession of three persons near Aganampudi in the city on Thursday. The Duvvada police, based on credible information, intercepted the vehicle near the Aganampudi toll-gate and seized the contraband. The police said that the accused had procured the ganja from the interior areas of Paderu in Visakhapatnam Agency. ‘On way to Chennai’ “The accused brought the ganja to the Dockyard Colony, near Sheela Nagar, where they loaded it into another vehicle. They were planning to shift it to Chennai,” the police said. The accused allegedly put several bags of potatoes on the ganja load. All the accused had been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-valued-at-rs-80-lakh-seized-three-arrested/article37349616.ece
06 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||All houses will get drinking water by 2024, says Collector||Collector A. Mallikarjuna on Friday directed officials to ensure that all houses in the district are supplied drinking water under the National Rural Drinking Water Project (NRDWP) by March 2024. “The Central and State governments have formed the Jal Jeevan Mission to provide safe drinking water, which is crucial for good health. The aim is to provide clean drinking water even in remote villages,” the Collector said while chairing a meet on the Jal Jeevan Mission at the Collectorate on Friday. He said that the government has sanctioned Rs. 433.33 crore for taking up 3,377 works in the district. He called upon NGOs to create awareness so that they could maintain the water schemes on their own. A village action plan should be prepared and sent to the Mission for its approval. Anakapalle MP B.V. Satyavathi said that water schemes which need funding of less than Rs. 5 lakh should be completed under the scheme. RWS Superintending Engineer said that water taps have been provided in all schools and Anganwadi centres. Training was given to 671 masons, plumbers and electricians. At a separate meeting, the Collector directed NHAI officials to hasten the pace of land acquisition for construction of the highway passing through Koyyuru, Golugonda, Chintapalli, G. Madugula, Paderu, Hukumpeta, Dumbriguda, Araku and Anantagiri mandals in the Agency areas of the district. The compensation for fruit orchards should be paid, in accordance with the rates decided by the government. Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-houses-will-get-drinking-water-by-2024-says-collector/article37350307.ece
06 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four booked for ‘assaulting’ toll gate staff||The police booked four persons on charge of manhandling a fee collector at the Vempadu toll gate in Nakkapalle mandal in Visakhapatnam district on Friday. According to police, the accused, identified as L. Suribabu, J. Srinu, D. Malla and Nanaji from Nakkapalle, were heading towards Payakaraopeta in a four-wheeler. After reaching the toll gate, they were asked to pay the toll fee by the staff. The accused refused to pay, claiming that they were locals. Heated argument This resulted in a heated argument between the accused and the toll-fee collector. The accused allegedly attacked the latter. Meanwhile, the other staff of the toll gate rushed to the rescue of their colleague. The toll-fee collector received injuries. He was shifted to government hospital at Nakkapalle before being referred to a private hospital in Visakhapatnam city. The accused apparently belonged to the ruling party. However, police are verifying the facts. Case registered Acting on a complaint lodged by the family members of the victim, the Nakkapalle police have registered a case. The accused were yet to be arrested. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-booked-for-assaulting-toll-gate-staff/article37350299.ece
06 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bar association gets new head||Vydyula Ravindra Prasad has been elected as president of the Visakhapatnam Bar Association, in the elections held on November 3. Mr. Ravindra Prasad had his primary education in Visakhapatnam and college education at Mrs. AVN College and BVK College. He obtained his graduate degree in Law from Andhra University through NVP Law College, Visakhapatnam. He enrolled himself at the bar in 1987 and has been practising ever since.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-bar-association-gets-new-head/article37350297.ece
06 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lands of NCS Sugars will be auctioned to pay cane farmers’ dues: Botcha||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana on Friday said that the lands of NCS Sugars Limited located at Latchayyapeta in the district would be actioned to pay the dues of all sugarcane farmers. The Minister, who also hails from the district, convened a high-level meeting here and discussed the agitations being staged by the farmers seeking immediate payment of Rs. 16 crore dues for supplies made to the factory. Later, addressing the media, Mr. Satyanarayana said the company owed Rs. 16.33 crore to the farmers for the sugarcane crushing periods 2019-20 and 2020-21. The company did not pay in spite of repeated reminders from the government, the Minister said. “About 19 acres of land belonging to the company will be auctioned under the Revenue Recovery Act. Besides, 30,000 bags of sugar will be sold to mobilise funds for the purpose,” said Mr. Satyanarayana. He criticised the opposition parties for “fuelling unrest” on the factory premises. Earlier, District Collector A. Suryakumari and Superintendent of Police M. Deepika Patil reportedly told the Minister that the people who agitated were not farmers but activists of political parties. Meanwhile, CPI(M) city secretary Reddi Sankara Rao alleged that the district administration was trying to suppress the voice of the farmers with preventive arrests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lands-of-ncs-sugars-will-be-auctioned-to-pay-cane-farmers-dues-botcha/article37350224.ece
06 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials urged to take up road repairs||Opposition party leaders asked the government to take up repairs of major roads immediately as many accidents were taking place on several stretches, including Mill Junction in the town and Aainda junction on the Vizianagaram-Visakhapatnam route. Congress district president Saragada Ramesh Kumar, Aam Admi Party convener K. Dayanand and other leaders asked senior officials of the Roads and Buildings department to visit those stretches to know the horrible condition of the roads and to understand the plight of pedestrians and vehicle users. “Many vehicles get damaged on several routes, including the Vizianagaram-Bobbili-Parvatipuram stretch. The two-hour journey is taking three and a half hours,” said Mr. Ramesh Kumar. Jana Sena Party leader Tyada Ramakrishna Rao said that the party had taken up several agitations over the issue but there was no response from the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-urged-to-take-up-road-repairs/article37350248.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Almost ready||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/almost-ready/article37350306.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Religious fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/religious-fervour/article37350230.ece
06 November 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Three jailed for ganja smuggling||First Additional District and Sessions Judge Khammam P Chandra Sekhara Prasad on Friday sentenced three persons to 10 years’ imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 1 lakh on each of them for their involvement in ganja smuggling. The accused persons were identified as Sona Dodhe, Dasarath Lankhani and Dansari Mallaiah. They were found guilty in a case relating to case of ganja smuggling that was booked against them by the police in Bhadrachalam town in 2019. The three ere arrested while they were smuggling ganja during a vehicle checking drive by the police near the bus stand in the temple town nearly three years ago. The town police filed a charge sheet against the three persons after a thorough investigation under the supervision of the then Circle Inspector of Police Satyanarayana Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-jailed-for-ganja-smuggling/article37350084.ece
06 November 2021||ETIGADDAKISHTAPUR,TELANGANA||2 of a family die within four years||V. Kanakaiah was 30 years old. Three months ago, in August, he died of cardiac arrest. He was a resident of Etigaddakishtapur village in Toguta mandal and shifted to the new village constructed with the same name in the Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) Colony at Mutrajpally near Gajwel. His father died four years ago. About two acres of their land was taken over by the government for the construction of Mallannasagar, when his father Sailu (50) was alive. The authorities even prepared a cheque for Rs. 7.5 lakh to hand it over to Sailu. By the time the cheque was ready, Sailu too passed away. Poshavva, wife of Sailu, went to officials to collect the cheque issued in the name of her husband. Before taking it, someone in the village informed the authorities that Sailu passed away. Officials stopped the cheque stating that it needed to be issued in the name of Poshavva as the head of the family died. “My husband Sailu died as part of our land was taken for canals by the government and compensation was not paid. He died with that stress. My daughter Krishnaveni could not get package though she has crossed 20 years. My son Kanakaiah died with stress like his father. He was survived by wife and two children, three-year-old Shashidhar and one-and-a-half-year-old Nehansh. He was always worried over losing land not getting package. He was also worried about performing marriage of Krishnaveni and future. For some time he had even stopped eating food and his health deteriorated. He was admitted in a hospital and we spent about Rs. 6 lakh but of no use. We not only lost him but also the money,” Poshavva told The Hindu , tears rolling down her cheek. She says they are living on ration rice. “Who will come to our rescue? Can we get justice?” asks Ms. Krishnaveni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2-of-a-family-die-within-four-years/article37350263.ece
06 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Air pollution went up in Hyderabad this Deepavali||Air pollution was higher on Thursday night than the Deepavali of 2019 or 2020, according to the data hosted on the Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) website. The ultrafine particulate matter (PM 2.5) levels averaged 85.72 on Thursday at Sanath Nagar while it averaged 72 in 2019 and 64 in 2020 on Deepavali nights. A ban on regular crackers and limited availability of green crackers did not stop Hyderabad from celebrating Deepavali with gusto and leaving the air unbreathable. It began with an occasional boom that occurred at a distance. Then, the sounds increased as the time between one firecracker explosion and another decreased. By 9 p.m., the air in main thoroughfares and business areas like Panjagutta, Begum Bazaar, Gachibowli, Jubilee Hills, Chatta Bazaar, Ameerpet, and other areas, had a distinct sulphurous smell. Pollution levels spiked in the two automatic monitoring centres among the four that were functioning on Thursday evening. At the US Consulate monitoring station in Begumpet area, the Air Quality Index hit a peak of 384. The AQI is linked to ozone (smog) and ultrafine particulate matter pollution, as well as four other widespread air pollutants. AQI under 50 is considered good while 384 is rated as hazardous and individuals breathing such air are advised against physical activity. In the afternoon, the AQI in the same locality was 61, which is considered moderate. Incidentally, the air monitoring station at Bahadurpura showed AQI of 99 at 1 p.m. The air quality started declining by 7 p.m. with the Patancheru air sampling station recording AQI of 156 considered unhealthy, and the Begumpet station logged 122 at the same time. By 8 p.m., the IDA Pashamylaram sampling station recorded an AQI of 165. The Begumpet station showed 183 at 8 p.m. and soared to 384 at 9 p.m. as crackers started going off through the city. The Bollarum monitoring station went off air and was not functioning during the key hours where the Pollution Control Board is mandated by the Central Pollution Control Board to monitor air pollution due to Deepavali. The air quality started improving by 10 p.m. with the Begumpet centre recording 359. By 2 a.m., the air quality returned to near normal with an AQI of 42.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/air-pollution-went-up-this-deepavali/article37350065.ece
06 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Requests aplenty for resumption, introduction of TSRTC services||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) has been receiving several requests for resumption or introduction of bus services from various parts of the State. It appeared that some of those who sought resumption of services were buoyed after Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana’s recent intervention in restoring bus services in Chidedu village at the request of P Vaishnavi, a Class VIII student. The TSRTC will press into service from November 6 a bus for students of Gomaram village in Medchal – Malkajgiri district. The move will help around 20 students who were facing hardships to travel to their school. The TSRTC will press into service a bus during school hours – in the morning and evening – to provide connectivity to school students. The issue was underscored by Twitter user Srinivas. The TSRTC has also embarked on a feasibility study to restore two other buses services – service numbers 34 and 65 from Secunderabad to Veldurthi and Gomaram to Balanagar respectively. The move came after Shivampet Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituency member Cherukupally Padma wrote to TSRTC Medchal Depot Manager. Mr Srinivas shared an image of this letter on Thursday after which TSRTC officials said they would look into the issue. Speaking to The Hindu , a TSRTC Medchal Depot official confirmed the development. “The bus service for students from Gomaram to Gummadidala will begin from tomorrow. There will be one bus for them and there are 20 students. There will be two services - one in the morning and the other in the evening. For the Veldurthi issue, we are coordinating with the Medak Depot Manager, and a decision will be taken soon,” the official said. Twitter users tagged TSRTC Managing Director V C Sajjanar to underscore the need for bus services in old city. Activist S Q Masood said that students have been facing problems due to a paucity of bus services in the area. He also requested that mini-buses be introduced in old city. “The RTC should do an assessment of the area and draw up plans to introduce a stronger bus network here. A meeting should be convened with public representatives to check whether new routes can be introduced within the old city. Public transport is linked with education and employment opportunities. There is threat of students dropping out if affordable transport in the form of public transport is unavailable,” he said. Responding to such requests, the TSRTC stated that officers would “examine the feasibility.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/requests-aplenty-for-resumption-introduction-of-tsrtc-services/article37350074.ece
06 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Festival of lights brings darkness to many||Hyderabad and its surrounding districts logged 42 firecracker eye injury cases between November 2-5. “We had 35 firecracker injury cases which we treated in the out-patient section and discharged them; seven had serious injuries out of whom four have been kept under observation, while three required surgical intervention,” informed an eye surgeon at the Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital. In the last 24 hours, the hospital logged 31 cracker injury cases. “Yesterday, we received a case from Nizamabad (200 km from Hyderabad) with severe eye injury and we performed a surgery on him. Another young boy has had multiple foreign particles lodged in and around the eye and is being operated on,” informed Dr. Najafi Begum, RMO of SD Eye Hospital. “We are not sure whether two of them will regain sight in the injured eye. We are treating them with powerful antibiotics to prevent infections,” said Dr. Najafi. The OPD section of the hospital was teeming with patients and their relatives as the hospital has deployed additional medical personnel expecting a surge in cases due to Deepavali. “We are expecting more patients will be brought in from the surrounding districts of Hyderabad and the number of people with firecracker injuries to the eyes is likely to go up,” said Dr. Najafi. Among the patients kept under observation was a nine-year-old boy from the village of Burgul near Shadnagar who sat on a bench rocking his body to manage the pain in the right eye. The village is about 65 km from Hyderabad. “He was bursting crackers and one of them didn’t light up. When he tried to see, it lit up damaging the eye,” said K. Rajkumar, the father the boy. While the boy was injured at 2.30 p.m. on Wednesday, he was brought to the hospital at 9 p.m. The doctors expect a full recovery for the boy. However, the prognosis for firecracker injuries to the eyes is grim. “Nothing can be guaranteed in serious eye injury cases for three months. Infections are common,” said an eye surgeon at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/festival-of-lights-brings-darkness-to-many/article37350067.ece
06 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cong. can’t take solace in TRS loss||Huzurabad bypoll result might have given some underlying satisfaction for the Congress party with the message now clear that its main rival Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) can be defeated but that short time pleasure may prove to be costly for the party. A section of the senior Congress leaders argue that a second alternative is being created for the people of Telangana apart from Congress if they had some anger to show on the TRS. Though many may dismiss the Huzurabad result as a win for Eatala Rajender rather than the BJP it remains a fact that BJP too can evolve in areas where it barely has any presence. A senior leader who represented the party in the Parliment recalls how the BJP has created a place for itself in Nizamabad and Karimnagar Parliament seats where the Congress was a much stronger force and equivalent to the ruling TRS even after Telangana formation. “The win of Arvind Dharmapuri from Nizamabad and Bandi Sanjay from Karimnagar Parliament seats have reduced the space for Congress now. We are not decimated but their strong presence means Congress has to fight with two strong enemies,” he said wishing anonymity. “We had lost Secunderabad and Adilabad seats too though we held them for several terms.” In this context, the party leaders feel the Huzurabad result cannot be termed as one of the kind but a bleak scenario staring at the Congress in seats where it could fight to win in a straight contest. “Yes the BJP can’t find strong candidates like Eatala Rajender everywhere but this win may prompt them to encourage defection of strong Constituency level leaders from our party,” argues another leader. Two-time MP from Nizamabad, Madhu Yaskhi Goud too agreed that the perception that BJP too can win in Telangana has to be thrashed immediately before it catches on. In fact, similar arguments were made in the Political Affairs Committee (PAC) meeting of the party the day after the Huzurabad results were out. “We can’t derive some satisfaction because the TRS has lost. Its loss has to be turned in favour of the Congress before the BJP takes advantage.” The humiliating loss of the TRS, however, is being seen as a morale booster by the young leaders within the party. “KCR can be defeated and that too with such humiliation is indeed an indication of the changing mood in Telangana. Congress that has already stepped up the gas will occupy the anti-government space,” says AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju. “Huzurabad was never our seat and we did not win it sinece 1983.” Leaders are confident that in rural areas Congress is way ahead of the BJP due to its traditional vote base apart from the farming community that is totally annoyed with the TRS and the BJP. The only worry however is the BC communities moving towards the BJP slowly and steadily.  KCR can be defeated and that too with such humiliation is indeed an indication of the changing mood in Telangana. Sravan Dasoju AICC spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-cant-take-solace-in-trs-loss/article37350081.ece
06 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Earthquake simulated to test tsunami readiness||An earthquake of ‘M9.2’ was simulated at Andaman & Nicobar Islands as part of the tsunami mock drill in coordination with Odisha State Disaster Management Authority (OSDMA) and Odisha State Emergency Operation Centre with the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS ) here issuing the alert bulletins to stakeholders for evaluating the standard operating procedures and the communication media on Friday. This is to commemorate the United Nations designated “World Tsunami Awareness Day” with 69 coastal communities/wards actively participating during the tsunami mock drill to test the tsunami ready indicators. “Tsunami science has been going through several important developments and it is important to strengthen downstream part, which we are taking as a challenge. Recent tsunamis through submarine landslides and volcanos other than quakes like in Indonesia in 2018 brought us another challenge,” said INCOIS director T. Srinivasa Kumar. Recognition accorded to two villages of Odisha — Venkatraipur and Noliasahi as “Tsunami Ready” is just the beginning and INCOIS is putting more efforts to make all vulnerable communities as tsunami resilient communities through the “Tsunami Ready” programme in collaboration with the respective State disaster management authorities, he said. The primary goal for the next decade is to emphasise and promote tsunami awareness and education for the coastal population and to enhance community resilience through education and outreach programmes. “We cannot control the occurrence of an earthquake even with state-of-arts technologies. However, we can definitely mitigate the possible disaster by taking adequate measures by improving community awareness and preparedness, like making people aware on how to respond to either natural warnings or official,” he explained. During the day, about 70 schoolchildren from Bhashyam School visited the Indian Tsunami Early Warning Centre (ITEWC) to understand the services as also science teachers of Zilla Parishad High School from Bachupally. A sensitisation webinar on “Tsunami Early Warnings” and “Tsunami Ready Programme” was conducted by the Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority (APSDMA), said the director. Indian Ocean tsunami of 2004 claimed around 10,000 lives in India and around 2.30 lakh in surrounding countries. This one calamity, though rare, has shown the whole world how disastrous a tsunami can be as there was neither knowledge nor observation networks then. Since then, ITEWC was set up at INCOIS, the first state-of-the-art warning centre in Indian Ocean countries by the government, and ‘tremendous’ developments have been made in tsunami science. ITEWC not only acts as a national warning centre, but also as a “Tsunami Service Provider” responsible to provide services to all Indian Ocean member States under the framework of UNESCO’s Intergovernmental Coordination Group for the Indian Ocean Tsunami Warning and Mitigation System (ICG/IOTWMS), Dr. Kumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/earthquake-simulated-to-test-tsunami-readiness/article37350062.ece
06 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Steps intensified to resolve podu lands issue, says CS||The State Government has intensified efforts to resolve the problems surrounding regularisation of podu lands in agency areas of different districts across the State. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar conducted video conference with district collectors on Friday ahead of finalising the modalities for receiving applications from eligible beneficiaries starting next week. The government has announced that applications would be received from eligible beneficiaries starting November 8. The video conference focussed on constitution of forest rights committees at the village/habitation level. It also discussed about the awareness campaign that should be taken up to educate the beneficiaries, tribes in particular, about the government's initiative to end the impasse. The Chief Secretary directed the officials concerned to constitute forest rights committees comprising panchayat secretaries, elected representatives and others as members. The panels should be set up habitation-wise and committees should also be set up at mandal, division, district and state levels to monitor the implementation of the assurance given by Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao recently. The CM said the government was committed to resolve the issue provided that agreements were obtained from podu cultivators that there would be no further encroachment into forest lands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/steps-intensified-to-resolve-podu-lands-issue-says-cs/article37350079.ece
06 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Do not dry paddy on road: SP||In a shock to farmers, the police in Sangareddy district warned them not to dry paddy on the road on the grounds that it was leading to accidents on roads. In a release on Friday, Sangareddy District Superintendent of Police M. Ramana Kumar said that drying paddy on roads and placing of big stones on road to prevent vehicles from driving on the spread paddy was leading to accidents. ‘Farmers responsible’ In the statement the district police chief said that farmers would be held responsible for any such accidents and cases will be registered against them. Paddy being dried on road is common during season and many farmers harvest paddy and spread it on road to dry the crop. Many a times this was leading to accidents, but, so far no steps have been taken to register cases against farmers. Though the government has taken up the ambitious programme of building drying platforms under National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA), many farmers are not coming forward to offer their farms for locating the platforms. As a result paddy is dried on the road leading to accidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/do-not-dry-paddy-on-road-sp/article37350257.ece
06 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Explain to people what you will get from Centre, BJP told||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has asked the State leadership of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to explain to people of Telangana as to what it would get from the Centre, now that the party has won the by-election to Huzurabad Assembly Constituency. Stating that BJP had released a special manifesto for Huzurabad, the TRS leaders said it was the responsibility of the State BJP, particularly State president Bandi Sanjay, to implement promises made in the manifesto by pursuing them with the Centre. They also suggested the State leadership of BJP to impress upon their Central leadership to implement Dalit Bandhu-like scheme in all BJP-ruled States. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, Minister Koppula Eshwar, MP Dr. Venkatesh Netha, legislators Dr. M. Anand and N. Laxman Rao condemned the comments of Mr. Sanjay and Eatala Rajeder after the Huzurabad win. They also ridiculed the demand of BJP to implement Dalit Bandhu immediately reminding them that it was due to their complaint its implementation was stopped during the election period. They stated that it was not a scheme that was launched based on the suggestion of Mr. Sanjay but it was the brainchild of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao taken up for the uplift of dalit communities in the State irrespective of their economic status. They alleged that BJP MP D. Aravind had also spoken belittling the SC, ST Atrocities (Prevention) Act by stating that it was a useless Act. On the outcome of Huzurabad, the TRS leaders said their party had lost it due to open collusion of BJP and Congress but the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) vote bank was intact. Alleging that Mr. Rajender was imagining himself more than life size after his win with the help of unwritten alliance with the Congress, the TRS leaders said out of 32 by-elections held across the country the BJP could win only 8 Assembly and one MP seats. Stating that TRS would certainly review the result of Huzurabad, they said the result had nothing do with the schemes being implemented in the State. On the reduction of fuel prices by the Centre, they said there was not much use with it as the decision was taken after the prices went beyond Rs. 100 per litre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/explain-to-people-what-you-will-get-from-centre-bjp-told/article37350078.ece
06 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pleas over retirement age dismissed||The assurance given by some ruling party or by the Chief Minister or even by the Governor does not become law of the land. Making this observation, Telangana High Court had dismissed a batch of writ petitions seeking a direction to State government to fix December 31, 2020 instead of March 30, 2021 as the cut-off date for enhancement of retirement age from 58 years to 61 years. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajesheker Reddy, delivering the judgement, remarked that enactment of law is the domain of Legislature. The bench said that fixation of cut-off date for enhancement of superannuation age did not require interference by the court. The fixation of cut-off date always leaves a large number of employees unsatisfied. “The petitioners have not been able to establish before this court as to how the fixation of cut-off date was discriminatory, arbitrary or violative of Articles 14, 16 and 21 of the Constitution,” the bench noted. Thirty three retired State government employees filed separate writ petitions seeking to declare the GO Ms No. 45 which fixed March 30, 2021 as cut-off date for government employees for enhancement of retirement age from 58 years to 61 years. They stated that ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) party in 2018 elections promised to enhance retirement age from 58 years to 61 years. The petitioners also claimed that the Governor during the Republic Day speech this year assured about increasing retirement age. They contended that First Pay Revision Commission of Telangana, in its report presented on December 31, 2020, mentioned about enhancement of retirement age from 58 years to 61 years. While the government granted higher pay scales (resulting in increase in salaries) as per the Commission’s report, it did not consider the suggestion about increasing retirement age at that point of time. Eventually, the government amended the Telangana Public Employment (Regulation of Age of Superannuation) Act-1984 through GO Ms No. 45.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pleas-on-retirement-age-dismissed/article37350083.ece
06 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Special phase degree admissions from today||The Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) will conduct the special phase degree admissions through Degree Online Services Telangana (DOST) for students who have not got admitted so far. Students seeking admissions can register from November 6 to 20 with a registration fee of Rs. 400. Later, they can exercise web options from November 6 to 20. The certificate verification however will be be held on November 18 and the seats will be allotted on November 24. Students who registered on the DOST earlier and could not secure a seat can exercise web-options without paying the registration fee of Rs. 400. But candidates who were allotted seats in earlier phases but could not confirm their seats can also exercise web options with the earlier DOST ID. But they have to pay the the registration fee of Rs. 400. Candidates who will be allotted seats have to self-report on the website from November 24 to 26 and report at the colleges. Web options Web options for intra-college admissions as part of the special phase will be available from November 27 to 29 and seats will be published on November 30. During the three phases of admissions so far, 1,97,722 seats have been filled while 2,19,693 vacant seats are now available. Details can be had on https://dost.cgg.gov.in/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/special-phase-degree-admissions-from-today/article37350070.ece
06 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||APIIC team inspects infra at Green MSME park||An Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) delegation visited TIF Green MSME model industrial park at Dandumalkapur, Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district, on Friday as part of a study tour. Led by Tirupati MP M. Gurumurthy and comprising APIIC chairman Mettu Govinda Reddy and AP Tourism Corporation chairman A. Varaprasad Reddy, the team was briefed about facilities at the park by Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) chairman G. Balamallu and Telangana Industrialists’ Federation (TIF) president Sudhir Reddy. Jointly developed by TSIIC and TIF, the MSME park is spread across 460 acres, can house more than 450 industrial units and expected to attract Rs. 1,553 crore investments as well as generate 19,000 direct and 30,000 indirect jobs. The APIIC team inspected various facilities and infrastructure at the park. It was also briefed about the facilities proposed, which includes a skill development centre, industrial supermarket, auditorium, bank services and restaurant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/apiic-team-visits-green-msme-park/article37350060.ece
06 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Major fire at Amberpet paper recycling unit||A major fire broke out at a paper recycling unit at Golnaka of Amberpet here in the late hours of November 4. No casualties were reported. The incident which took place around 12.30 a.m. on November 5 caused panic among locals. After five hours of constant efforts, fire was brought under control by the personnel of State Disaster Response and Fire Services, at around 5.30 a.m. by two fire tenders from Musheerabad fire station. “They were refilled by six water tankers to douse the flames,” police said. "We suspect bursting firecrackers could be the reason behind the fire accident," Amberpet police said, adding that a case was registered and a probe is on A similar incident took place three years ago in the same unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/major-fire-at-amberpet-paper-recycling-unit/article37350261.ece
06 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Need robust mechanism to monitor cybercrimes’||A robust mechanism is the need of the hour to monitor cybercrimes, Commissioner of Police M Stephen Raveendra said. Mr. Raveendra along with DCP (Crimes) Rohini Priyadarshini and DCP Lavanya N.J.P. held a cybercrimes review meeting on Friday. He reiterated that in the coming years, most of the offences will have cyber space as a medium or a target requiring every police officer to be well-equipped with all skills required to detect these cases. “The main aim of cybercrime police stations should be investigation and conviction. For this, we need to analyse the cases based on common modus operandi and work on detecting and expeditiously investigating the cases,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/need-robust-mechanism-to-monitor-cybercrimes/article37350071.ece
06 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State logs 151 COVID cases||Adding 151 fresh COVID cases, Telangana’s infection tally till Friday went up to 6,72,203. Two patients died, as per the Health reports available at 5.30 p.m., taking the total number of deaths to 3,963. The percentage of deaths due to co-morbidities (55.69) remained dominant over deaths solely due to the virus (44.31). The maximum infections were recorded among men aged between 21 and 40, and 45 cases were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits. Districts such as Jangaon, Jayashankar Bhupalapally, Jogulamba Gadwal, Medak, Narayanpet, Nirmal, Sangareddy, Vikarabad and Wanaparthy did not record a single infection. Karimnagar and Medchal-Malkajgiri recorded double-digit figures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-logs-151-covid-cases-two-deaths/article37350059.ece
06 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govardhana puja at temple||Hare Krishna Golden Temple celebrated ‘Govardhana Puja’ and ‘Annakutotsavam’ on Friday, the highlight being a replica of Govardhana Hill made of 400 kg pure vegetarian cake of cookies, sweets, fruits and flowers. Krishna prasadam was offered to cows and later, the ‘cake’ was offered to Lord Sri Radha Govinda and displayed for darshan. Kirtans, pravachans and ‘Govardhana Arati’ were performed in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govardhana-puja-at-temple/article37350254.ece
06 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four held with 470 grams of ganja seized||The Cyberabad police stepped up its drive against ganja trade in Cyberabad Commissionerate limits. Continuous raids are being conducted on a daily basis. Bulk buyers, local retailers and drug transporters are on police radar in order to curb ganja peddling and usage. On Wednesday and Thursday, the Cyberabad police booked four drug peddling cases and arrested four persons. They seized 470 grams of ganja and a ganja plant from their possession. The police also booked 50 petty cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-held-with-470-grams-of-ganja-seized/article37350260.ece
06 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IMA condemns attack on Jangaon doctor||Indian Medical Association, Telangana Chapter, on Friday issued a statement condemning the attack on a paediatrician in Jangaon. The violence against Dr. D. Linga Murthy, reportedly by family members and relatives of a deceased two-month old baby, took place at a children’s hospital on Siddipet road in Jangaon on Wednesday. The doctor suffered blunt injuries in the attack. IMA said the baby, despite best efforts of the doctor, which was brought in a critical condition, succumbed. “Violence on medical professionals will demoralise doctors from executing their professional duties in a peaceful manner, as a result services to public at large would be affected,” the association said, demanding authorities concerned for stringent action against the miscreants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ima-condemns-attack-on-jangaon-doctor/article37350255.ece
06 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man convicted for abetting lover to suicide||The VI Addl. Metropolitan Sessions Judge, Secunderabad, on Friday convicted one Gujju Gheethakrishna of Visakhapatnam for abetment of suicide. The case pertains to the death of a woman in her 20s in Lothkunta in 2014. According to the complaint filed by the victim’s father with the Trimulgherry police station then, the woman was found hanging from the ceiling of her room on the morning of June 12. Police investigation later proved that the she was in a state of panic and took the extreme step, as the man she was in reciprocal love with rejected to marry her. Gheethakrishna was given a sentence of five years rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 20, 000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-convicted-for-abetting-lover-to-suicide/article37350259.ece
06 November 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Will rescue all oustees under Dindi’||YSR Telangana Party founder-president Y.S. Sharmila said all oustees under the Dindi Project in the district will be compensated with market rates. Advising COVID-19 warriors to safe-keep their hospital bills, she assured that they would be reimbursed the incurred charges during the pandemic and also, senior citizens in every household would be provided pensions, as against the present government norm, if YSRTP is voted to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-rescue-all-oustees-under-dindi/article37350265.ece
06 November 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Mallannasagar will benefit ryots for generations: Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that the Mallannasagar constructed at Toguta and Kondapaka mandals would benefit farmers for several generations and it would change their fate. Speaking after visiting Mallannasgar along with officials on Friday, Mr. Harish Rao said that a gigantic task was completed in a very short period. “This project will change the fate of farmers forever and benefit future generations. The project was completed with the blessings of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao as part of Kaleshwaram,” said Mr Harish Rao. Irrigation department divisional engineer Sumar and Junior Engineer Bharath informed the Minister that as much as 11 tmcft water was filled in the reservoir with a height of 30 metres. They said while the bund length was about 22 km, water spread was for about 20 km. Forest Development Corporation Chairman V. Pratap Reddy, and Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society (PACA) chairman Bakki Venkataiah were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mallannasagar-will-benefit-ryots-for-generations-harish/article37350077.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Manchi Rojulochaie review||Director Maruthi understands the pulse of the audience, he picks a particular point and weaves a story around it. This time, it is about living with a phobia. The lead role of Gopalam, played by character artiste Ajay Ghosh is full of fears about his loved ones. Apparently, as a child, he would wake up in the middle of his sleep, to check if his mother was around and then go back to sleep. His insecurities grow with age and now he fears that his daughter might fall for the wrong man. When the film begins, Gopalam is a happy person, the neighbours’ envy. That’s until two neighbours instil the fear that his daughter Paddhu (Mehreen) could be dating her colleague. That is enough for Gopalam to get suspicious and put a blanket ban on her going out of the house. Is that caring or distrustful? Maruthi seems to falter here. The overprotective father’s fears are seemingly fed by dialogues by the neighbours laced with double entendre, on Paddhu’s escapades and the hero Santu (Santosh Shoban) is shown constantly seeking physical proximity with her. That Santu loves Paddhuis known only later. As the narrative progresses, the complexities pile up, the final being a COVID attack. Gopalam restricts himself to a room but when his mother is infected and hospitalised, he gathers the courage to go see her. The doctor (Vennela Kishore) announces a medical miracle —the mother has survived — all because she is among her loved ones in the hospital. While this dramatic cinematic liberty, as well as puerile jokes that elicit laughter, may be excused, one does wish the dialogues were not so lengthy. Maruthi shows comedy is his forte, with the arrival of Saptagiri. While the music is not quite up to the mark, the cinematography is beautiful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/manchi-rojulochaie-review/article37350069.ece
06 November 2021||Chhattisgarh,||Chhattisgarh sets up special cells to monitor social media posts||The Chhattisgarh Government is forming a social media monitoring team in districts to screen overall trends and track adverse negative impact posts on social media platforms. The special team will screen posts, observe social media trends and posts relevant to government related activities, which may have adverse negative impact on socio-economic fabric of the State, said an official. The government is planning to develop a surveillance tool to monitor individual users and track overall trends on social media platforms, among other things, he added. In this connection, the Raipur and Bemtara district administration has formed a special team. In Bemtara, the district media monitoring team will be led by Additional District Magistrate Durgesh Kumar Verma, Additional Superintendent of Police Pankaj Patel, Sub-Divisional officer Revenue Sandeep Thakur, District Information and Science Officer Rohit Chandravanshi and few others, the official said. In Raipur, the special cyber team will be led by Girish Tiwari. The members of his team are Mahendra Rajput, Chintamani Sahu, Teksingh. M, he added. A few days ago, while addressing a conference of collectors in Raipur, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said: “Along with continuous monitoring of the law and order situation, it is necessary to strongly refute rumours and false propaganda spreading through social media”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/chhattisgarh-sets-up-special-cells-to-monitor-social-media-posts/article37349993.ece
06 November 2021||Ghaziabad,||Elderly couple found battered to death in Ghaziabad||An elderly couple was battered to death in their house at Patel Nagar here on Deepavali night, the police said on Friday. The matter came to light when one of their daughters living in Noida called them up repeatedly and finding no response from them, alerted her parent’s neighbours, City Superintendent of Police (II) Nipun Agarwal said. He said that on reaching the couple’s residence, the neighbours found its doors ajar with the bodies of 72-year-old medicine dealer Ashok Zaidka and his wife Madhu Zaidka lying in a pool of blood. The ornaments and the cash were found intact in the almirah, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/elderly-couple-found-battered-to-death-in-ghaziabad/article37349963.ece
06 November 2021||Guna,||Three dead as bus catches fire in M.P.||A girl and two others were charred to death and four co-passengers suffered burn injuries on Friday morning when the mini-bus carrying them caught fire after hitting a stationary truck in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna district, police said. The incident took place on National Highway 46 in Barkheda area. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan condoled the deaths. The injured passengers, including a 12-year-old boy, were admitted to the district hospital, Sub Divisional Officer of Police Munish Rajoria said. The bus had 28 passengers who were heading to Mathura on pilgrimage from Indore, he said. “The bus rammed into the rear of a container truck parked by the roadside between 5 am and 6 am at Barkheda in Chachoda tehsil, around 40 km from the Guna district headquarters,” Mr. Rajoria said. The collision caused an explosion and led to a blaze which engulfed the mini-bus, the police officer said. People in the vicinity pulled out most of the passengers from the burning vehicle in time. But Durga (13) and Madho (20), both from Indore, and Rohit, who hailed from Khargone district of MP, got trapped inside and died, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-dead-as-bus-catches-fire-in-mp/article37350199.ece
06 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||‘Namaz in the open will stop soon’||Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader Surender Jain claimed on Friday that the local administration had agreed that offering of namaz in the open was illegal and promised to gradually put an end to the practice in the next few weeks. He was speaking to media persons on the sidelines of “Govardhan Puja” held at Sector 12A by Hindu right-wing groups in protest against the offering of Jumma Namaz at the site. Bharatiya Janata Party leader Kapil Mishra and Surajpal Ammu were also present. Muslim community representative Altaf Ahmad said community members decided not to hold namaz at three sites — Sector 12, Sector 47 and Sector 18 — in view of the “Govardhan Puja” programme and as advised by the police. The namaz was peacefully held in the remaining designated sites, but Mr. Ahmad claimed that “there was a lot of fear, and Muslims were careful not to have any sort of confrontation with vigilante groups”. Mr. Jain claimed the designation of 37 places for namaz three years ago was only a one-day arrangement, and the list was not ratified by the administration. “The administration has conceded its mistake and categorically told our office-bearers that offering of namaz in the open is illegal and not allowed. They have requested three weeks’ time to stop it and assured us that the number of public places for namaz will be gradually reduced during this time. But we don’t trust them. It is good if they keep their word, or we will once again take to the streets. But we will not allow the highways to be blocked,” said Mr. Jain, international secretary-general of the group. Deputy Commissioner, Gurugram, Yash Garg did not respond to the claims of the Hindu right-wing groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/namaz-in-the-open-will-stop-soon/article37349986.ece
06 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘Maintenance awarded to 575 U.P. women not paid’||Maintenance awarded to 575 women by courts in two major districts of Uttar Pradesh including Varanasi and Prayagraj has not been paid by their husbands, according to data submitted to the Allahabad High Court. The district judges of Varanasi and Prayagraj submitted the information in the High Court which was hearing a case in which the Varanasi police were unable to explain why they have not been able to trace a man missing for over four years after a lower court directed him to pay a maintenance to his wife after alleged domestic violence. Summons not served In Varanasi, 136 such cases were before the district court while 347 were in the family court. The award of maintenance had been ordered in these cases but they were not executed as the summons had not been served till date, the High Court noted. In a letter submitted by the district judge Prayagraj on October 22, a similar reason was given about 92 cases. The High Court had on two occasions in the recent months directed the two districts to submit the data while hearing the case of Priyanka Upadhyay whose husband Arvind Upadhyay has been untraceable since 2017. Ms. Upadhyay had filed a case of domestic violence against her husband and on November 4, 2016 a lower court directed him to provide a separate living room to her and their daughter along with a maintenance of Rs. 1,000. The court passed another order saying if the husband did not comply with the first order, the local SHO must ensure its compliance. The husband then moved the High Court against the orders and on December 5, 2016 got an interim order ex parte where both orders were stayed. When the man was asked to be produced before the High Court, his counsel said he was missing since April 9, 2017. A missing person FIR was also lodged on May 16, 2018, his counsel told the court. On October 27, Justice Manju Rani Chauhan granted Commissioner of Police Varanasi two weeks and no further time to trace Arvind Upadhyay, as the court came down on the authorities for not informing it about the status of the case. Raps authorities “This court is sorry to record as to how many times and for how long, the Commissioner, Varanasi will pray for time to trace a person who is missing for more than four years like the applicant and this court will continue to grant the same,” Justice Chauhan said. Varanasi Commissioner in an affidavit submitted in the High Court said a police team had been constituted to trace the man and the officers in Varanasi were trying their best to trace him.  This court is sorry to record as to how many times and for how long, the Commissioner, Varanasi will pray for time to trace a person who is missing for more than four years Justice Manju Rani Chauhan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maintenance-awarded-to-575-up-women-not-paid/article37350000.ece
06 November 2021||Mumbai,||Aryan appears before NCB to mark weekly presence||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, on Friday appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in Mumbai to mark his weekly presence before the anti-drug agency in connection with the cruise ship drugs case, sources said. This was Aryan’s first appearance at the NCB officeafter his release from the Arthur Road prison on October 30following thebail granted by the Bombay High Court. As per one of the bail conditions set by the High Court, Aryan reached the NCB office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai around 12.15 p.m., they said. The 23-year-old was arrested by the NCB on October 3 following a raid on the cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. The Central agency had booked him under relevant sections of theNarcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. He was granted bail by the High Court on October 28. However, he could not be released from the prison till October 30 as documents related to his release did not reach jail authorities in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aryan-appears-before-ncb-to-mark-weekly-presence/article37349998.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||ST(e)Ps for a cleaner Yamuna||Pollution in the Yamuna rises as the river enters deeper into the national capital. Once considered the lifeline of the city, the river currently carries fecal coliform (microbes from human and animal excreta) beyond prescribed levels at all points except Palla village, where the river enters Delhi. A major cause of pollution in the Yamuna is the 22 drains dumping sewage and industrial effluents into the river. Illegal industries also add to the effluents ending up in the river. Because of this, the role of sewage treatment plants (STPs) becomes most important in depolluting the river water. According to Government estimates, 14% of all sewage generated in the city is not being treated at present due to lack of facilities and the authorities are building more STPs to address this problem.  How does an STP work?   Stormwater drains are supposed to carry rainwater toa waterbody, which in case of Delhi is the Yamuna. Apart from this, there is supposed to be a separate sewage network, which is not connected to the stormwater drains, and the sewage from it is to be treated at the STPs. In Delhi, however, the sewage flows into the stormwater drains at many points, polluting the water. So, in most cases, the STPs take water directly from the drains, clean it, and use it for other purposes (not drinking) or release it back to the drains from where the water flows into the Yamuna.  Primary stage   At Delhi Gate STP, water from the Delhi Gate drain is taken in through an underground tunnel, which is about 90-metre long. There is a coarse filter at the entrance of the tunnel to trap large floating waste and water from the drain flows under the effect of gravity to a storage sump inside the plant. At this point, the water still has a lot of smaller floating bits. This water is then pumped up to a large overhead tank from where it flows through a slightly sloping path to different chambers. Here it passes through two screens: a medium screen, which traps all waste bits above 20 mm in size and then through a fine screen, which traps all bits above 5 mm. At this point, the water is still blackish and has a stench. It then goes to a grit chamber (another tank) where heavy particles settle down due to gravity, and then through an aeration chamber where oil, grease etc. are removed from the water by adding air and mixing it. Oil and grease froths to the surface of the water and goes to a separate chamber.  Secondary stage   Now, whatever pollutants are present in the water are either dissolved or suspended init. Suspended particles are extremely tiny and light pollutants floating in the water. They have to be made heavy to settle them at the bottom and remove them. For this, first ferric alum is added to the water in a chamber and then the water is pumped to another chamber where polyelectrolyte is added. This water is then introduced from one chamber to another through an opening at the bottom of a wall separating the two chambers. As the water flows from the bottom to the top of the second chamber, heavy particles settle down due to gravity. At this point, the biological oxygen demand (BOD) of the water is reduced by 75% and the colour of the water also improves. BOD is the amount of dissolved oxygen consumed by microorganisms to decompose organic matter present in the water. So, a higher value of BOD implies lower quality of water. The heavy particles removed from the water form a sludge and it is removed to another tank. It is then passed through a filter press to drain off excess water before it falls through a pipe from the top into a dumper waiting near the gate. This sludge is used in landfills. After the suspended particles are removed, only dissolved particles are left in the water. The water now goes to aeration tanks, which have specific bacteria that eat the dissolved particles and air is also supplied to these tanks. The water then flows into another tank, where a different type of bacteria eats up the ammonia present in the water. The BOD value of the water at the end of the process is 6.47 mg/l, which is better than the National Green Tribunal-recommended standard of 10 mg/l.The cleaned water is then supplied to Pragati Power Corporation Limited, where it is used for power generation. According to the Delhi Pollution Control Committee, 22 out of the 33 STPs in the city do not comply with their standards. “At some STPs, the BOD of water after the process is more than 10 mg/l. But to reduce the BOD further, we need more tanks for various processes and many STPs do not have space for more construction,” a Delhi Jal Board official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/steps-for-a-cleaner-yamuna/article37349979.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||A day after, sparks of allegations fly thick and fast||The bursting of firecrackers on Deepavali, despite a ban in the city, has turned political with the BJP accusing AAP of running an anti-cracker campaign based on an “Aurangzeb-influenced political thinking”. AAP said the BJP has been underestimating the effect crackers have on air pollution. “Gopal Rai’s [Environment Minister] continuous anti-cracker campaign reflects his thought process influenced by Muslim monarch Aurangzeb. People of Delhi by bursting crackers yesterday [Thursday] have given a befitting reply to this Aurangzeb-influenced political thinking,” Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said. “Mr. Rai has tried to squarely blame the Deepavali night crackers for air pollution and Chhath Puja at Yamuna ghats for Yamuna ji ’s water pollution in true Aurangzebi style,” he added. Mr. Rai said ever since the Government announced a ban on crackers, the Opposition had been underestimating the effect crackers have on pollution. “Leaders of the BJP have constantly given the rhetoric that this is a matter of religion, of a festival, even when all scientists say that crackers cause pollution.” The Minister said that a large population of Delhi did not burst crackers on Deepavali, but people belonging to the BJP deliberately did, causing the pollution levels to become deadly. Lowest calls This Deepavali, the Delhi Fire Services (DFS) received the lowest number of calls in a decade and it was 25% fewer than last year. DFS chief Atul Garg said they received 152 calls, including 117 fire calls, 10 animal rescue calls, two road accidents, and one house collapse. “Only four calls were related to fire caused by crackers,” Mr. Garg said, adding that no major injuries were reported. The fire department had responded to 205 fire-related calls last year, he added. “The reduction in number of calls is also because of public awareness.There were fewer calls related to bursting of firecrackers as well,” he said. According to the data provided by the DFS, the highest number of calls — 36 — were received from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-day-after-sparks-of-allegations-fly-thick-and-fast/article37349967.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||Civic bodies gear up for Chhath||With Chhath Puja celebrations to be held on November 10, Delhi’s three municipal corporations — North, South and East — are gearing up for the festival with the North and South civic bodies having allocated Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 20,000 respectively to ward councillors for the preparation. The funds will be used for augmenting streetlights in and around the Chhath ghats (ponds), ensuring sanitation and other facilities for devotees. East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said that “all efforts will be made to ensure sanitation and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour at the 54 points of celebration under our jurisdiction”. South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) standing committee chairman B.K. Oberoi said while the previous years’ celebrations were held on the banks of the Yamuna, this year, facilities were set up at ghats (ponds) across different wards as per the requirement.  Previously, a controversy had erupted when the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had prohibited Chhath Puja celebrations for the second consecutive year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Following criticism from the BJP, the DDMA allowed celebrations at designated spots, prohibiting celebrations on the banks of the Yamuna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/civic-bodies-gear-up-for-chhath/article37349982.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks Delhi govt. stand on JNU facility||The Delhi High Court has asked the Delhi government to respond to a plea highlighting the lack of infrastructure and medical staff at a proposed COVID care centre at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) campus here. Justice Rekha Palli gave the direction on a petition filed by Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association on the unavailability of medical facilities on the campus to deal with COVID-19. The JNU Teachers’ Association submitted that even though the varsity had already earmarked space in the Sabarmati Dormitory for setting up of a COVID care centre in the JNU Campus, no infrastructure or medical staff has been earmarked for the centre yet. Justice Palli granted time to the Delhi government’s counsel to obtain instructions on assigning staff and providing other facilities to JNU’s COVID centre and scheduled the next hearing for January 13, 2022. Counsel’s submission In May this year, the Delhi government’s counsel had told the High Court that a dedicated COVID-19 hospital, required to be attached with the COVID care centre, had been finalized and that the city government’s health department was informed the same. On May 13, the High Court had directed that a COVID care centre be set up at JNU for immediate isolation of residents testing positive as the number of infections on the campus was “quite high”. The court issued the order after it was told that a COVID Task Force and a COVID Response Team were already working inside the campus. ‘No response’ In its petition filed through advocate Abhik Chimni during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, the JNU Teachers’ Association had claimed that the university administration did not respond to their repeated requests for setting up a COVID care facility. “This is a case of dereliction of duty under Section 5 and statute 4 of the JNU Act,1966 and has in effect violated the Constitutional right to life of the students, teachers and the non-teaching staff residing in JNU,” advocate Chimni had argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/high-court-seeks-delhi-govts-stand-on-jnu-covid-care-centre/article37350151.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC rejects plea of former BSF jawan||The Delhi High Court has rejected the plea of a former Border Security Force (BSF) constable, who was dismissed from service for having regularly contacted a suspected Pakistan Intelligence Operative (PIO) while being deployed on the Pakistan border. A Bench of Justices Navin Chawla and Manmohan declined to interfere with the decision of the BSF dismissing Kishore Chandra Sahoo from service. Mr. Sahoo, who had joined the BSF as a constable in 2002, was removed from service on an allegation that on November 23, 2020, while being deployed at the border, he had taken his mobile phone on duty and contacted a suspected PIO. During a search of his belonging, Mr. Sahoo was found in possession of four mobile phones and five SIM cards. The Staff Court of Inquiry (SCOI) had found Mr. Sahoo guilty of remaining in contact with the PIO since 2018 and regularly conversing with him on messenger account; establishing a voice call from his registered mobile number with the PIO while being deployed on duty. The SCOI also found him guilty of possessing four mobile phones and five SIM cards and regularly carrying said mobile phones during duty hours, day and night, in contravention of the standard operating procedures and instructions. Mr. Sahoo had claimed that the four mobile phones found from his possession belonged to him and his family members. The Bench termed Mr. Sahoo’s explanation “completely fanciful” and rejected it. The High Court remarked that the submission made on Mr. Sahoo’s behalf that there was no cogent evidence against him and that the order of dismissal was based only on suspicion could not be accepted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-hc-rejects-plea-of-former-bsf-jawan/article37349968.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||143 held for bursting firecrackers till Nov. 4||The Delhi police have arrested 143 people between September 28 and November 4 for allegedly bursting firecrackers and registered 210 cases pertaining to such incidents. The data provided by the police showed that 19702.489 kg of firecrackers were seized during this period. As many as 125 cases were registered in connection with the sale and supply of firecrackers, while 138 people were arrested. The data further showed that West district and Rohini had the highest number of cases registered against the sale of firecrackers at 14, while North district had the highest number of people arrested in relation to such incidents — 21. For bursting firecrackers, the number of cases registered in West district was the highest at 35, while Shahdara saw the highest number of people arrested — 37. According to the police, 38 internal meetings were held by DCPs and additional DCPs in all the 15 districts of the city to prevent smuggling and bursting of firecrackers. A total of 706 teams were constituted to prevent such incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/143-held-for-bursting-firecrackers-till-nov-4/article37349962.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Govt. clears proposals worth Rs. 1,500 crore to boost health infra||The Delhi Cabinet, in a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday, gave its nod to two significant proposals with a budget of over Rs. 1,500 crore for the Capital’s health sector. The Delhi Government’s ‘Emergency COVID Response Package’ (ECRP) will be spent on enhancing testing and labs, procuring supplies, mobilising additional human resources, increasing health facilities in hospitals and managing Covid Care Centres among others. “As a responsible Government, we are taking all measures and steps necessary in this fight against COVID-19. In view of the advent of a possible wave, the Delhi Government is trying its best to strengthen its health systems and preparedness at every level,” Mr. Kejriwal said. The Government said it has allotted Rs. 1,544 crore for the State ECRP for the fiscal year 2021-22. Of the total budget, Rs. 415 crore will be used for improving COVID-19 testing and labs, Rs. 445 crore for procurement of supplies, Rs. 280 crore to bolster health facilities and hospitals, and Rs. 125 crore for management of Covid care centres. The city’s ICU-bed capacity will be increased to 17,000 by adding 6,386 beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-clears-proposals-worth-rs-1500-crore-to-boost-health-infra/article37349983.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||Bengaluru man cheats businessman of Rs. 10 cr.||A man has been arrested for allegedly duping a businessman of over Rs. 10 crore on the pretext of selling radioactive material, the police said on Friday. The accused has been identified as Atheeq Ahmad, a resident of Bengaluru. According to the police, complainant Sanjay Taneja, who runs a paint and hardware shop in east of Kailash, said a gang of 22 people, including Mr. Ahmad, had cheated him of Rs. 10.63 crore between March 2016 and September 2018 to facilitate the sale of the radioactive material, which was purportedly approved by the Defence Research and Development Organisation. Additional Commissioner of Police (Economic Offences Wing) R.K. Singh said the victim, through this deal, was assured of a profit of Rs. 500 crore. “The money was taken through bank transfers, cheques and cash. The bank statements were analysed and it was found that the money had gone into the account of M/s Barclays Metal World. This was shown as a U.K.-based foreign company and a prospective buyer of radioactive material,” the officer said. On verification, M/s Barclays Metal World was found to be a single proprietorship dealing in ‘metal scrap’ and was owned by Mr. Ahmad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bengaluru-man-cheats-businessman-of-rs-10-cr/article37349964.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||Nine arrested for rioting||Nine people were arrested in a case of rioting in Rohini’s Budh Vihar on Tuesday night, the police said, adding that there was no communal angle to the incident. A senior police officer said they received information about one Allah Rakha being involved in bootlegging. When a team reached to conduct a raid, it was pelted stones at, the officer alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/nine-arrested-for-rioting/article37349965.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||Oppn. asks Kejriwal to roll back VAT on fuel||Following the Centre’s reduction of excise duty on petrol and diesel, the BJP and the Congress on Friday demanded that the Delhi Government roll back VAT on fuel. The Delhi Assembly’s Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri warned the Delhi Government of a sit-in by BJP MLAs outside CM Arvind Kejriwal’s house starting Monday if the VAT was not reduced by Rs. 10 till Sunday. After the Centre had cut Rs. 5 per litre on petrol and Rs. 10 per litre on diesel, 13 States and Union Territories reduced VAT, but the Delhi Government was still silent, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/oppn-asks-kejriwal-to-roll-back-vat-on-fuel/article37349988.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||No virus death in two weeks||The city reported no new COVID-19 deaths in 24 hours for the 14th day and the death toll stood at 25,091, as per the Delhi government’s health bulletin on Friday. Thirty-two new cases were reported, taking the caseload to 14,40,035.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-virus-death-in-two-weeks/article37349989.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||EDMC to reopen primary schools||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Friday said primary schools under its jurisdiction will reopen on November 8 with 50% student capacity. EDMC Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said parents’ consent would be necessary for students to attend classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/edmc-to-reopen-primary-schools/article37349987.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||Tanker hits bike, man dead||A 26-year-old man died after a tanker hit his bike in south Delhi’s Tigri on Friday. The tanker driver, Jitender (33), a resident of U.P.’s Hathras, has been arrested. The deceased has been identified as Rakesh, a resident of a JJ cluster.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tanker-hits-bike-man-dead/article37349980.ece
06 November 2021||Pune,||Crucial decisions by MVA govt. reduced COVID-19 cases: Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Friday hailed the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) Government, saying that “some important decisions” taken by it helped bring down the COVID-19 cases. He was also confident that things would soon go back to normal and the pandemic-hit economy would revive. He said the Maharashtra Government has indicated that it would provide relief to people in fuel prices after the Centre’s excise duty cut on petrol and diesel, but it would be in a position to do so if the Central Government pays up the GST compensation to the State. Mr. Pawar was talking to reporters at Govind Baug, his residence at Baramati in Pune district, on the occasion of his family’s get-together for Deepavali celebrations, when party workers from across the State visit him to extend their festival greetings. Last year, Mr. Pawar’s family did not celebrate Deepavali in Baramati due to COVID-19. “Last year, due to COVID-19, we had to follow certain restrictions, but now the danger of COVID-19 is slowly declining in the country. As far as Maharashtra is concerned, the State Government took some important decisions, as a result of which, we are witnessing a decline in the number of coronavirus patients,” he said. Even this year, the family was in a fix on whether or not to celebrate Deepavali as usual, he said, adding, “But people and colleagues insisted that we celebrate Deepavali in Baramati and assured that they would follow all the COVID-19 norms during their visit. Today, hundreds of people, party colleagues visited and offered their greetings in a disciplined manner.” The former Union Minister said he is confident that the coronavirus situation would improve further. “We are coming out of danger... I am sure that we will go back to normal and will be able to compensate for the losses incurred during the pandemic and we will be able to revive the economy... I wish a warm Deepavali to all the people and I am sure that we will be able to start again with new hope,” Mr. Pawar said. On the relief given by the Centre on fuel prices and asked if the State Government will offer some respite to the people, Mr. Pawar said that he needs to talk to State Government on this issue. “The State Government has indicated that it will provide some relief for sure, but the Centre should pay the GST compensation and only if it is given it will be possible for it to take a decision in favour of people,” he said. On Wednesday, the Central Government cut the excise duty on petrol and diesel by a record Rs. 5 and Rs. 10 per litre, respectively, to help bring down rates from their highest-ever levels. MSRTC strike When asked about the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) employees’ strike, Mr. Pawar said the main office-bearers of the workers’ unions met and told him that they do not want to go ahead with the strike. “They told me that they do not want to cause any inconvenience to people during Deepavali, but some people [ST workers] have taken an extreme stand of continuing the strike,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/vital-decisions-by-mva-reduced-virus-cases/article37349958.ece
06 November 2021||Raipur,||Chhattisgarh CM gets ‘whipped’ as part of Govardhan puja ritual||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Friday attended Govardhan puja festival celebration in a village in Durg district of the State and got whipped with 'sonta' (whip made up of kush, a grass) as per the tradition seeking blessings for the prosperity of the State, officials said.  Bringing good luck As per the tradition, on Govardhan puja that is celebrated on the next day of Diwali, a person is beaten up with the whip with full force on his hands as people believe that the practice helps in getting rid of the problems and bringing good luck. “Like every year, CM Baghel on Friday took part in Govardhan puja in Janjgiri village and bore the pain of sonta (whip) to uphold the custom that has been going on in the State for years for the well-being and prosperity of the people,” a State public relations officer said. On the occasion, the Chief Minister highlighted the significance of Govardhan puja, during which cows are worshipped and said the festival signifies our gratitude towards govansh (cow progeny). It is the duty of everyone to preserve the identity of our soil and promote it, he added.  CM shares video Later, Mr. Baghel also shared a video on Twitter in which he can be seen being hit on his hands with the whip by a man. Earlier, village elderly Bharosa Thakur used to conduct the sonta tradition and hit people with a whip as per their wish in Janjgiri and after his death, his son Birendra Thakur has been carrying forward his legacy, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/chhattisgarh-cm-gets-whipped-as-part-of-govardhan-puja-ritual/article37350153.ece
06 November 2021||Shimla,||5-year-old taken away by wild animal in Shimla||A five-year-old boy was taken away by a wild animal from Himachal Pradesh’s Shimla city while he was bursting crackers with his younger cousin on the eve of Deepavali, a forest official said on Friday. This is the second such incident in three months in Shimla. In August, a five-year-old girl was taken away from Kanlog locality and mauled to death by a leopard. Around 8 p.m. on Thursday, the boy identified as Yograj was bursting crackers with his younger cousin near his house at Downdale near Old Bus Stand when the wild animal took him away, Shimla Divisional Forest Officer (Wildlife) Ravi Shankar said, adding that it is not yet clear which animal it was. Yograj’s cousin informed their family that he was taken away by a wild animal. The Rapid Rescue Team (RRT) of the Forest Department received a call around 11 p.m. after the family members informed the local police about the incident, he said. Mr. Shankar said the RRT and a Quick Response Team (QRT) of the police have jointly launched a search and rescue operation. The operation continued throughout the night with phone torchlights and during the day in the forests area falling under Shimla Urban Division, he added. The officer, who is also involved in the rescue operation, said a pair of trousers and some bloodstains were found near the spot. The Forest Department is verifying whether they are of the boy. Meanwhile, Shimla police said in a statement that the pant was found about 100 feet below his house. About 50 policemen along with the QRT are searching for the boy, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/5-year-old-boy-taken-away-by-wild-animal/article37349992.ece
06 November 2021||Uttarkashi,||Gangotri temple closed for winter||With the onset of winter, the sacred portals of the Gangotri shrine in Garhwal Himalayas of Uttarakhand were closed on Friday amid Vedic hymns and elaborate rituals. Gangotri Mandir Samiti co-secretary Rajesh Semwal said the temple gates were closed at 11.45 a.m. The idol of Goddess Ganga was then taken on a palanquin decked with flowers for Mukhba village, her winter abode, he said. Over 32,948 pilgrims visited Gangotri this season after the temple was opened for devotees in September amid COVID restrictions such as a limit on the number of devotees. The daily limit was lifted in October by the Uttarakhand High Court following a drop in cases. The portals of the shrine, which draws a large number of devotees from all over the country, are closed in October-November every year due to snow all around. The portals of Kedarnath and Yamunotri will be closed on Saturday and that in Badrinath on November 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gangotri-temple-closed-for-winter/article37349996.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Going green||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/going-green/article37349619.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Festival mould||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/festival-mould/article37350159.ece
06 November 2021||Guna,||Three dead as bus catches fire in M.P.||A girl and two others were charred to death and four co-passengers suffered injuries on Friday when the mini-bus carrying them caught fire after hitting a truck in Guna district.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/three-dead-as-bus-catches-fire-in-mp/article37350154.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Now, Muslims are offering notes for construction of mandir’||Self-anointed “political godfather of fishermen” community, Sanjay Nishad is an MLC in Uttar Pradesh and president of the Nirbal Indian Soshit Hamara Apna Dal (known as the Nishad Party), which claims to rally together the numerically significant riverine most-backward communities. In 2018, the Nishad Party collaborated with the SP and the BSP to defeat the BJP in two key seats — Gorakhpur and Phulpur — in the Lok Sabha byelections. A year later, the party announced an alliance with the two parties but three days later Mr. Nishad dumped them and switched over to the BJP, also abandoning the ‘85 vs 15’ (Bahujan vs Upper Castes) narrative, claiming that his caste icon Nishadraj and Lord Ram had a ‘natural alliance.’ In other words, the BJP and the Nishad Party were natural allies cemented by shared Hindutva. After Om Prakash Rajbhar’s exit from the NDA and recent shift to the SP, Mr. Nishad has acquired significance as his ally BJP tries to preserve its backward caste support base in 2022 polls. Excerpts from an interview in Lucknow:   Is your seat arrangement with the BJP done?  When there is an arrangement of hearts and where ideologies of two parties match, seats are small matter. Let’s focus on the victory. This is the milan of one sanskriti , to bring back Ram Rajya and make India a ‘ sone ki chidiya’ again.  How many seats can the Nishad Party influence?  (Out of 403) 160 seats are Nishad-dominated, where we have the responsibility to ensure the NDA victory. In 70 seats, many (of our opponents) will forfeit deposits.  You say there is a natural alliance between Ram and Nishadraj (boatman who ferried Lord Ram, his wife Sita and brother Lakhsman across the Ganga as per Hindu belief). And that the Uttar Pradesh Cabinet will not be complete without Nishadraj, meaning Nishads. Is the Nishad support really that crucial for the BJP?  Definitely it is. You would have seen that in the 2018 election, we delivered a historic win. And in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections we united our vote bank. Nishads are an important vote bank, a community that is most and extremely backward and doesn’t have any constitutional security. They are close to Lord Ram. When Lord Ram and Nishadraj had embraced, only then peace had come. Ram had gone alone but the sena of Nishadraj got him victory in Lanka. Ram Rajya arrived when Nishadraj was added to the ‘cabinet’ of Ram. Several governments came but none could build the Ram Mandir. It would always get entangled. But when the Nishad Party arrived in 2019, and helped the BJP get 40 seats and a historic majority, then without any bloodshed (the Mandir issue was peacefully resolved) .... Now even Muslims are offering notes for the construction of the mandir. Peace is apparent.  The BJP is promoting cultural icons of Nishads. Is this relationship the merger of Hindutva and OBC politics?  Everybody took our votes. But did anyone talk of the Nishadraj fort? All leaders of the Nishad community like Jamuna Prasad and Phoolan Devi were killed so that a vote bank was used for forming government but no leader was allowed to emerge from them. But today the BJP has made Dr. Sanjay Nishad a leader, sent Praveen Nishad (his son) to the Lok Sabha and me to the Legislative Council. A statue of Lord Ram and Nishadraj in an embrace is being built at the Nishadaj fort (in Prayagraj). A Nishadraj park was declared a tourist site. It is a big thing if any party promotes our history, culture and heritage. The BJP is doing that. All others destroyed our history. Nishads are not just Ram bhakts but also desh bhakts who got India freedom.  By forging an alliance with most-backward caste leaders like Om Prakash Rajbhar, SP president Akhilesh Yadav is trying to bridge gaps between Yadavs and non-Yadav OBCs. Will this hurt your ally BJP?  There won’t be any loss because Mr. Rajbhar himself has gone door-to-door with papers in his hand telling people that the 27% OBC reservation has been captured by one baradari, according to the social justice committee. When he is already saying that the SP people have a hold on their jobs and share, how will these baradaris (non-Yadav OBCs) press the SP button? Under the BJP, there has been fairness in recruitment for the first time and without any discrimination. Of my own community, around 21 officials have been recruited as CO, SDM, tehisldar and BDO. This happened for the first time. Earlier, not a single person from us would be visible. Not a single Rajbhar would be seen in a thana. Who did recruitments last 30 years? Not the BJP, but them (the SP and the BSP). Mr. Rajbhar has already told his community where to vote — repeatedly told them not to press the cycle or elephant buttons. So why will they now vote for cycle?  Opposition says the BJP uses OBC votes but doesn’t actually work for their real interests.  Who had power for 70 years? The BJP has ruled for seven years. Who used them in 70 years? For the last 30 years the SP, the BSP were running the governments, so which OBC got their share and which law was made by the SP? The SP carried out dacoity in the name of OBCs and we have a Daluat ki Beti in the name of Dalits. It is due to their failure that people of all communities have awakened and formed cadres. They will no longer fall for their tricks. For 30 years the Central Government was working on the SP and the BSP support. Name one IAS from the Nishad community or a Rajbhar DM, or Teli, Lohar, Pal or Gadaria. All these communities have understood that in the name of pichda, they (the SP and the BSP) were promoting their own people.  Nishads are an important vote bank, and extremely backward... no constitutional security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/now-muslims-are-offering-notes-for-construction-of-mandir/article37350157.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Martial moves||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/martial-moves/article37349961.ece
06 November 2021||Addis Ababa,||Ethiopia rebels ‘join forces’ against govt.||Nine rebel groups battling Ethiopia’s government will “collaborate and join forces”, they said in a statement on Friday, announcing the alliance, which comes as fears grow of Tigrayan fighters advancing on the capital. The alliance, due to be signed in Washington later on Friday, includes the Oromo Liberation Army (OLA) and the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), which has been locked in a year-long war against Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed’s government. The TPLF said on Wednesday that its fighters had reached the town of Kemissie in Amhara region, 325 km northeast of the capital, and were running “joint operations” with the OLA, which predicted Addis Ababa could fall in a matter of weeks. The nine groups said they were forming a united front “to reverse the harmful effects of the Abiy Ahmed rule on the peoples of Ethiopia... and in recognition of the great need to collaborate and join forces towards a safe transition in the country”. United Front It is unclear whether the alliance, named the United Front of Ethiopian Federalist and Confederalist Forces, will affect the trajectory of the conflict, which Mr. Abiy's government has termed “an existential war”. The TPLF and the OLA, which the government officially designated as terrorist groups in May, are well-known, but the alliance's other seven members are obscure, said one diplomat following security matters. “If they are really serious about taking up arms against the government then it’s potentially a real problem for the government,” the diplomat said. “I don't know the majority of them, I don't know how many people they have, what resources they have.” Mr. Abiy's government has dismissed rebel claims of territorial gains, saying Thursday the TPLF was “encircled” and close to defeat, while also urging Ethiopians to unite and join the fight. On Friday, the Defence Ministry called on veterans to re-enlist in the armed forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ethiopia-rebels-join-forces-against-govt/article37349547.ece
06 November 2021||beijing,||China to punish Taiwan independence ‘diehards’||China vowed on Friday to punish “diehard” Taiwan politicians, saying it would ban several from visiting the mainland, as tensions between Beijing and Taipei spiked to their highest level in years. China claims Taiwan as its territory — to be seized one day, by force if necessary — and has intensified efforts in recent years to isolate the self-ruled island on the international stage. On Friday, the Taiwan Affairs Office in Beijing warned that “the mainland will pursue criminal responsibility for Taiwan independence diehards in accordance with the law, to be effective for life”. The statement by spokeswoman Zhu Fenglian named Taiwanese Premier Su Tseng-chang, Parliament Speaker Yu Shyi-kun and Foreign Minister Joseph Wu as among a minority of independence supporters. Ms. Zhu said the politicians “have tried to instigate cross-strait confrontation, maliciously attacked and slandered the mainland... severely undermining cross-strait relations”. She added that Beijing has prohibited them and their family members from entering the mainland, Hong Kong or Macau. Their affiliates would also be restricted from cooperating with mainland organisations and individuals, she said, without giving more details. ‘Won’t be intimidated’ Taiwan’s Mr. Su on Friday brushed off the threat from Beijing, saying he “won’t be intimidated.” “It doesn’t (rule) Taiwan for one day but it’s bossing Taiwan around,” Mr. Su said of Beijing when asked about the list of “diehards” in Parliament. The nationalist Kuomintang party fled to Taiwan in 1949 after losing the Chinese civil war. The island of 24 million people has since transformed into a vibrant democracy and major tech hub, leading many — including President Tsai Ing-wen — to assert Taiwan’s distinct identity, which Beijing attacks as separatism. Beijing-Taipei ties have plunged since Ms. Tsai rose to power in 2016. “Those who forget their ancestors, betray their motherland and split the country will not come to a good end,” Ms. Zhu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-to-punish-taiwan-independence-diehards/article37349555.ece
06 November 2021||glasgow,||Act now on climate, youth tell leaders||Thousands of young people marched through the streets of Glasgow on Friday to protest against a lack of climate action with a clear message to negotiators at the COP26 summit: “If not now, when?” Two days of demonstrations are planned in the Scottish city to highlight the disconnect between the glacial pace of emissions reductions and the climate emergency already swamping countries across the world. Swedish campaigner Greta Thunberg branded the UN summit a “failure” and said that pledges from some nations made during COP26 to accelerate their emissions cuts amounted to little more than “a two-week long celebration of business as usual and ‘blah, blah, blah’.” “It is not a secret that COP26 is a failure,” she said at the mass protest. “This is no longer a climate conference. This is now a global greenwashing festival.” Onlookers to Friday’s march lined the streets and hung out of windows to watch the stream of protesters, who held banners reading “No Planet B” and “Climate Action Now”. “I’m here because the world leaders are deciding the fate of our future and the present of people that have already been impacted by climate crisis,” said 18-year-old Valentina Ruas. “We won’t accept anything that isn’t real climate policy centred on climate justice.” Sixteen-year-old Beth Donaldson said young people were fed up with hollow promises from leaders. “We see on the TV all these political leaders saying they’re going to take action but we never see what action they’re actually going to take,” she said. School children were out in force, with some schools allowing pupils to skip lessons to see the march and one young green warrior holding a placard that read: “Climate change is worse than homework”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/act-now-on-climate-youth-tell-leaders/article37349549.ece
06 November 2021||beijing,||Chinese journalist jailed over COVID-19 reports ‘close to death’||A citizen journalist jailed for her coverage of China’s initial response to COVID-19 in Wuhan is close to death after going on hunger strike, her family said, prompting renewed calls from rights groups for her immediate release. Zhang Zhan, 38, a former lawyer, travelled to Wuhan in February 2020 to report on the chaos at the pandemic’s epicentre, questioning authorities’ handling of the outbreak in her smartphone videos. She was detained in May 2020 and sentenced in December to four years in jail for “picking quarrels and provoking trouble” — a charge routinely used to suppress dissent. She is now severely underweight and “may not live for much longer”, her brother Zhang Ju wrote last week on a Twitter account verified by people close to the matter. Ms. Zhang has been on a hunger strike and was force-fed through nasal tubes, her legal team, which did not have information on her current condition, told AFP earlier this year. “She may not survive the coming cold winter,” Mr. Zhang Ju wrote, adding that he had urged his sister in letters to “take care of herself”. “In her heart, it seems there is only God and her beliefs, with no care for anything else.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-journalist-jailed-over-covid-19-reports-close-to-death/article37349546.ece
06 November 2021||tehran,||Iran may have 210 kg of 20% enriched uranium||Iran’s atomic agency said on Friday that its stockpile of 20% enriched uranium has reached over 210 kilograms, the latest defiant move ahead of upcoming nuclear talks with the West. The figure, attributed to agency spokesman Behrouz Kamalvan, was carried in a report by the semi-official Tasnim and Fars news agencies. Under the historic 2015 nuclear deal between Iran and the World Powers, Iran was not meant to enrich uranium above 3.67%. Enriched uranium above 90% can be used for nuclear weapons. After months of delays, the European Union, Iran and the U.S. announced on Wednesday that indirect talks to resuscitate the deal would resume on November 29 in Vienna. The nuclear deal, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, or JCPOA, promises Iran economic incentives in exchange for limits on its nuclear programme, and is meant to prevent Tehran from developing a nuclear bomb. Mr. Kamalvandi also said that so far his agency has also produced 25 kilograms of 60% enriched uranium, a level that only countries with nuclear weapons have the physical capabilities to produce. The U.S. unilaterally pulled out of the nuclear deal in 2018 under then-President Donald Trump, but Britain, France, Germany, China and Russia have tried to preserve the accord.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-may-have-210-kg-of-20-enriched-uranium/article37349552.ece
06 November 2021||Washington,||U.S. cancels deal with troubled vaccine maker||The Federal Government has canceled a multimillion dollar deal with Emergent BioSolutions, a Maryland-based vaccine manufacturer with facilities in Baltimore that were found to have produced millions of contaminated Johnson & Johnson vaccine doses this spring, the Washington Post reported. Emergent disclosed the development on Thursday. Emergent said it will forgo about $180 million due to the contract’s termination. Emergent played a role in the Trump administration’s effort to speed up vaccine development and distribution. But after winning a contract from the previous administration, it quickly ran into production problems. In March, ingredients intended for use in producing the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine shots contaminated 15 million doses of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. The problems with the vaccines caused a delay in production. After that, the Biden administration put Johnson & Johnson in direct control of vaccine production there. In June, the Food and Drug Administration decided to discard at least another 60 million additional doses of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine produced at the plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-cancels-deal-with-troubled-vaccine-maker/article37349553.ece
06 November 2021||Taipei,||‘More interactions needed’||The head of a European Parliament delegation on Friday urged the international community to interact more with Taiwan to help defuse tensions with China, dismissing its claim that visiting the island was a provocation. China has slammed visits by overseas politicians as “provocations”. Beijing on Thursday expressed “strong dissatisfaction and firm opposition” to what has been described as the first “official” delegation to Taipei from the European Parliament. “It’s not a provocation to come to Taiwan. It should be normal,” French MEP Raphael Glucksmann told a press conference in Taipei.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/more-interactions-needed/article37349548.ece
06 November 2021||Niamey,||Extremists kill 69 people in western Niger||Suspected Islamic extremists ambushed a self-defence brigade in western Niger, killing 69 people in the latest attack in the volatile border region near Mali, the Interior Ministry said. The violence took place earlier this week near Banibangou, some 250 kilometres north of the capital, Niamey, the Ministry said in a statement on Thursday. The town’s Mayor was among those killed in the Tuesday attack and 15 other members of the village defence group were wounded in the ambush, the statement said. The local self-defence groups have been helping Niger’s military to fight extremists who have stepped up attacks on civilians this year blamed on Islamic State-linked militants. The resurgence of extremist violence began with a January attack on two villages that killed at least 100 people. The following month 237 more were killed in a series of attacks at the hands of armed gunmen riding motorcycles. The mounting violence poses a strong threat to Niger’s President Mohamed Bazoum, who was sworn into office in April only days after security forces thwarted an attempted military coup at the presidential palace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/extremists-kill-69-people-in-western-niger/article37349554.ece
06 November 2021||GAZA CITY,||ML--Gaza-Male Guardianship||Afaf al-Najar had found a way out of Gaza. The 19-year-old won a scholarship to study communications in Turkey, secured all the travel documents and even paid $500 to skip the long lines at the Rafah crossing with Egypt. But she failed to do so because of a male guardian ship law enacted by the militant group Hamas, which rules the territory. The law says that a male relative can petition a court to prevent a woman from travelling if it would result in “absolute harm.” Al-Najar’s father filed a petition, and the court prevented her from travelling so that it could consider it.Ap||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ml-gaza-male-guardianship/article37349551.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||A missing baby and a flustered state||Two weeks ago, Anupama S. Chandran, 22, aggrieved and angry, stood outside the Kerala Secretariat holding a poster. “ Keralame... Lajjikku! (Shame on you, Kerala!)” read the letters in red against a black background. Anupama was one among the many desperate people who often stand outside the building in the hope that their voices will be heard. But a crowd driven by curiosity had gathered around her because her case was novel. The young woman was seeking the whereabouts of her child who she claims was forcibly separated from her by her parents when he was just three days old and given up for adoption without her consent. This personal case has blown up into a political controversy, for Anupama’s parents are no ordinary people. Her father, P.S. Jayachandran, is a local Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader and her grandfather a former State committee member of the CPI(M). It has also led to discussions about a woman’s agency and choice — Anupama had the baby boy with her partner who was married to someone else. The case, which weaves together familial, social, political, and legal issues, has put the Pinarayi Vijayan government in a tight spot over the last few weeks. A controversial relationship Anupama, a former leader of the Students’ Federation of India, gave birth to a baby boy on October 19, 2020. Her partner, Ajith Kumar B., is a former leader of the Democratic Youth Federation of India. Both of them used to live in the Peroorkada area of Thiruvananthapuram. Anupama’s family came to know about her relationship with Ajith and the pregnancy only when she left home to be with him in the beginning of September. Her parents balked at the move as Ajith, a Dalit Christian, was a married man. They persuaded her to return home, especially since she was in the eighth month of pregnancy. But once Anupama was home, her parents did not allow her to contact Ajith. Soon, there was also talk about an abortion. Anupama says she was made to undergo a scan to confirm the pregnancy. She was then taken to a hospital at Manjeri in Malappuram where a doctor ruled out abortion, but said the delivery could be advanced and the baby given up for adoption if she wished. Anupama refused this option. While in hospital, she contracted COVID-19 and was shifted to a COVID-19 centre. With her family not around to keep a watch on her, Anupama took the opportunity to get in touch with Ajith who promptly reached Malappuram to pick her up. Anupama’s parents once again pleaded with her to return home. They promised her that she could have her child after her sister’s wedding was solemnised in 10 days, she says. But back in Thiruvananthapuram, Jayachandran and his wife Smitha James changed tack again. Less than a week later, Anupama was taken to a hospital in Kayamkulam in Alappuzha district and an attempt was made to convince her that the baby she was carrying had health issues and was unlikely to survive. Anupama alleges that during her pregnancy, Jayachandran hit her whenever she implored him to allow her to speak to Ajith and kept harping on Ajith’s caste. At the fag end of her pregnancy, she was mentally and physically harassed, she says, but remained stoic for the sake of her child. On October 18, Anupama was admitted to a hospital in Kattakada, not far from Thiruvananthapuram city. There, she tested positive for COVID-19 again. Her mother told her that the doctors had advised her to have the child through cesarean section. The next day, Anupama gave birth to a baby boy. Three days later, she was discharged from the hospital. But instead of being taken home, she was driven to her father’s friend’s house. En route, her father, who was in another car, stopped the car she was travelling in and took the baby away from her. Anupama, still recovering from childbirth and COVID-19, tried to protest, but her father covered her mouth and hit her, she says, even as her mother grabbed the baby and put him inside Jayachandran’s car. That was the last time Anupama saw her baby. The next morning, Smitha told Anupama that the baby would be kept away from her until her sister’s wedding was solemnised. “I was assured that the family would not hurt him and would let me meet him,” Anupama says. Anupama was shifted to her grandmother’s house in Thodupuzha. Once in a while, she was taken to Ernakulam for a counselling session. Through all this, she kept asking about her child but was not given any answer. She was brought back to Thiruvananthapuram in time for her sister’s wedding on February 4. A reluctant Anupama then accompanied the family to distribute wedding invites. No one could have suspected anything was wrong. The day before the wedding, Anupama, now desperate and losing hope, got hold of her grandmother’s phone, told Ajith about their boy, and asked him to come by the house two days later. When Ajith reached her house, he was threatened and told that Anupama did not want to meet him. His divorce had been finalised by then; yet Anupama’s family remained firm that she could not go with him. Later, she came to know that Ajith had been summoned to the police station five or six times and threatened. Soon, Anupama was back at her grandmother’s house in Thodupuzha. She was told she would not get her child back and was threatened with incarceration in a mental health institution. Anupama managed to flee the house on March 19. She and Ajith intensified their efforts to trace their child. On April 19, she filed a complaint with the Peroorkada police, but no FIR was registered. On April 21, the couple was shocked to learn that Jayachandran had told the police that he had given away the child legally. The desperate search for a child On April 19, the same day she filed a complaint with the Peroorkada police, Anupama handed over a letter to CPI(M) district secretary Anavoor Nagappan and CPI(M) leader Jayan Babu, with a copy to the party State committee, seeking action against her parents. On April 22, Anupama got in touch with the District Child Welfare Committee (CWC) through videoconference, stated her case, and forwarded the relevant documents. The CWC chairperson told her later that there was no point in submitting a complaint. The CWC could do something only after the police located the child, the chairperson said. A frustrated Anupama then met with the State Police chief, Loknath Behera, on April 29, who directed that a case be registered under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act (JJ Act). However, no action was taken. After an agonising wait of two months, the couple finally submitted a complaint to the Chief Minister’s Office on July 12. It was in the last week of July, says Anupama, that the police handed over a consent letter produced by her father for her to read. The consent letter, allegedly signed by her, said that Anupama was not equipped to look after the child and was voluntarily handing him over. Anupama says the letter dates back to October 15, 2020, when her parents and two others asked her to sign on a stamp paper. When Anupama insisted on reading the document before signing it, she was hit and threatened with grievous injury to the child in her womb and her signatures were forcibly taken. In the first week of August 2021, some 10 months after she had had her child, Anupama found out from a police officer that her father had given up the child for the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare’s ‘Ammathottil’ electronic cradle. The scheme was instituted as a “means of providing better life conditions for the destitute, abandoned and relinquished children.” The police officer had also learned from the District CWC that two children had been given to the cradle on October 22 night. The gender of one of them had been wrongly registered as female and then corrected. Anupama is incredulous that a specialised adoption agency would commit such a grave error. “What about the doctor examining the child for the first time at the hospital? Will they not investigate if the child is a boy or a girl,” she asks. The couple rushed to the CWC the same day. They were told that one of the children had been given in adoption but the other was still at the council. Anupama was told she could meet the child and also apply for a DNA test if she wished. Anupama went in to see her child but came out confused and disappointed. She did not believe that the child was hers. To be sure, she applied for a DNA test; the result confirmed her suspicion. When Anupama expressed the possibility that the child given away for adoption was hers, a CWC member told her that there was no point in approaching the court as she would not get the child back. Discouraged, thwarted at every turn, and made to run from pillar to post for months to get back her child, Anupama went public with her predicament a few days later. Within days, the police registered an FIR against Jayachandran, Smitha, their elder daughter and son-in-law, and two others based on a complaint made by Anupama to the new State Police chief a month ago. Not only the police, but the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare where Jayachandran said he had left Anupama’s child is also under a cloud now. Anupama has alleged that the council abetted the adoption process. Ajith had visited the council in October last year after seeing an advertisement about a child being found at the council, she says. He had met the council’s general secretary Shiju Khan J.S., but Shiju did not do anything to help him. Jayachandran had earlier claimed that the child had been left in the Ammathottil with Anupama’s consent. He had also claimed that the child had been taken to the council through a judicial mechanism that ensured his protection. Anupama counters these claims. “If my child was surrendered to the CWC, then due legal steps should have been followed,” she says. The Minister for Women and Child Development, Veena George, has also said that the child was not surrendered to the CWC. A letter, purportedly from a section of employees of the council to the Chief Minister who is the president of the council, alleges that on the night in question, the Ammathottil was not functioning. Jayachandran brought the child to the council with Shiju’s knowledge and handed him over to a nurse on duty. The child was taken to a hospital for a check-up and the child’s gender was registered as female. The motive behind the gender change and the correction is suspect, says Anupama, but Shiju argues that all the legal procedures were followed by the council. In a tight spot Meanwhile, with the case grabbing the headlines, the CPI(M) found itself in an embarrassing position. It has scrambled to contain the political fallout of the adoption scandal. The Congress-led United Democratic Front as well as the Bharatiya Janata Party have said that the episode has undermined the CPI(M)’s credibility as a pro-women party. Many communist leaders have been critical of the manner in which the issue has been dealt with. Revolutionary Marxist Party leader K.K. Rema, who moved an adjournment motion on the issue, accused the CPI(M) apparatchiks of abetting the crime to “protect the family’s twisted sense of honour”. CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat called the incident an “honour crime” and a wrong of “immense... proportion.” But her intervention at the Chief Minister’s level to reunite the parents and child failed. CPI(M) central committee member P.K. Sreemathy also admitted that her efforts to rope in the Chief Minister’s Office to help the mother trace her child yielded no result. In a damage-control exercise, the government ordered a probe into the procedures and timeline of events since the child was received at the council. The Women and Child Development Department, which is the State Adoption Resource Agency, filed a petition in the family court on Anupama’s demand for the return of her child before the court passed final orders on the adoption. Veena George said the case was rare and complicated, and the mother would get justice. The party went silent on its earlier position that neither the CWC nor the police had erred in the matter. Anupama is happy about the support she has received but she is also cautious. Had the CPI(M) acted at the outset, her child would not have been given up for adoption, she says. Anavoor says that a letter from Anupama to Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, former CPI(M) State secretary, was forwarded to the district office in the first week of September this year. Following its receipt, Jayachandran was asked to return the child to his daughter. It was then that he revealed that the child had been left in the Ammathottil. Following this, Anupama was advised to take the legal route to get her child back, and assured of necessary support by the party. Anupama says that even amid all the claims of support, the party has continued to speak out against Ajith. Anavoor says the party cannot condone Ajith entering into a relationship with Anupama when he was still married to someone else. Jayachandran had brought the matter to his attention and sought the party’s intervention, he says. Ajith’s father, who was a party area committee secretary, was asked to dissuade his son from pursuing this relationship. The party remains firm on this stance, he says. The party position has brought into the spotlight questions about a woman’s choice against the background of prevailing moral and social norms. Anupama’s struggle has struck a chord with many, especially the youth who have been dismayed at the lengths to which her parents have gone to separate the mother from her child. Activist P.E. Usha says, “The family is not above the rights of a citizen. How can a man offer up his grandchild for adoption just because he disapproves of his daughter’s choice of a partner? The issue at stake is Anupama and her choice.” The question at the core of the case The family court has stayed the adoption proceedings after Anupama argued that the child was put up for adoption against her will and her consent had been obtained through illegal means. The court also said that the CWC, which Anupama alleged had refused to return the baby on the ground that the adoption procedures were already in motion, could decide on a DNA test to determine the biological parentage of the child, besides adjudicating on whether the baby had been abandoned or surrendered. The lack of clarity on whether the child was abandoned or surrendered with Anupama’s consent is at the core of this case. The procedures to be followed in the case will be guided by this fact, which is for the police to probe. If the child was left at the council by the grandfather without any substantial reason, it could attract the provisions of Section 75 of the JJ Act, which reads: “Whoever, having the actual charge of, or control over, a child, assaults, abandons, abuses, exposes or wilfully neglects the child or causes or procures the child to be assaulted, abandoned, abused, exposed, or neglected in a manner likely to cause such child unnecessary mental or physical suffering, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine of one lakh rupees or with both.” Questions are also being raised about the role of the Child Welfare Council, a registered society under the Travancore-Cochin Literary, Scientific and Charitable Societies Registration Act, and the large amounts allocated to it by the government at a time when the CWC, a quasi-judicial body created under the law, existed. The CWC can conduct an inquiry and give directions to the police or the District Child Protection Unit, but its alleged failure to follow due procedure when approached by Anupama has raised eyebrows. Usha alleges that Jayachandran used the government machinery for a criminal act, knowing well that his daughter was opposed to giving up the child. “The complications that have arisen are owing to failure of these agencies to follow procedure. Whether the council and the CWC hastened the adoption procedures to avoid any claim to the child needs to be investigated,” says a senior lawyer. While Anupama’s chances of getting her child back seem brighter in view of the concerns over procedural lapses and the government throwing its weight behind her, the court’s final verdict will be eagerly awaited. And awaited not just by her and Ajith but by an entire State which has been keenly following this case about a mother’s quiet determination to find her child.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-missing-baby-and-a-flustered-state/article37349545.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Charting a trade route after the MC12||The World Trade Organization (WTO)’s 12th Ministerial Conference (MC12) is being convened in Geneva, Switzerland at the end of this month, a year-and-a-half after it was scheduled to be held in Kazakhstan (June 2020, but postponed due to the novel coronavirus pandemic). The MC12 is being held at an important juncture when the global trade scenario is quite upbeat. The outlook Recent WTO estimates show that global trade volumes could expand by almost 11% in 2021, and by nearly 5% in 2022, and could stabilise at a level higher than the pre-COVID-19 trend (https://bit.ly/3EQTO55). The buoyancy in trade volumes has played an important role in supporting growth in economies such as India where domestic demand has not yet picked up sufficiently. Therefore, these favourable tidings provide an ideal setting for the Trade Ministers from the WTO member-states to revisit trade rules and to agree on a work programme for the organisation, which can help maintain the momentum in trade growth. But above all, the MC12 needs to consider how in these good times for trade, the economically weaker countries “can secure a share in the growth in international trade commensurate with the needs of their economic development’, an objective that is mandated by the Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization. Does the run-up to the MC12 provide any evidence that the global trading system can be slightly less iniquitous than it has been? The answer lies in the possible outcomes in some of the areas that are currently witnessing intense negotiations. These include adoption of WTO rules on electronic commerce, investment facilitation, and fisheries subsidies. But there is one issue that surmounts all others, namely, the WTO’s response to demands that technologies necessary for producing vaccines, medicines, and other medical products for COVID-19 treatment should be available without the restrictions imposed by intellectual property rights (IPRs). IPRs and vaccine issue From the very outset of the COVID-19 pandemic it had become clear that IPRs protected using the provisions of the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) are formidable barriers to ensuring equitable access to vaccines. Pharmaceutical companies controlling the global markets have used monopoly rights granted by their IPRs to deny developing countries access to technologies and know-how, thus undermining the possibility of production of vaccines in these countries. The involvement of developing countries in vaccine production could have increased supplies of affordable vaccines to the low-income countries. Availability of vaccines remains a critical problem in these countries even after a year since the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine was administered. Recent statistics show that until now, a mere 4.1% of the population in low-income countries have received at least one dose of the vaccine (https://bit.ly/3mKDk8G). To remedy this situation, India and South Africa had tabled a proposal in the WTO in October 2020, for waiving enforcement of several forms of IPRs on “health products and technologies including diagnostics, therapeutics, vaccines, medical devices … and their methods and means of manufacture” useful for COVID-19 treatment. By doing so, barriers created by IPRs to timely access to affordable medical products could be removed. This proposal, supported by nearly two-thirds of the organisation’s membership, was opposed by the developed countries batting for their corporates. However, after the Joe Biden Administration in the United States lent limited support to the India-South Africa proposal, there was a glimmer of hope that WTO members would agree to lift restrictions on access to technologies for COVID-19 vaccines and medicines; at least by the MC12. The unfortunate reality of the current discussions is that an outcome supporting affordable access to COVID-19 vaccines and medicines looks distant. A further confirmation of this possibly came from the WTO Director General, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, when in her recent musings on the MC12 in The Economist , she was completely silent on this issue. Fisheries, e-commerce Although discussions on fisheries subsidies have been hanging fire for a long time, there is considerable push for an early conclusion of an agreement to rein in these subsidies. However, the current drafts on this issue are completely unbalanced as they do not provide the wherewithal to rein in large-scale commercial fishing that are depleting fish stocks the world over, and at the same time, are threatening the livelihoods of small fishermen in countries such as India. In recent months, the proposal by the members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the G-20 members to introduce global minimum taxes on digital companies has made headlines. But in the WTO, most of these countries have been investing their negotiating capital to facilitate the expansion of e-commerce firms. Discussions on e-commerce are being held in the WTO since 1998 (https://bit.ly/302dkgf), after the adoption of the Ministerial Declaration on Global Electronic Commerce wherein WTO members agreed to “continue their … practice of not imposing customs duties on electronic transmissions”. The more substantive outcome was the decision to “establish a comprehensive work programme” taking into “account the economic, financial, and development needs of developing countries”. Fast forward to the discussions in 2021, and a key focus of the 1998 e-commerce work programme, namely “development needs of developing countries”, is entirely missing from the text document that is the basis for the current negotiations. On the negotiating table are issues relating to the liberalisation of the goods and services trade, and of course guarantee for free flow of data across international boundaries, all aimed at facilitating expansion of businesses of e-commerce firms. In fact, the decision on a moratorium on the imposition of import duties agreed to in 1998 has become the basis for a push towards comprehensive trade liberalisation — a perfectly logical way forward, given that the sole objective of the negotiations on e-commerce is to facilitate expansion of e-commerce firms. Divisions over investment Complementing the current focus of the WTO to promote the global interests of oligopolies is the initiative for the adoption of an investment facilitation agreement. Inclusion of substantive provisions on investment in the WTO has been one of the more divisive issues. In 2001, the Doha Ministerial Declaration had included a work programme on investment (https://bit.ly/3bJSeWw), but it was soon taken off the table as developing countries were opposed to its continuation because the discussions were geared to expanding the rights of foreign investors through a multilateral agreement on investment. An investment facilitation has reintroduced the old agenda of concluding such an investment agreement. The proponents have been careful not to load the agenda by seeking substantial commitments from the Government to promote the interests of foreign investors, but it should be clear even to the uninitiated that the ultimate objective is to bind host governments into a multilaterally agreed commitment to comprehensively protect investor interests. One-sided negotiations Besides the bias in favour of global oligopolies, the current negotiating processes in the WTO are fundamentally flawed. The negotiations on e-commerce and investment facilitation are being conducted not by a mandate given by the entire membership of the WTO in a transparent manner that are also consistent with the objectives of the WTO. Instead, these negotiations owe their origins to the so-called “Joint Statement Initiatives” (JSI) in which a section of the membership has developed the agenda with a view to producing agreements in the WTO. This will then be offered to the rest of the membership on a “take-it-or-leave-it” basis. This entire process is “detrimental to the very existence of a rule-based multilateral trading system under the WTO”, as India and South Africa have forcefully argued in a submission against the JSIs early this year (https://bit.ly/2ZXN5XV). Biswajit Dhar is Professor of Economics at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/charting-a-trade-route-after-the-mc12/article37349539.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The right time for India to have its own climate law||As the world watches the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26, from October 31 to November 12, 2021), the most important climate summit in years at Glasgow, Scotland, India has said it wants to be a part of the climate solution. The Indian proposals Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced, on November 1 at Glasgow, a ‘Panchamrit solution’ which aims at reducing fossil fuel dependence and carbon intensity (reduce one billion tonnes of total projected carbon emissions by 2030), and ramping up its renewable energy share to 50% by 2030. Glasgow is important as it will call for practical implementation of the 2015 Paris Accord, setting the rules for the Accord. And as the world recovers from the biological and environmental stresses of the COVID-19 pandemic and natural disasters, climate change has also become personal. Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Bhupender Yadav has reasserted the call for the promised $100 billion a year as support (from the developed world to the developing world) but as we consider new energy pathways, we must also consider the question of climate hazard, nature-based solutions and national accountability. This is the right time for India to mull setting up a climate law while staying true to its goals of climate justice, carbon space and environmental protection. There are a few reasons for this. Current laws and gaps Which law covers climate? First, our existing laws are not adequate to deal with climate change. We have for example the Environment (Protection) Act (EPA), 1986, the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 and Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974. Yet, climate is not exactly water or air. Which law would cover the impacts of a cyclone, for instance or work to reduce future climate impacts? And neither are we ready to tackle environmental/climate violations. The Environment (Protection) Act is grossly inadequate to deal with violations on climate. Clause 24 of the Act, “Effect of Other Laws”, states that if an offence is committed under the EPA or any other law, the person will be punished under the other law (for example, Code of Criminal Procedure). This makes the EPA subordinate to every other law. Second, there is a need to integrate climate action — adaptation and mitigation — and monitor progress. Comprehensive climate action is not just technological (such as changing energy sources or carbon intensity), but also nature-based (such as emphasising restoration of ecosystems, reducing natural hazard and increasing carbon sinks.) Finally, India’s situation is unique. Climate action cannot come by furthering sharpening divides or exacerbating poverty, and this includes our stated renewable energy goals. The 500 Gigawatt by 2030 goal for renewable, solar or wind power for example (of installed power capacity from non-fossil sources), can put critically endangered grassland and desert birds such as the Great Indian Bustard at risk, as they die on collision with wires in the desert. Create a commission A climate law could consider two aspects. One, creating an institution that monitors action plans for climate change. A ‘Commission on Climate Change’ could be set up, with the power and the authority to issue directions, and oversee implementation of plans and programmes on climate. The Commission could have quasi-judicial powers with powers of a civil court to ensure that its directions are followed in letter and spirit. It should be assisted by a technical committee which can advise the commission in the discharge of its functions as well as guide various private and public agencies in meeting their climate-related obligations. As an example, the commission could look at agencies or institutions that have a disproportionate impact on climate or environment, and suggest lower energy pathways that are adhered to. Tracing carbon footprints What, for example, is the carbon footprint of a single activity from start to finish? We have the Bureau of Energy Efficiency, but we also need overall carbon efficiency that looks beyond electronics. How could intelligent interventions be made for reduction of footprints, along with common sense, and practical public health interventions which are unaccounted for so far? In a recent case in the National Green Tribunal it was revealed that the National Thermal Power Corporation did not even cover coal wagons with tarpaulin on railways, decades after environmental clearances were granted in 1999, in Chhattisgarh. In 2020, the Supreme Court passed an order directing for the wagons to be covered within a month’s time. There will be eventual emissions by coal use. But there is also the issue of respirable coal dust that is spewed into the air through irresponsible transportation. As of now, many environmental mediations remain glaringly haphazard. The ban on plastic bags in Delhi is a failure because plastic bag substitutes were never really pushed at scale by the understaffed environment department. A plastic bag ban to succeed in one State requires a similar commitment from neighbouring States. A nation-wide intervention here, led by a Climate Commission, considering substitutes at scale for plastic-based products (which are derived from petroleum) and looking at both innovation and implementation, would be useful. Need for accountability Second, we need a system of liability and accountability at short-, medium- and long-term levels as we face hazards. This also means having a legally enforceable National Climate Change Plan that goes beyond just policy guidelines. Are climate vagaries acts of god, or do certain actions exacerbate them? In an order of the National Green Tribunal in 2016, the court examined the damage caused when floods occurred in 2013 in Pauri, Uttarakhand. When Srinagar dam (Uttarakhand) opened its sluice gates, muck created 8-foot tall deposits, destroying property and fields. While muck is not hazardous, the handling of the dam — especially in a mountainous area in the face of climate events — created serious damage. The court held the damage was not an ‘Act of God’ and invoked the Principle of No Fault liability. The Alaknanda Hydro Power Company was asked by the Tribunal to pay more than Rs. 9 crore in damages. But all this was after the disaster. A Climate Commission could ideally prevent such gross negligence in fragile areas and fix accountability if it arises. We have an urgent moral imperative to tackle climate change and reduce its worst impacts. But we also should Indianise the process by bringing in a just and effective law — with guts, a spine, a heart, and, most importantly, teeth. Neha Sinha is a conservation biologist and author of ‘Wild and Wilful: Tales of 15 Iconic Indian Species’. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-right-time-for-india-to-have-its-own-climate-law/article37349541.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Keeping the faith||Following months of speculation, the World Health Organization (WHO) has granted Emergency Use Listing (EUL) to Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech. This now allows the vaccine’s better availability in many more countries, particularly via global groupings such as Covax. One of WHO’s key aims is to have at least 40% of people in all countries vaccinated by the year-end — a tall order as the latest estimates suggest that only around 1% of people in low-income countries have received their jabs. Seventy countries are yet to vaccinate 10% of their populations, and 30 countries — including much of Africa — have vaccinated fewer than 2%. In Latin America, only one in four of the population has received a vaccine dose, according to The British Medical Journal . Covaxin is an indigenous, inactivated whole-virion vaccine that has been developed based on well-established protocols. This has meant that it was put on the regulatory speed belt at nearly every stage, the most significant being its emergency approval by India’s drug regulators without any published phase-3 efficacy data. The ostensible reason for the haste was that India needed a low-cost indigenous vaccine that could be quickly administered to many. Though Bharat Biotech has years of experience in producing crores of vaccines, the scale of quickly ramping up Covaxin supply has so far been beyond its capacity. In no month, since July, has Bharat Biotech actually delivered on its promised supply of vaccine, and even after over 107 crore shots have been administered, only around 12% have received Covaxin; many in India have been vaccinated with Covishield. Moreover, before the Centre agreed to take over 75% of the public supply, Covaxin offered no cost advantage — and in some instances was costlier — than Covishield. Bharat Biotech however moved to quickly get WHO’s approval for its vaccine under its emergency listing process, in July. But unlike the rapid-fire clearance by India’s Central Drugs Standard Control Organization, WHO’s evaluation process has turned out to be considerably more involved. WHO cleared the AstraZeneca (Covishield) vaccine in four weeks but that Covaxin has required over 20 weeks — especially in a climate where much of the world is desperate — raises several questions. Bharat Biotech is no novice to WHO’s clearance process and would surely be aware of all the requirements. While Covaxin’s EUL may now ease foreign travel for a fraction of Indians, there is a real need to know why, in spite of Bharat Biotech’s claims that it had furnished the required data whenever demanded, this approval took the time it did. With Covaxin close to being approved for children there will be significant demand now for this population segment; however, the company must work to improve its manufacturing supply and contribute to a larger share of the vaccines globally administered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/keeping-the-faith/article37349534.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The cost of prohibition||The deaths in the last few days of at least 25 people in Bihar’s Gopalganj and West Champaran districts and five in Muzaffarpur apart from several others taking ill after consuming spurious liquor points to the unintended but not unexpected consequences of the total prohibition law that has been in effect in the State for more than five years. Hooch tragedies such as these are a consequence of the unregulated production and sale of liquor via the black market, and the use of illicit liquor as a substitute due to the lack of the sale of over-the-counter and regulated drinks. Prohibition as a policy has been shown up as inadequate to curb the problem of alcoholism and the havoc wreaked by it on households due to excessive consumption for a variety of reasons in State after State. In Bihar, implementation has not been without immense public support, especially among rural women. Yet, despite significant steps taken to enhance enforcement by officials from the excise department, the police and local administration — over 3.46 lakh people arrested in the last five years and close to 150 lakh litres of country-made and Indian Made Foreign Liquor being seized from April 2016 to February 2021 — weaknesses in imposing the ban persist. It is well known that one of the negative externalities of prohibition is the creation of a parallel bootlegger economy that could lead to an increase in violent crime, and this seems to be borne out in Bihar as well. The Chief Minister, Nitish Kumar, has been the strongest proponent of prohibition in the State and the policy has reaped electoral dividends for his party, the Janata Dal (United) and its ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party, as rural women have overwhelmingly welcomed the ban on alcohol. While initially, the ban on alcohol consumption helped rural households increase expenditure on basic goods related to food and education, there are reports from rural Bihar showing how these benefits have waned as spurious consumption is on the rise. Reportedly, illicit liquor in the State claimed at least 60 lives in 2021, much higher than the six deaths recorded by the National Crime Records Bureau’s report on accidental deaths and suicides in India in 2020. The scale of the rise in hooch incidents and deaths should set alarm bells ringing about the inability of the administration in curbing the black market in liquor sales and consumption. Mr. Kumar insists that the success of prohibition is only a matter of implementation of the law and in a way has blamed the deaths on the ignorance of those who consumed spurious liquor. But the fact that these deaths persist should alert the government to the misgivings with the idea of total prohibition as a magic bullet in a State marked by weaknesses in institutions and low overall human development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-cost-of-prohibition/article37349535.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,||TII mulls 6 more divisions: MD||Tube Investments of India Ltd. (TII), a part of the Rs. 41,713-crore Murugappa Group, is planning to create six more divisions to insulate itself from the cyclical nature of the auto sector as part of its long-term strategy. The long-term objective is over time build 10 business platforms each of which can basically have multiple divisions and basically focus on their own line of business, said Vellayan Subbiah, MD. “We actually are working with some consultants also in terms of identifying opportunity areas to get into, and that helping us basically identify what we see as areas of greatest potential.” Currently, TII has four platforms namely engineering, metal-formed products, mobility solutions and other businesses. Over time, it plans to add six more platforms, he said. For the current fiscal, TII has proposed to incur a capex of Rs. 200-Rs. 250 crore. TI-1 (core business) is looking at a growth of 6%-10%. It is starting its lean initiative next month. “We need to kind of look at the next level of opportunity in terms of margin improvement in the core businesses. That is step number one. So that’s what’s going to spin off the cash. It will be used for TI-2 and TI-3.” During Q3 of last year, TII had planned a three-engine model of growth with TI-1 comprising core business, TI-2 new step-outs and frontier businesses such as optic lens and EV three-wheelers and TI-3 inorganic growth and acquisitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tii-mulls-6-more-divisions-md/article37349525.ece
06 November 2021||COIMBATORE,||Goyal urges fivefold boost to export of technical textiles||The annual growth rate of the technical textiles sector in the country should be in the 15%-20% range in the next five years, from the current 8%, said Union Minister of Textiles, Commerce and Industry, Consumer Affairs and Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal. It is time to target a five times’ increase in export of technical textiles in three years, he told representatives of the Indian Technical Textile Association (ITTA) in New Delhi on Friday. The world market for technical textiles is $250 billion and India’s share is $19 billion. ‘Net exporter’ The biggest players are the U.S., West European countries, China and Japan. In January 2019, the government issued 207 HSN Codes for technical textiles and in less than two years, India had become a net exporter of technical textiles. It also unveiled the National Technical Textiles Mission in February last year. In FY21, India’s major share of technical textile exports was in PPEs, N-95 and surgical masks, and fabric for PPEs and masks. As many as 92 technical textile items have been made mandatory for use by government organisations covering agriculture, horticulture, highways, railways, water resources, and medical applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/goyal-urges-fivefold-boost-to-export-of-technical-textiles/article37349527.ece
06 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘PLI will allow AC sector to compete globally’||The production linked incentive (PLI) scheme approved by the Centre earlier this week would help provide a level-playing field to domestic players and create an enabling environment for the industry to compete globally, leading manufacturers said. Firms would get an opportunity to make high-quality products on par with global counterparts, said industry players such as Daikin, Blue Star and Panasonic. On Wednesday, the government had said it would select 42 firms as beneficiaries under the PLI scheme for the white goods sector. The selected applicants include 26 for air-conditioner manufacturing with a committed investment of Rs. 3,898 crore. The highest approved proposal of Rs. 538.70 crore was from Japan’s Daikin Industries. Its subsidiary Daikin Airconditioning India plans to manufacture compressors, heat exchangers, sheet metal components and plastic moulding components under the PLI scheme at Sri City, Andhra Pradesh, where it is setting a 75-acre greenfield project. “This investment is not only for India, but we are also looking for an exports market in a big way... We have been observing the government approach. It’s quite positive,” Daikin India CMD K.J. Jawa told PTI. Via the PLI scheme, the firm is aiming to make India a production hub for the African and West Asian market, he said. “We are looking at [a] China-plus-one model and capitalising on the current resistance against China after the pandemic. Daikin has established itself very well in the last few years... We would be putting up a compressor plant, device factory and also heat exchanger,” he added. ‘More locally-made ACs’ Panasonic India CEO Manish Sharma said: “Last year, the Indian AC market was pegged at around 7.5 million. Of this, 2.5 million were imports, which have come down significantly due to the ban on the import of gas-filled ACs. “We expect the market to touch 9 million this year; of this, 8-8.5 million will be [made] locally. Currently, ACs come with 25% local value addition; with the current PLI scheme, this can go up to 75% in the next 3-5 years,” he said. Blue Star MD B. Thiagarajan said it had received approval for heat exchangers and sheet metal components for its upcoming project at Sri City. “The component ecosystem in the country in the next three years would be good,” he said. Consumer Electronics and Appliances Manufacturers Association President Eric Braganza said: “The scheme would lead to inclusive growth, which in turn will aid in creating more job opportunities in the country and will also put an upward thrust in the economy by bringing in large-scale manufacturing to India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pli-will-allow-ac-sector-to-compete-globally/article37349518.ece
06 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Pandemic eases venture capital fundraising: Naidu||The technology acceleration that followed the pandemic has made it easier for venture capital firms to raise funds quickly, said B.V. Naidu, a tech veteran and StartupXseed Ventures founder and managing partner. While putting together a venture fund was a herculean task until a couple of years ago, it had got a lot easier and quicker after the pandemic, Mr. Naidu noted.  “All are convinced about the technology acceleration story that is happening all around. Physical travel is not required. Fund-closing cycles have significantly got shortened,’’ he added. “Closures are happening in the first or at least in the second meeting itself,” Mr. Naidu told The Hindu. His firm was also contemplating a Rs. 500-crore fund that is expected to be ready for disbursement in 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pandemic-eases-venture-capital-fundraising-naidu/article37349523.ece
06 November 2021||new delhi,||Musk’s Starlink to explore telco tie-up for broadband||Elon Musk-led SpaceX’s satellite broadband arm Starlink is planning to explore collaboration with telecom companies in India to expand broadband services in the country with a focus on rural areas, a top company official said on Friday. Starlink country director India at SpaceX Sanjay Bhargava told PTI that discussions with broadband service providers will start once the 12 Phase-1 aspirational districts are identified by the NITI Aayog and the company will see the interest levels of the various players and the Universal Service Obligation Fund. “I am hoping we will get a time-bound 100% broadband plan that can serve as a model for other districts but the devil is in the details. There may be many good reasons why one or more broadband providers do not want to collaborate, though to me that seems unlikely.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/musks-starlink-to-explore-telco-tie-up-for-broadband/article37349521.ece
06 November 2021||new delhi,||GAIL can buy IL&FS’s stake in OTPC: NCLT||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has approved State-owned gas utility GAIL (India) Ltd’s acquisition of bankrupt Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services’ 26% stake in ONGC Tripura Power Company (OTPC), GAIL said on Friday.  “NCLT has granted approval for the acquisition of 26% equity stake of Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services (IL&FS) Group by GAIL (India) Ltd. in OTPC,” GAIL said in a stock exchange filing. The stake, it said, is being acquired from IL&FS Group companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gail-can-buy-ilfss-stake-in-otpc-nclt/article37349519.ece
06 November 2021||new delhi,||DoT fixes Dec. 2022 for new IP address shift||The Department of Telecom (DoT) has fixed December 2022 as the deadline for Internet service providers to customise their network as well as change modems and routers at customer premises for services as per the Internet Protocol address, IPv6. The DoT has set June 30, 2022 as the last date for complete transition to IPv6 for government organisations, according to an official note issued on November 2. “All new retail wireline customer connections provided by service providers after December 31, 2022, shall be capable of carrying IPv6 traffic either on dual stack or on native IPv6,” the note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/dot-fixes-dec-2022-for-new-ip-address-shift/article37349528.ece
06 November 2021||new delhi,||CBIC tightens norms to bar input tax credit||The CBIC has come out with norms on blocking of tax credit by GST field officers, saying that such blocking should be on the basis of ‘material evidence’ and not just out of ‘suspicion.’ The norms laid down five specific circumstances in which such credit could be blocked by a senior tax officer. These include invoices on which GST has not been paid by sellers. The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) said the commissioner or an officer authorised by him, not below the rank of assistant commissioner, must form an opinion for blocking of input tax credit (ITC) only after ‘proper application of mind’ considering all the facts of the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cbic-tightens-norms-to-bar-input-tax-credit/article37349529.ece
06 November 2021||DUBAI,||India blows away Scotland, keeps its slender hopes alive||Virat Kohli couldn’t have asked for a better occasion than his birthday to win the first toss of the ICC T20 World Cup. And the Men in Blue, consisting of three spinners for the first time in the tournament, gave its captain a fitting gift as India thrashed Scotland by eight wickets in its penultimate Super 12 match on Friday night. The inexperienced Scottish batters just could not withstand the relentless pressure applied by India’s bowlers to be skittled out for a paltry 85 in the 18th over at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium. Finding their mojo Rohit Sharma (30, 16b, 5x4, 1x6) and K.L. Rahul (50, 19b, 6x4, 3x6), who had found their mojo in Abu Dhabi two nights ago, then made a mockery of Scotland’s bowling as India overhauled the target off just 39 balls. After Rohit was plumb in front off a Brad Wheal yorker off the last ball of the fifth over, captain Kohli joined Rahul in the middle. Even though Rahul perished after a quickfire fifty off just 18 balls, the fastest of this edition, Kohli was at the crease when Suryakumar Yadav scored the winning six to complete the formalities. India required to cross Scotland’s total in 7.1 overs to better New Zealand’s and Afghanistan’s Net Run Rate. Having ticked the box, it will now hope for Afghanistan to surprise New Zealand on Sunday and make it to the semifinals by beating Namibia the next day. Considering Scotland’s struggles against quality spin against Afghanistan earlier in the tournament and Shardul Thakur’s below-par outing in the previous two games, it didn’t come as a surprise when Varun Chakravarthy, fit again after a calf strain, replaced Shardul in the XI. Jasprit Bumrah, who was whipped for a six by George Munsey in the first over, started the Scotland downfall by getting rid of its captain Kyle Coetzer with a slower ball in the third over. While Munsey and Matthew Cross survived the PowerPlay, Ravindra Jadeja, who along with Mohammed Shami was the pick of the bowlers with idential figures (3/15), struck twice in his first over to spell doom for Scotland. The first of those dismissals — Richie Berrington was flummoxed with the ball pitching on the leg and turning enough to beat the bat and strike into the middle stump — will be cherished by the week-end spectators who turned up to support India. Shami then equalled, if not bettered, the best-dismissal competition with a perfect yorker which tailender Alasdair Evans had no answer. While R. Ashwin was unlucky to have seen Rishabh Pant miss a stumping in his last over, Bumrah, who bowled a maiden in the middle overs, came back to dismiss Mark Watt and end Scotland’s misery.  We have played excellent cricket in the last two-three years. You can’t judge us after one or two bad matches Jadeja||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jadeja-shami-and-bumrah-skittle-out-scotland-as-india-wins-big/article37349632.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Hyderabad downs Saurashtra in a cliff-hanger||Off-spinner Shivank Vashisht razed Uttarakhand to hand Delhi a 35-run win in a low-scoring Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy Group E contest at Rohtak on Thursday. Playing only the second T20 of his career, Vashisht took 5/19 in his four overs as Uttarakhand, chasing 123 to win, folded for 86. His efforts saved Delhi’s blushes after it was struggling after being put in. No. 3 Himmat Singh top-scored with 35 (34b, 3x4, 1x6) and his partnership of 24 with Nitish Rana (18b, 10b, 3x4, 1x6) was the highest of the innings as wickets kept falling. Impetus Pradeep Sangwan’s unbeaten 25 (21b, 4x4) late in the innings provided a much-needed impetus and proved invaluable in the end. Fast bowler Mayank Mishra (3/27) and left-arm spinner Nikhil Kohli (3/11) were the chief wicket-takers for Uttarakhand. In Sultanpur, Hyderabad got the better of Saurashtra in a cliff-hanger. Prerak Mankad (71, 46b, 4x4, 5x6) and Jaydev Unadkat (58 n.o., 32b, 6x4, 3x6) shepherded Saurashtra to 173/8 in its 20 overs. Hyderabad chased down its target with three balls to spare, with captain Tanmay Agarwal scoring a 35-ball 55. India batsman Hanuma Vihari rolled his arm over and was perhaps the pick of the bowlers for Hyderabad, taking 2/16 in his four overs. UP posts win Also in Sultanpur, Uttar Pradesh defeated Chandigarh by 22 runs. Karn Sharma (60, 50b, 6x4, 1x6) and Rinku Singh (57 n.o. 29b, 4x4, 4x6) shone with the bat as UP posted 165. Chandigarh couldn’t muster a quick enough reply, finishing on 143/5 in its 20 overs. Captain Manan Vohra top-scored with 42.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vashishts-five-for-helps-delhi-rout-uttarakhand/article37349954.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Sharath, Cariappa help Karnataka clinch thriller||B.R. Sharath (42 n.o., 26b, 5x4, 1x6) and K.C. Cariappa (21 n.o. and 2/14) took Karnataka to a thrilling four-wicket victory over Chhattisgarh in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy at Guwahati on Friday. Chasing 146, Karnataka looked down and out at 78 for six in 14.5 overs. With an improbable 66 runs needed from 31 balls, wicketkeeper-batsman Sharath and Cariappa pulled out the big hits to take Karnataka home with three balls to spare. Cariappa was particularly explosive, smashing three sixes in his 10-ball knock. The duo gave Karnataka a second victory in as many Elite Group B outings. Earlier, Chhattisgarh made a competitive total, on the back of an unbeaten 27-ball 52 from Shashank Singh. Spinners Cariappa and K. Gowtham picked up two wickets each . In another Elite Group B outing, Mumbai outclassed Services by 17 runs to record its first win. After being put in, Mumbai posted 154/7 in 20 overs. Captain Ajinkya Rahane (54, 44b, 3x4, 4x6) recorded his second consecutive fifty. Services stuttered in the chase, losing wickets regularly. Only Rajat Paliwal (64, 49b, 7x4) got among the runs, but it was not nearly enough. Pacer Tushar Deshpande was the most successful bowler for Mumbai, with 3/35. Bengal pipped Baroda by two runs to stay unbeaten in the tournament. Electing to bat first, Bengal was in a spot of bother at 81 for five, before Shahbaz Ahmed steadied the ship with a 25-ball 34. Opener Abhishek Das (35, 27b, 3x4) contributed as well to take Bengal to 146 for seven. Baroda’s Krunal Pandya (57, 43 n.o., 9x4) kept Baroda in the hunt, but the southpaw all-rounder could not guide his team home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-cariappa-help-karnataka-clinch-thriller/article37350133.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Mukhtar sizzles as Assam stuns Gujarat||Assam’s stunning victory over Gujarat stood out among the three seven-wicket verdicts in the league encounters in Group D of the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 cricket tournament in New Delhi on Friday. In the other two matches, pre-match favourites Madhya Pradesh and Kerala brushed aside Railways and Bihar. Less than 24 hours after handing out a nine-wicket defeat to Kerala, Gujarat batted by choice at the Ferozeshah Kotla but managed only 89. Chief destroyer Mukhtar Hussain (3/20) was the chief destroyer while Pritam Das, Rajjakuddin Ahmed and Riyan Parag took two wickets each. In reply, Assam cruised to victory in the 14th over with Riyan Parag smashing thee sixes in his unbeaten seven-ball 20. Earlier, in a match reduced to 16 overs following a delayed start owing to poor visibility, MP kept Railways on a tight leash. For the second successive day, Avesh Khan took three wickets as Railways posted 97/9. Venkatesh Iyer, following some eye-catching performances in the IPL, scored an unbeaten 41-ball 50 with three fours and two sixes to lead MP’s charge. At the Air Force ground, Kerala owed its much-needed win to Basil Thampi, Robin Uthappa and Sanju Samson. Thampi took out the top three Bihar batters by the 13th over to ensure Kerala did not have to chase a big target. Uthappa guided Kerala’s chase with a 34-ball 57 (5x4, 4x6) before a pulled hamstring forced him to retire. Samson smashed an unbeaten 20-ball 45 (3x4, 4x6) to end Bihar’s resistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mukhtar-sizzles-as-assam-stuns-gujarat/article37350163.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||TN prevails over Odisha in controversial finish||In a nail-biting and controversial finish, Tamil Nadu prevailed over Odisha by one-run in the second round match of the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament (Elite Group A) in Lucknow on Friday. Chasing 168 for victory, Odisha started slowly and managed only 67 in the first ten overs. However, Subhransu Senapati’s 67 (47b, 3x4, 3x6) and Abhishek Raut’s unbeaten 38 (21b, 4x4, 1x6) helped Odisha fight back strongly towards the end. With 14 needed off the final over, left-arm pacer T. Natarajan did well off the first ball four balls, giving just three runs and taking a wicket. However, Raut hit the penultimate delivery to the long-off boundary where M. Ashwin made a valiant effort but the ball touched the ropes. The umpires and the fielder didn’t know whether the stop was clean and gave Odisha just two runs. With nine needed off the last ball, Natarajan bowled a no ball which was taken for two runs. Raut then hit the last ball for four as Odisha fell short by one run. While the audience watching on a streaming website could see the ball touching the ropes, the third umpires don’t have access to the webcast feed. Odisha skipper Rajesh Dhuper was distraught knowing what had actually transpired but said, “The playing conditions dictate that the cameras used by the BCCI are for reviewing only stumpings, run-outs and to check no-ball if a wicket falls. By the time we realised, the next ball was already bowled.” Aparajith shines Earlier, asked to bat first, TN made 165/5, thanks to top-scorer B. Aparajith’s unbeaten 44 (28b, 3x4, 2x6) and M. Mohammed’s late flourish, an unbeaten 27 off just 13 balls. Skipper Vijay Shankar did not play due to a calf niggle and N. Jadadeesan led the team on Friday. In the first match of the day, Maharashtra skipper Ruturaj Gaikwad led from the front with a brilliant 80 (54b, 8x4, 3x6) to guide his side to a seven-wicket win over Punjab. Electing to field first, Maharashtra restricted Punjab to just 137/6. Chasing a modest total, Gaikwad slammed his second consecutive half-century to help Maharashtra get its first win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-prevails-over-odisha-in-controversial-finish/article37349865.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Hebbar’s ton in vain as Haryana beats Andhra||Himanshu Rana’s 52 and Rahul Tewatia’s unbeaten 46 off 25 guided Haryana to a six-wicket win against Andhra in a Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy Elite Group C fixture in Vadodara on Friday. Put in to bat, Andhra lost its captain K.S. Bharat (2) early in the innings, but the other opener Ashwin Hebbar remained unbeaten on 103 (53b, 12x4, 4x6) as the team put up a competitive 179/4. Hebbar was ably supported by K. Nithish Kumar Reddy (41, 36b, 4x4, 1x6). Chasing a big total, Haryana lost its opener Chaitanya Bishnoi for just six runs. However, Rana stitched a 73-run second-wicket partnership with captain Harshal Patel (21, 13b, 2x4, 1x6) to steady the ship. But the team lost three quick wickets. At 92/4 in 10.3 overs, Haryana needed a solid partnership and Tewatia and Shivam Chauhan (45 n.o., 27b, 3x4, 1x6) came up with one. While Chauhan held fort at one end, Tewatia crafted his innings with seven boundaries and a six to help Haryana romp home with 13 balls to spare. Facile win In another match, Deepak Hooda’s 28-ball 50 guided Rajasthan to a convincing five-wicket victory against Jammu and Kashmir. In the previous match against Jharkhand, Rajasthan rode on Hooda’s heroics to coast to a six-wicket win and, on Friday, Hooda again came to the team’s rescue. After restricting Jammu and Kashmir to 144/4, Rajasthan lost the top three batters — openers Arjit Gupta (11), Abhimanyu Lamba (1) and Menaria (16) — and was struggling at 3/39. Hooda rose to the occasion again and posted an 88-run stand with Mahipal Lomron (41 n.o., 41b, 6x4) for the fourth wicket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hebbars-ton-in-vain-as-haryana-beats-andhra/article37350203.ece
06 November 2021||PARIS,||Djokovic enters the last four||Seventh seed Hubert Hurkacz got the better of James Duckworth 6-2, 6-7(4), 7-5 to enter the semifinals of the Paris Masters on Friday. Meanwhile on Thursday, defending champion Daniil Medvedev rallied to beat unseeded American Sebastian Korda 4-6, 6-1, 6-3 and book a spot in the quarterfinals. Medvedev next faces French qualifier Hugo Gaston, who rallied from 5-0 down in the second set to win 6-4, 7-5 against 18-year-old Spaniard Carlos Alcaraz. Top-seeded Novak Djokovic advanced without playing a point as Gael Monfils pulled out injured because of an adductor injury. Djokovic, a five-time champion here, faces unseeded American Taylor Fritz, who upset 10th-seeded Cameron Norrie 6-3, 7-6(3). Fourth-seeded Alexander Zverev moved into the last eight after beating No. 16 Grigor Dimitrov 7-6(4), 6-7 (3), 6-3 in an intense contest lasting 2 hours, 45 minutes. Zverev next plays sixth-seeded Casper Ruud, who routed American qualifier Marcos Giron 6-2 6-1 to seal his place in the season-ending ATP Finals.  The results: Quarterfinals: Hubert Hurkacz bt James Duckworth 6-2, 6-7(4), 7-5. Third round: Novak Djokovic bt Gael Monfils, walkover; Taylor Fritz bt Cameron Norrie 6-3, 7-6(3); Duckworth bt Alexei Popyrin 7-6(6), 6-4; Hurkacz bt Dominik Koepfer 4-6, 7-5, 6-2; Casper Ruud bt Marcos Giron 6-2, 6-1.   Alexander Zverev bt Grigor Dimitrov 7-6(4), 6-7(3), 6-3; Daniil Medvedev bt Sebastian Korda 4-6, 6-1, 6-3; Hugo Gaston bt Carlos Alcaraz 6-4, 7-5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hurkacz-enters-the-semifinals/article37349533.ece
06 November 2021||Dubai,||Australia steamrollers Bangladesh||Australia chased down Bangladesh’s below-par total of 73 in just 6.2 overs for an eight-wicket win in a Group 1 Super 12 contest here on Thursday. Adam Zampa was Player-of-the-Match for his maiden five-wicket haul in T20Is (five for 19). Chasing 74, Aaron Finch and David Warner came out swinging, with Finch being particularly severe, racking up a 20-ball 40 with four sixes and two fours. After the openers departed, Mitchell Marsh got Australia over the line with a six in the company of Glenn Maxwell with 82 balls to spare. Earlier, Mitchell Starc struck in the first over, getting Litton Das. Soumya Sarkar was the next to go — chopping Josh Hazlewood onto his stumps. Next over, Maxwell trapped Mushfiqur Rahim in front. Mohammad Naim and Mahmudullah attempted to arrest the slide briefly before Hazlewood returned to have Naim caught. Things went from bad to worse when Afif Hossain was caught off Zampa’s first ball, for a four-ball duck. Shamim Hossain provided a few sparks with the bat; but the procession continued as Zampa removed Shamim and Mahedi Hasan off the last two balls of his third over. He could’ve had a hat-trick but Matthew Wade dropped Taskin off the first ball of the leggie’s fourth over. But Zampa finished the innings off in the same over, getting rid of Shoriful Islam and Mustafizur Rahman to end with figures of 4-0-19-5.  The scores: Bangladesh 73 in 15 overs (Adam Zampa 5/19) lost to Australia 78/2 in 6.2 overs (Aaron Finch 40).   Toss: Australia; MoM: Zampa.   Australia won by eight wickets with 13.4 overs to spare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-steamrollers-bangladesh/article37349622.ece
06 November 2021||Sharjah,||Kiwis brush aside Namibia, move to second||New Zealand defeated Namibia by 52 runs on Friday to move closer to the ICC T20 World Cup semifinals. Glenn Phillips and Jimmy Neesham plundered 67 off the last four overs as New Zealand made 163 for four after being put in to bat. In reply, Namibia was well set at 47 for no loss in the eighth over before finishing at 111 for seven. Phillips hit an undefeated 39 off 21 balls with one four and three sixes while Man-of-the-Match Neesham made 35 from 23 deliveries with a boundary and two sixes. The Black Caps, who face Afghanistan on Sunday, were struggling at 96 for four off 16 overs after being invited to bat. Steady start Namibia saw openers Michael van Lingen (25) and Stephan Baard (21) make a steady start, helping their team reach 56-3 at the midway point. But experienced seamers Tim Southee (2/15) and Trent Boult (2/20) applied the brakes as Namibia was only able to add 55 off the last 10 overs.  The scores: New Zealand 163/4 in 20 overs (Glenn Phillips 39 n.o., James Neesham 35 n.o.) bt Namibia 111/7 in 20 overs.   Toss : Namibia; MoM : Neesham. New Zealand won by 52 runs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kiwis-brush-aside-namibia-move-to-second/article37349635.ece
06 November 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Sri Lanka ends Windies’ title defence||Sri Lanka defeated West Indies by 20 runs here on Thursday, confirming the defending champions’ elimination from the tournament. Chasing 190, West Indies reached 169 for eight in its 20 overs. Charith Asalanka (68) and Pathum Nissanka (51) led already-eliminated Sri Lanka to 189 for three before Shimron Hetmyer top-scored for West Indies with a career-best unbeaten 81. Asalanka, coming in at number three, reached his half-century off 33 balls with a stylish innings boasting six fours. Opener Nissanka made 51 with his fifty coming off 39 balls with five fours.  Only Hetmyer and Nicholas Pooran reached double figures for the West Indies. Hetmyer’s 81 came off 54 balls with eight fours and four sixes. Pooran’s 46 came off 34 deliveries and featured six fours and a six.  The scores: Sri Lanka 189/3 in 20 overs (Pathum Nissanka 51, Charith Asalanka 68) bt West Indies 169 in 20 overs (Nicholas Pooran 46, Shimron Hetmyer 81 n.o.).   Toss: WI; MoM: Asalanka.   Sri Lanka won by 20 runs .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sri-lanka-ends-windies-title-defence/article37349640.ece
06 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Prajnesh in quarters||Prajnesh Gunneswaran beat Inaki Montes-De La Torre of Spain 6-1, 7-5 to make the quarterfinals of the $52,080 Challenger tennis tournament in the US.   The results:   $52,080 Challenger, Charlottesville, US: Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt Inaki Montes-De La Torre (Esp) 6-1, 7-5; Doubles (quarterfinals): Jason Jung (Tpe) & Christopher Rungkat (Ina) bt Dmitry Popko (Kaz) & Arjun Kadhe 6-2, 7-5.   €44,820 Challenger, Eckental, Germany: Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Maximilian Marterer (Ger) 7-5, 7-6(4); Doubles (quarterfinals): Roman Jebavy (Cze) & Jonny O’Mara (GBR) bt Viktor Vlad Cornea (Rou) & Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-4, 6-4; (pre-quarterfinals): Victor & Ramkumar bt Jack Draper (GBR) & Evan Furness (Fra) 6-2, 6-4.   €44,820 Challenger, Bergamo, Italy: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Francesco Forti & Federico Gaio (Ita) bt Sriram Balaji & Divij Sharan 4-6, 7-6(2), [13-11].   €44,820 Challenger, Tenerife, Spain: Doubles (quarterfinals): Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan & Purav Raja bt Ivan Marrero Curbelo (Esp) & Hillel Rousseau (Hai) 3-6, 7-5, [10-6]; (pre-quarterfinals): Jeevan & Purav bt Thomas Fabbiano (Ita) & Federico Ferreira Silva (Por) 6-1, 6-4.   $60,000 ITF women, Nantes, France: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Sarah Beth Grey & Eden Silva (GBR) bt Ankita Raina & Karman Kaur Thandi 6-2, 7-5.   $15,000 ITF women, Castellon, Spain: Doubles (quarterfinals): Ines Murta (Por) & Sapfo Sakellaridi (Gre) bt Josefina Zehnder (Arg) & Sathwika Sama 6-3, 4-2 (retired).   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Yasmine Mansouri (Fra) bt Jennifer Luikham 6-3, 6-2.   $15,000 ITF women, Antalya, Turkey: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Dayeon Back (Kor) & Tian Fangran (Chn) bt Nicole Poj (Arg) & Annika Kannan 6-1, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prajnesh-in-quarterfinals/article37349860.ece
06 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Firouzja takes lead||Alireza Firouzja stepped up the pace towards a Candidates berth after inflicting a 43-move defeat on a previously-unbeaten K. Sasikiran in the eighth round of the FIDE Chess.com Grand Swiss chess tournament at Riga, Latvia, on Thursday. With three rounds to go, Firouzja leads at 6.5, one point ahead of a 10-man pack. The victory over Sasikiran also made him World No. 4 on the live rating list. Top two finishers from this competition will qualify for next year’s Candidates tournament. P. Harikrishna and Nihal Sarin drew their games to join Sasikiran at five points. Only Indian winner S.P. Sethuraman was the only Indian winner in the Open section while R. Vaishali and Padmini Rout posted victories in the women section.  The results (eighth round):   Open: Alireza Firouzja (Fra, 6.5) bt K. Sasikiran (5); Evgeniy Najer (Rus. 5) drew with P. Harikrishna (5); Parham Maghsoodloo (Iri, 5) drew with Nihal Sarin (5).   R. Praggnanandhaa (4) drew with Nodirbek Abdusattorov (Uzb, 4); Maksim Chigaev (Rus, 4) drew with Raunak Sadhwani (4); Baadur Jobava (Geo, 4) drew with Arjun Erigaisi (4); Maxim Matlakov (Rus, 3.5) drew with Surya Shekhar Ganguly (3.5); D. Gukesh (3) lost to Nodirbek Yakubboev (Uzb, 4); Mateusz Bartel (Pol, 3) drew with B. Adhiban (3); S. P. Sethuraman (3.5) bt Lucas van Foreest (Ned, 2.5).   Women: D. Harika (5) drew with Olga Badelka (Rus, 5); Pia Cramling (Swe, 4.5) drew with Vantika Agrawal (4.5); R. Vaishali (4.5) bt Alina Bivol (Rus, 3.5); Divya Deshmukh (3) lost to Valentina Gunina (Rus, 4); Maria Floris Eizaguerri (Esp, 2) lost to Padmini Rout (3) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/firouzja-stops-sasikiran-takes-lead/article37349863.ece
06 November 2021||Paris,||Liverpool and Ajax coast through||Liverpool and Ajax kept up their perfect records in the Champions League this season to qualify for the last 16 on Wednesday, while a Paris Saint-Germain side missing Lionel Messi was held by RB Leipzig. Jurgen Klopp’s Liverpool blew Atletico Madrid away in a whirlwind start at Anfield, with Diogo Jota and Sadio Mane scoring in the first 21 minutes to secure a 2-0 win against an opponent which finished with 10 men.  Liverpool is now guaranteed to top the group, sitting seven points clear of Porto with two games remaining, while Atletico is another point back in third. Porto drew 1-1 away to AC Milan, as Chancel Mbemba’s own goal cancelled out Luis Diaz’s early opener for the Portuguese side.  Messi missed PSG’s trip to Germany due to injury, and without him Mauricio Pochettino’s side came from behind to lead before conceding a late penalty and settling for a 2-2 draw with Leipzig.   The results: Group A: Manchester City 4 (Foden 15, Mahrez 54, Sterling 72, Jesus 90+2) bt Club Brugge 1 (Stones 17-og); RB Leipzig 2 (Nkunku 8, Szoboszlai 90+2-pen) drew with PSG 2 (Wijnaldum 21, 39).   Group B: AC Milan 1 (Mbemba 61-og) drew with FC Porto 1 (Luis Diaz 6); Liverpool 2 (Diogo Jota 13, Mane 21) bt Atletico Madrid 0. Group C: Sporting Lisbon 4 (Pedro Goncalves 31-pen, 38, Paulinho 41, Sarabia 56) bt Besiktas 0; Borussia Dortmund 1 (Reus 37-pen) lost to Ajax 3 (Tadic 72, Haller 83, Klaassen 90+3).   Group D: Real Madrid 2 (Benzema 14, 61) bt Shakhtar Donetsk 1 (Fernando 39); Sheriff Tiraspol 1 (Traore 90+2) lost to Inter Milan 3 (Brozovic 54, Skriniar 66, Alexis Sanchez 82) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/liverpool-and-ajax-coast-through/article37349872.ece
06 November 2021||BENGALURU:,||Lake Tahoe primed to repeat in main event||Lake Tahoe, who is in fine fettle, may score an encore in the Vijayanagar Cup (1,400m), the main event of the races postponed from Friday, Nov. 5, (because of inclement weather) to Saturday (Nov 6). False rails (width about 6m from 1,600m to the winning post) will be in position.  MALAPRABHA PLATE (1,400m), rated 00 to 25, 1-00 p.m.: 1. Devils Magic (1) S. John 62, 2. Icelandic (8) Akshay K 61, 3. Mystic Mountain (2) Yash 61, 4. Black Coffee (4) Arshad 59.5, 5. Bombix (11) Kiran Rai 59.5, 6. Code Of Honour (7) Neeraj 59, 7. Max Mueller (—) (—) 58.5, 8. Iron Fist (6) J.H. Arul 58, 9. Osibisa (9) M. Naveen 58, 10. Happy Dancing (5) P. Mani 55.5, 11. Altair (3) Mark 55.5 and 12. Hitomi Sakuma (10) Rajesh Kumar 55.  1. BLACK COFFEE, 2. DEVILS MAGIC, 2. CODE OF HONOUR   MAN ‘O’ WAR PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms) 1-30. 1. Golden Wings (4) Antony Raj 57, 2. Klockner (9) Darshan 57, 3. Matera (3) Akshay K 57, 4. Super Kind (8) Mark 57, 5. Tactical Command (1) Dhanu Singh 57, 6. The Adviser (6) Arvind K 57, 7. Thousand Words (5) Arshad 57, 8. Divya Shakthi (2) R. Marshall 55.5 and 9. Star Of The Hills (7) Kiran Rai 55.5.  1. MATERA, 2. KLOCKNER,   3. GOLDEN WINGS   SHIMSHA PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 4-y-o & over, 2-00: 1. Ozark (10) Manish R 60, 2. Silverita (11) S. John 60, 3. Aerospeed (6) P. Mani 59.5, 4. Niche Hemp (8) Yash 59.5, 5. Sand Castles (3) Nazerul 58.5, 6. Altamonte (5) Salman Khan 58.5, 7. Quick Shots (2) P. Surya 58.5, 8. Rightly Noble (12) Md. Akram 58.5, 9. Baroness (7) Rajesh K 57.5, 10. Lifeismiracle (1) Mark 57.5, 11. Southern Power (9) Md. Habeeb 56 and 12. Santorini Secret (4) Tousif Khan  1. NICHE HEMP, 2. OZARK,   3. SILVERITA   CHITRAKOTE FALLS PLATE (1,100m), rated 20 to 45. 2-30: 1. Powerful Lady (6) S. John 60, 2. Gin Daisy (7) P. Siddaraju 59.5, 3. Golden Vision (4) Yash 58, 4. Stone House (—) (—) 57, 5. Elite Crown (3) Kiran Rai 52.5, 6. Crimson Heart (—) (—) 51.5, 7. Compliance (1) B. Harish 51, 8. Raven Star (2) Vinod Shinde 51, 9. Striking Melody (—) (—) 51 and 10. Ultimate Choice (5) P. Surya 50.5.  1. GOLDEN VISION,   2. POWERFUL LADY, 3. RAVEN STAR   BRAHMAPUTRA PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o & over, 3-00: 1. Recall Of You (9) Yash 60, 2. Realia (11) Chetan K 58, 3. Star And Garter (5) Antony 58, 4. Flamingo Road (1) J. H. Arul 57.5, 5. Definitive (4) P. Siddaraju 57, 6. Smithsonian (2) Kiran Rai 56.5, 7. Gypsy (8) D. Patel 55.5, 8. Shining Rock (6) P. Surya 55, 9. Shanaey (3) Vishal Bunde 54.5, 10. Hafnium (7) R. Marshall 53.5 and 11. Jersey Legend (10) Rayan 53.  1. RECALL OF YOU, 2. FLAMINGO ROAD, 3. STAR AND GARTER   KABINI TROPHY (1,600m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 3-30: 1. Drums Of War (—) (—) 57, 2. Fun And Laughter (4) Antony 57, 3. Here I Come (5) S. Shareef 57, 4. Southern Dynasty (6) C. S. Jodha 57, 5. Juggaad (7) Arshad 55.5, 6. Love (3) Yash 55.5, 7. Ruling Goddess (1) Akshay K 55.5 and 8. Secret Of Life (2) Dhanu Singh 55.5.  1. SOUTHERN DYNASTY, 2. RULING GODDESS, 3. SECRET OF LIFE  7. VIJAYANAGAR CUP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65, 4-y-o & over, 4-00: 1. Green Channel (1) Antony 60.5, 2. Lake Tahoe (5) S. John 60.5, 3. Peluche (4) Arshad 60.5, 4. Set To Win (6) M. Naveen 60.5, 5. Electra (7) Yash 59, 6. Hokkaido (8) Akshay K 59, 7. Indian Pharaoh (3) Kiran Rai 57, 8. Speedster (2) S. Shareef 56, 9. Whizzo (9) Vinod Shinde (9) 56 and Mohican (10) Nazerul 52.5.  1. LAKE TAHOE, 2. SPEEDSTER,   3. GREEN CHANNEL   HOGENAKKAL FALLS PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 4-y-o & over 4.30: 1. Aceros (1) L. A. Roazario 62.5, 2. Musterion (3) Kiran Rai 61.5, 3. Kimera (4) Md. Akram 60, 4. Fictioneer (7) R. Pradeep 57.5, 5. Three Aces (5) S. Saqlain 55.5, 6. Livisilla (2) Arshad 54.5, 7. The Sovereign Orb (6) Akshay K 54.5 and 8. Impelling Power (8) Dhanu Singh 50.  1. THE SOVEREIGN ORB,   2. IMPELLING POWER,   3. LIVISILLA   SHIMSHA PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), rated 00 to 25, 4-y-o & over, 5-00: 1. Lightning Attack (1) S. Saqlain 61.5, 2. Sweet Kiss (9) Kiran Rai 61, 3. Chain Of Thoughts (4) S. John 60, 4. Comeonson (5) H.M. Akshay 59.5, 5. Galactical (7) A. Chavan 59.5, 6. Highland Rock (12) Vivek 59.5, 7.Lightning Charlie (11) P. Surya 59.5, 8. Another Rainbow (3) Dhanu Singh 59, 9. Extraordinary (10) Arvin K 59, 10. Impeccable (2) Yash 59, 11. Phoenix Surprise (8) Chetan G 59 and 12. Rainbow Rising (6) L. A. Rozario 58.5.  1. IMPECCABLE,   2. CHAIN OF THOUGHTS,   3. ANOTHER RAINBOW  Days best: LAKE TAHOE  Double: BLACK COFFEE — THE SOVEREIGN ORB  Jkt: 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9; Treble (i): 1, 2 and 3, (ii): 4, 5 and 6, (iii): 7, 8 and 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lake-tahoe-primed-to-repeat-in-main-event/article37349530.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Manika progresses; Sathiyan bows out||India’s women’s doubles and mixed doubles pairs made it to the semifinals of the World Table Tennis Contender Lasko, Slovenia, on Friday. In a women’s doubles quarterfinal contest, Manika Batra and Archana Kamath edged out Lucie Gauthier and Audrey Zarif of France 11-6, 8-11, 11-8, 8-11, 11-6, and in the mixed doubles last-eight clash, Archana partnered Manav Thakkar to outwit the Aussie pair of Qian Yang and Dillon Chambers 11-8, 11-7, 11-4.  Other results:       Men: Singles (round of 32): G. Sathiyan bt Alberto Mino (Ecu) 11-8, 8-11, 11-4, 11-9; Yuto Kizukuri (Jpn) bt A. Sharath Kamal 12-10, 7-11, 11-7, 11-2.   Women: Singles (round of 32): Manika bt Tatiana Kukulkova (Svk) 11-8, 11-4, 15-17, 6-11, 15-13; Barbora Balazova (Svk) bt Archana 11-8, 9-11, 11-6, 14-12; Yana Naskova (Rus) bt Sreeja Akula 11-9, 7-11, 13-11, 2-11, 11-9.   Mixed doubles (round of 16): Wang Chuqin & Wang Yidi (Chn) bt Sathiyan & Manika 14-12, 11-0, 11-6 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/two-indian-pairs-enter-semifinals/article37349641.ece
06 November 2021||BELGRADE,||Akash wins bronze||Debutant Akash Kumar (54kg) signed off with a bronze in the AIBA men’s World boxing championships after going down to Kazakh teenager Makhmud Sabyrkhan in the semifinals here on Thursday. The 21-year-old Akash lost 5-0 to end the country’s campaign in the competition, where he became the seventh Indian male boxer to win a medal. He also claimed prize money of $25,000. The Indian started well but Sabyrkhan got his measure in a matter of seconds, scoring primarily with his right crosses to slow down Akash after the early burst. The 19-year-old Kazakh, who is the reigning National champion of his country, was the less exuberant of the two but was clinical in his execution, not letting slip any chances at scoring off counter-attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akash-kumar-finishes-with-bronze/article37349862.ece
06 November 2021||Barcelona,||Qatari club to release Xavi for Barcelona||Xavi Hernandez will be allowed to become Barcelona’s next coach upon the payment of his release clause from Al-Sadd, the Qatari club said on Friday. “Xavi is an important part of Al-Sadd’s history and we wish him success,” Al-Sadd said in a message on social media. The former Spain midfielder is set to replace Ronald Koeman, who was fired last week. Sergi Barjuan has led Barcelona since then. He will return to coaching the reserve team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/qatari-club-to-release-xavi-for-barcelona/article37349870.ece
06 November 2021||Saarbrucken (Germany),||Srikanth outlasts Angus||India’s K. Srikanth outwitted NG Ka Long Angus to cruise into the semifinals of the Hylo Open Super 500 badminton here on Friday. The sixth-seeded Srikanth subdued the higher-ranked Hong Kong shuttler 21-11, 12-21, 21-19 in the men’s singles last-eight clash that lasted an hour and four minutes. On Thursday, Srikanth made the quarterfinals with a 21-9, 19-21, 21-10 win over Korea’s Dong Ken Lee. Thailand’s Kantaphon Wangcharaoen defeated Sourabh Verma 21-13, 21-10 in 33 minutes. In women’s doubles, Ashwini Ponappa and N. Sikki Reddy lost to Nita Violina Marwah and Syaikah Putri of Indonesia 15-21, 16-21 in the last 16 clash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srikanth-advances/article37349624.ece
06 November 2021||Wellington,||New Zealand includes five spinners for India tour||Senior pacer Trent Boult has made himself unavailable for the two-Test series against India due to bio-bubble fatigue as New Zealand, on Thursday, named five spinners in its 15-man squad for the tour. Both Boult and pace-bowling all-rounder Colin de Grandhomme decided to skip the tour, having stayed extended periods in multiple bio-bubbles. The Black Caps will travel with five spinners, including the seasoned trio of Ajaz Patel, Will Somerville and Mitchell Santner. They will be supported by youngsters Rachin Ravindra and Glenn Phillips. The spin-heavy attack makes sense since conditions in the series-opener (Kanpur, November 25-29) and the second Test (Mumbai, December 3-7) are expected to suit the slower bowlers.   The squad: Kane Williamson (Capt.), Tom Blundell (wk), Devon Conway, Kyle Jamieson, Tom Latham, Henry Nicholls, Ajaz Patel, Glenn Phillips, Rachin Ravindra, Mitchell Santner, Will Somerville, Tim Southee, Ross Taylor, Will Young and Neil Wagner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-zealand-includes-five-spinners-for-india-tour/article37349626.ece
06 November 2021||Sharjah,||In-form England looks to dash South Africa’s hopes||A semifinal spot virtually assured, in-form England would look to dent South Africa’s hopes of reaching the last-four stage when the two teams meet in a Group 1 Super 12 match of the ICC T20 World Cup here on Saturday. With a net run rate (NRR) of +3.183, England is more or less through to the semifinals with four wins from as many games, while South Africa is lying in the third spot with six points from four matches. Australia has everything to play for as it takes on West Indies in the first match of the day, at Abu Dhabi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/in-form-england-looks-to-dash-south-africas-hopes/article37349628.ece
06 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Amalraj denied US visa||Former National champion and Arjuna awardee A. Amalraj may miss out on taking part in the World table tennis championships (individual) to be held in Houston (USA) from November 23 to 29. The 35-year-old, who has been provisionally selected for the Worlds as part of the four-member Indian men’s team, had applied for the American visa twice (mandatory) in the Emergency Request category, but was denied both times. His next appointment with the Embassy in Chennai is on March 5, 2022. Amalraj tweeted: “Visa papers are ready but not able to get an appointment for visa. Kindly help.” — tagging PMO India, Sports Minister Anurag Thakur, External Affairs, SAI and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Office, among others. Speaking to The Hindu from Lasko (Slovenia) where he is playing the WTT Contender, Amalraj said: “I humbly request the External Affairs Ministry to intervene and ensure I take part in the World Championships.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/amalraj-denied-us-visa/article37349868.ece
06 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Manu, Saurabh advance||Manu Bhaker and Saurabh Chaudhary shot the best of 294 each, but were partnered Javad Foroughi of Iran and Heidi Diethelm Gerber of Switzerland respectively in qualifying for the second stage of the mixed air pistol event of the President’s Cup shooting championship in Wroclaw, Poland. Manu qualified in third place with the Iranian while Saurabh with the Swiss was placed eighth, as the top eight in a field of 12 qualified for the second stage.  The results:   10m mixed air pistol (first round): 1. Anna Korakaki (Gre) & Damir Mikec (Srb) 583; 2. Celine Goberville (Fra) & Christian Reitz (Ger) 582; 3. Manu Bhaker & Javad Foroughi (Iri) 582; 5. Olena Kostevych (Ukr) & Abhishek Verma 576; 8. Heidi Diethelm Gerber (Sui) & Saurabh Chaudhary 573; 10. Yashaswini Singh deswal 7 Juraj Tuzinsky (Svk) 572 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manu-saurabh-advance/article37349952.ece
06 November 2021||London,||Yorkshire chairman quits over Rafiq racism issue||Yorkshire chairman Roger Hutton has resigned in the fallout from former player Azeem Rafiq’s racism allegations against the English cricket club, citing an unwillingness by the club to accept the claims and a refusal to apologise. “Today I announce my resignation as chairman of Yorkshire County with immediate effect,” Hutton said on Friday. “There has been a constant unwillingness from the executive members of the board and senior management at the club to apologise, and to accept that there was racism, and to look forward. For much of my time at the club, I experienced a culture that refuses to accept change or challenge.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yorkshire-chairman-quits-over-rafiq-racism-issue/article37349871.ece
06 November 2021||PRAGUE,||Russia in summit clash||Switzerland won the decisive doubles to clinch the last spot in the semifinals of the Billie Jean King Cup with a 2-1 comeback victory over the Czech Republic on Thursday. The victory gave the Swiss the top spot in Group D as both the teams had beaten Germany. They will play Australia, which advanced from Group B after eliminating Belarus earlier on the hard court in Prague’s O2 Arena. Meanwhile on Wednesday, USA, which faced a must-win situation after losing to Slovakia 2-1 in Group C, beat Spain 2-1 to advance and set up a meeting with Russia which had eliminated champion France in Group A.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/switzerland-in-last-four/article37349531.ece
06 November 2021||ABU DHABI,||Bravo to retire after T20 WC||West Indies all-rounder Dwayne Bravo said he will retire from international cricket after the ongoing ICC T20 World Cup here as “time has come” to leave the stage after a career he can be proud of. The 38-year-old Bravo came out of retirement in 2019 and has been a key member of the West Indies team. An inconsequential match against Australia on Saturday will be Bravo’s last international outing, bringing down the curtains on a career spanning more than 17 years.  I’m very grateful to represent the region and the Caribbean people for so long   I want to try and pass on whatever experience and information I have with the younger players   Bravo has appeared in all seven T20 World Cups and helped West Indies lift the trophy in 2012 and 2016||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bravo-to-retire-after-t20-wc/article37349625.ece
06 November 2021||JOHANNESBURG,||Third SA-India Test moved to Cape Town||Cricket South Africa announced on Friday that the third Test between South Africa and India will be played in Cape Town instead of Johannesburg in January.  The revised itinerary for India’s South Africa tour:   Tests: Dec. 17-21, Johannesburg; Dec. 26-30, Centurion; Jan. 3-7, Cape Town.   ODIs: Jan. 11: Paarl; Jan. 14: Cape Town; Jan. 16: Cape Town.   T20Is: Jan. 19: Cape Town; Jan. 21: Cape Town; Jan. 23: Paarl; Jan. 26: Paarl .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/third-sa-india-test-moved-to-cape-town/article37349636.ece
07 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Ambal — Vedas personified||Abirami Bhattar, in his Abirami Andadi, says Goddess Tripurasundari is like the Upanishads, said M.A. Manickavelu in a discourse. The Vedas have two kandas — karma kanda and jnana kanda. Karma kanda deals with rituals, like performance of yagas, mantras to be recited at these times etc. The jnana kanda deals with liberation of the atma, and thus is concerned with philosophical matters, and not with ritualistic ones. It is the jnana kanda which is relevant at all times. For instance, in the modern world, most of the yagas prescribed in the Vedas are not being performed. But the desire to understand Brahman, the Supreme Truth, is present in all generations. This desire to understand Brahman and to attain moksha will continue in future generations too. Bhattar compares Ambal to this jnana kanda segment of the Vedas. The Vedas are always relevant, and the Goddess who is seen as an embodiment of the Vedas is ever youthful. One of the names of Ambal in Lalitha Sahasranama is Veda Janani. The Pranava mantra is fundamental to the Vedas and it is said that everything came from pranava. Ambal is the embodiment of this pranava. The Vedas may be compared to the all-giving Kalpaka tree. While describing the Vedic aspect of Ambal, Bhattar says She is like the middle portion of this tree, the top portion and the root. The top and middle portions of a tree are visible to the eye. But we cannot see the root, and you need to put in some effort to get to the root. Brahma tattva is similar to this. That is why Bhattar first talks of the middle and top portions and then mentions the root. You must meditate and contemplate on God to understand Brahma tattva. Kumaraguruparar in his Meenakshi Pillai Tamizh glorifies Ambal as the substance of the Vedas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/ambal-vedas-personified/article37349586.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 08:34 IST,||Sudoku — November 6, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-6-2021/article37350480.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||True story, imaginary film||‘If we are making a high-budget pretend movie, and we need a crackling script for it, who do we go to?’ Every time this question is asked in Teluguland, meaning Andhra, Telangana and the US — and it is being asked a lot, trust me — the first name that pops up is mine. Because in the last 10 years I have nearly written more scripts for more imaginary movies than you can imagine. Cut to pre-lockdown. I was in Hyderabad regarding a script for an actual web series. A friend, coincidentally, asked me at the same time if I had a good script for a film or web series that friends of his, two gentlemen from the Bay Area (where else) were interested in making. They were staying at a posh five-star, and my meeting was at 11 am. I arrived promptly. (On my way, though, I couldn’t quite figure the odour in the vehicle they had sent to pick me up.) I knocked. I heard a voice say, ‘Come in.’ ‘Make yourself comfy, we’ll be out in a minute,’ came the voice again, in a Cupertino-to-Chandrampalem accent. I wanted to. But how does one do that at a site that looked like Keith Richards and Charlie Sheen had had a debate over whether Kangana or Tapsee was the better actress? Six liquor bottles of varying size and shape — the very indigenous kind, mind you — were artfully placed on the TV, the bed, inside a half-open drawer, and on the floor. Two boxes of Kotaiah’s kajas , open, with a lone fly flitting between them, lay on the table. A pair of ancient Jockeys hung from the headboard of the bed. The carpet was speckled evenly with mixture, chips and something that may or may not have been ketchup. In a corner, lay two piles of plates with bones of an unidentifiable animal. Then my would-be producers made a joint entry. One was wearing alungiand nothing else. The other, a T-shirt just long enough for someone to get away without wearing anything underneath. ‘We loved your script,’ thelungiman said. I’d mailed a synopsis earlier. ‘Eat a kaja ,’ said the other man, proffering the famed Kakinada sweetmeat with a suspicious green sheen from the seemingly long-open box. I refused politely. ‘Your script has all the things we believe in. It’s subtle. It’s clean. It’s classy. It gives agency to its women characters. And so witty.’ I thanked them. ‘How soon can you finish it?’ said T-shirt guy. ‘Three months.’ Eating the green-edged kaja I had refused with great relish,lungiman shook my hand vigorously. ‘We should celebrate,’ said the man who could have been going commando. I declined, saying I had a plane to catch. ‘I see a long fruitful relationship,’ saidlungiguy. ‘We should aim to make films for an international audience. We will transfer your advance first thing Monday morning.’ On my way back to the hotel, I decided to ask the driver what the smell was. ‘Oh, that-aa?’ he said, stopping the car and gesturing me to follow him. He opened the boot. Inside were two large, very dead roosters. ‘Boss’ birds,’ he said. ‘They died in the cockfight in Ravupalem. He lost one crore. Wants to have them stuffed to leave in his uncle’s house as souvenirs. ‘Why?’ I said. ‘So when he comes back next season, he can show his new roosters what happens to them if they lose,’ said the driver. I didn’t get my advance on Monday. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/true-story-imaginary-film/article37349789.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s yours is mine||Michael L Friedman, known around the world for his lectures on fine horology, leaves no stone unturned when he discusses Audemars Piguet’s equal opportunity strategy. Take for instance, the AP Houses in key cities around the world, luxe private lounges for customers and friends of the brand. “What we offer to women at AP Houses, we offer just the same to men,” says Friedman. “Now if you are asking me if we were thinking of an exclusive watch like we did with Royal Oak Platinum Watch 39 mm with Green Dial, I would say that watch was already created for both men and women!” The head of complications at this highly successful family-owned watch business, goes on to highlight last year’s Royal Oak Concept Frosted Gold Flying Tourbillon with its contemporary 3D dial and optical illusion. “The demographic was as diverse as the entire collector base of Audemars Piguet itself. We had buyers, enthusiasts and collectors from the early 20s all the way into the 60s and 70s who acquire rare watches across collections. Of course, this watch was initially designed keeping women in mind but we had several men who gravitated immediately to this watch as well.” Which brings us to the trend of gender neutral watches.“There is gender neutral marketing in fashion and we are starting to see lines being blurred. There are always going to be watches that are clearly and unapologetically feminine and those that are skewed far more to masculine but I feel strongly that this sharing across collections is going to continue.” The former head of watches at Christie’s, Friedman, now in his mid-40s, has been especially busy during the pandemic. There was the official opening of the independent brand’s Musée Atelier Audemars Piguet last year, showcasing more than two centuries of watchmaking with over 300 iconic pieces on display and access to the Grande Complication workshop. And more recently, the Royal Oak Concept Flying Tourbillon collection for women. Last month, the 38.5mm entries, with the flying tourbillon complication at the 6 o’clock position and a rare view of the coiled mainspring at 11 o’clock, proved the brand was serious about the compact option that is now also being pursued by men. There will be more to come, we suppose, at Dubai Watch Week later this month, but Friedman won’t be able to attend as he has “a baby on the way”. He says he will be there in spirit for what is going to be a celebration of “atmosphere, storytelling, materials, and a little futurism”. Edited excerpts from the interview:  What were the biggest turning points in AP’s women’s watch history?  Very interesting question. The History of Audemars Piguet has had many moments throughout its history that women’s watches specifically can be highlighted. The watches of the 1890’s with minute repeaters are of course the centrepieces of the museum today and are very sought after by collectors when they do emerge in the market. So right from the beginning, we were focussing on women’s watches, with and without complications. The first wave of miniaturisation of complications as well as our minute second watches were created specifically for women. What gets very interesting is when we look at the dawn of wrist watches, at the end of the 19th century… just before, during and after World War 1, when miniaturisation [seen in] women’s watches became the backbone for men’s wrist watches. Smaller calibres were needed for the foreign language of wrist watches. So the history of women’s watches is central not only to the category but to the category of wrist watches itself.  What are you learning about women and the changing trends in watch sizes?  Today when you look at the collecting of Audemars Piguet in the 39 mm collection, many women are gravitating towards those watches while men are gravitating to the 37mm collection, initially designed with women in mind. I was at a client dinner in London a few weeks ago and there was a man wearing the new 34mm ceramic watch on his wrist. He happened to be a vintage collector who likes very small sizes. So we must keep [this] in mind as well. What have Royal Oak fans requested repeatedly during the pandemic? There had been a great demand to see a Royal Oak Supersonnerie and we were proud to design and introduce that watch very recently. We have introduced this titanium version with a grey smoked dial. Also, there is a lot of speculation around how we will be celebrating the 50th Anniversary of the Royal Oak next year. [Let me say] what we are going to be introducing in 2022 is just the beginning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/whats-yours-is-mine/article37349834.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Dosha and the desert||Deft hands rhythmically work on my back. A forearm pressing down the length of my spine. Thumbs seeking the knots in my middle back. Usually, I would be in heaven. But this time, I’m belching like a Mahanagar Gas faucet. I keep apologising, tears streaming down my face. The masseuse attempts to calm me down; hands me warm water to sip. I do know this is good for me, even though it may not feel so. You see Dr Jitendra Varshney, or Dr J as he’s known at the Six Senses Fort Barwara, India’s newest wellness destination, had just diagnosed my dosha . That’s the term Ayurvedic practitioners use to denote an individual’s physical and mental make-up. Mine being a mix of fire ( pitta ) and air ( vata ), he had recommended a deep tissue massage along with a diet plan to help balance the forces at war within. “The air can either fan the fire or douse it,” he said to me. Right now, the air was on fire and I just had to abort the massage I had so been looking forward to. “You need to figure out how to use the air to keep the fire strong,” he’d added. Meaning: eating and drinking food that’s good for you and in the right proportions, which in turn helps balance one’s dosha .  Dine in a turret  At Six Senses Fort Barwara, the chain’s first Indian property that’s housed inside a meticulously restored 14th-century fort, eating right isn’t a hard thing to do. This 48-suite resort, 130 km from Jaipur, has its own gardens where they grow seasonal vegetables, such as “wild” cauliflower and spinach, fruits like guavas and heirloom tangerines, and superfoods including moringa. Soon a mushroom farm and a free-range poultry zone will be added to this list. What’s not grown is sourced, largely from producers within this region of Sawai Madhopur. All this goes into a mix of India, Asian, Italian and Mediterranean dishes (with plenty of room for both dosha and dietary needs) that are served at the hotel’s all-day dining venue, The Cortile, and a poolside location called Rani Bagh. There are several scenic dining spots as well, such as a turret, Shikar Burj, once used to hunt tigers. The Library Bar within the area called the Mardana Mahal, uses the in-house produce to create potent cocktails. Since I did do a fair amount of eating — on doctor’s orders, of course — I can honestly say I have fond memories of the pickled beet and heart of palm salad, a wild mushroom risotto done just right, and a Rajasthani thali that I should have fasted for. If you visit, you must try the pineapple and watermelon pickled in vinegar; it’ll boost gut microbes and leave you drooling.  Not just for the wellness seeker  Beyond the food and drink, Fort Barwara is extremely easy on the eye. Indoors, the generously proportioned rooms (753 sq ft+) feature beds with nets hanging from chains, chairs with rope detailing, and hammered metal stools. All of which draw from the fort’s history as a garrison town. Alongside this there’s tech that makes the nerd heart skip a beat — auto-flush toilets with heated seats, blinds that rise as you enter the room and gear that help you sleep better. On the outside, instead of the usual ornamental flora, they’ve chosen over 370 species of plants endemic to Sawai Madhopur and Ranthambore. Wild grasses such as baruwa and elephant cane. Trees and shrubs like madhu kamini and murraya , which help save water almost as much as the measures to reduce wastage, harvest rainwater and boost the area’s water table. Then there are medicinal plants, such as shatavari , dhak and marwa ( maru in Tamil), which are used in wellness preparations. That said, you needn’t be a serious wellness seeker to check-in. You just might want to chill by the pool, cocktail in hand. Or book yourself a hedonistic ritual involving pearls and 24 carat gold. You could also learn how to be more sustainable in your daily lives by figuring out how to make soaps and lip balms using beeswax from abandoned hives (the kids would love it). Then there are walks in the surrounding Aravallis with the resident horticulturist and forays to local temples and village markets. And, needless to say, the tigers of Ranthambore are just 35 km away. To address the elephant in the room: is this hotel the venue of a Bollywood wedding rumoured to happen later this year? Well, unfortunately, I have no juice on that. What I can tell you though, is that Fort Barwara, with its ballroom (2,045 sq ft) and event spaces, can host a 200-person wedding. So, not quite the spot if you’re looking for that Big Fat Indian wedding. Whatever be your reason, I know I’ll go back for the bio-hacks and sleep improvement routines. And if you’re wondering, I did finally get that massage. It was blissful.  Doubles from Rs. 75,000. Details: sixsenses.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/dosha-and-the-desert/article37349828.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||For a taste of Chhattisgarh||Last week, as the rest of the world carved netherworld faces on pumpkins for Halloween, chefs Manish Mehrotra, Prateek Sadhu and I (in my capacity as a food historian) found ourselves in another world, quite off the map. Vishrampur is a dusty little village in the Kanker district of Bastar in Chhattisgarh. Tourists — even the few who do visit the state — rarely come here, preferring instead the region’s mighty waterfalls, the deep quiet of its emerald forests, and the colour and pageantry of its tribal culture. The chefs and I, however, are on a voyage of another kind — to discover the region’s ingredients and cuisine, on a state-sponsored visit that eventually aims to promote gastronomic tourism in the region. By the time we drive in at noon, Vishrampur (literally ‘a place of rest’) is belying its name; it is caught up in the bustle of its weekly haat (market). Villagers from the interiors are here with whatever they have grown, caught or made, seeking to make some Diwali profit. There are beautifully glazed clay diyas (earthen lamps), 12 for Rs. 200, which may command 10 times the price in the metros, thick metal work anklets, dhokra art and colourful cloth bags and sheets. And then there are the giant pumpkins. A solitary reaper sits beside two to three of these, each seemingly weighing 30-40 kg. Next to her is a tribeswoman selling tumba or the equally gigantic bottle gourd, still green. Here is the raw material for the tumba art (where the dried vegetable is used to make lamps, sculptures and bric-à-brac) that shows up in arty living rooms in Delhi and Mumbai. But I want to know more about the vegetables. “What are these?” I ask Mukesh, the affable security officer who has been accompanying us. “Containers for water,” he says simply. The gourds and pumpkins, allowed to stay on the vine for months to grow to this size, are harvested, scooped hollow, dried and used as containers to store water (or salfi , the local fruit ‘beer’). Kamandal , or the ancient water pot of wandering holy men in Indian myth, was apparently a hollowed out pumpkin too, I later hear. Sometimes, these are also used to make musical instruments, much like the four-stringed tanpura from Miraj in southern Maharashtra, a town revered for its now disappearing art of making stringed musical instruments. This ‘plant art’ must have possibly originated here, in the depths of the jungle, where ancient sounds and customs persist.  Flavours from the  haat   The chefs, meanwhile, are besotted with another tradition: bhajiyas (fritters)! Fresh from a wok, these are irresistible anywhere in the markets of India. Here in Vishrampur, Mehrotra and Sadhu are studying the technique of crispiness and quizzing local makers about batters. But the proof of the pakora is in the eating. So, I am called to pass the verdict. I bite into a crisp green chilli fritter that could give any tempura in a good Japanese restaurant a run for its money. When it comes to fried snacks, gulgul bhajiya is Chhattisgarh’s most interesting offering. It is usually sweet, and made with gram dal . It reminds you of the gulgule of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Bihar, which are sweet round fritters made from refined wheat flour batter. Because so many dishes from the state are similar to others from around the country, chef Mehrotra wonders “what can distinguish Chhattisgarh food from other cuisines”. He also has in mind the meal from the night before — where we were served the local version of bari (fermented dal dumplings), which is more spongy than its counterpart in Punjab or Bengal, yams, greens such as bohar bhaji that’s grown uniquely in Chhattisgarh, and urad dal (black lentils). He advocates an approach where just 10-20 dishes unique to Chhattisgarh are catalogued to showcase to tourists.  When borders blur  But I am leaning towards a deeper approach: one where, if uniqueness must be studied, so should similarities and parallels, since this region of central India has a continuity of culture with parts of Maharashtra, Orissa and Madhya Pradesh, from which it was carved out. My most interesting discovery happens while we taste a simple dish of black lentils for dinner. A distinct goda masala flavour from Pune is at once apparent. But why would black lentils in Chhattisgarh taste of this spice mix? The next day, I quiz the cook, who brings me the packaged spice blend she uses. Made in Jagdalpur (Bastar’s capital), it has writing in Oriya (the region has many cultural similarities with tribes of Orissa), but the ingredients fortunately are listed in English. Among these, I find a rather colourfully-dubbed chabila spice, roughly translated as somebody who is “pretty and cultivates their appearance”.  Chabila turns out to be none other than that most powerful and unique of Deccani spices, the d agadh ka p hool , or lichen that grows on rocks. Alternatively called k alpasi , it gives the distinctive deep favour to Maharashtrian, Hyderabadi and Chettinad spicing. It later occurs to me that this region saw Maratha rule in the 18th century. Culinary history often follows political conquest, we must remember too.  Building on the local  There are other cultural similarities. That we are in the rice bowl of India is evident in dishes such as farre , or pasta-like dumplings sprinkled with sesame, a breakfast item. Farre is now disappearing from eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bundelkhand (where maida casings are filled with ground gram dal ). I am yet to establish a connection. Meanwhile, the chefs are unanimous that farre can be gentrified in their restaurants with bits of bacon and whatnot. Then, there is the culinary congruence with village practices from Orissa, where paddy fields give a valuable source of protein to the poor — fish. My Oriya friend, Sujata Dehury, says that smoking small freshwater fish ( jhuri ) was a practice in her home, when paddy fields were drained. The fish was caught, sorted according to size, and the smallest was smoked on tin sheets on open charcoal fires, to be preserved for later use. This seems to be the practice here, too. The women at the haat say they fry the smoked fish in oil and add it to any bhaji or green they are cooking that day. Where is the fabled red ant chutney, though? We have been ruing its elusiveness and the fact that it is only available immediately after the monsoon (as also some varieties of mushroom that chef Sadhu is interested in). “We should come back for longer, spend at least 10-15 days here looking at ingredients like bamboo and berries,” says chef Sadhu, for whom Vishrampur is foraging heaven. He has been plucking bits of lavender-like grass to determine if it could be made into a chutney. Back in Raipur, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel invites us to his home for tea. He has gone out of his way to procure all his favourite local sweets and snacks. There is khurmi , made with rice and wheat flours, and deep fried, khoya jalebi made with milk solids, mahua, dried ginger laddoos and more. As we sip a mahua sherbet , cooling and fragrant, it is clear that this is not the stereotypical alcohol liqueur we all associate with the flower. Ingredients can have diverse uses, and there is potential for Chhattisgarhi dishes to be widely popular. We just need to come back and delve deeper into the state’s bounty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/for-a-taste-of-chhattisgarh/article37349778.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||No film cop-outs at COP26||There have been plenty of cop-outs at COP26, the 2021 United Nations climate change conference currently taking place in Glasgow, including some countries revealing net zero targets 30 to 40 years after the globally-agreed date of 2030 and others paying lip service to the event’s theme while actively encouraging fossil fuels. However, on the film and television front matters are much better. The event began with environmental doyen Sir David Attenborough unveiling his BBC series, The Green Planet, at a gala IMAX screening, with Game of Thrones star and environmental advocate Maisie Williams delivering the opening address. “I want to challenge you to open your eyes and not just look butseethe green planet around us,” Williams said. “As humans, we are hardwired to prioritise animals over plants. It is an informally-proposed form of cognitive bias called ‘plant blindness’. But plants are vital for our survival on this planet. The more we distance ourselves from our greatest allies, the more trouble we are in. I hope that The Green Planet helps change the conversation and makes each of us stop, look, and see the world through a new green lens.” Running as part of the conference is a series of screenings that are very relevant today. Less than three years ago Bangladeshi filmmaker Rezwan Shahriar Sumit shot festival favourite film The Salt in Our Waters in a fishing village. That village has now disappeared due to erosion and rising water. Sumit is in Glasgow to present the film to the conference. Emily Munro’s Living Proof: A Climate Story explores Scotland’s relationship to the global climate crisis through archive footage. In 2040 , filmmaker Damon Gameau is in quest of climate solutions that may lead to a better world for his daughter in the titular year, while Erlend E Mo’s Journey to Utopia follows his family’s move to Permatopia — a self-sufficient, organic farming cooperative in Denmark. Mo’s film is part of the annual UK Green Film Festival, which this year coincides with the COP26 conference. Other films featured include Jim Rakete’s Now that follows a new generation of activists concerned about social change and also features the voices of veteran protesters Wim Wenders and Patti Smith; Monica Lazurean-Gorgan, Michaela Kirst and Ebba Sinzinger’s Wood that takes a look at the illegal logging industry; Carsten Rau’s Nuclear Forever that explores the fallout of nuclear power; and Sylvia Vollenhoven and Fredrik Gertten’s Jozi Gold , which follows Mariette Liefferink as she examines the environmental disaster in Johannesburg as the gold mines there fall apart. 519 Films has also announced the world premiere of their new feature documentary, A Cure for the Common Classroom , at the Conference. It’s all very well to watch a few films, feel perturbed and then go right back to doing nothing at all, so the Sky broadcasting network has the beginnings of a solution. Going forward, Sky programmes will encourage viewers to change their habits and take action via on-air content, as images beamed into people’s homes are extremely powerful. Meanwhile, 12 of the UK’s biggest broadcasters, including BBC and ITV, have signed a climate pledge designed to help audiences “understand what tackling climate change might mean for them, as well as inspire and inform sustainable choices”. In the meantime, if you can get hold of it, do watch Jennifer Baichwal, Nicholas de Pencier and Edward Burtynsky’s Anthropocene: The Human Epoch that charts the devastating impact we humans have made on this planet. As Attenborough said in Glasgow: “The green ecosystem is at the heart of all life on Earth and thus it’s vital that we tackle biodiversity and climate change together.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/no-film-cop-outs-at-cop26/article37349823.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Grieving through the holidays||For a large part of our country — and the Indian diaspora — this is the most festive time of the year, and the declining Covid-19 numbers indicate a possible victory in every sense. Having said that, might it be possible that we celebrate while keeping in mind the tremendous grief that so many thousands of families went through and continue to live with? Several calendar months have passed since the first and second waves, but for those who are grieving, no amount of time qualifies as “enough”. As psychologists, we run a support group for grief, which is composed mostly of people who have lost someone to the pandemic, particularly in the second wave. Through these sessions, it has become clear to us that while a large number of people might be ready to move ahead, many families are stuck in time. What they are feeling It is understandable, then, that when asked to lunch or taash parties, someone grieving might not want to attend. Saying no might be hard enough, especially if the invitation is well-intentioned. Suggesting that ‘mann beheljaayega’ (it will be a good distraction) or that ‘change is good for them’ can come across as hurtful or unthinking. They might be concerned about how to be in a social gathering, wondering how they might even have a conversation with someone without referencing this big thing that happened to them. They might not have an answer to being asked, “How are you?” It might also be that all frivolous conversations ring inauthentic to them, and the moment they reach there, their instinct might be to leave that space. How you can help To offer support, be gentle if they choose to not come to dinners or if they need to take time away from work. Ask them if and how they would like to spend that day, or if there is something you can do with or for them. Check if they would like to go for a walk or have a coffee with you and talk about whatever is on their mind — it need not always be about their grief. Feeling helpless in the face of someone else’s pain is understandable, and is reflected in the rush to give advice or the push to find a silver lining or to encourage some sort of “moving on” — get married, find a job, or have a child (how freely we give life-altering advice to others!). Sometimes, in an attempt to offer comfort, people share stories of others who had it worse, or how someone knows someone who went through something similar. Fundamentally, only one thing is needed of anyone trying to be there for someone who is grieving — to sit in solidarity with their pain, and listen. Don’t be afraid to stumble in the dark with them. Offer your kind, compassionate presence as there is nothing else anyone can do; grief cannot be solved.  Ann Philipose is a psychologist, couples and family therapist.   Dr Nivida Chandra (PhD, IIT Delhi) is a psychologist and the founder-director of kindSpace.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/grieving-through-the-holidays/article37349779.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Why Ottchil demands patience||Eunhee Lee achieves a perfect marriage between beauty and function with her ottchil artefacts. Through the demanding techniques of the traditional Korean lacquerware, the Korean artist transforms utilitarian objects such as wooden bowls, cups and plates into elegant art pieces as seen in ‘The Aesthetics of Waiting’, an ongoing virtual exhibition. Commissioned by the InKo Centre in Chennai, it celebrates the exquisite simplicity of Lee’s lacquerware. And its contemporary sensibilities. Art in the drying Creating ottchil objects is a complex, time-consuming craft. Every piece in the exhibition, including the simplest plate, has undergone over 30 creative processes that include applying thin coats of natural sap on to the wooden object, drying and sanding, repeated many times. The complicated drying procedure, in precisely-controlled humidity and temperature, is essential. “If I rush... I may have to go back to the previous process, or to the very beginning!” says Lee, about the centuries-old art form. Tedious? Not at all. It is this deep involvement in the act of creating that draws Lee to her craft. The artist studied Industrial Design at Hong-Ik University College of Art, did a master’s degree in furniture design, and worked as an industrial designer/lecturer for 20 years. But after realising she was “losing that sense of analogue touch” or missing out on the physical process of creating, Lee turned to the art of ottchil and najeonchilgi (nacre lacquerware). Achievements include the UNESCO Award for Excellence for Handicrafts in 2008 and showings at Maison & Objet in Paris and Museum für Lackkunst in Munster. Tilt and bloom Her online show features works from two series whose titles ‘Seum’ and ‘Pium’ originate from Korean words. Seum, which means ‘stand up’, is expressed through objects that counter-intuitively have tilted silhouettes. Its sophisticated colour palette derives from the artist’s “emotional balance, expressed in combination with the colour of wood”. The Pium series — meaning ‘to bloom’ — is based on capturing nature. The aesthetic here, in Lee’s words, is “gorgeous but not extravagant, modest but not shabby”.  Ottchil objects fashioned out of wood and lacquer are very durable. Lee emphasises, “I hope that my work will not only exist as a décor object, but rather become something precious that people can use and enjoy.” This certainly points towards more sustainable ways of living for our use-and-throw plastic culture. While Lee does take orders (routed through Inko Centre), they take about six months to process.  View it on Prism, InKo Centre’s virtual gallery, at inkocentre.org until November 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/why-ottchil-demands-patience/article37349795.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian food’s origin stories||When author-journalist Sonal Ved gave us the award-winning Tiffin three years ago, it was a celebration of regional cuisine with recipes selected by local culinary experts, including wedding caterers. But with Whose Samosa is it Anyway? she traces the influences behind many of our modern Indian dishes. The Vogue India staffer begins by describing her highly coveted lunchbox in school — with its paneer enchiladas and baby cornidlis— and how the ‘tiffins’ from Sindhi, Bohri and Marwari friends were an early learning experience. With this book she aims to explore “the undercurrents that lay in all those school meals that differentiated Indian cuisine” from others. What are the origins of the chutney andsamosa? How did BurmeseKhow sueyland up on Marwari wedding menus? These were some of the questions that dogged her as she went about her day job. The book explores food references from Indian literature like the Jataka Tales . She has researched what was served to our royals as well as what personalities like Rabindranath Tagore experimented with in their kitchen — Tagore’s jackfruit yoghurt ‘fish’ curry, or cauliflowerbarfi, for the curious. In fact, while writing her book, from one phase to another, she saw her own food choices change! In the book, she says her diet is a lot like Gandhi’s. While Whose Samosa … comes at a time when discussions on appropriation are at the forefront, including the never-ending curry debate, Ved also writes about the connection between Vajrayana Buddhism and meat, as well as Ayurveda and alcohol. “These are some things I have discovered in my research and each finding has been referenced as to which book or research paper it can be found in. No data in a book should be taken as the ultimate truth, it’s always the writer’s truth or how they see it. Everything has to be pondered upon, built upon and discussed,” she explains. An edited excerpt from the interview:  While the malpua stars in many kitchens as many versions over the centuries, any other dish that surprised you by being a common thread in our cuisines?  Chai, for sure. India is today one of the world’s largest producers of tea. While a certain kind of wild tea plant is said to have existed in the north-eastern part of the Indian subcontinent, Burma, Thailand, the Himalayan belt and Tibet, it was the British who were responsible for its domestication and its popularity here. But tea still hadn’t become the masalachaias we know it. This boiled-with-ample-milk-and-sugar version, the shade of Huda Teddy lipstick, only came in years later.  Read the full interview on weekend.thehindu.com   Published by Penguin India, Whose Samosa is it Anyway? is priced at Rs. 317 on amazon.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/indian-foods-origin-stories/article37349798.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Aparna Sen asks tough questions||‘Why does a man become a rapist?’ The question has been fermenting in filmmaker Aparna Sen’s mind for close to a decade. “The idea came to me first as a germ [she can’t remember if it was before or after Nirbhaya, the 2012 Delhi gang rape and murder case]. Then it gradually got fleshed out into a story with characters and setting,” she says. Now, with The Rapist , Sen has posed the question to the world. A very matter-of-fact film — or as Variety magazine calls it, a “richly-layered discussion starter” — it takes no sides. It follows Naina, played by Konkona Sen Sharma, a criminology professor in Delhi who survives a brutal rape and assault, while putting forward various points of view and also questioning the validity of the carceral state and the death sentence. In early October, The Rapist premiered at the Busan International Film Festival, and won the prestigious Kim Jiseok Award and numerous accolades. The actor-auteur’s 16th film, it was shot in 27 days in Delhi, in the slim window between the first and the lethal second Covid-19 waves. They finished shooting on April 6; the lockdown was announced on the 8th. “Actually, it was supposed to be a couple of days longer. We finished ahead of schedule thanks to our DOP [director of photography] Ayanaka Bose, who was extremely fast,” she says, recalling how they all stayed at The Leela Palace in Chanakyapuri. “We used to go down to breakfast along with the other guests staying at the hotel. So, it was not as though we were living in a bubble. We also shot in a real slum for four or five days. We were extremely lucky that [through the entire shoot] no one got sick.” At 76, Sen is still raring to go, with more ideas, including a memoir, germinating. In an email interview, she looks back at her 40-year career as a director, and what prompted her to take on the subject of The Rapist . Edited excerpts:  The title is a forceful one.  Yes, it is. We didn’t want to hide behind a more innocuous-sounding title. However, the theme is not about whether rapists should be given the death penalty, though that question is likely to come to mind when one watches the film. The theme is about what happens to three people whose lives are changed overnight after a horrific incident. Yes, it is also an exploration of what turns a person into a rapist because nobody is born as one. Is it genetics? Is it his environment? Or both? What is it about our society that turns such a large number of men into rapists? Social inequality? Ingrained patriarchy? Envy of the new, successful woman, and the desire to put her in her place? Or is it a combination of all these factors? It is an extremely complex issue that is addressed in the film, though not in an obvious or underlined way.  Whom did you consult while writing the script?  I talked to lawyers and activists, but not to rape survivors. I had a gut feeling that they would not wish to relive the experience by talking about it. Two of my feminist friends, who head organisations to help abused women, gave me important insights. Anuradha Kapoor, who runs Swayam — of which I, too, am a member — gave me a lot of material to read about rape survivors and details about the procedures immediately after a rape is reported. Shamita Dasgupta, who heads an organisation called Manavi in the US, told me about a new approach to crime called Restorative Justice where the victim and the perpetrator meet and talk about the reasons that made the latter act in the way he/she did. Restorative Justice isn’t mentioned in my film, but the knowledge was useful when I was writing certain scenes. For the most part though, I relied on my intuition and observations, which have served me well in the past.  This is the sixth film you have worked on with your daughter, Konkona — from Picnic (1989), when she was around 10, to The Rapist. How has your artistic collaboration evolved?   There is implicit trust on both sides. We have the same mindset and value systems. This makes it easier for her to understand what I am saying, right from the script stage. And, on my part, I know that Konkona has a very fine sense of balance, that she knows where to draw the line and will never go over the top. She has had tremendous screen presence from a very early age. It is difficult to delineate exactly how our relationship has evolved — I think she used to be very obedient earlier and listened to me much more than she does now! But then, she is much more mature as a person now and also far more proficient as an actor. I hardly ever have to direct her now. The only problem I had with her earlier was that she was rather uncomfortable doing intimate scenes. This time, I told her right at the beginning that she will have to get rid of those qualms. She looked at me with a wicked glint in her eye and said, ‘Okay, you just watch me!’ And I have to say, she delivered perfectly.  Tell us about the unusual casting of Arjun Rampal as Naina’s husband.   Why unusual? You know, the problem is that everyone just gapes at Arjun’s good looks and is unable to see beyond that! I had seen him in only two films before this, Rock On!! and Rajneeti , and I liked him very much in both. But for this film, I chose him because his appearance, or maybe his persona, exudes a certain nobility. This was necessary for the character. Also, I had noticed that he tends to underact. That was perfect for the role of Aftab. Despite all this, I was not entirely certain that he would be able to deliver and hold his own alongside Konkona. But I have to say I was in for a very pleasant surprise. Arjun is an extremely sensitive, finely-tuned actor underneath that gorgeous exterior. He and Konkona exuded the most wonderful chemistry together. He was quite a revelation as the understated, intellectual, highly-principled but emotionally-torn Aftab Malik.  In Mr and Mrs Iyer, you’d said that the characters were not supposed to be Muslim and Hindu — it was an organic development. Was it the same with The Rapist? Or was the love angle a reaction to the current climate?   No, it was not. At least, not consciously so. I had reasoned that having a couple who were Hindu and Muslim, where neither had the slightest desire to convert the other, would be the most economical way of imparting the information that they were truly liberal and secular. Aftab’s one line to the officer in charge immediately after the rape sequence, ‘ Meri biwi Hindu hain . Koi problem hai aapko ?’ [My wife is Hindu. Do you have a problem with that?] says it all!  Delhi looks dingy and grey in the film, almost like all the colour has been sucked out.   Yes. [DOP] Bose and I decided to go for a desaturated look. As if the colour is being drained away from the lives of the characters. It starts brightly enough when Naina and Aftab are leading a happy, normal life. But after the rape incident, as the mood of the film gets darker, we gradually remove the colour. In fact, both Bose and I would have been very happy if we could have shot the film in black and white, but other considerations prevailed.  How would you describe your artistic vision? How has it evolved from the ’80s to the digital and OTT space we are living in now?   I make neither experimental cinema nor so-called formula films. I make films about human beings — tell their stories, bring their joys and sorrows, desires and frustrations to the fore. Even in films like The Rapist or Mr and Mrs Iyer , which deal with issues of national importance, it is the individuals who matter and who the audience identifies with. Digitisation, or the OTT space, has never really bothered me too much. It is true that initially I resisted the transition from celluloid to digi-tapes. They seemed to have a more brittle quality and lacked the softness of colour and detail that we could get in celluloid. But science does not sit still. The quality of the digital medium has been improving so fast and giving such brilliant results, that one does not miss celluloid any more except for nostalgic reasons. As far as the OTT platform is concerned, it is something we have had to accept with a shrug, particularly after the onset of the pandemic. But there are merits too. We get to see the best of international cinema on OTT platforms. I saw films like Roma , The Ballad of Buster Scruggs , Capernaum sitting right in front of my TV. Of course, nothing compares to the experience of sitting in a darkened auditorium and watching a film with a room full of people with no doorbell, no telephones, no sudden guests to disturb you! As far as my films are concerned, most of them have been intimate stories about individuals, not elaborate spectacles. So the OTT platforms are not unsuited for viewing them.  A career spanning over 40 years, and yet you’ve noted that when you look back at your old films you only see mistakes. Is there one you’ve wished more people would have seen and talked about?   It is true that glaring mistakes are all I see when I review my films. But this is mostly with the recent ones. When I watch an old film like 36 Chowringhee Lane or Paromitar Ek Din , I often find myself thinking, ‘Well, that’s not too bad after all!’ I wish more people could have seen Yugant , which was somehow neglected outside Bengal. I wish I could have made it now with all the computer graphics available to us today, because there is an apocalyptic scene at the end with the sea breaking into flames. Yugant should really have been my swan song. The other film that I feel didn’t get its due is The Japanese Wife . It should be on one of the OTT platforms at least, so that more people can watch it. But it was marketed very badly at the time and few people outside of Bengal got to see it.  The Indian theatrical/OTT release of The Rapist is yet to be confirmed.  Continued on page 5||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/aparna-sen-asks-tough-questions/article37349819.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Instapick||#GucciLoveParade: All roads led to Hollywood Boulevard earlier this week as creative director Alessandro Michele presented the ‘Gucci Love Parade’ at the iconic Los Angeles street. Continuing the label’s centenary celebrations, it showcased '70s-inspired suits, glamour gowns, and lace accessories, in his seasonless approach. Adding to the glam were the likes of Jared Leto, Maneskin, and Billie Eilish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article37349800.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Naru x Sapa||Celebrated ramen chef, Kavan Kuttappa, is taking his hearty bowls from Bengaluru’s Naru Noodle Bar to Mysuru this weekend. Courtesy a collab with SAPA Sourdough & Pastry, diners can look forward to several favourites, such askaramiso ramen (Rs. 1,300) and spicy toripaitan(Rs. 1,500) at the pop-up. November 7 for lunch and dinner. @eatnaru on Instagram. At Beam Suntory, a range of exclusives have been launched in India — Yamazaki, a 55-year-old single malt, Hibiki, a 21-year-old blended whisky, and more. beamsuntory.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/naru-x-sapa/article37349802.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Of royalty and florals||Coming to Chennai next week is a collection ofkurtas, shirts, and jackets from Suket Dhir’s ‘The Royal Within’ collection. Featuring reimagined Mughal miniatures, the womenswear includes vibrant shades like orange and cobalt blue. November 9 at Collage, Greams Road. For the sporty ones,toile deJouy and Asian-style landscapes feature in Puma’s collab with British design house, Liberty. ‘Wild Garden’ comprises jackets, sneakers, and dresses with exotic birds, butterflies, and pink horse motifs. Rs. 1,799 onwards on puma.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/of-royalty-and-florals/article37349804.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Tinder’s Killer Weekend||Tinder is all set to launch an in-app interactive event ‘Swipe Night: Killer Weekend’. Banking on the success of the ‘Choose your own Adventure’ apocalyptic storyline last year and the rise of the true crime genre, the new game (directed by Sasie Sealy) is in the form of a seven-minute video whodunit murder mystery of sorts. Users can swipe to make their choices that will dictate the storyline and impact who they match with at the end of the journey. Additional features include chatting in real time, and more. The kickoff is on November 7 from 6 pm to 12 am. tinder.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/tinders-killer-weekend/article37349806.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Talking Point||COP26 2021: The climate conference had several highlights: from 14-year-old Vinisha Umashankar’s speech to Amazon founder Jeff Bezos’ announcement to spend $2 billion to ‘restore landscapes’. Our eyes are now on the ‘Fountain of Circular Recovery’, a 360° virtual reality installation at the Build Better Now pavilion, that will showcase 17 ‘exemplary sustainable projects’. ukcop26.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article37349808.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||At Geneva Luxury Week||Six live and online auctions hosted by Christie’s kickstart Geneva’s annual November auction season this week. From watches and wines to bracelets and handbags, the Geneva Luxury Week’s highlights include the historic Marie-Antoinette diamond bracelets, the Rolex Deep Sea Special No. 1, Latour 1961 wines, Patek Philippe Complicated Desk Clock, and more. Until November 9. At their King Street galleries in London, from November 17, are two online jewels and handbags auctions and a two-day live wine sale. christies.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/at-geneva-luxury-week/article37349810.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Lit for Life 2021||The Hindu’s literary festival is back after a two-year pandemic break, in an all-new digital format. With a lineup featuring authors Ira Mukhoty, Amitav Ghosh, Shashi Tharoor, theatre personalities Anuradha Kapur and Deepan Sivaraman, artist Subodh Kerkar, filmmaker Sudha Kongara, and others,The HinduLit for Life will have Indira Nooyi as the keynote speaker and will continue to include discussions and debates across art, the environment, the post-pandemic future, etc. November 12, 13. To register, visit thehindulfl.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lit-for-life-2021/article37349812.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Fight club||If you’re done with this month’s cricket overdose, we’re counting down for the historic bout at Las Vegas between Saul ‘Canelo’ Alvarez and Caleb Plant. They will clash for the undisputed super-middleweight championship of the world. November 6 at 6.30 am IST. dazn.com. In New York, a welterweight title rematch of Kamaru Usman vs Colby Covington 2 awaits at UFC 268. At their first meeting two years ago, Usman won and defended his title with a fifth-round. November 7 at 7.30 am IST. ufc.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/fight-club/article37349814.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Men speak||From analysing how Indian men navigate romantic relationships to what sexual boundaries really mean to them, author Prachi Gangwani aims at starting an open dialogue with Indian men through her latest book,Dear Men: Masculinity and Modern Love in #MeToo India. Published by Bloomsbury India. Rs. 599. As part of their festive catalogue, Audible Plus’ recent offering includes season 2 ofMine and Yours, a ‘modern love triangle’ featuring Sayani Gupta, Kubbra Sait and Nakuul Mehta, that explores topics of sexuality and soulmates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/men-speak/article37349816.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Aparna Sen asks tough questions||‘Why does a man become a rapist?’ The question has been fermenting in filmmaker Aparna Sen’s mind for close to a decade. “The idea came to me first as a germ [she can’t remember if it was before or after Nirbhaya, the 2012 Delhi gang rape and murder case]. Then it gradually got fleshed out into a story with characters and setting,” she says. Now, with The Rapist , Sen has posed the question to the world. A very matter-of-fact film — or as Variety magazine calls it, a “richly-layered discussion starter” — it takes no sides. It follows Naina, played by Konkona Sen Sharma, a criminology professor in Delhi who survives a brutal rape and assault, while putting forward various points of view and also questioning the validity of the carceral state and the death sentence. In early October, The Rapist premiered at the Busan International Film Festival, and won the prestigious Kim Jiseok Award and numerous accolades. The actor-auteur’s 16th film, it was shot in 27 days in Delhi, in the slim window between the first and the lethal second Covid-19 waves. They finished shooting on April 6; the lockdown was announced on the 8th. “Actually, it was supposed to be a couple of days longer. We finished ahead of schedule thanks to our DOP [director of photography] Ayanaka Bose, who was extremely fast,” she says, recalling how they all stayed at The Leela Palace in Chanakyapuri. “We used to go down to breakfast along with the other guests staying at the hotel. So, it was not as though we were living in a bubble. We also shot in a real slum for four or five days. We were extremely lucky that [through the entire shoot] no one got sick.” At 76, Sen is still raring to go, with more ideas, including a memoir, germinating. In an email interview, she looks back at her 40-year career as a director, and what prompted her to take on the subject of The Rapist . Edited excerpts:  The title is a forceful one.  Yes, it is. We didn’t want to hide behind a more innocuous-sounding title. However, the theme is not about whether rapists should be given the death penalty, though that question is likely to come to mind when one watches the film. The theme is about what happens to three people whose lives are changed overnight after a horrific incident. Yes, it is also an exploration of what turns a person into a rapist because nobody is born as one. Is it genetics? Is it his environment? Or both? What is it about our society that turns such a large number of men into rapists? Social inequality? Ingrained patriarchy? Envy of the new, successful woman, and the desire to put her in her place? Or is it a combination of all these factors? It is an extremely complex issue that is addressed in the film, though not in an obvious or underlined way.  Whom did you consult while writing the script?  I talked to lawyers and activists, but not to rape survivors. I had a gut feeling that they would not wish to relive the experience by talking about it. Two of my feminist friends, who head organisations to help abused women, gave me important insights. Anuradha Kapoor, who runs Swayam — of which I, too, am a member — gave me a lot of material to read about rape survivors and details about the procedures immediately after a rape is reported. Shamita Dasgupta, who heads an organisation called Manavi in the US, told me about a new approach to crime called Restorative Justice where the victim and the perpetrator meet and talk about the reasons that made the latter act in the way he/she did. Restorative Justice isn’t mentioned in my film, but the knowledge was useful when I was writing certain scenes. For the most part though, I relied on my intuition and observations, which have served me well in the past.  This is the sixth film you have worked on with your daughter, Konkona — from Picnic (1989), when she was around 10, to The Rapist. How has your artistic collaboration evolved?   There is implicit trust on both sides. We have the same mindset and value systems. This makes it easier for her to understand what I am saying, right from the script stage. And, on my part, I know that Konkona has a very fine sense of balance, that she knows where to draw the line and will never go over the top. She has had tremendous screen presence from a very early age. It is difficult to delineate exactly how our relationship has evolved — I think she used to be very obedient earlier and listened to me much more than she does now! But then, she is much more mature as a person now and also far more proficient as an actor. I hardly ever have to direct her now. The only problem I had with her earlier was that she was rather uncomfortable doing intimate scenes. This time, I told her right at the beginning that she will have to get rid of those qualms. She looked at me with a wicked glint in her eye and said, ‘Okay, you just watch me!’ And I have to say, she delivered perfectly.  Tell us about the unusual casting of Arjun Rampal as Naina’s husband.   Why unusual? You know, the problem is that everyone just gapes at Arjun’s good looks and is unable to see beyond that! I had seen him in only two films before this, Rock On!! and Rajneeti , and I liked him very much in both. But for this film, I chose him because his appearance, or maybe his persona, exudes a certain nobility. This was necessary for the character. Also, I had noticed that he tends to underact. That was perfect for the role of Aftab. Despite all this, I was not entirely certain that he would be able to deliver and hold his own alongside Konkona. But I have to say I was in for a very pleasant surprise. Arjun is an extremely sensitive, finely-tuned actor underneath that gorgeous exterior. He and Konkona exuded the most wonderful chemistry together. He was quite a revelation as the understated, intellectual, highly-principled but emotionally-torn Aftab Malik.  In Mr and Mrs Iyer, you’d said that the characters were not supposed to be Muslim and Hindu — it was an organic development. Was it the same with The Rapist? Or was the love angle a reaction to the current climate?   No, it was not. At least, not consciously so. I had reasoned that having a couple who were Hindu and Muslim, where neither had the slightest desire to convert the other, would be the most economical way of imparting the information that they were truly liberal and secular. Aftab’s one line to the officer in charge immediately after the rape sequence, ‘ Meri biwi Hindu hain . Koi problem hai aapko ?’ [My wife is Hindu. Do you have a problem with that?] says it all!  Delhi looks dingy and grey in the film, almost like all the colour has been sucked out.   Yes. [DOP] Bose and I decided to go for a desaturated look. As if the colour is being drained away from the lives of the characters. It starts brightly enough when Naina and Aftab are leading a happy, normal life. But after the rape incident, as the mood of the film gets darker, we gradually remove the colour. In fact, both Bose and I would have been very happy if we could have shot the film in black and white, but other considerations prevailed.  How would you describe your artistic vision? How has it evolved from the ’80s to the digital and OTT space we are living in now?   I make neither experimental cinema nor so-called formula films. I make films about human beings — tell their stories, bring their joys and sorrows, desires and frustrations to the fore. Even in films like The Rapist or Mr and Mrs Iyer , which deal with issues of national importance, it is the individuals who matter and who the audience identifies with. Digitisation, or the OTT space, has never really bothered me too much. It is true that initially I resisted the transition from celluloid to digi-tapes. They seemed to have a more brittle quality and lacked the softness of colour and detail that we could get in celluloid. But science does not sit still. The quality of the digital medium has been improving so fast and giving such brilliant results, that one does not miss celluloid any more except for nostalgic reasons. As far as the OTT platform is concerned, it is something we have had to accept with a shrug, particularly after the onset of the pandemic. But there are merits too. We get to see the best of international cinema on OTT platforms. I saw films like Roma , The Ballad of Buster Scruggs , Capernaum sitting right in front of my TV. Of course, nothing compares to the experience of sitting in a darkened auditorium and watching a film with a room full of people with no doorbell, no telephones, no sudden guests to disturb you! As far as my films are concerned, most of them have been intimate stories about individuals, not elaborate spectacles. So the OTT platforms are not unsuited for viewing them.  A career spanning over 40 years, and yet you’ve noted that when you look back at your old films you only see mistakes. Is there one you’ve wished more people would have seen and talked about?   It is true that glaring mistakes are all I see when I review my films. But this is mostly with the recent ones. When I watch an old film like 36 Chowringhee Lane or Paromitar Ek Din , I often find myself thinking, ‘Well, that’s not too bad after all!’ I wish more people could have seen Yugant , which was somehow neglected outside Bengal. I wish I could have made it now with all the computer graphics available to us today, because there is an apocalyptic scene at the end with the sea breaking into flames. Yugant should really have been my swan song. The other film that I feel didn’t get its due is The Japanese Wife . It should be on one of the OTT platforms at least, so that more people can watch it. But it was marketed very badly at the time and few people outside of Bengal got to see it.  The Indian theatrical/OTT release of The Rapist is yet to be confirmed.  Continued on page 5||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/aparna-sen-asks-tough-questions/article37349787.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The electric vehicle boom||The price appreciation for the residential asset class, post installing Electric Vehicle (EV) charging stations, is expected to be anywhere between 2% and 5% in newly constructed buildings and upwards of 1% in regular existing buildings. According to JLL, the EV industry will grow at a CAGR upwards of 40% by 2030 given current government policies and massive EV adoption rate. This will surge the demand for EV charging stations in buildings, thereby driving the need for such spaces. It is expected that the installation of EV charging stations in existing buildings will go up drastically by 2026. Impact on realty Depending on the type of buildings, these retrofit projects will have a major impact on the pricing of residential asset classes and will also help in efficient utilisation of real estate. Currently, the owners are installing stations with support from service providers in residential areas. In many other large-scale developments, residential associations have taken up the activity, installed these facilities, in turn earning from the users on a fixed fee model. However, going forward, all new residential planned developments will have atleast 5% of parking lots reserved for a common charging facility. “There will be a premium of at least 1% for spaces in existing buildings retrofitted for charging points. This is due to the challenges pertaining to high installation costs of charging units for large residential complexes/multi-storey buildings and limited power supply capacity. Charging stations are IoT devices, so internet availability and connectivity should also be provided,” says A Shankar, Head – Strategic Consulting and Valuation Advisory, India, JLL. Whereas in the short term, in places where there is high demand or more than 60% of the residents own EVs, this premium can go up to 2%-5%, especially in new green residential complexes. Shankar adds that this surge of EVs in India is due to an increased demand, the presence of government incentives and the fact that a considerable part of the population is moving towards a sustainable way of living. These factors, he says, will lead to economies of scale for the developers in the long run. In the commercial segment In office markets, landowners will either create this facility with a user fee, lease the land to a charging service provider, or earn through a regular revenue share model. However, the challenge being the non-availability of vacant parking lots. Few existing parking lots will be reserved for such requirements in offices too. Public EV charging hubs will also provide the maintaining and servicing requirements of the vehicles. Parking lots at Metro stations and malls are also being promoted to tap this demand. Many petrol stations are also being added with these facilities. Either the public authority develops the charging infrastructure and leases it to an operator or leases the land to the service provider for a long term. It is estimated that this is to create a huge demand for the space and location, trigger more real estate asset classes and ultimately command premium over spaces which do not provide such facilities. Government-led initiatives With an aim to prioritise a shift towards e-mobility, the government introduced the Policies National Electric Mission Mobility Plan 2020 and adopted the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and EV (FAME) scheme in 2015 of Rs. 8.95 billion ($130 million), which provided subsidies for electric two wheelers like scooters, electric three wheelers and e-cars. Under Phase II of the FAME Scheme launched in 2019, Rs. 8597 crore has been approved for incentives and Rs. 1,000 crore has been allocated to the development of charging infrastructure. EV policies have been implemented in 14 states (Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Orissa and Uttarakhand) and in draft stage in four states (Chandigarh, Haryana, Assam, Himachal Pradesh). As the world is shifting towards sustainable and renewable forms of energy in all walks of life, EVs are considered the future of the automobile industry. With added incentives and policy support from the government, the demand for EVs will only go up.  JLL India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/the-electric-vehicle-boom/article37349838.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Demand for warehousing to rise||E-commerce has been at the forefront for not only emerging as the hotspot sector for receiving institutional capital, but for being a prime influencer in resetting India’s supply economics and delivery dynamics in the last few years. The year 2020, marked with the adversity of the pandemic, influenced an increased dependence on e-commerce online delivery solutions and accelerated the trend of virtual purchases. This has further propelled the growth of the e-commerce sector in the country. With this exponential growth also came the requirement for stocking the inventory, paving the way for the requirement of warehousing and logistics solutions by the real estate sector. Growth acceleration The warehousing asset class, which is instrumental for efficient management of an e-commerce supply-chain, has been a primary beneficiary of the pandemic-infused online shopping boom. Supply chain operations have also seen a significant re-modelling during the pandemic. To mitigate the contingency of supply chain disruptions, warehousing occupiers increased the stock inventory levels. In order to ensure quicker delivery, e-commerce companies were the biggest contributors to the warehousing volume tractions in FY’21. The e-commerce dominance is also quantified by the sector’s share in warehousing transactional volume in India growing from 18% in FY 2017 to 31% in FY 2021. Warehousing automation Owing to higher service delivery requirements, the e-commerce sector has been one of the early adopters of technology in supply chain operations. This has also induced the need for automation in warehousing operability. This will also result in occupiers considering the implementation of technology at the design stage instead of retrofitting as was seen in earlier times. Bigger cargo boxes The rise of sophisticated e-commerce and third-party logistics (3PL) occupier groups have led to the use of large boxes to ensure the larger movement of cargo. In several instances now, the scale of a single warehouse box has increased from under 1,00,000 sq.ft. to over 5,00,000 sq.ft. over the last few years. Tracking demand The need for reduced delivery timelines by e-commerce players has led to the emergence of in-city warehousing spaces in the Indian market. Besides facilitating optimum land utilisation in congested cities such as Mumbai, multi-storey warehousing will effectively reduce delivery timelines and transportation costs. Such solutions are already in place in other Asian markets such as Singapore, Hong Kong and Tokyo. 3PL players have been scouting for in-city development opportunities across Mumbai, Delhi and Bengaluru. The high real estate costs in these cities make it a challenging venture, which is why spaces such as defunct mills, factory units and shuttered malls are being considered. With the pandemic vaulting the e-commerce sector on a higher growth trajectory and the entry of players such as the Tata Group and Reliance Group in this highly competitive space, multi-storey warehouses could become mainstream phenomena much earlier than expected. In numbers The sector has been the biggest driver of warehousing across developed markets globally. The share of online sales in the UK had in fact spiked from 19.2% in 2019 to a steep 33.4% in May 2020, showing the dominance and scalability of the online marketplace even in a mature market. With only a 4.7% penetration in India (2019 estimations), the Indian e-commerce market is on the cusp of its next phase of growth. A growing economy like India, with the second largest population in the world, still holds massive potential for its warehousing market which will fructify over the next few years. Knight Frank Research estimates the e-commerce sector to occupy the most warehousing space in the next five year period of FY 2022 - 2026 at 9.1 mn sq.m. (98 mn sq.ft.), 165% more than the preceding period of FY 2017 - 2021. Overall, the annual warehousing transactions will grow at a CAGR of 19% to 7.08 mn sq.m. (76.2 mn sq.ft.) in FY 2026 from 2.95 mn sq.m. (31.7 mn sq.ft.) in FY 2021.  The writer is National Director, Industrial & Logistics, Knight Frank India.   With the entry of players such as the Tata Group and Reliance Group in this highly competitive space, multi-storey warehouses could become mainstream phenomena||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/demand-for-warehousing-to-rise/article37349840.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Give your home a Diwali detox||The festival of lights has come and gone, and it’s time to get back to normalcy. The festive spirit may remain in the air, but that’s no reason why your home and spaces need to reel under a festive hangover. Try these ways to give your home a Diwali detox and get it in shape for the party season: #1Go over the entire home and all your spaces — the balconies and yards — with an eagle eye. Remove all the dried flowers hanging on the door and window frames, the floral rangolis, and the coloured ones drawn on the floor. #2Collect all the diyas that are staggered around the home. Soak them in soapy water, wash clean and let dry. Put them all into a cardboard box and store safely. Next year, you don’t need to buy new ones. Just get down this box from storage and get started. #3In case you’ve got any leftover rangoli, there’s no need to trash it. Get the bags together, pop into another cardboard box and tape shut. This goes with the box of diyas, but don’t forget to label them. There’s no need to buy so much rangoli the next year! #4There’s no need to take down all the fairy lights. A couple of strands can stay through the party season and till New Year’s day. Make sure you dispose all the lights that aren’t working and put away the rest in a spot where you keep your party supplies such as T-lights. #5Before the festival of lights, you tend to go into a candle and candle stand overdrive, bringing out all those that you have to create special Diwali vignettes. Keep a few that you think you need, but put away the rest. #6Oily lamps can leave stains on floors and parapet walls, and make the surface sticky and grimy. A mix of baking soda and vinegar applied on the sticky spots for half an hour and then scoured will help get rid of them fast. #7If you chose to use stick-on rangolis in the balconies, it’s time to get them off. If it peels and leaves behind some remnants, pour a solution of water and vinegar and let sit for a few hours. Use an old kitchen steel scrubber to scrub clean. #8Take stock of the kitchen and the many packets of sweets, dry fruits, and chocolates you received. Give away all that you won’t consume and bottle the things that you do want. Organise your shelves well so that you can find the almonds when you want them. #9It may also be a good time to prep some of the dry fruits into homemade chocolates or shavings ready to toss on ice cream or cake. Christmas isn’t far off and having dry fruits ready to dunk into rum will make baking that year-end cake easier. #10Diwali is a time for gifting and you are sure to have received a pile of them. Don’t stuff them all into your cupboard willy-nilly. Take some time out to figure out what you don’t need and put those gifts away. Some gifting needs over the year have been taken care of, so there. #11Changing all the bed sheets, bedcovers, and cushion covers after Diwali will give the home a cheerful new look. Add some fresh flowers or greens in glasses and bottles and you won’t feel that let-down that comes after a loved festival comes and goes. #12The pre-Diwali bonhomie has you cleaning up every closet, cupboard and surface with double the energy you normally would expend. Make sure you don’t let go of this steam — small steps every day mean a clean and clutter-free home through the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/give-your-home-a-diwali-detox/article37349846.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Housing’s festive revival||As India has now officially administered a billion coronavirus vaccine doses, real estate sales have also seen a rebound and are likely to match the pre-COVID period soon. With the pandemic halting all activity in 2020 — the effect of which was felt this year too — things are now gradually picking up. The year 2021 began with slow activity and a subsequent lockdown during the early second quarter. Like many others, the real estate sector too has not been isolated given these events. Realty players have witnessed the halting of activities and construction in 2020, and sales remained impacted for a long time. For the first half of the current year, the focus was on returning to normalcy. As the market regained a sense of normalcy over the last few months, especially with the start of the festive season, this year can be unique in many ways. The story until now The pandemic had hit buyer sentiments hard, and given the weak employment scenario, many left rented homes in cities and returned to their native towns to live in their family homes. Having said that, these events also propelled fence-sitters in the market to consider investing and owning a property, and millennials form a majority of this segment. Moreover, the market has remained abundantly supplied, and prospective homebuyers have enough to choose from today. Due to this, the demand for homes has seen a spike off late which has been assisted by government reforms: we have witnessed the rationalisation of GST rates, a push for affordable homes and the establishment of the Alternate Investment Fund. Understanding the current challenges of home buyers, in recent times, banks and the RBI have smoothened their interest rates. Various leading state governments have announced incentives over the past two years. For instance, the stamp duty rate cuts of Maharashtra in 2020, and the recent reduction in transfer charges by Noida-Greater Noida Authority have made a significant impact on oversupplied markets. The government’s efforts on mass immunisation against Covid-19 will have a ripple effect of sorts on businesses and their growth. Festivity-led revival With the pandemic-led situation improving across countries, and markets, businesses opening up, housing sales have also revived. As consumers come back, sales estimates of the past few months suggest that the demand from first-time homebuyers is high. Moreover, the thought of working remotely has also triggered the need for bigger homes. Recent trends also suggest that while consumers prefer a ready-to-move-in property, buyers are also looking at developer projects of repute, even if they are under construction. This high level of trust in developer brands is the result of professionalism shown by companies, and is likely to continue in the last quarter (October to December). Builders have already rolled out good deals and as a result, sales are likely to witness a high during this period compared to the rest of the year. South focus From the performance point of view, southern cities have done better than their counterparts in the north. The affordable and mid-segments in particular are driving residential demand, and cities down South have also led in project completion. Market estimates suggest Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad have proactive developers, who continue to focus on completing projects. Moreover, the strong office market supports the overall growth in these cities. Opening of offices and a return to normalcy will embolden the scenario in these metros. The market is transforming, and the spirit of festivity continues to aid numbers. The real estate segment will continue to revive and soon get back to pre-Covid levels. However, it is also a time for all stakeholders to introspect. To meet the end-user driven demand, the onus of building right and building fast depends on us. With government support, the focus should be on timely deliveries, as it will lead the way to a better marketplace.  The writer is President, NAREDCO India   The market has remained abundantly supplied, and prospective homebuyers have enough to choose from today||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/housings-festive-revival/article37349853.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Float on these pavers||Today, most of our urban housing plots measure either ‘one ground’ (2,400 sq.ft.) or sometimes even less. Within these plots there is an aspiration to build as much as possible, compromising the open space around the home. Minimal setbacks are left, which most likely end up being paved by some hard surface in order to facilitate the easy movement of vehicles and people. In such situations, there is no space for any landscaping or vegetation on-ground. One option is to make a thoughtful decision on the type of paving to use. Pavers that are spaced out allow for growing grass or other vegetation in between the gaps. This not only reduces the unnecessary use of hard paving materials, but also ensures storm water percolation into the ground. Such pavers can be varied types of stone, brick or laterite, providing an aesthetic solution and also serving as ‘stepping stones’. Today, prefabricated ‘grass pavers’ are also widely available, making them convenient and easy to install. Also known as grass block pavers, they are made of concrete or recycled plastic with open cells that allow grass to grow through them. They’re a porous, eco-friendly option for driveways and parking areas. Grasscrete is yet another option. The material is a cast-on-site cellular reinforced concrete system with voids created by plastic forms (moulds). It is also known as void structured concrete. These disposable forms are then removed and replaced with grass or other vegetation. A few advantages of using such pavers include:  Reduction of runoff: Stormwater runoff from our cityscape is one of the biggest sources of water pollution today as the rain water flowing down our hardscapes will pick up oil, dirt and other pollutants, washing them into our larger water bodies. Vegetated pavers help slow down this.  Recharge groundwater table: The areas of grass/ vegetation allow rainwater to seep into the ground, replenishing the water table. In addition, the vegetation in the pavers will filter out the pollutants, so the water that returns to the earth is clean.  Minimise heatisland effect: The air above our cities is hotter than the air above surrounding rural areas. This phenomenon is called the ‘urban heat island’ effect. One of the reasons for this is the amount of hard surface paving around our closely packed buildings. In Chennai, for instance, the increase in temperature is as high as 5 degrees celsius when compared to its outskirts. Providing space for vegetation or grass within pavers will help keep the air around our buildings cooler.  Aestheticallypleasing: Hints of vegetation amidst hard surfaces can be very aesthetically designed in varying patterns, providing a sense of relief in our concrete jungles. Given the multiple options available in the market today, it is time to reconsider the process of ‘paving’ our plots.  The author is the founder of Green Evolution, a sustainable architecture firm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/float-on-these-pavers/article37349836.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Like a tenant in my own home||I have purchased a property (house) from a member of a housing association registered under the TN Societies Act 1975. The seller has transferred the same in my name and the documents are registered. The Association is demanding Rs. 1 lakh from me (for the corpus fund) as an entry fee to become a member as per the bye-laws. As per TN Apartment Ownership rules of 1997, the membership also gets transferred to the buyer on resale. I need your advice on the following: 1. Is it legal for the Association to demand a corpus fund from buyers on resale? Can the amount for the corpus fund be collected any number of times as the number of transactions for the same property? 2. Can the Association deny membership and services/ facilities because of non-payment towards a corpus fund? 3. I purchased this house in 2019. Since then, I have been living in the same house and paying maintenance and other charges regularly. However, the demand note/ receipts are still made by the society in the name of the previous owner/ seller. G. Raju Coimbatore As stated in this column earlier, the corpus fund relates to the apartment and not the owner. On resale, the deposit should be deemed as transferred to the new purchaser, unless the bye-laws of the association provides otherwise. If there is lack of clarity, this issue can be discussed and decided by the general body. An Association cannot deny membership or services/ facilities to any apartment owner. However, if any member is in violation of the bye-laws, the association can take action against such member as per the bye-laws and as per the laws and rules governing associations. Please make a written application to the association enclosing a copy of document evidencing your purchase. The Association has to substitute your name in place of the earlier owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/like-a-tenant-in-my-own-home/article37349842.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Chennai builder bags award||City-based The Nest Builders has recently bagged the ‘Credible Builder’ Award at the recently-concluded AsiaOne Awards 2020-21. Known for their residential projects including apartments, the enterprise was also termed as ‘India’s Greatest Brand & Leaders’ at the Awards held in Dubai on October 26. The award was received by Shanker Ganesh, Managing Director, The Nest Builders. As per a press release, the award recognises the builders ‘for providing quality projects, addressing key factors, improved transparency and objective benchmarking of projects’. Considering the Indian real estate sector plays a major role in the nation’s economic growth, AsiaOne also researched to study the effects of COVID-19 on the sector. It was found that despite the pandemic, top real estate brands have performed exceptionally well and have successfully turned adversity into opportunity.  thenestbuilders.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-propertyplus/chennai-builder-bags-award/article37349851.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||True story, imaginary film||‘If we are making a high-budget pretend movie, and we need a crackling script for it, who do we go to?’ Every time this question is asked in Teluguland, meaning Andhra, Telangana and the U.S. — and it is being asked a lot, trust me — the first name that pops up is mine. Because in the last 10 years I have nearly written more scripts for more imaginary movies than you can imagine. Cut to pre-lockdown. I was in Hyderabad regarding a script for an actual web series. A friend, coincidentally, asked me at the same time if I had a good script for a film or web series that friends of his, two gentlemen from the Bay Area (where else) were interested in making. They were staying at a posh five-star, and my meeting was at 11 am. I arrived promptly. (On my way, though, I couldn’t quite figure the odour in the vehicle they had sent to pick me up.) I knocked. I heard a voice say, ‘Come in.’ ‘Make yourself comfy, we’ll be out in a minute,’ came the voice again, in a Cupertino-to-Chandrampalem accent. I wanted to. But how does one do that at a site that looked like Keith Richards and Charlie Sheen had had a debate over whether Kangana or Tapsee was the better actor? Six liquor bottles of varying size and shape — the very indigenous kind, mind you — were artfully placed on the TV, the bed, inside a half-open drawer, and on the floor. Two boxes of Kotaiah’s kajas , open, with a lone fly flitting between them, lay on the table. A pair of ancient Jockeys hung from the headboard of the bed. The carpet was speckled evenly with mixture, chips and something that may or may not have been ketchup. In a corner, lay two piles of plates with bones of an unidentifiable animal. Then my would-be producers made a joint entry. One was wearing alungiand nothing else. The other, a T-shirt just long enough for someone to get away without wearing anything underneath. ‘We loved your script,’ thelungiman said. I’d mailed a synopsis earlier. ‘Eat a kaja ,’ said the other man, proffering the famed Kakinada sweetmeat with a suspicious green sheen from the seemingly long-open box. I refused politely. ‘Your script has all the things we believe in. It’s subtle. It’s clean. It’s classy. It gives agency to its women characters. And so witty.’ I thanked them. ‘How soon can you finish it?’ said T-shirt guy. ‘Three months.’ Eating the green-edged kaja I had refused with great relish,lungiman shook my hand vigorously. ‘We should celebrate,’ said the man who could have been going commando. I declined, saying I had a plane to catch. ‘I see a long fruitful relationship,’ saidlungiguy. ‘We should aim to make films for an international audience. We will transfer your advance first thing Monday morning.’ On my way back to the hotel, I decided to ask the driver what the smell was. ‘Oh, that-aa?’ he said, stopping the car and gesturing me to follow him. He opened the boot. Inside were two large, very dead roosters. ‘Boss’s birds,’ he said. ‘They died in the cockfight in Ravupalem. He lost one crore. Wants to have them stuffed to leave in his uncle’s house as souvenirs. ‘Why?’ I said. ‘So when he comes back next season, he can show his new roosters what happens to them if they lose,’ said the driver. I didn’t get my advance on Monday. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/true-story-imaginary-film/article37350134.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Why Ottchil demands patience||Eunhee Lee achieves a perfect marriage between beauty and function with her ottchil artefacts. Through the demanding techniques of the traditional Korean lacquerware, the Korean artist transforms utilitarian objects such as wooden bowls, cups and plates into elegant art pieces as seen in ‘The Aesthetics of Waiting’, an ongoing virtual exhibition. Commissioned by the InKo Centre in Chennai, it celebrates the exquisite simplicity of Lee’s lacquerware. And its contemporary sensibilities. Art in the drying Creating ottchil objects is a complex, time-consuming craft. Every piece in the exhibition, including the simplest plate, has undergone over 30 creative processes that include applying thin coats of natural sap on to the wooden object, drying and sanding, repeated many times. The complicated drying procedure, in precisely-controlled humidity and temperature, is essential. “If I rush... I may have to go back to the previous process, or to the very beginning!” says Lee, about the centuries-old art form. Tedious? Not at all. It is this deep involvement in the act of creating that draws Lee to her craft. The artist studied Industrial Design at Hong-Ik University College of Art, did a Master’s degree in furniture design, and worked as an industrial designer/lecturer for 20 years. But after realising she was “losing that sense of analogue touch” or missing out on the physical process of creating, Lee turned to the art of ottchil and najeonchilgi (nacre lacquerware). Achievements include the UNESCO Award for Excellence for Handicrafts in 2008 and showings at Maison & Objet in Paris and Museum für Lackkunst in Munster. Tilt and bloom Her online show features works from two series whose titles ‘Seum’ and ‘Pium’ originate from Korean words. Seum, which means ‘stand up’, is expressed through objects that counter-intuitively have tilted silhouettes. Its sophisticated colour palette derives from the artist’s “emotional balance, expressed in combination with the colour of wood”. The Pium series — meaning ‘to bloom’ — is based on capturing nature. The aesthetic here, in Lee’s words, is “gorgeous but not extravagant, modest but not shabby”. Ottchil objects fashioned out of wood and lacquer are very durable. Lee emphasises, “I hope that my work will not only exist as a décor object, but rather become something precious that people can use and enjoy.” This certainly points towards more sustainable ways of living for our use-and-throw plastic culture. While Lee does take orders (routed through Inko Centre), they take about six months to process.  View it on Prism, InKo Centre’s virtual gallery, at inkocentre.org until November 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/why-ottchil-demands-patience/article37350136.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Indian food’s origin stories||When author-journalist Sonal Ved gave us the award-winning Tiffin three years ago, it was a celebration of regional cuisine with recipes selected by local culinary experts, including wedding caterers. But with Whose Samosa is it Anyway? she traces the influences behind many of our modern Indian dishes. The Vogue India staffer begins by describing her highly coveted lunchbox in school — with its paneer enchiladas and baby cornidlis— and how the ‘tiffins’ from Sindhi, Bohri and Marwari friends were an early learning experience. With this book she aims to explore “the undercurrents that lay in all those school meals that differentiated Indian cuisine” from others. What are the origins of the chutney andsamosa? How did BurmeseKhow sueyland up on Marwari wedding menus? These were some of the questions that dogged her as she went about her day job. The book explores food references from Indian literature like the Jataka Tales . She has researched what was served to our royals as well as what personalities like Rabindranath Tagore experimented with in their kitchen — Tagore’s jackfruit yoghurt ‘fish’ curry, or cauliflowerbarfi, for the curious. In fact, while writing her book, from one phase to another, she saw her own food choices change! In the book, she says her diet is a lot like Gandhi’s. While Whose Samosa … comes at a time when discussions on appropriation are at the forefront, including the never-ending curry debate, Ved also writes about the connection between Vajrayana Buddhism and meat, as well as Ayurveda and alcohol. “These are some things I have discovered in my research and each finding has been referenced as to which book or research paper it can be found in. No data in a book should be taken as the ultimate truth, it’s always the writer’s truth or how they see it. Everything has to be pondered upon, built upon and discussed,” she explains. An edited excerpt from the interview:  While the malpua stars in many kitchens as many versions over the centuries, any other dish that surprised you by being a common thread in our cuisines?  Chai, for sure. India is today one of the world’s largest producers of tea. While a certain kind of wild tea plant is said to have existed in the north-eastern part of the Indian subcontinent, Burma, Thailand, the Himalayan belt and Tibet, it was the British who were responsible for its domestication and its popularity here. But tea still hadn’t become the masalachaias we know it. This boiled-with-ample-milk-and-sugar version, the shade of Huda Teddy lipstick, only came in years later.  Read the full interview on weekend.thehindu.com   Published by Penguin India, Whose Samosa is it Anyway? is priced at Rs. 317 on amazon.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/indian-foods-origin-stories/article37350137.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Gucci Love Parade||Centenary celebrations: All roads led to Hollywood Boulevard earlier this week as creative director Alessandro Michele presented the ‘Gucci Love Parade’ at the iconic Los Angeles street. Continuing the label’s centenary celebrations, it showcased '70s-inspired suits, glamour gowns, and lace accessories, in his seasonless approach. Adding to the glam were the likes of Jared Leto, Maneskin, and Billie Eilish.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gucci-love-parade/article37350138.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Naru x SAPA||Celebrated ramen chef, Kavan Kuttappa, is taking his hearty bowls from Bengaluru’s Naru Noodle Bar to Mysuru this weekend. Courtesy a collab with SAPA Sourdough & Pastry, diners can look forward to several favourites, such askaramiso ramen (Rs. 1,300) and spicy toripaitan(Rs. 1,500) at the pop-up. November 7 for lunch and dinner. @eatnaru on Instagram. At Beam Suntory, a range of exclusives have been launched in India — Yamazaki, a 55-year-old single malt, Hibiki, a 21-year-old blended whisky, and more. beamsuntory.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/naru-x-sapa/article37350139.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Of royalty and florals||Coming to Chennai next week is a collection ofkurtas, shirts, and jackets from Suket Dhir’s ‘The Royal Within’ collection. Featuring reimagined Mughal miniatures, the womenswear includes vibrant shades like orange and cobalt blue. November 9 at Collage, Greams Road. For the sporty ones,toile deJouy and Asian-style landscapes feature in Puma’s collab with British design house, Liberty. ‘Wild Garden’ comprises jackets, sneakers, and dresses with exotic birds, butterflies, and pink horse motifs. Rs. 1,799 onwards on puma.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/of-royalty-and-florals/article37350140.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Tinder’s Killer Weekend||Tinder is all set to launch an in-app interactive event ‘Swipe Night: Killer Weekend’. Banking on the success of the ‘Choose your own Adventure’ apocalyptic storyline last year and the rise of the true crime genre, the new game (directed by Sasie Sealy) is in the form of a seven-minute video whodunit murder mystery of sorts. Users can swipe to make their choices that will dictate the storyline and impact who they match with at the end of the journey. Additional features include chatting in real time, and more. November 7 from 6 p.m. to 12 a.m. tinder.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tinders-killer-weekend/article37350141.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||COP26||Sustainable projects: The climate conference had several highlights: from 14-year-old Vinisha Umashankar’s speech to Amazon founder Jeff Bezos’ announcement to spend $2 billion to ‘restore landscapes’. Our eyes are now on the ‘Fountain of Circular Recovery’, a 360° virtual reality installation at the Build Better Now pavilion, that will showcase 17 ‘exemplary sustainable projects’. ukcop26.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cop26/article37350142.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||At Geneva Luxury Week||Six live and online auctions hosted by Christie’s kickstart Geneva’s annual November auction season this week. From watches and wines to bracelets and handbags, the Geneva Luxury Week’s highlights include the historic Marie-Antoinette diamond bracelets, the Rolex Deep Sea Special No. 1, Latour 1961 wines, Patek Philippe Complicated Desk Clock, and more. Until November 9. At their King Street galleries in London, from November 17, are two online jewels and handbags auctions and a two-day live wine sale. christies.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/at-geneva-luxury-week/article37350143.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Lit for Life 2021||The Hindu’s literary festival is back after a two-year pandemic break, in an all-new digital format. With a lineup featuring authors Ira Mukhoty, Amitav Ghosh, Shashi Tharoor, theatre personalities Anuradha Kapur and Deepan Sivaraman, artist Subodh Kerkar, filmmaker Sudha Kongara, and others,The HinduLit for Life will have Indira Nooyi as the keynote speaker and will continue to include discussions and debates across art, the environment, the post-pandemic future, etc. November 12, 13. To register, visit thehindulfl.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lit-for-life-2021/article37350144.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Fight club||If you’re done with this month’s cricket overdose, we’re counting down for the historic bout at Las Vegas between Saul ‘Canelo’ Alvarez and Caleb Plant. They will clash for the undisputed super-middleweight championship of the world. November 6 at 6.30 a.m. IST. dazn.com. In New York, a welterweight title rematch of Kamaru Usman vs Colby Covington 2 awaits at UFC 268. At their first meeting two years ago, Usman won and defended his title with a fifth-round. November 7 at 7.30 a.m. IST. ufc.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fight-club/article37350145.ece
06 November 2021||November 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Men speak||From analysing how Indian men navigate romantic relationships to what sexual boundaries really mean to them, author Prachi Gangwani aims at starting an open dialogue with Indian men through her latest book,Dear Men: Masculinity and Modern Love in #MeToo India. Published by Bloomsbury India. Rs. 599. As part of their festive catalogue, Audible Plus’ recent offering includes season 2 ofMine and Yours, a ‘modern love triangle’ featuring Sayani Gupta, Kubbra Sait and Nakuul Mehta, that explores topics of sexuality and soulmates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/men-speak/article37350146.ece
