07 November 2021||Pune,||Hospital inferno leaves 11 COVID patients dead||Eleven COVID-19 patients were killed after a major fire broke out in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the district civil hospital in Ahmednagar city of Maharashtra on Saturday, officials said. The blaze erupted around 11 a.m. in the ICU, where 20 COVID-19 patients, many of them senior citizens and some on ventilator or oxygen support, were undergoing treatment. Ahmednagar city is located 120 km from Pune. The fire was doused around 1.30 p.m., Chief Fire Officer Shankar Misal said, adding that a short circuit was suspected to be the cause, though this was yet to be confirmed. Most of those who died were aged between 65 and 83, according to hospital officials. After the recent incidents of fire at hospitals treating COVID-19 patients in the State, fire audits had been ordered. According to Ahmednagar District Collector Rajendra Bhosale, such an audit had been carried out at this hospital too. According to Mr. Misal, after the fire audit, the hospital had been told to put in place an effective fire-fighting system, including a pipeline and a sprinkler system. But the work was incomplete due to “want of funds” though “they had fire extinguishers”, he said.  Rs. 7 lakh aid announced Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope announced an ex gratia  of Rs. 5 lakh to the kin of the deceased while Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat announced an additional aid of Rs. 2 lakh. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed grief over the tragedy. He sought stern action against those responsible for the negligence. He directed the District Collector to conduct a probe and submit a report. A probe committee headed by Mr. Misal would look into what led to the tragedy, the Collector said.  Expressing grief, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Anguished by the loss of lives due to a fire in a hospital in Ahmednagar. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest.” Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, in a message sent from Uttarakhand, where he is on a tour, said, “I am deeply anguished. I offer my prayers for the departed souls and convey my condolences to the next of the deceased. Also wishing speedy recovery to the injured.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hospital-inferno-leaves-11-covid-patients-dead/article37363463.ece
07 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Daily COVID-19 cases hit 9-month low||Daily new coronavirus cases in the country have dipped to a nine-month low, as have active coronavirus cases, according to an update from the Health Ministry on Saturday. There were 10,929 new cases reported in the last 24 hours as on Saturday morning and the active caseload stood at 1,46,950 cases, which was a 255-day low. The active cases were 0.43% of the total caseload and was the lowest since March 2020, a Ministry bulletin said. The last time daily cases slipped below 10,000 was on February 8 and before that on January 25. Currently India’s seven-day average, a steadier metric to gauge the pandemic’s trajectory stood at 12,000 cases. This too is the lowest since February. Saturday’s numbers bring the country’s overall tally to 3,43,44,683. The top five States that have registered the most new cases are Kerala (6,580), Tamil Nadu (875), Maharashtra (802), West Bengal (763) and Mizoram (513). There were 392 deaths reported in the 24 hours, increasing the total toll to 4,60,265. Most casualties were in Kerala (314), followed by Maharashtra 17. While the numbers may have hit a nadir, they are not evidence that the pandemic has been overcome. In February, with numbers similar to where they are now and even Government-backed experts declaring the pandemic is over, the nation was hit by a catastrophic second wave — fronted by the Delta variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-covid-19-cases-hit-9-month-low/article37363475.ece
07 November 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,||APTDC, private boat services to Papikonda resume today||The Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) and private operators have been permitted to operate boat services between Perantalapalli and Papikonda hill range on the Godavari from Sunday. At a late-night meeting here on Friday, East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran said that a total of 11 boats had been permitted to resume tourist services to the Papikonda hill range. The APTDC will run two boats – Haritha and Sir Arthur Cotton – while the rest will be operated by private players. East Godavari SP M. Ravindranath Babu, Irrigation Superintending Engineer (Dowleswaram circle) B. Rambabu and Kakinada Port Officer G.V. Raghavarao explained the security and navigational precautions to the operators. Precautions “On every trip, a pilot boat comprising swimmers will have to guide the tourist boats. At least three to five boats should go into the waters in a row to be guided by the pilot boat. The boat operators should communicate their status at every check-post,” said Mr. Hari Kiran. The boat operators need to submit an affidavit to the police and revenue officials on compliance with all the safety measures. Control rooms The Collector further said that control rooms had been set up recently with necessary equipment and technology for rescue operations. The Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA-Rampachodavaram) authorities led by Joint Collector (Welfare) A. Bhargava Teja on Saturday reviewed the trial run of the boat services at Gandi Posamma boating point in Rampa agency. Mr. Bhargava Teja, ITDA Project Officer C.V. Praveen Adithya and other officials enquired about the safety measures and facilities in the boats. The trial run had been successful without any barrier in the navigational direction and communication to the check-posts. The State government suspended boat services to the Papikonda hill range following a boat capsize in which 46 tourists died at Kutchuluru in East Godavari district in September 2019. In 2021, the State government formulated a new policy on boating services, including tourist boats. The boat services to the Papikonda hills were resumed this summer but had to be stopped again due to floods in the Godavari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/after-two-years-papikonda-boat-services-resume-today/article37363429.ece
07 November 2021||Mangaluru,||Farmers stage protest in Brahmavar seeking higher MSP for paddy||Hundreds of farmers under the banner of the Janapara Raitha Horata Samiti held a demonstration demanding minimum support price of Rs. 2,500 a qunital for paddy at Brahmavar in Udupi taluk on Saturday. Occupying NH66 for some time, the farmers thrashed paddy plants to separate grains on the spot to vent out their anger over the Rs. 1,700 MSP announced by the State Government. Farmers said while Kerala had announced Rs. 2,740 MSP, the Karnataka Government should procure paddy at Rs. 2,500 a qunital at least, considering the increased costs of cultivation. Added to increased cultivation costs, untimely rains have considerably damaged standing crops and farmers had to incur extra expenditure to harvest the crops. Many of them have already transported paddy to mills nearby. Either the government should ask millers to pay the increased MSP or open procurement centres at the village level, farmers demanded and set one week deadline to announce increased MSP. Millers should give priority to locally grown paddy in procurement to paddy grown outside the district, they added. Speaking on the occasion, president of the samiti, Kota, Jayaram Shetty said farmers had been demanding enhanced MSP for paddy since two years now. Farmers had again petitioned the Government to offer increased MSP this month and since it has failed to do so, they have resorted to the protest, he said. Cultivation cost has increased to Rs. 32,000 an acre and the Rs. 1,600 a quinital they get at mills was woefully inadequate. APMC rules should be relaxed and middlemen should be prevented from interfering in procurement. Hangarakatta Balkudru mutt seer Nrusimhashrama Swami urged farmers to get united to prevent middlemen from exploiting them. He said farmers were not selfish; but work for the masses. Brahmavar Sugar Factory Administrative Committee president Baikady Suprasad Shetty, farmer leaders Jayaram Shetty Manuru, Bhoja Poojary Kota, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-stage-protest-in-brahmavar-seeking-higher-msp-for-paddy/article37364066.ece
07 November 2021||NALGONDA,||RTC likely to hike bus fares||The load of everyday diesel price to the State Road Transport Corporation would soon be shifted to general commuters. The move would, however, be cushioned with introduction of a range of new passenger-friendly schemes. “There are plans to hike the ticket fare across the services in the State in the wake of diesel price rise. We will also introduce more schemes like CAT (concessional annual travel) card,” V.C. Sajjanar, Managing Director-TSRTC, said. Speaking to the media in Nalgonda on Saturday, the top official reiterated that RTC needs public patronage. He encouraged the general public to avail custom packages such as vehicles for picnics, marriages and pilgrimages, without paying any deposit. In an attempt to understand rider quality and obtain passenger feedback, Mr. Sajjanar took the bus to Nalgonda from Hyderabad. At the bus stations, he inspected the stalls for MRP misuse, interacted with occupants in a bus, the dispensaries for employee health services and addressed staff at the depots. “Stop buses wherever passengers wave their hand and halt for two minutes at major traffic generating points to take more passengers,” he said, while assuring them of all welfare measures. Mr. Sajjanar also instructed officials to initiate strict action against persons for defacing buses, bus stations and the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rtc-likely-to-hike-bus-fares/article37363929.ece
07 November 2021||KALABURAGI,||Centre has no plans to set up new fertilizer units: Khuba||Bhagwanth Khuba, Union Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilizers, said that the Union Government had no plans to establish new fertilizer units to augment production in the country. “We have no plans to establish new fertilizer production units in the country considering the problems in procuring the required raw material,” Mr. Khuba said. “However, we will encourage private parties who are interested in opening new units. Some private companies have come forward and we are discussing with them on the assistance that the Government could extend including the land and incentives,” Mr. Khuba told presspersons in Kalaburagi after participating in a programme organised by the All-India Radio in the city. ‘No scarcity’ When asked about reports indicating the scarcity of fertilizer in the State, Mr. Khuba asserted that there was no dearth either in the State or in the country. “We have been supplying fertilizer as per the indents submitted by the State Governments. As for Karnataka, we have already supplied the required amount. I am in touch with the Chief Minister and Agriculture Minister to ensure that there is no scarcity of fertilizer in the State,” the Union MInister said. “Some vested interests who want to sell fertilizer in the black market are spreading lies of scarcity so that they could create a sense of fear and attract the farmers to sell their stock,” Mr. Khuba added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-has-no-plans-to-set-up-new-fertilizer-units-khuba/article37363909.ece
07 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||New Plus One batches by November 23: Sivankutty||New Plus One batches will be allowed by November 23 in schools that require more seats, General Education Minister V. Sivankutty has said. He was speaking after inaugurating a renovated auditorium at the Government Model Boys Higher Secondary School, Thycaud, on Saturday. The Minister said all students who wished to pursue Plus One courses would get opportunities for higher education. After the first supplementary allotment, nearly half-a-lakh students did not get allotment. Allotment was held to more than 39,000 of the nearly 42,000 seats available. As many as 94,390 applications have been received and 7,000 seats remain vacant after admission as per the first supplementary allotment. Shortage addressed After the main allotment, an order was issued addressing the shortage of Plus One seats by increasing the number of seats and shifting batches. In case of a seat crunch in the seven districts where a 20% marginal seat hike had been effected, a 10% seat increase would be allowed in government schools. In the seven districts where a marginal increase had not been announced, an increase in seats up to 20% would be sanctioned in government schools. Aided and unaided schools in districts which were allotted 20% marginal increase would be allowed a 10% increase if they applied. Aided and unaided schools in district that did not see any marginal increase would get a 20% increase. Applications for school/combination transfer allotment have been received for government school seats and those in aided schools, except management quota seats. Transfer allotment will be published on November 9, and transfer admission completed on November 9 and 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-plus-one-batches-by-november-23-sivankutty/article37363966.ece
07 November 2021||SRIKAKULAM / VIZIANAGARAM,||Solution in sight for water, border disputes between A.P. and Odisha||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s scheduled meeting with his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik on November 9 raises hopes of finding a permanent solution to two vexed issues bothering the neighbouring States – Vamsadhara Phase-II project in Srikakulam district and the dispute over the jurisdiction of Kotia villages in Vizianagaram district. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy will be attending a marriage at Pathapatnam in Srikakulam district on November 9, and will later go to Bhubaneswar to meet Mr. Naveen Patnaik in a first-of-its-kind effort to find an amicable solution to the disputes. Neradi barrage Though the Vamsadhara Water Disputes Tribunal has passed orders in favour of Andhra Pradesh on the Phase-II project, acquisition of land within the jurisdiction of Odisha for the construction of Neradi barrage is yet to be made. About 106 acres of land has to be acquired for the construction of the barrage, the foundation stone for which had been laid in 1962. With no solution in sight, the then Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy government had constructed a side weir to help store around 8 tmcft water out of 70 tmcft going waste every year during floods. The Gotta barrage constructed under Vamsadhara Phase-1 in 1977 is helping in utilising 30 tmcft water for providing irrigation facility to nearly 2 lakh acres. Construction of the Neradi barrage under Phase-II is crucial to provide irrigation water to nearly 2.5 lakh acres additionally. Dharmana Prasada Rao, Srikakulam MLA and former Minister in the YSR Cabinet, who could convince the former Chief Minister on the need for taking up hte Vamsadhara Phase-II project, is hopeful that the meeting of the Chief Ministers will end the deadlock over the issue. “Apart from Srikakulam district, the project will help Odisha farmers too. About 30,000 acres of land in Odisha can be provided irrigation facility on completion of the Neradi barrage,” Vamsadhara Project Superintending Engineer D. Tirumala Rao told The Hindu . Claim on Kotia villages Meanwhile, the Vizianagaram district administration is preparing a detailed note over the dispute involving the Kotia villages. Andhra Pradesh and Odisha are claiming jurisdiction over 16 villages along the inter-State border. While local public representatives are keen on being under the administrative jurisdiction of Andhra Pradesh, official in Odisha claim that they have the legitimate right over the villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/solution-in-sight-for-ap-odisha-water-dispute/article37363430.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||3 dengue deaths go unreported as cases surge||While Delhi’s official death toll due to dengue stands at six, records at Safdarjung Hospital show three more patients succumbed to the vector-borne disease in October. These deaths were not reported by civic authorities. According to documents of the Centre-run hospital accessed by The Hindu, a 14-year-old girl from Okhla died on October 14, while an 18-year-old man from Karawal Nagar and a 43-year-old man from Sangam Vihar died on October 30 and October 31 respectively. None of the five victims mentioned in the report issued by civic authorities on November 1 had been admitted to Safdarjung Hospital. The report said Delhi recorded 1,196 cases last month. A senior civic body official and Safdarjung Hospital officials refused to comment on the unreported deaths. ‘Insufficient care’ Family members and guardians of the three victims who died at Safdarjung Hospital have complained of medical negligence. “Despite his condition, he was not given an ICU bed due to unavailability. After hours of waiting, he was put on a ventilator-like system in the early morning hours. He did not get an ICU bed till the end,” said the guardian of the 18-year-old victim. The father of the 14-year-old victim alleged that “doctors did not attend to my child’s condition in a proper manner”. He said, “Government hospitals have a history of providing insufficient care. The doctors only wanted to complete their shift, they were not bothered about the treatment. I ended up raising my voice after a point and guards were sent to restrain me. They behaved in a rude manner.” ‘Rise in patients’ According to data provided by civic authorities, Delhi recorded 1,537 cases of dengue as on October 30. However, as per sources, the total number of cases from just two major Delhi hospitals could be higher than the official figure for the entire city. “On a 24-hour basis, at least 100 patients come in only for dengue-related cases,” said a source at Safdarjung Hospital. “Throughout October, we received about 80-100 cases of suspected and confirmed cases at the hospital every day. There were days when it was as high as 110-120 cases. A majority of these were later confirmed as dengue cases. No death has been reported so far at the hospital,” a source at LNJP Hospital said. Earlier, the Delhi Government had announced that hospitals in the city could use one-third of the beds reserved for treating COVID-19 patients for treating patients of vector-borne diseases.  Throughout October, we received 80-100 cases of suspected and confirmed cases at the hospital every day. There were days when it was as high as 110-120 cases Source at LNJP Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-dengue-deaths-go-unreported-as-cases-surge/article37363822.ece
07 November 2021||MYSURU,||Restoration of Hoysala-era temple in Somnathapura almost complete||The restoration of a major Hoysala-era temple at Somnathapura, which was in ruins, is nearing completion. Consecrated around 1265 CE and though being one of its kind, the Panchalingeshwara temple fell into disuse decades ago and crumbled owing to lack of maintenance; it even slipped out of public memory but for locals and scholars in the field of archaeology. The restoration was taken up by the Department of Archaeology, Museums and Heritage, Government of Karnataka, at a cost of nearly Rs. 3.87 crore almost three years ago. The extant portion of what remained of the temple was dismantled slab by slab and reassembled with the same orientation so as to maintain the originality as per the standard norms prescribed by the Archaeological Survey of India. In places where the original material could not be used, the authorities have used a substitute. The temple is about 500 metres from the road leading to the famous Keshava temple at Somnathapura and is surrounded by agricultural fields. Sources in the State Archaeology Department said that this was the first-ever restoration work of the Panchalingeshwara temple. Though the bulk of the civil works have been completed only three of the original five shrines are in place. Unlike the typical Hoysala temples exuding with sculptures, the walls of this temple are relatively plain. Describing the significance of the temple, N.S. Rangaraju, convener of INTACH, Mysuru chapter, and former professor of the Department of Ancient History and Archaeology, University of Mysore, said the Hoysala period saw a surge in temple-building activity of which some have survived. But there were only two temples with such a design incorporating five shrines (Panchakuta) aligned in a straight line within a single complex . The second such temple is at Govindanahalli in Mandya district which is well protected and frequented by devotees and tourists alike. Prof. Rangaraju said the temple at Govindanahalli was originally a Trikuta temple, i.e. with three sancta sanctorum while two were subsequently added to make it a Panchakuta structure. However, about the restoration of the Panchalingeshwara temple at Somnathapura, Prof. Rangaraju expressed concern that new material had been used in abundance, giving the temple a new look. “The restored temple has a modern look and the perforated stone windows (Jaalandhara) was not reflective of the Hoysala style,” said Prof. Rangaraju. But sources in the State Archaeology Department said the norms prescribed by the ASI had been followed and substitute material had been used only where required in the absence of the original.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/restoration-of-hoysala-era-temple-in-somnathapura-almost-complete/article37363905.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,||50% rebate on property tax for hotels, resorts||As tourism-related industries have been severely impacted by COVID-19, the State Government has issued an order to waive 50% of the property tax to be paid by owners of hotels, resorts, restaurants, and amusement parks in various urban local bodies of the State during the year 2021-22. This incentive would not be applicable for such establishments in Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike limits. Establishments registered under the Karnataka Tourism Trade (Facilitation and Regulation) Act, are eligible for the tax rebate, according to the order. Tourism-related industries, which were impacted by the pandemic, had urged the Government to provide concessions to revive their businesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/50-rebate-on-property-tax-for-hotels-resorts/article37363704.ece
07 November 2021||Chennai,||Oct. saw highest power shortage in over 5 years||India recorded a power supply shortage of 1,201 million units in October 2021 — the highest in 5.5 years — due to a crunch in coal stocks availability at thermal plants. The shortage was mostly restricted to Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Punjab and Rajasthan. In October, Gujarat recorded a power shortage of 215 million units, the highest for any month in more than a decade. With a shortage of 77 million units, Jharkhand too recorded its highest deficit in more than a decade. Bihar recorded 120 million units of shortage in October, the highest for any month in 8.5 years. Haryana saw 113 million units of shortage, the highest in about nine years. Punjab’s deficit stood at 121 million units, the highest in seven years. Rajasthan witnessed 242 million units of power shortage last month, the highest in over nine years. Supply shortage was also observed in Uttar Pradesh and the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir in October, however, they were not an anomaly but were similar to the general trend observed in the regions. Coal inventory The power shortage was primarily due to a supply crunch of coal to 135 thermal plants. As on November 5, the average coal inventory held by the plants would last only seven days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/oct-saw-highest-power-shortage-in-over-5-years/article37363473.ece
07 November 2021||KAKINADA,||Water shortage for rabi will be tackled: Minister||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Saturday promised an action plan to tackle the expected shortage of nearly 15 tmcft of water for the rabi 2021-22 season in the Godavari region in the wake of the ongoing Polavaram project works. The total extent under paddy for rabi is 8.96 lakh acres in the Central, Eastern and Western Deltas of the Godavari river in the region with East Godavari district alone accounting for 4.36 lakh acres. Mr. Kannababu told the media on the sidelines of the Zilla Parishad meeting that the government was aware of the issue. “An action plan will be prepared to utilise the available water sources. A meeting of the Irrigation Advisory Boards of the two Godavari districts will be held soon on tackling the irrigation water problem and sharing and managing the water sources,” he said.  On crop damage due to the recent rains, Mr. Kannababu said the Irrigation authorities were engaged in the enumeration of the damaged crops. “Paddy with 17% moisture will be procured at the Minimum Support Price through the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBK),” he said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/water-shortage-for-rabi-will-be-tackled-minister/article37363465.ece
07 November 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra sees 661 new COVID-19 cases, 10 deaths||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 661 fresh COVID-19 cases and 10 fatalities, taking the total tally of infections to 66,16,762 and the death toll to 1,40,372, the State Health Department said. With 896 patients being discharged during the day, the number of recoveries rose to 64,58,045, leaving the State with 14,714 active cases. However, the new cases were recorded after testing only 70,179 samples as the number of tests decreased due to Deepavali. The State has so far examined 6,31,75,053 samples. The case recovery rate now stands at 97.6%, while the fatality rate is 2.12%, the Health Department said. Mumbai reported 176 new cases and four deaths, which raised the caseload to 7,58,215 and the death toll to 16,273. Rise in Mumbai division Mumbai division recorded 339 fresh cases, taking the number of the cases to 17,03,506. A total of 35,604 patients have died so far due to COVID-19 in the Mumbai division. Nashik division reported 97 cases, including 64 in the Ahmednagar district. No death due to COVID-19 was reported from the Nashik region. Pune division added 165 cases, the Kolhapur division 26, the Aurangabad division 12, the Latur division 11, the Akola division 5, and the Nagpur division 6 cases, as per the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-sees-661-new-covid-19-cases-10-deaths/article37364028.ece
07 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Pushpaka Vimanam team visits Durga temple||The cast and crew of Telugu film Pushpaka Vimanam starring Anand Devarakonda, Saanve Megghana, Geeth Saini and others visited the Kanaka Durga temple on Saturday. The team, on a promotion tour, was here to seek the Goddess’ blessings for success of their film. Later, interacting with the media, actor Anand Devarakonda said the movie would release on November 12. “Please watch and tell us your feedback,” he said. He said Pushpaka Vimanam is a romantic comedy directed by Damodara and it had a huge cast including Sunil, Naresh and Kireeti Damaraju among others . “The audience will feast on loads of fun watching this film . It’ll be a roller coaster ride,” he said. He said he wanted to be choosy while selecting roles. “I want to be a good artiste than a star.” Asked if his actor brother Vijay Devarakonda helps in selection of the script, Mr. Anand said he doesn’t even look at the script. “When I said I was interested in acting, he made it clear that I should not expect any help ,” he said. Megghana said she was happy to be part of this film.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pushpaka-vimanam-team-visits-durga-temple/article37364194.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,||No more night curfew; horse racing allowed||The Karnataka Government has withdrawn the 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. night curfew in the State. It had been in force following the second wave of COVID-19. Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar said horse racing can resume. Number of patrons attending horse racing should be strictly as per the seating capacity of the venue, and only fully vaccinated people would be allowed to enter the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-more-night-curfew-horse-racing-allowed/article37363700.ece
07 November 2021||Mumbai,||SET to visit Mumbai on Monday||A Special Enquiry Team (SET) formed to probe allegations of extortion against Narcotics Control Bureau officials in connection with the cruise drugs case will return to Mumbai on Monday, said an official. The five-member SET, headed by NCB Deputy Director General Gyaneshwar Singh, was formed to conduct an inquiry into allegations made by independent witness Prabhakar Sail and others. It had left Mumbai before Deepavali after failing to record the statement of Mr. Sail, who levelled allegations against NCB officials, including NCB’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede. Mr. Sail said that there had been an attempt to extort money for letting off Aryan Khan in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/set-to-visit-mumbai-on-monday/article37364027.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Top view||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/top-view/article37363907.ece
07 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Digital varsity Act comes into effect||The Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology Act, 2021, has come into effect. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan recently gave his assent to the legislation that was unanimously passed by the Assembly last month. The Act has led to the repeal of the Kerala University of Digital Sciences, Innovation and Technology Ordinance, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/digital-varsity-act-comes-into-effect/article37363968.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Pollution busters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pollution-busters/article37363937.ece
07 November 2021||AMARAVATI,||Live up to your word on fuel prices, Naidu tells CM||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy fulfil his poll promise of making petrol and diesel available in the State for the lowest price in the country. He questioned the Chief Minister’s silence, saying that other States were slashing the fuel price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/live-up-to-your-word-on-fuel-prices-naidu-tells-cm/article37363467.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||All decked up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-decked-up/article37363472.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘China more active now at Chumbi Valley’||China is strengthening its connectivity and increasing its depth in the Chumbi Valley, close to India’s strategic and vulnerable Siliguri corridor, according to official sources. In its report to the U.S. Congress on military developments involving the People’s Republic of China (PRC), the Department of Defence said despite diplomatic and military dialogues to reduce border tensions, the PRC has “continued taking incremental and tactical actions to press its claims at the Line of Actual Control.” An official source said, “China is building an alternative axis in the Chumbi Valley. They are increasing their depth by building roads through Bhutanese territory.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/china-more-active-now-at-chumbi-valley/article37363476.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Spate of eye injury cases; PM2.5 pollution up||Deepavali celebrations brought their share of health concerns, ranging from breathlessness due to rising pollution levels to injuries. At least 45 people sustained eye injuries from crackers during the three-day festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spate-of-eye-injury-cases-pm25-pollution-up/article37363702.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Govt. extends free ration scheme till May||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that the Delhi Government’s free ration scheme to citizens will be extended by six more months, i.e., till May 2022, due to the continuing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-extends-free-ration-scheme-till-may/article37363825.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||AQI ‘severe’ in Delhi for second consecutive day||The air quality in Delhi improved slightly on Saturday but continued to be in the ‘severe’ category for the second consecutive day due to unfavourable weather conditions, cracker emissions and rampant stubble burning, according to official data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aqi-severe-in-delhi-for-second-consecutive-day/article37363823.ece
07 November 2021||Mangaluru,||New attendance system at KIOCL pellet plant||Adapting to new technology, KIOCL on Saturday formally launched new face-recognition attendance system at its pellet plant. The 600-odd employees hitherto used to punch in and punch out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-attendance-system-at-kiocl-pellet-plant/article37364067.ece
07 November 2021||Mumbai,||Anil Deshmukh sent to judicial custody||Maharashtra’s former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh was sent to judicial custody by a holiday Court on Saturday in a case of money laundering and corruption. He was arrested by the Central agency on November 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anil-deshmukh-sent-to-judicial-custody/article37364029.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Govt. extends free ration scheme till May||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that the Delhi Government’s free ration scheme to citizens will be extended by six more months, i.e., till May 2022, due to the continuing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-extends-free-ration-scheme-till-may/article37364030.ece
07 November 2021||Chennai,||862 cases of COVID-19 reported in Tamil Nadu||Fresh COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu dropped to 862 on Saturday. In Coimbatore, the case count fell below 100 after almost eight months. Ten deaths due to COVID-19 were reported in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/862-cases-of-covid-19-reported-in-tamil-nadu/article37363729.ece
07 November 2021||Chennai,||Wet spell to continue for more days||Most places in the State may continue to receive moderate rain till Wednesday. The ongoing wet spell will extend for more days as the Bay of Bengal may churn out another fresh weather system around November 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wet-spell-to-continue-for-more-days/article37363730.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Rise, fall and return of Tigrayan rebels||When Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed ordered a military operation in Ethiopia’s northern Tigray region in November 2020, he promised that it would be a short one. The trigger was a military raid carried out by the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), an ethno-nationalist paramilitary group-cum-political party, on a camp of federal soldiers. A year later, the TPLF has not only recaptured Tigray but also moved south, towards Addis Ababa, Ethiopia’s capital that hosts the headquarters of the African Union. On November 5, the TPLF and eight other opposition groups, including the Oromo Liberation Army, formed an alliance, the United Front of Ethiopian Federalist and Confederalist Force, to oust Mr. Abiy’s government. Under pressure, Mr. Abiy has declared a nationwide state of emergency and asked citizens to take up arms and join the fight against the rebels. Mr. Abiy seemed to have underestimated the rebels when he launched the war. The TPLF, which fought the military dictatorship in the 1970s and 1980s and headed the country’s ruling coalition from 1991 to 2018, has been one of the most powerful political forces in Ethiopia. Formed in the mid-1970s, the TPLF rose as a leftist ethno-nationalist group of Tigrayans against the Derg, the Marxist military dictatorship of Mengistu Haile Mariam. In the 1970s, the TPLF, aligned with the Eritrean People’s Liberation Front (Eritrea was then part of Ethiopia), fought against the Derg. Founded by 11 guerillas, the TPLF had some 2,000 fighters by 1978, according to CIA estimates. In the 1980s, with support from the local people, it grew as the most formidable military opponent of the Derg. When Ethiopia fell into a disastrous famine in 1983-85, the TPLF was in the forefront of humanitarian works in Tigray, collaborating with international agencies, while at the same time, turning up the political and military heat on the Derg. New rulers When the dictatorship of Mengistu collapsed in 1991, TPLF guerrillas were welcomed in Addis Ababa as heroes. Ever since, the TPLF-led coalition, the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front (EPRDF), ruled the country through a mix of federalism and authoritarianism. Ethiopia is a confederation of 10 provinces, which are largely divided on ethnic lines. The Oromos and the Amharas, who together make up more than 60% of the population, are the country’s two largest ethnic groups. The Tigrayans, who constitute the core of the TPLF, are the third-largest group, making up some 7% of Ethiopia’s 115 million people. Under the new system, local parties had some autonomy in the regions. At the federal level, the EPRDF maintained its political monopoly. Meles Zenawi, the charismatic TPLF leader who became Ethiopia’s President in 1991 and then Prime Minister in 1994 under the new Constitution, oversaw the country’s transition from the military dictatorship to what he called “ethnic federalism”. Under Zenawi’s rule, Ethiopia found relative peace with itself and started a trajectory of economic modernisation and growth. This was the period when Africa’s second most populous country demonstrated signs of economic transformation and political stability at home, even as it was fighting a brutal border war with Eritrea. As a leader who founded the EPRDF and led the rebellion that brought down the military regime, Zenawi enjoyed popularity across regions and commanded loyalty within the ruling coalition. He built a state whose levers were controlled by the TPLF and yet he could keep his coalition intact. After Zenawi’s death in 2012, the ethnic and political contradictions started resurfacing. His successor, Hailemariam Desalegn, found himself helpless as ethnic rebellions, especially by Amhara and Oromo groups, intensified, challenging the federal authority. It was against this background that the EPRDF picked Mr. Abiy to lead the government in 2018. An ethnic Oromo, the challenge before Mr. Abiy was to calm the ethnic nerves, ensure unity among the ruling elite and put the country back on the track of growth and stability. Mr. Abiy was initially welcomed as a reformer. He lifted the state of emergency, granted amnesty to thousands of political prisoners, lifted curbs on the media, legalised banned political outfits and dismissed military and civilian leaders who were facing allegations of corruption and other wrongdoing. He promised to strengthen “Ethiopia’s democracy” by holding free and fair elections. PM Abiy also resumed talks with Eritrea, ended the war, which began in 1998, and reached a final settlement. His reforms and peace-making earned him international recognition, including the 2019 Nobel Peace Prize. Domestic angle But most of Mr. Abiy’s reform measures had a domestic political angle. The political prisoners he released had been detained by the TPLF regime. Most of the leaders arrested or sacked were the TPLF’s old hands. Eritrea shares a long border with the Tigray region and the TPLF sees Eritrea’s ruling party as a sworn enemy. When Mr. Abiy mobilised power in hands through a host of political moves, the TPLF got sidelined. Mr. Abiy’s decision to dissolve the EPRDF, the TPLF-led coalition, and float a new party, Prosperity Party, practically ended the TPLF’s reign in Addis Ababa. The TPLF leadership, including former Deputy Prime Minister Debretsion Gebremichael, retreated to Tigray. The party has a 12-member executive committee, comprising politicians, ideologues and security czars, many veterans of the 1980s civil war. All of them are based in Tigray. When Mr. Abiy decided to postpone elections in September 2020, citing COVID-19, the TPLF called it a coup, and went ahead with regional polls in Tigray, in defiance of the federal government. In November, the TPLF says, the government sent troops to the borders of Tigray for an attack and that the rebels carried out a pre-emptive raid, following which Mr. Abiy declared his war on Tigray. Later, the federal government labelled the TPLF a terrorist organisation. Clearly, Mr. Abiy wanted to finish the TPLF as a political force. But it was easier hoped than done. Having been in power for 30 years, the TPLF had built a national defence force with a sizeable number of Tigray men. The war had created fissures in the military. To overcome this internal weakness, Mr. Abiy sought help from ethnic militias as well as the Eritrean army. They ran over Tigray within a month and captured most of the region, including its capital Mekele. On November 28, 2020, Mr. Abiy announced that “major military operations were completed”. But the war was far from over. For the TPLF, the mountainous region of Tigray is its home. The mountains protected them in the 1970s and the 1980s from the wrath of the Derg. Once again, they regrouped in the mountains and struck back. By June, the rebels inflicted a humiliating defeat on the government troops, who had to withdraw from Tigray. And then, the TPLF has moved further south, seizing more territories in neighbouring regions. Mr. Abiy is now on the back foot. He wanted to crush the TPLF, but in course, he pushed the whole country into a civil war. His troops and military allies, as well as the TPLF, face allegations of war crimes. There are reports of Tigrayans being rounded up by federal police and troops in Addis Ababa and elsewhere. Tigray, whose supplies and economic aid have been cut off by the federal government, is on the brink of a famine. Still, both sides refuse to talk. Already facing a credibility crisis and faced with not many good options, Mr. Abiy says he will “bury this enemy with our blood and bones”. The “enemy”, on the other side, faces little pressure to hold talks after the recent military victories. A bigger conflict seems to be brewing up in Ethiopia.  In Focus Formed in the mid-1970s, the TPLF rose as an ethno- nationalist group of Tigrayans against the Derg, the Marxist military dictatorship In 1991, a TPLF-led coalition toppled the military regime and established a transition government. The coalition would stay in power until the rise of Abiy Ahmed Now, the TPLF, which controls Tigray, has joined forces with eight other opposition groups to oust the government of Abiy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rise-fall-and-return-of-tigrayan-rebels/article37363410.ece
07 November 2021||PATNA,||‘Hooch’ takes 4 more lives; BJP says prohibition failed in Bihar||After hooch claimed 39 lives in Gopalganj and West Champaran districts in Bihar, four died of consumption of suspected spurious liquor in Samastipur in the State late on Friday. Five have been admitted in serious condition to different hospitals in the district. Officials said the deaths were reported in the Rupauli panchayat limits in Patori block, and the cause could be known only after the post-mortem reports came out. Villagers said the victims consumed spurious liquor a day after Deepavali and their condition deteriorated on Friday evening. The dead are Shyam Nandan Chaudhury, Birendra Rai, Mohan Kumar and Vinay Singh. Mohan, 27, was in the armed forces. Vinay, 54, was said to be working in the Border Security Force. Those admitted to hospital are Abhilakh Rai, Benga Rai, Suman Kumar, Deepak Kumar and Kundan Kumar. “They are also said to have attended a function in the village, after which they fell ill,” a villager said. Senior police officer Om Prakash Arun told presspersons, “The cause of their deaths can be ascertained only after seeing the post-mortem reports.” The local administration has arrested a few in Gopalganj district. Janata Dal(U) president Rajeev Ranjan Singh, aka Lalan Singh, on Saturday told presspersons, “…those who will violate prohibition rules will be punished, but prohibition will continue in the State.” CM’s directive Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday said he would review the deaths on November 16, after the four-day Chhath (sun god) festival. He asked officials to monitor implementation of prohibition every alternate day. “During festivals like Holi, Deepavali and Chhath, migrant labourers come to their native places in Bihar in large numbers. They might be drinking with their saved money and becoming victims of spurious liquor,” social activist Mahendra Yadav said. “The social profile of those who died must be brought out by some organisations to wake up the Nitish Kumar Government,” senior RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari told The Hindu . BJP State president Sanjay Jaiswal on Saturday cornered the Government, and said that “prohibition in the State has failed and there is need to review prohibition with all its success and failure after over the five years.” He told presspersons in Patna that “police at local level have nexus with liquor mafia and people are getting liquor easily”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/suspected-spurious-liquor-claims-4-more-lives-in-bihar/article37363378.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||Sidhu derailing steps to ensure justice in sacrilege case, says A-G||Escalating the political crisis in the State, Punjab’s Advocate-General (A-G) A.P.S. Deol on Saturday broke his silence to launch a scathing attack on Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Navjot Singh Sidhu, who, in turn, visited the gurdwara in Faridkot from where a copy of the Guru Granth Sahib was stolen in 2015. Mr. Sidhu has been questioning the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress Government on the steps taken for the delivery of justice in sacrilege cases, and also asked the Government to make public the Special Task Force’s report in drug cases in the past 50 days. In a statement released on Saturday, Mr. Deol said Mr. Sidhu’s repeated utterances sought to derail the earnest efforts of the State Government to ensure justice in the “drugs matter” and the “sacrilege cases”. “Mr. Sidhu is spreading misinformation to gain political advantage over his political colleagues. There is a concerted attempt by vested interests to malign the functioning of the Congress party in view of the coming elections in Punjab for selfish political gain by politicising the constitutional office of the A-G of Punjab,” Mr. Deol stated. Mr. Deol’s remarks came a day after Mr. Sidhu withdrew his resignation as Punjab Congress chief, but declared that he would not resume charge till Mr. Deol was removed as A-G and a panel set up for the appointment of a new Director-General of Police (DGP), replacing Preet Singh Sahota. Mr. Sidhu resigned from the PCC president’s post on September 28, after the Punjab Chief Minister, Mr. Channi, picked Mr. Deol and Mr. Sahota as A-G and DGP respectively. Mr. Deol had represented former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in cases related to the 2015 sacrilege incidents and police firing on protesters, while Mr. Sahota was the head of the Special Investigation Team formed by the previous Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP Government to probe the sacrilege incidents. Clear indication The A-G’s statement is a clear indication that Mr. Channi is digging in his heels and does not want to concede any more ground to Mr. Sidhu. Mr. Deol’s removal will render Mr. Channi’s leadership ineffective, especially so close to the Assembly election. Equally, Mr. Sidhu’s visit to the Faridkot gurudwara indicates that he is in no mood to back down. Uploading long videos and several pictures from his visit, Mr. Sidhu tweeted, “Ardas at Gurudwaara saheb Burj Jawahar Singh wala, Bargari …. Praying for exemplary punishment for those involved in the sacrilege of Guru Granth saheb ji … should be a deterrent for generations to come!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sidhu-spreading-misinformation-to-gain-mileage-over-colleagues/article37363385.ece
07 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rajpath revamp is on track, says official||The unusual amount of rainfall this monsoon, coupled with flooding due to the high water table, did lead to some delays in the redevelopment of the Central Vista Avenue, but with additional workers deployed now, the project was likely to be done in time for the Republic Day Parade preparations on Rajpath, Government officials said this week. Preparations for the parade usually pick up in December, with temporary seating arrangements, sound systems and CCTV cameras and other facilities being installed along the way. The ongoing redevelopment project includes permanent solutions for utilities and amenities for the public that earlier had been put up for the parade every year, according to the architect of the revamp, Bimal Patel. With about a month to go, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry officials stated that the revamped Rajpath from Vijay Chowk to India Gate would be ready by mid-December. A senior official observed that “all efforts are on to complete” the project, including increasing the number of workers from 3,600 to 4,000. Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri visited the site on September 21 and later announced the addition of workers to make up for the delays caused by rains. The official noted that the project included the challenge of construction of underpasses at a site where the water table was high, leading to flooding when the ground was dug up. The rainfall, which was the highest for a September in 77 years, also led to challenges for compacting the soil. However, the official asserted that the underpasses, eight amenity blocks, vending areas and around 10 km of walking paths would be ready before the parade. Granite pathways About 1.67 km of granite pathways had been completed, the officer pointed out. For the parade, 30,000 bleachers had been ordered. The canals along Rajpath would have recycled water, for which a sewage treatment plant (STP) was being constructed. The project began in February after the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) awarded the contract to Shapoorji Pallonji & Company following a tendering process in 2020. The project was estimated to cost Rs. 608 crore, according to the CPWD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajpath-revamp-is-on-track-says-official/article37363401.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A marriage made on earth||If shorn of titles and public standing, the marriage between two thirty-year-olds, Mako and Kei Komuro, would have the fairy tale culmination of a long period of courtship and romance. But in Japan where even if the monarchy is constitutionally “symbolic”, Princess Mako’s wedding to the “commoner” Komuro was not just any love story. Princess Mako is the eldest daughter of the Crown Prince Akishino and the niece of Emperor Naruhito. Japan’s tryst with modernity and technology has not resulted in substantive gender equality, and patriarchy reigns supreme even in its sophisticated and highly industrialised economy. Symbolising this patriarchal setting is the “reformed monarchy”, which is subject to the 1947 Imperial Household Law, which restricts succession to “legitimate-born sons, grandsons and male line descendants of an Emperor” and women in the family who marry commoners are stripped of their royal status. None of this prevented the now newly christened Mako Komuro from proceeding with her wedding that occurred on October 26, but a controversy almost derailed the marriage. Mr. Komuro’s mother had been embroiled in a financial controversy with her former fiancé, with the man claiming that he had financed Mr. Komuro’s education while his mother considered it a gift. This brought undue scrutiny over the princess’ choice of her fiancé. The princess finally went ahead with her wedding, four years after her engagement, by forgoing a dowry worth ¥152.5 million. The royal family in Japan is currently headed by Emperor Naruhito, who succeeded his father Akihito who abdicated in 2019. With the law limiting successors only to male descendants, the only two possible successors are Akishino (the Emperor’s brother) and his teenage son Prince Hisahito. Undue pressure This situation has put undue pressure on the women in the family to bear “male heirs” even as the Japanese Parliament, the Diet, passed a law in 2017 encouraging the possibility of allowing women born in the royal family to retain their imperial status even after marrying. The drama surrounding the potential succession in the Imperial House is ironically converse to the institution’s role in post-War Japan. Under both Emperor Akihito and his son Naruhito, the monarchy sought to undo the excesses of the pre-war and war period and to keenly observe the constitutional mandate of a symbolic institution committed to the unity of Japan. The former emperor Akihito, in particular, sought to promote the values of pacifism, development, internationalism and democracy. Akihito’s tenure was marked by a clear indication of the Imperial House seeking to emulate the role of the British monarchy in its political system. This reform was partly a result of design — an outcome of the new Constitution that was created with American pressure during the Allied occupation of Japan after its defeat in the Second World War — and partly a result of sui generis reform by the royalty. The outcomes of the war — the devastation of several cities, including Hiroshima and Nagasaki due to the dropping of the nuclear bombs by the U.S.— led to a re-evaluation of the role of the monarchy, which, despite its unpopularity in the immediate post-War period, survived and changed its emphasis to a symbolic sovereign power. Kenneth Ruoff, a professor of modern Japanese history at Portland State University, told The Japan Times that Princess Mako’s marriage is a warning sign that could indicate that the imperial system is in a crisis, as it puts undue pressure on the only unmarried male successor, Prince Hisahito. Even the limited symbolism of the Imperial House has had a telling effect on the lives of the Japanese royals as they are forced to live up to the “morality” expected of the institution from the conservatives. Japan’s conservatism is under stress because of an ageing population and a dwindling labour force, indicating the need for reforms to allow for more women to take part in economic life. If Ms. Komuro’s articulated concerns are anything to go by, the royalty’s younger generation may also seek further reform and the loosening of conservatism in Japanese lives as much as theirs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-marriage-made-on-earth/article37363405.ece
07 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘China strengthening connectivity in Chumbi’||China is strengthening connectivity and increasing its depth in Chumbi valley, close to India’s strategic and vulnerable Siliguri corridor, also called Chicken’s Neck, according to official sources. The area was recently termed “sensitive” by Lieutenant-General Manoj Pande, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Army Command. In its just-released annual report 2021 to the U.S. Congress on military and security developments involving the People’s Republic of China (PRC), the Department of Defence (DoD) noted that despite the ongoing diplomatic and military dialogues to reduce border tensions, the PRC has “continued taking incremental and tactical actions to press its claims at the Line of Actual Control [LAC]”. “China is building an alternative axis in the Chumbi valley, which is close to the Siliguri corridor. They are increasing their depth by building roads through Bhutanese territory,” an official source said. By this, it was securing its routes while putting pressure on the Siliguri corridor, which was vital for India, two officials independently stated. Satellite images that came out last year had shown China building roads along the Torsa river area through Bhutanese territory. In this context, the recent memorandum of understanding (MoU) on a three-step road map between Bhutan and China to speed up their talks for boundary resolution was significant and could have implications for India, a third defence official said. The Siliguri corridor is a stretch of land bordering Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal. At the narrowest, it is about 20-22 km. In a recent conversation, Lt. Gen. Pande said the geostrategic significance of the corridor came about in terms of it being a narrow piece of land that connects the northeast to the rest of the country, through which major national highways, railway lines, pipelines, Off-Shore Cable (OFC) connectivity and the rest pass. Lt. Gen. Pande said the other aspect was the demography and its dynamics in that area and “related challenges of radicalisation and separatist tendencies whose activities can be inimical to our security interest”. “So, yes, the Siliguri corridor is sensitive to us,” he said. On the efforts to address this issue, he said they were looking at a “whole of the nation approach”, wherein not only the security forces, the military and certain other Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF), but also the Governments of the States around the Siliguri corridor and Central agencies were all working together in a coordinated manner to “mitigate this threat in normal times, the hybrid threat as and when it manifests as also during conflict conditions”. “Only recently, we have set up a joint coordinating centre under the Army and that has proved to be effective to coordinate actions of all agencies that work there,” he said. He said at the national level, there was a thought process to look at alternative means in terms of economic activities, etc., to mitigate this threat to the Siliguri corridor. PLA recruitment drive The Peoples Liberation Army (PLA) had conducted a month-long recruitment drive in Chumbi valley of around 400 Tibetan persons in August, according to intelligence inputs. The aim was to recruit at least one Tibetan aged 18-40 an household into the PLA militia, one official said, citing the inputs. “The new recruits from Phari Dzong and Yatung will undergo one-year training at the PLA facilities in Lhasa,” the official disclosed. After the training, they were likely to be deployed on the India-China border, he added. On China’s continued build-up along the LAC, the DoD annual report revealed: “Sometime in 2020, the PRC built a large 100-home civilian village inside disputed territory between the PRC’s Tibet Autonomous Region and India’s Arunachal Pradesh state in the eastern sector of the LAC.” Responding to questions on the Chinese “model villages” close to the LAC, Lt. Gen. Pande noted last month that the concern was the dual use, civil and military, of these villages. The DoD report said Beijing, asserting that its deployments close to the LAC were in response to Indian provocation, had refused to withdraw any forces until India’s forces withdrew behind the PRC’s version of the LAC and ceased infrastructure improvements in the area. As of June 2021, India and China continued to maintain large-scale deployments along the LAC, it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-strengthening-connectivity-in-chumbi/article37363387.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||Ajit Doval holds strategic dialogue with France||India and France committed to closer cooperation in the Indo-Pacific through more intelligence sharing and expanding bilateral exercises in the maritime sphere, as National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval met with French President Emmanuel Macron’s diplomatic advisor Emmanuel Bonne in Paris for the annual strategic dialogue, the Indian Embassy announced on Saturday. “[The two sides] agreed to strengthen bilateral defence and security partnership through enhanced intelligence and information sharing, operational cooperation, bolstering mutual capabilities, expanding bilateral exercises and pursuing new initiatives in maritime, space and cyber domains,” said the release, giving details of Mr. Doval’s meetings, including his discussions with French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and Defence Minister Florence Parly. The NSA, who is hosting a regional conference on Afghanistan in Delhi on Wednesday, where security officials from Russia, Iran and Central Asian countries are expected to attend, also discussed cooperation with France on the developing situation there. The two sides also discussed “the continuing challenge of terrorism; and, emerging threats in maritime, cyber and space domains”, the release added. Mr. Doval travelled to France after accompanying Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who travelled to Rome for the G20 summit and Glasgow for the COP26 climate change summit. Bilateral meet While PM Modi and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar have met their counterparts during pull-aside meetings at both conferences as well as at the UN General Assembly in September, the NSA’s meeting was the first formal bilateral meeting between India and France since the blow-up over U.S. President Biden’s announcement of a new Indo-Pacific alliance with the U.K. and Australia. The alliance meant that Australia’s ongoing discussions with France for submarines was shelved, and the French President reacted sharply to the “betrayal” by allies, recalling diplomats and issuing demarche s over the issue. New Delhi, which was also informed about the new alliance just days before PM Modi’s visit to the U.S. for the Quad summit, distanced itself from the alliance, leading to speculation that India would open talks with France for the same submarines. Readouts on both sides didn’t refer to the Aukus alliance, but Indo-Pacific strategy formed a large part of the discussion during the strategic dialogue and other meetings in Paris. “The strategic partnership of France and India is essential to strengthen multilateralism and the defence of an Indo-Pacific space [that is] free, open and based on the excellent conversation worthy of a trusted strategic partnership,” emphasised Mr. Drian in a tweet. ( With inputs from      Dinakar Peri )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ajit-doval-holds-strategic-dialogue-with-france/article37363397.ece
07 November 2021||Mumbai,||BJP leader links NCP man to conspiracy behind drug bust||As Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mohit Kamboj on Saturday alleged that a worker of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), known as Sunil Patil, was part of the conspiracy in the Aryan Khan drug case, photos of Mr. Patil, along with arrested independent witness in the case, K.P. Gosavi, and BJP leader Manish Bhanushali, taking blessings from Union Home Minister Amit Shah surfaced. At a press conference, Mr. Kamboj said that Mr. Patil coordinated the whole episode with Sam D’Souza. “He (Patil) sent a WhatsApp message to Sam D’Souza on October 1 and told him that he had leads on 27 people who were going to consume illegal drugs at a cruise party,” Mr. Kamboj said, adding that he asked D’Souza to get a person named Kiran Gosavi to coordinate with the NCB for action in the case. He said Mr. Patil was close to Hrishikesh, former Home Minister of Maharashtra Anil Deshmukh. Mr. Kamboj also claimed that a drug peddler named Chinkoo Pathan had come to the Sahyadri guest house to meet Mr. Deshmukh. Asked about the claims, NCP leader and State Minister Nawab Malik rubbished them. “A member of Sameer Dawood Wankhede’s private army just held a press conference to misguide and divert attention from the truth albeit unsuccessfully. I will reveal the truth tomorrow,” he wrote on Twitter. Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant tweeted a photo of Mr. Patil and Mr. Bhanushali touching the feet of Mr. Shah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-leader-links-ncp-man-to-conspiracy-behind-drug-bust/article37363361.ece
07 November 2021||GUWAHATI/NEW DELHI,||Tripura slaps UAPA cases against lawyers, activists||The Tripura police have filed criminal cases against more than 70 persons, including Supreme Court lawyers, activists, journalists and religious leaders. Eight persons have been arrested from different districts. This followed a request from the police to Facebook, Twitter and YouTube to provide details of 101 accounts from which “fake and provocative” messages and photos were posted on some reported incidents in Tripura in response to the attack on Hindus in Bangladesh. “Cases were filed against 71 persons under various provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act [UAPA] and the Indian Penal Code [IPC]. Those booked have been asked to appear before the investigating officers on November 10,” a senior police officer said. He said separate letters were sent to the social media platforms, whose authorities have started taking action against the account holders on the Tripura police’s radar. Journalist Shyam Meera Singh confirmed via Twitter that the BJP-led Tripura Government had slapped the UAPA against him for writing three words — “Tripura is burning”. UAPA notices were also sent to Supreme Court lawyers Ehtesham Hashmi, Amit Srivastava, Ansar Indori and Mukesh Kumar for “provocative” posts on social media. The report claimed that at least 12 mosques, nine shops and three houses belonging to Muslims were vandalised in Tripura during the rallies by groups protesting the violence against Hindus in Bangladesh during and after Durga Puja in October. The police claimed the incidents were exaggerated by social media users and the security forces acted swiftly to control the situation. The Tripura High Court had last week directed the State Government to file a detailed report by November 10 on the incidents, if any, involving the religious minorities in Tripura. Meanwhile, leaders of four Muslim organisations on Saturday demanded an inquiry into the role of the Tripura police and the administration in the violence. At a joint press conference in Delhi, the All India Muslim Majlis-e-Mushawarat (AIMMM), the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH), the Markazi Jamiat Ahle Hadees Hind and the All India Milli Council said 16 mosques were attacked in various parts of Tripura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tripura-slaps-uapa-cases-against-lawyers-activists/article37363383.ece
07 November 2021||Srinagar,||Fresh combing operation in Rajouri after tip-off||A tip-off about the presence of a group of militants in a forest area in Rajouri on Saturday initiated a fresh combing operation by the Army in the Pir Panjal valley, where nine soldiers lost their lives to the twin firefights with militants in October. Official sources said the Army fanned out its men in a vast area of the Khablan forests “immediately after local villagers tipped them off about the presence of heavily armed militants”. “No contact is established yet. However, the combing operation was carried out during the day,” the officials said. The fresh operation resulted in the closing down of the Thanmandi-Rajouri road for traffic “as a precautionary measure”. Enhanced militancy The twin districts of Rajouri and Poonch in the Pir Panjal valley saw heightened militancy this year. Top Army officials in the past 27 days visited the area to augment the anti-terror grid. Multiple groups of militants engaged the Army in twin firefights on October 11 and 14 in the valley, which resulted in the death of nine soldiers, including two officers. These militant groups were spotted in the Surankote and Mendhar forests. The longest search operation was launched in the Bhatti Durrian in the Pir Panjal valley in the last week of October. One militant was killed in the area when he was taken to the forest “to identify the infiltration routes” from a Jammu jail. Tough terrain has proven advantageous to the infiltrators, who hide in some natural caves and also take shelter in the forest, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fresh-combing-operation-in-rajouri-after-tip-off/article37363363.ece
07 November 2021||Auraiya/Lucknow,||U.P. CM attacks ‘cultureless’ Akhilesh over Jinnah remark||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday targeted Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav over his Jinnah remark, saying that someone who is “cultureless” cannot be expected to know the difference between a national hero and a traitor. He was attacking Mr. Yadav for his remarks in which he appeared to have equated Pakistan’s founder Mohammad Ali Jinnah with Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Without naming the SP chief directly, Mr. Adityanath said a leader of a party had recently spoke of Sardar Patel and Jinnah in the same breath as leaders who fought for India’s Independence. During a public meeting in Hardoi on October 31, Mr. Yadav had put together names of Mahatma Gandhi and other freedom fighters with Jinnah’s. “Sardar Patel, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Jinnah studied in the same institute and became barristers. They helped [India] get freedom and never backed away from any struggle,” he had said. During a programme launching online transfer of money in the accounts of parents of 1.80 crore students studying under Basic Shiksha Parishad at his official residence in Lucknow, Mr. Adityanath said, “Remember, if education is incomplete, culture is lacking, etiquette is lost, then you cannot expect that person to feel the difference between a national hero and a traitor.” In Auraiya, earlier in the day, Mr. Adityanath warned people against political parties which equate Sardar Patel with Jinnah. At the foundation stone laying of a government medical college here and inaugurating other projects, he said, “A leader of a party had a few days back in a speech attempted to equate Sardar Vallabhbai Patel, the man who symbolised the unity of India, with Muhammad Ali Jinnah, who divided the country. The entire State should reject such shameful and condemnable remarks.” Referring to his government’s achievements in the field of basic education, he said when his government was formed in 2017, the condition of basic education was very bad, but today it is better and a lot of improvements have taken place. The CM also called for promoting technology and said that online money transfer into the accounts of parents will help avoid charges of corruption in the Education Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-cm-attacks-cultureless-akhilesh-over-jinnah-remark/article37364033.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||More people need to get vaccinated, say doctors||The growing COVID-19 vaccination coverage in India is not enough and people opting not to get vaccinated has the potential to cause a new outbreak, warn doctors. “If people decide not to get vaccinated due to hesitancy and doubts, or even if the vaccination is delayed due to logistical reasons, the potential of new outbreaks of COVID-19 remains very high. New variants of SARS-CoV-2 are sprouting, which might be more transmissible and resistant to vaccines,” Mubasheer Ali, senior, internal medicine, Apollo Telehealth, pointed out. He noted that vaccination in India was still a matter of choice. A coordinated pan-India campaign could reduce the impact of the pandemic. “It’s a technically feasible thing, but because of the scale of population to be vaccinated, geography and terrain and the enormous time being consumed for the process, it can be hampered,” he remarked. Promoting the uptake of vaccines would require understanding whether people are willing to be vaccinated and the reasons why they were willing or unwilling to do so. “So, the need of the hour is to speed up the vaccination process and drives, spread awareness about disease and its effects and making sure there is no vaccine hesitancy by rightly educating the people. The world shares a collective responsibility in fighting this pandemic; therefore, continued research on COVID-19 vaccine acceptance and hesitancy should be a priority,” he asserted. Citing the example of Germany, doctors said the country was currently witnessing a “pandemic of the unvaccinated”. Dr. Sundari Shrikant, director, internal medicine, QRG Super Speciality Hospital, Faridabad, observed that there was currently a broad agreement within the global scientific community that the most effective way to defeat the pandemic was through mass vaccination of populations around the world. “Opting not to get vaccinated puts the person, his family and the community at large at risk of infection and the spread of the disease. Vaccination not only prevents infection but, if infected, the person develops mild infection. It also prevents community spread. Besides, it is important to emphasise the continued practice of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour for personal safety and prevention of community transmission,” Dr. Shrikant highlighted. Doctors stressed that people who were unvaccinated have higher chances of getting moderate to severe COVID-19 and undergo hospitalisation. “Natural immunity on an average stays for three months, post vaccination, it stays much longer in the body and as such can be protective for a longer period, slowing down the transmission of the virus,” Dr. Ankita Baidya, consultant, infectious diseases, HCMCT Manipal Hospitals, emphasised. According to a Health Ministry release issued on Saturday, more than 116.54 crore (1,16,54,44,605) vaccine doses had been provided to the States/Union Territories so far through the Central Government (free of cost channel) and through direct State procurement category. More than 15.69 crore (15,69,46,111) balance and unutilised vaccine doses were still available with the States/UTs to be administered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-people-need-to-get-vaccinated-say-doctors/article37363403.ece
07 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Huzurabad proved BJP is the only alternative to TRS’||The Huzurabad bypoll proved that the only alternative to the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi is Bharatiya Janata Party, its charged leaders from the Centre and the State asserted, at the victory celebrations here on Saturday. “Telangana is being run by anti-Telangana forces now; the Telangana Bhavan too is filled with them. BJP, which fought for the State, is the platform for true activists of Telangana,” Minister of Tourism G. Kishan Reddy said. BJP State chief Bandi Sanjay gathered several leaders on Saturday to extend a grand welcome to Huzurabad victor Eatala Rajender to Hyderabad, a first after the bypoll result. Paying floral tributes at the Martyrs’ Memorial, the exuberant union of leaders and activists immersed Mr. Rajender in a saffron procession till the party office at Nampally. For Minister Kishan Reddy, people of Huzurabad delivered a historic mandate and their message through the election was: “End KCR’s family rule, honour people’s rule” ‘KCR constitution’ A determined Mr. Rajender dedicating his victory to Huzurabad’s people observed that activism was back in Telangana, as its people started feeling ridiculed about their self-esteem. “It is not B.R. Ambedkar’s Constitution in Telangana that is being implemented, but KCR’s constitution. The official machinery in Huzurabad – administration, police and the electoral staff – had openly ridiculed the test of democracy,” he said, and added that he would approach the ECI with sufficient evidence to initiate action. Mr. Rajender expressed confidence that BJP’s tally that began in Dubbak, GHMC and Huzurabad polls would continue in 2023, to elect it as the only alternative party to TRS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/huzurabad-proved-bjp-is-the-only-alternative-to-trs/article37363827.ece
07 November 2021||Mumbai,||Judicial custody for Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra’s former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh was sent to judicial custody by a holiday Court on Saturday in a case of money laundering and corruption. Additional Solicitor-General Anil Singh, representing the Enforcement Directorate (ED), appeared before Special Judge P.R. Sitre and sought further custody of nine days. However, the court rejected this and Mr. Deshmukh was remanded in judicial custody. He was arrested by the Central agency on November 1 after being questioned for 12 hours. He was sent to the ED’s custody till November 6. Mr. Deshmukh’s counsel on Saturday also filed for an anticipatory bail application on behalf of Hrishikesh Deshmukh, son of Mr. Deshmukh, which will be heard on November 12. On October 29, the Bombay High Court rejected Mr. Deshmukh’s plea, seeking to quash five summons issued by the ED. Abuse of position The case dates back to March 20, 2021 when former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh wrote to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that Mr. Deshmukh had abused his position and powers to seek illegal monetary benefits. The letter alleged instances of Mr. Deshmukh directing suspended police officer Sachin Vaze and others to collect Rs. 100 crore from bars and restaurants over a month. Soon thereafter, the High Court directed a preliminary inquiry to be held against Mr. Deshmukh by the Central Bureau of Investigation. The ED then stepped in and started a probe into allegations of money laundering against Mr. Deshmukh. On April 21, an FIR was registered against Mr. Deshmukh under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 7 (public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/judicial-custody-for-anil-deshmukh/article37363367.ece
07 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. can’t be adversary when citizens’ rights are under threat’||The Supreme Court in the Pegasus case underlined the principle that the Government cannot take an “adversarial position” when the fundamental rights of citizens are under threat. The Government cannot decline information to citizens that concern their privacy by simply raising the bogey of national security. The state cannot blame judges of “judicial oligarchy” or acting “the aristocracy in the robe” for seeking information on behalf of citizens. The court would have to certainly intervene if denial of information by the state affected the rights of citizens. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana refused to accept the Government’s version that a disclosure whether Pegasus was in play or not would endanger national security. The apex court, in its Pegasus order, said it had no intention to encroach into the “political thicket”, but it also would not cower when the fundamental rights of citizens were at stake. In this context, it referred to the wisdom of Justice H.R. Khanna’s opinion in the Kesavananda Bharati case judgment of 1973. Primary duty Justice Khanna had said the primary duty of judges was to “uphold the Constitution and the laws without fear or favour and in doing so, they cannot allow any political ideology or economic theory, which may have caught their fancy, to colour the decision”. The court’s resolve to defend constitutional rights in the Pegasus order of October 27 finds resonance with its May 31 judgment in the COVID-19 case. In that judgment, the court refused to remain a “silent spectator when constitutional rights of citizens are infringed by executive policies”. The court had brushed aside the Government’s argument that it had no right to interfere in its vaccination policy. Instead, the court upheld its duty to judicially review Government policies. “Judicial review and soliciting constitutional justification for policies formulated by the executive is an essential function, which the courts are entrusted to perform,” the court had reminded the Government. The Centre had to reverse its dual vaccine pricing policy. The Pegasus order refers to the court’s judgment in Ram Jethmalani case of 2011, which advised that rather than stonewall petitioners, the Government should share information and help them “better articulate” their case. “In the task of upholding fundamental rights, the state cannot be an adversary. The state has the duty, generally, to reveal all the facts and information in its possession to the court, and also provide the same to the petitioners. This is so, because the petitioners would then be enabled to bring to light facts and the law that may be relevant for the court in rendering its decision. In proceedings under Article 32 [of the Constitution], both the petitioner and the state, have to necessarily be the eyes and ears of the court,” the Pegasus order quoted from the 2011 judgment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-cant-be-adversary-when-citizens-rights-are-under-threat/article37363381.ece
07 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||Arunachal to showcase ‘heroic village’ near the China border||Arunachal Pradesh is planning to make a documentary about one of its most “patriotic destinations” — Kaho, a village on the China border — to mark the 75th year of Independence. The State’s Department of Information, Public Relations and Printing has sent a 12-member team to Kaho in Anjaw district for filming a documentary on the village and its people. One of seven villages in the Kibithoo block bisected by the Lohit river, Kaho had weathered the Chinese attack in 1962. Its people had assisted the Indian soldiers who had been outnumbered. The department’s director, Dasher Teshi, said the team left the State capital Itanagar by road on Friday and would reach Kaho on Sunday. The village is 580 km east of Itanagar. Meyor community “Kaho is the first village from the China border. We plan to make a documentary on Kaho and its people who belong to the Meyor community. Very few people know about this village and its significance,” Mr. Teshi said. The documentary, sanctioned by the State BJP Government, is a part of the celebrations of “Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav”, the nationwide celebrations for the 75th year of Independence. Anjaw is one of the 11 districts of Arunachal Pradesh that share their border with China. According to the 2011 census, Kaho has only 65 residents and a literacy rate of 64.15%. A similar publicity event was organised at Dipa village in Lower Siang district a month ago. Several residents of Dipa had taken part in the freedom movement and the national flag was first hoisted at the village on August 15, 1947.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arunachal-to-showcase-heroic-village-near-the-china-border/article37363393.ece
07 November 2021||Srinagar,||Srinagar declared a ‘major airport’||The Union Ministry of Civil Aviation on Saturday declared the Srinagar airport a “major airport” under the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Act, 2008 (AERA). “In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of Section 2 of the Airports Economic Authority Act, 2008 (NO. 27 OF 2008), the Central Government hereby declares the airport of Srinagar as major airport,” the notification said. The move will allow the AERA to determine the tariff, including the development fee and passenger service fee, for aeronautical services at the Srinagar airport. The Centre designates an airport as a major airport if it crosses a particular volume of annual passenger traffic. Previously, the Airports Authority of India, a body under the Ministry of Civil Aviation, would determine the tariff for the Srinagar airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/srinagar-declared-a-major-airport/article37363395.ece
07 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC turns focus on mental health issues||Upholding the need for judges to be sensitive to the gravity of mental health issues, the Supreme Court has said the judiciary should not treat the mental health of a person with a “one-size-fits-all” approach. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna made the observation in a recent judgment based on an appeal filed by Karnataka against a High Court decision to quash a case of abetment of suicide against a government officer. The officer’s driver died by suicide. A note left by him alleged that he was harassed by the officer, who had used his bank account to transfer ill-gotten wealth and convert black money into white. HC order set aside The High Court had dismissed the charges against the officer, terming the driver a “weakling”. The High Court had also disbelieved the version that the dead man was under pressure, reasoning that he had met with friends and did not show any signs of being harassed or threatened. The High Court had said the behaviour of the deceased before his death was not that of a person who was depressed and suffering from mental health issues. “Behavioural scientists have initiated the discourse on the heterogeneity of every individual and have challenged the traditional notion of ‘all humans behave alike’. Individual personality differences manifest as a variation in the behaviour of people,” Justice Chandrachud observed, setting aside the High Court order quashing the case against the officer. The top court noted that “an individual copes with a threat — both physical and emotional, expressing (or refraining to express) love, loss, sorrow and happiness, varies greatly in view of the multi-faceted nature of the human mind and emotions”. Serious matter Justice Chandrachud, who wrote the 27-page judgment, said terms such as “weakling” and measuring a person’s mental state by his outward conduct, etc, “deeply diminishes” the gravity attached to mental health issues. “The mental health of a person cannot be compressed into a one-size-fits-all approach,” the Supreme Court noted.  Suicide prevention helpline: New Delhi — Sanjivni, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002; Chennai — Sneha, 044-24640050.    Individual personality differences manifest as a variation in the behaviour of people Justice D.Y. Chandrachud||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-turns-focus-on-mental-health-issues/article37363392.ece
07 November 2021||Mumbai,||‘Vaze, Singh extorted cricket bookies’||Dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, along with the then city Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh extorted huge money from cricket bookies by threatening them with arrest, the police told a court here while seeking an extension of Mr. Vaze’s custody in an extortion case registered at suburban Goregaon police station.  Based on complaint The Mumbai Police’s Crime Branch had taken Mr. Vaze’s custody on November 1 based on the complaint filed by builder-cum-hotelier Bimal Agrawal, in which Param Bir Singh is also named as an accused. Mr. Vaze was produced before a holiday court on Saturday as his remand expired. The police sought an extension of his custody for seven days for further probe, which was allowed by the court till November 13. The police told the court that how Mr. Vaze and Mr. Singh extorted money from cricket bookies has to be investigated. The Crime Branch further said that they wanted to probe whether Mr. Vaze took money from anyone else at the instance of Mr. Singh and also if anyone else helped Mr. Vaze. The Crime Branch said it wanted to probe the trail of the extorted money. It also wants to probe how many other such offences had been committed by the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaze-singh-extorted-cricket-bookies/article37364031.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Hospital inferno leaves 11 COVID patients dead||Mr. Thackeray spoke to the District Guardian Minister Hassan Mushrif and Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte and asked them to ensure that other patients admitted at the hospital get proper treatment without any disturbance, a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, “My condolences to the kin of those who lost their lives. I appeal to Congress workers to assist in the relief work.” BJP leader and former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis described the incident as “very shocking and disturbing”. Condoling the deaths, he sought an “in-depth inquiry” and strict action against those responsible. Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut ordered a detailed inquiry into the fire. “The Electricity Department’s inspection team has reached the hospital and it will start its probe after the police panchnama  (inspection)”, he said. Late in the evening, a case was registered against unidentified persons under IPC Section 304 (A) (causing death by negligence), said Ahmednagar district superintendent of police Manoj Patil. After the incidents of fire at hospitals treating COVID-19 patients elsewhere, fire audits had been ordered across the State. History repeats In April this year, 15 COVID-19 patients had died in a blaze at the ICU of a private hospital in Palghar district of Maharashtra. Another fire in March at Dreams Mall in Mumbai’s Bhandup, which housed a COVID-designated hospital, had claimed the lives of nine such patients. ( Inputs from Alok Deshpande i n Mumbai )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hospital-inferno-leaves-11-covid-patients-dead/article37363371.ece
07 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||NCB special team takes over cruise drugs case||A special investigation team (SIT) of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), supervised by Sanjay Kumar Singh, Deputy Director-General of the NCB headquarters in Delhi, has taken over the investigation into the case of seizure of drugs from a few passengers on a cruise ship in Mumbai. Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, is an accused in the case, along with Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha. All documents related to the case have been handed over to the SIT. “A SIT comprising officers from the Operations Branch of the NCB headquarters has been constituted by the NCB Director-General to take over six cases from the NCB Mumbai zonal unit, which have national and international ramifications...,” Mr. Singh said on Friday. The team flew in from Delhi and visited the NCB’s zonal office in south Mumbai on Saturday afternoon, an official said. Mr. Singh said, “We have taken over some cases and will start our investigation into it.” When asked whether the cases would be re-investigated, he said, “Let me first see the case by case records and the progress in the investigation so far, then we will decide. Right now, only further investigation will be conducted in those cases.” ‘Skeletons will tumble out’ NCB’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede said he was not an investigating officer of these cases, adding that he was a supervisory officer as a zonal director and his role will continue to be the same. Meanwhile, NCP leader Nawab Malik said skeletons will tumble out in the probe. “I had demanded an S.I.T probe to investigate Sameer Dawood Wankhede for kidnapping of & ransom demand from Aryan Khan. Now 2 SITs are constituted (state & centre), let us see who brings out the skeletons from the closet of Wankhede and exposes him and his nefarious private army,” the Minister tweeted. The NCB had arrested Aryan Khan and at least 19 others in the drugs on cruise case last month and Mr. Wankhede has been facing a departmental probe.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncb-special-team-takes-over-cruise-drugs-case/article37363368.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Hospital inferno leaves 11 COVID patients dead||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, in a message sent from Uttarakhandsaid, “I am deeply anguished by the unfortunate incident. I offer my prayers for the departed souls and convey my condolences to the next of the deceased. Also wishing speedy recovery to the injured.” Mr. Thackeray spoke to the District Guardian Minister Hassan Mushrif and Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte and asked them to ensure that other patients admitted at the hospital get proper treatment without any disturbance, a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, “My condolences to the kin of those who lost their lives. I appeal to Congress workers to assist in the relief work.” BJP leader and former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis described the incident as “very shocking and disturbing”. Condoling the deaths, he sought strict action against those responsible. Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut ordered a detailed inquiry into the fire. “The Electricity Department’s inspection team has reached the hospital and it will start its probe after the police panchnama  (inspection)”, he said. In April this year, 15 COVID-19 patients had died in a blaze at the ICU of a private hospital in Palghar district of Maharashtra. Another fire in March at Dreams Mall in Mumbai’s Bhandup, which housed a COVID-designated hospital, had claimed the lives of nine such patients. ( Inputs from Alok Deshpande i n Mumbai )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hospital-inferno-leaves-11-covid-patients-dead/article37363671.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Oct. saw highest power shortage in over 5 years||Bihar recorded 120 million units of shortage in October, the highest for any month in 8.5 years. Haryana saw 113 million units of shortage, the highest in about nine years. Punjab’s deficit stood at 121 million units, the highest in seven years. Rajasthan witnessed 242 million units of power shortage last month, the highest in over nine years. Supply shortage was also observed in Uttar Pradesh and the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir in October, however, they were not an anomaly but were similar to the general trend observed in the regions. The power shortage was primarily due to a supply crunch of coal to 135 thermal plants. As on November 5, the average coal inventory held by the plants would last only seven days. The average stock position had marginally become better from the levels seen in mid-October when less than four days of supply was available. In comparison, the normative stock required on an average is over 21 days. As on November 5, about 32 plants have less than four days of coal stock, 65 plants have between four and nine days of stock. About 35 plants have between 10 and 19 days of stock. As on November 5, in the inventories of all the 135 plants, only 1.45 lakh tonnes of actual stock of coal is imported. This is a far cry from the 15.43 lakh tonnes of imported coal available in the stock in February 2020. A sharp increase in the international coal price led to a decrease in imports. On Monday, while addressing the 47th foundation day of Coal India Ltd, Union Minister for Coal Pralhad Joshi pointed out that international coal price had increased more than three times recently, which resulted in a 38% decrease in imports. At the same time, electricity demand had gone up by more than 24%, the Minister added. He urged Coal India Ltd and its subsidiaries to “make all-out efforts to ensure at least 18 days of coal stock with thermal plants by November end this year.” Historical data were compiled from the Central Electricity Authority, and October 2021 data were compiled from day-wise reports available with the NLDC under the Ministry of Power.  (With inputs from Jasmin Nihalani and Sumant Sen. Data compiled by Pratap Vardhan, Stats of India and Karthik Dhandapani, IIM Trichy)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oct-saw-highest-power-shortage-in-over-5-years/article37363373.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Daily COVID-19 cases dip to nine-month low||The second wave saw daily cases climb to as many as 4,00,000 a day and excess deaths in several States, many multiples of what was being reported by the Government. However, a difference between February and November is vaccination. As of Saturday, 74 crore first doses have been administered, which translates to 56% of the population. Close to 34 crore second doses have been administered, which works out to a quarter of the population being fully inoculated. So far, 108 crore doses have been administered .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/daily-covid-19-cases-dip-to-nine-month-low/article37363374.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||PM must withdraw clean chit given to China: Cong.||Prime Minister Narendra Modi must immediately withdraw the clean chit given to China and set a deadline for removing the Chinese Army from Indian territories, the Congress said on Saturday, a day after the Pentagon’s latest annual report revealed that China has been undertaking “incremental and tactical actions to press its claims”. At a press conference in Delhi, party spokesperson Pawan Khera said that in June 2020, when BJP MP from Arunachal East Tapir Gao wrote letters to Mr. Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh warning them about Chinese forces constructing permanent structures in Indian territory, the Government went into denial. “It has been 17 months since Mr. Modi gave a clean chit to China. That is a dark chapter in Indian history. Emboldened by the clean chit, the Chinese have been claiming to the world that it did not transgress into Indian territory,” Mr. Khera stated. The Government had refused to come clean on the situation. Now, the Pentagon’s annual report, “Military and Security Developments Involving the People’s Republic of China”, had confirmed Mr. Gao’s warnings and reports in the Indian media. The report, presented to U.S. Congress, stated that China had constructed a 100-home civilian village inside the disputed territory between the Tibet Autonomous Region and Arunachal Pradesh last year. “The report points out that it is a ‘dual use’ village with multi-storey structures. These can be used as a civilian village and also double up as an army cantonment,” Mr. Khera noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-must-withdraw-clean-chit-given-to-china-cong/article37363389.ece
07 November 2021||Srinagar,||Patchy Internet irks netizens in Srinagar||Patchy Internet service has irked the local people in Srinagar, with many describing it as “an undeclared Internet curfew”. The CPI(M) termed the current Internet situation “a return of painful memories of communication blockade imposed in Kashmir on August 5, 2019”. Students and businessmen living in several pockets of Srinagar are complaining of prolonged Internet shutdowns, especially late in the afternoon and in the evening hours. Netizens living in Srinagar’s Nowhatta, Safakadal and Qamarwari also complained of irregular Internet services. The complaints started pouring in after the recent spike in militant attacks in the city in October, which left seven civilians dead in targeted attacks. Police sources said the security agencies were regulating the Internet speed and keeping an eye on multiple towers after “heightened activity by suspected Internet users”. The measure has been taken as a counter to contain growing militant attacks after sundown in the capital. CPI(M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami accused the Jammu and Kashmir administration of “shutting down Internet sporadically in several parts of Srinagar and other areas of the Valley”. “It has once again brought back painful memories of communication blockade imposed in Kashmir on August 5, 2019, which was fully lifted after a year and a half. Reportedly Internet access is shut for most of the day in these areas and services resume mostly after 10 p.m. when they are least required. This has hugely impacted students, who are not able to attend their online classes as the Internet remains shut down during day hours,” Mr. Tarigami said. “The 2019 communication blockade led to huge economic losses and unemployment and cost the Kashmiri economy thousands of crores while thousands of people lost their livelihood. The latest curbs on the Internet are bound to aggravate the situation,” he added. The police, so far, have neither rejected the allegations nor issued any statement over the blockade issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/patchy-internet-irks-netizens-in-srinagar/article37363364.ece
07 November 2021||Agartala,||Tripura CM receives victory flame||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb received the Swarnim Vijay Varsh Flame at a ceremonial function organised by the Red Shield Artillery Brigade here on Saturday. ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ that symbolises India’s victory over Pakistan in 1971 war of liberation of Bangladesh reached Tripura on Friday. Olympian Dipa Karmakar, a host of dignitaries and military officials attended commemorative programmes held in the vicinity of the Agartala Military Station. The ceremonial function held at an auditorium commenced with handing over the victory flame to Chief Minister Deb. Major General Navin Sachdeva, General Officer Commanding of 57 Mountain Division, and Brigadier Nilesh Chowdhary, Commander of 57 mountain artillery brigade, were present. The Chief Minister felicitated Army veterans at the function. He also felicitated Vincent Ekka, son of Lance Naik Albert Ekka, one of valiant 1971 war martyrs, who was posthumously awarded Param Vir Chakra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tripura-cm-receives-victory-flame/article37363365.ece
07 November 2021||Ahmedabad,||Five die while cleaning effluent tank||Five workers died after inhaling toxic gas while cleaning an underground tank at a pharmaceutical unit in Gujarat’s Gandhinagar district on Saturday.  “The management had decided to clean the tank, which stores the factory’s liquid waste before it is sent for treatment. The workers were unaware about the presence of toxic gas inside it,” chief fire officer Mahesh Mod said. One of the workers fainted inside the tank, following which four others entered one after another to rescue him and eventually died because of the toxic fumes, he said. The factory owners had not provided any safety equipment or masks to the workers, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-die-while-cleaning-effluent-tank/article37363369.ece
07 November 2021||Lucknow/Ballia,||SP chief seeks to defend his Jinnah remark||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday sought to defend his widely criticised statement equating Muhammad Ali Jinnah with Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Jawaharlal Nehru, saying they helped India get freedom. Uttar Pradesh Minister Anand Swaroop Shukla said Jinnah was responsible for the division of the country and suggested a narco test for Mr. Yadav for “glorifying” the Pakistani leader. As the row over the SP leader’s comments raged, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, without naming Mr. Yadav, described the remarks as “shameful and condemnable” and warned people about political parties which equate Sardar Patel with Jinnah. Mr. Shukla also said those heaping praises on Jinnah should go to Pakistan. The SP demanded the sacking of Mr. Shukla for accusing Mr. Yadav of getting economic support from Pakistan’s spy agency ISI. Mr. Yadav hit out at his detractors, asking them to read history books again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-chief-seeks-to-defend-his-jinnah-remark/article37363670.ece
07 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP national executive to meet today||The BJP national executive will meet on Sunday, the first time since 2019, to discuss plans for the upcoming Assembly elections and pass a political resolution, BJP national general secretary Arun Singh said on Saturday. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters, Mr. Singh said the party’s top decision-making body would meet in Delhi and 124 of the members would attend. The others, including Chief Ministers, would gather at their respective State offices to attend virtually due to the COVID-19 restrictions. BJP national president J.P. Nadda would chair the meeting and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech would conclude the day-long programme. Among the issues on the agenda, Mr. Singh said, were the upcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Punjab in 2022. Only one resolution, a political one, would be passed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-national-executive-to-meet-today/article37363379.ece
07 November 2021||JAIPUR,||‘Centre must slash excise duty further’||Facing pressure to reduce value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday reiterated his demand that the Centre further slash additional excise duty, special excise duty and cess on fuel for providing relief to common people from the rising inflation. Several BJP-ruled States have reduced VAT rates after the Centre’s decision to cut excise duty on petrol by Rs. 5 a litre and on diesel by Rs. 10 a litre on Thursday. However, Mr. Gehlot said the VAT collection of States had automatically reduced in a proportionate manner after the Centre’s move. He said the excise duty reduction had led to a loss of Rs. 1,800 crore per year in VAT revenue to Rajasthan, which was yet to receive the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation of Rs. 5,963 crore from the Centre. He said the Centre had already reduced the share in excise duty that was earlier available to all States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-must-slash-excise-duty-further/article37363380.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||Shop forced to close during Deepavali||Staff at a biryani  shop in north Delhi’s Burari were abused and threatened by a man on Deepavali for opening the shop on a “Hindu festival” on Thursday. The police have registered a case and begun a probe. The  shop owner, who identified himself as Magroob Ali, said that he was away at the time of the incident but his three employees were present during the incident. Mr. Ali said that around 7.30 p.m. that day, a visibly drunk man started abusing them for keeping the shop open on Deepavali. The man had insisted that the shop be “shut immediately because they can’t open a shop serving non-vegetarian food on a Hindu festival in a Hindu-dominated area”. A video clip also shows the man making derogatory remarks about a community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shop-forced-to-close-during-deepavali/article37363390.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Portable warmth||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/portable-warmth/article37363399.ece
07 November 2021||Mumbai,||‘Vaze, Singh extorted cricket bookies’||Dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, along with the then city Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh extorted huge money from cricket bookies by threatening them with arrest, the police told a court here while seeking an extension of Mr. Vaze’s custody in an extortion case registered at suburban Goregaon police station. The Mumbai Police’s Crime Branch had taken Mr. Vaze’s custody on November 1 based on the complaint filed by builder-cum-hotelier Bimal Agrawal, in which Param Bir Singh is also named as an accused. Mr. Vaze was produced before a holiday court on Saturday as his remand expired. The police sought an extension of his custody for seven days for further probe, which was allowed by the court till November 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaze-singh-extorted-cricket-bookies/article37363830.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Azadi Ka Amrit exhibition spotlights Tamil Nadu role||In the last scene of Veerapandiya Kattabomman , Sivaji Ganesan, playing the lead role, would walk majestically towards the gallows. Questions were asked whether it was a cinematic portrayal or whether Kattabomman, the Poligar or Palyakarar of Panchalamkurichi, actually exhibited an unflinching gait? “When he went out to be executed, he walked with a firm and daring air and cast looks of sullen contempt on the Poligars to his right and left,” Major Bannerman writes in his report on the trial and execution of Kattabomman. The report is on display at an exhibition organised by the Tamil Nadu Information Department to mark the 75th anniversary of Indian independence. Last regret “When he reached the foot of the tree on which he was hanged, he regretted having left his fort in the defence of which it would have been better for him to have died,” the report adds. The British officer writes that it was reported to him that on his way to the place of execution, Kattabomman had expressed some anxiety about his brother (Oomaithurai), who had a speech disability. “Kattabomman had compelled the government to inflict upon him such a rigorous punishment by repeatedly acting in contempt of the company’s authority and at last an open rebellion,” the report reads. V.P. Jayaseelan, Director, Department of Information and Public Relations, said the exhibition entitled, Tamil Nadu in the Freedom Struggle, was part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahatsov’, organised nationwide. The exhibition is being held at the Chennai Mofussil Bus Terminal at Koyambedu. “We have decided to extend the exhibition for a week from November 8 because of the tremendous response,” he said. Court order The manuscript of Majmor Bannerman’s letter and the sword and other weapons used by Kattabomman are on display. It also has a copy of the order of the High Court rejecting the appeal from freedom fighters V.O. Chidambaram and Subramania Siva against their conviction. “The sentence was reduced. Though their plea against their transportation to Andaman was rejected, they could not be sent there because the prison was full,” said A.R. Venkatachalapathy, Professor, Madras Institute of Development Studies, who has written extensively on V.O. Chidambaram. The exhibition has sections spotlighting the unsung heroes of the freedom movement, women freedom fighters and Mahatma Gandhi and Tamil Nadu, besides cartoons of poet Subramania Bharathi and events that secured a permanent place for Tamil Nadu in the history, Mr. Jayaseelan said. “We have highlighted the achievement of M.A. Eswaran, who spent 10 years in prison. He was the driving force behind the construction of the Bhavanisagar dam,” he said. Eswaran agreed to support T. Prakasam for premier of the Madras Presidency on one condition: he construct a dam, known today as Bhavanisagar. “Not many know that Subbaiah, a freedom fighter from Theni, was lodged at the Alipore jail for a year. There are many unsung heroes,” Mr. Jayaseelan said. The exhibition also showcases the chair used by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at Chennai Central Prison and the umbrella used by Gandhi, besides the events between 1920 and 1947 and Gandhi’s visit to Tamil Nadu from the archives of The Hindu . Exhibition extended The State Government has extended the exhibition, organised by the Department of Information and Public Relations, till November 14. It is open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m, according to the release.  The exhibition has sections spotlighting the unsung heroes of the freedom movement, women freedom fighters and Mahatma Gandhi and Tamil Nadu V.P. Jayaseelan, Director, Department of Information and Public Relations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/azadi-ka-amrit-exhibition-spotlights-tamil-nadu-role/article37363901.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 150 persons from T.N. institutions among top 2% of global scientists||Over 150 persons from around 60 institutions in Tamil Nadu who have published research papers have found a place among the top two percent of the scientists globally based on their work till 2020. The recently published list was compiled by Stanford University, Elsevier BV and SciTech Strategies based on various parameters related to citations of the research publications. V. Mohan, director of Madras Diabetes Research Foundation and chairman of Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, was ranked the highest in Tamil Nadu across all fields with an overall global rank of 7,563 based on a composite score that included all citations. Dr. Mohan, the only Indian to receive American Diabetes Association’s Harold Rifkin Award, has more than 1,400 publications in his name. The list also included R. Velraj, Vice-Chancellor of Anna University, who is also a Professor at the Institute of Energy Studies at the university. His work was included in the field of Enabling and Strategic Technologies. Two more faculty members from the university also found a place in the list. Indian Institute of Technology (Madras) had the highest of 47 persons associated with the institute finding a place in the list. Chandrasekharan Rajendran from the Department of Management Studies topped the list among those from the institute. Sarit K. Das from the Department of Mechanical Engineering in the institute was meanwhile ranked the top in Mechanical Engineering field in the country. Apart from IIT Madras, Vellore Institute of Technology and Christian Medical College, Vellore respectively had the second and third highest of 13 and 10 researchers from each institute on the list. Among the State and central government-run institutions in Tamil Nadu, Annamalai University, Bharathiar University, National Institute of Technology in Tiruchi and Central Electrochemical Research Institute in Karaikudi had more than five persons each from the institutions on the list. The list has been updated every year since its publication in 2019. A separate list based on single-year impact in 2020 has also been published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-150-persons-from-institutions-in-tn-among-top-2-of-global-scientists/article37363798.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation releases draft list of 5,822 polling stations in city||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Saturday released the draft list of polling stations in each of the 200 wards of the city, ahead of the announcement of civic elections. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi on Saturday released the list of 5,822 polling stations spread over 15 zones of the city. A total of 278 polling stations have been set aside for men, 278 for women and 5,166 stations have been designated as for all voters. The draft list will be kept in all the 15 zonal offices and the 200 ward offices. Residents can check details of their polling stations. Meeting likely next week Representatives of political parties should give suggestions and objections pertaining to the list of polling stations before Monday. A meeting of representatives of political parties is expected to be held next week to finalise the polling stations ahead of the elections to the Greater Chennai Corporation Council. Tiruvottiyur zone has 279 polling stations, Manali 97, Madhavaram 191, Tondiarpet 574, Royapuram 460, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar 505, Ambattur 439, Anna Nagar 572, Teynampet 624, Kodambakkam 613, Valasaravakkam 309, Alandur 200, Adyar 471, Perungudi 279 and Sholinganallur 209. The number of polling stations has reportedly increased by 64 this year, compared with that of 2011 when direct elections to the post of Mayor and 200 councillors were last held. Impact of pandemic However, the number of polling stations has decreased compared with that of the Assembly elections held in April this year when more stations were set up in view of the pandemic. Owing to the decrease in the number of COVID-19 cases and improved seroprevalence, the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission has permitted the officials in Chennai district to increase the number of electors in each polling station to 1,400. During the Assembly elections this year, election officials increased the number of polling stations in each constituency and reduced the number of electors in each polling station. Many polling stations had less than 700 voters during the recent Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-releases-draft-list-of-5822-polling-stations-in-city/article37363737.ece
07 November 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre should stop inter-State transportation of minerals’||Reiterating that the exploitation of natural resources and the transportation of minerals from Kanniyakumari to Kerala have come down drastically after the suspension of operation of 12 of the 15 quarries in the district, Information Technology Minister Mano Thangaraj says the Centre should stop the inter-State transportation of minerals. “That alone can stop mining and protect the fragile ecosystem in the district,” said the Minister, who hails from the district, in an interview on Saturday. Edited excerpts:  Opposition parties, particularly Naam Tamizhar Katchi, have been alleging that natural resources of Kanniyakumari have been plundered to benefit Kerala. You were also at the forefront, against the transportation of mined products and minerals to the neighbouring State. As Minister, how do you respond to the allegations? Their allegations are baseless. If you want to get a clear picture, I will explain what existed in the past and how the DMK government has changed everything for the better. Kanniyakumari’s importance is explained by UNESCO’s declaration that it is a biological hotspot. There are reserve forests. The district, in the southern tip of the country, houses rare species, and is a wildlife sanctuary, and it receives copious rain because of the trees in the forests. The mining of sand from Thamirabharani, Valliyar and Palayar has caused huge damage. I have also participated in protests against sand mining in the past. There were a lot of hillocks, and they were ravaged with the use of powerful crushers and blasting machines. The hillocks are covered by the Hill Area Conservation Authority (HACA). Irregularities in the HACA in granting permission destroyed the hillocks. Mining has been banned in Kerala, and a few quarries are allowed with strict adherence to rules. Since there is a huge demand for stones, blue metal, M-sand and rust ore, they are sent up to the Vizhinjam port and other areas up to Kottayam and Thrissur. There is a huge demand for M-sand and sand mining has been banned. We filed a public interest litigation petition in the Madras High Court and the court ruled that mining should not be allowed withing 10-km radius of eco-sensitive areas. In 2019, the AIADMK Government amended the rules for allowing mining between 0 and 3-km radius. The Union government also approved, and the High Court allowed mining, as per the revised regulations. Fifteen quarries functioned in the district. After the DMK came to power, the operation [licences] of 12 quarries were suspended. A huge amount of mined products and minerals are still being transported from Tirunelveli district to Kerala through Kanniyakumari. Heavy vehicles with 14 wheels, used for the transportation, have completely damaged the roads. When a vehicle from Tirunelveli is spotted in Kanniyakumari, people tend to think that they are also from the district. The DMK government has taken three stands — first, there should be no transportation of minerals to Kerala; the second decision is against the use of heavy vehicles, and the third to prevent overloading. We have seized a lot of vehicles and imposed fines. How do the quarries get environmental clearance? Environmental clearances were given by the previous AIADMK Government. In most cases the [validity of] environmental clearances is coming to an end. The DMK Government will strictly adhere to the rules while considering environmental clearance for any quarrying activity. We have not given permission to any new quarry. Our objective is to protect the natural resources of the district. You said only three quarries are functioning in the district. How can mining be completely stopped? If you stop the supply of minerals to Kerala, 80% of the demand can be eliminated. The Centre should review the inter-State transportation of minerals, considering the fragile ecosystem of Kanniyakumari, and the wildlife sanctuary and Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve in Tirunelveli. The Centre should not allow the free flow of transportation of minerals from Kanniyakumari and Tirunelveli districts. That alone can find a permanent solution. Another problem ailing the district is the large-scale conversion of agriculture lands into housing plots, despite a ban by the Collector... All dams in the district have catchment, water spread and command areas. The Western Ghats is the catchment area of the Pechiparai dam. That is why we say that the protection of the Western Ghats is vital. The British, with the help of the Travancore rulers, beautifully established the command area and connected it up to the Radhapuram canal. When Kamaraj was the Chief Minister, the Pattanam canal was created. A command area will not be laid waste, so long as there is water in the dam. But the AIADMK government allowed non-agricultural development in the command area, classifying them as uncultivable land. It was a scam. If the district witnesses inundation even during mild rain it is because of buildings constructed in low-lying areas. It is an offence to classify the command areas as uncultivable land. After the DMK came to power, the Collector has issued an order that watershed areas should not be converted into housing plots. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has sanctioned Rs. 27 crore for the renovation of the Chittaru Pattanam canal for the first time.  Environmental clearances were given by the AIADMK Government. The DMK Government will strictly adhere to the rules while considering clearance for quarrying activities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-should-stop-inter-state-transportation-of-minerals/article37363754.ece
07 November 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM reviews arrangements for North-East monsoon||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday chaired a meeting to review the precautionary arrangements being taken in view of the North-East monsoon. He instructed District Collectors to take all measures necessary, in the wake of predictions of heavy rain issued by the India Meteorological Department. Mr Stalin instructed officials to monitor the water storage in water bodies across the State and also to move people in low-lying areas to safety. He also advised officials to find permanent solution to issues of water logging in specific areas. He underlined that the rainfall this year registered a 41% increase than usual. In 12 districts -- Ariyalur, Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Erode, Karur, Namakkal, Perambalur, Pudukkottai, Thanjavur, Tirunelveli, Tiruvarur and Villupuram, the rainfall was about 60% higher than usual. In 17 other districts -- Chengalpattu, Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Kanniyakumari, Mayiladuthurai, Nagapattinam, Ramanathapuram, Ranipet, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, Theni, the Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Tiruvannamalai, Thoothukudi, Tiruchi and Vellore, the rainfall was about 20% than usual. A total of 7,048 lakes of the total 14,138 lakes across the State have reached their capacity. Mr. Stalin also instructed officials to ensure basic amenities in relief camps for the people and also to specifically ensure the supply of milk, bread and food for children and the elderly. The Chief Minister advised the officials to check the outbreak of possible infections, especially dengue. He also directed the authorities to prune trees that pose danger to the general public. He also instructed digging in public places without prior permission within Greater Chennai Corporation. Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan, PWD Minister E.V. Velu, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu, Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy and senior officials participated i the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-reviews-monsoon-preparedness/article37363797.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister reviews monsoon preparedness||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin chaired a meeting on Saturday to review the precautionary arrangements being taken in view of the Northeast monsoon. He instructed Collectors to take all necessary measures, in the wake of predictions of heavy rain issued by the India Meteorological Department. Mr. Stalin instructed officials to monitor the storage in waterbodies across the State and also to move people in low-lying areas to safety. He also advised officials to find permanent solution to issues of waterlogging in specific areas. He underlined that there has been a 41% increase in rainfall this year. In 12 districts — Ariyalur, Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Erode, Karur, Namakkal, Perambalur, Pudukkottai, Thanjavur, Tirunelveli, Tiruvarur and Villupuram — the rainfall was about 60% higher than usual. In Chengalpattu, Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Kanniyakumari, Mayiladuturai, Nagapattinam, Ramanathapuram, Ranipet, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, Theni, The Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Tiruvannamalai, Thoothukudi, Tiruchi and Vellore districts, the rainfall was about 20% higher than usual. A total of 7,048 of 14,138 lakes across the State have reached their capacity. ‘Ensure basic amenities’ Mr. Stalin instructed officials to ensure basic amenities in relief camps, and also to specifically ensure supply of milk, bread and food for children and the elderly. The Chief Minister advised the officials to check the outbreak of possible infections, especially dengue. He also directed authorities to prune trees that pose danger to the people. He also instructed against digging in public places without prior permission within the Greater Chennai Corporation limits. Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan, PWD Minister E.V. Velu, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Director-General of Police C. Sylendra Babu, Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-reviews-monsoon-preparedness/article37363771.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 150 persons from institutions in T.N. among top 2% of global scientists||Over 150 persons from around 60 institutions in Tamil Nadu, who have published research papers, have found a place among the top 2% of the scientists globally, based on their work till 2020. The recently published list was compiled by Stanford University, Elsevier BV and SciTech Strategies, based on various parameters related to citations of the research publications. V. Mohan, director of Madras Diabetes Research Foundation and chairman of Dr. Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre, was ranked the highest in Tamil Nadu across all fields with an overall global rank of 7,563 based on a composite score that included all citations. Dr. Mohan, the only Indian to receive American Diabetes Association’s Harold Rifkin Award, has more than 1,400 publications in his name. The list also included R. Velraj, the Vice-Chancellor of Anna University, who is also a Professor at the Institute of Energy Studies at the university. His work was included in the field of Enabling and Strategic Technologies. Two more faculty members from the university have also found a place in the list. Indian Institute of Technology (Madras) had the highest of 47 persons associated with the institute finding a place in the list. Chandrasekharan Rajendran from the Department of Management Studies topped the list among those from the institute. Sarit K. Das from the Department of Mechanical Engineering in the institute was, meanwhile, ranked the top in Mechanical Engineering field in the country. Apart from IIT Madras, Vellore Institute of Technology and Christian Medical College, Vellore, had the second and third highest of 13 and 10 researchers respectively on the list. Among the State and Central government-run institutions in Tamil Nadu, Annamalai University, Bharathiar University, National Institute of Technology in Tiruchi and Central Electrochemical Research Institute in Karaikudi had more than five persons each from the institutions on the list. The list has been updated every year since its publication in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-150-from-tn-in-top-2-of-global-scientists/article37363752.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. wet spell to continue for more days||Most places in the State may continue to receive moderate rain till Wednesday. The ongoing wet spell over the State will extend for more days as the Bay of Bengal may churn out a fresh weather system around Tuesday. The prevailing cyclonic circulation over southwest Bay of Bengal, off the south Andhra Pradesh-north Tamil Nadu coast, extending up to 4.5 km above mean sea level, will trigger fairly widespread rain over the State for a few more days. On Sunday, nearly 16 districts, including Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, the Nilgiris and Tiruchi, are likely to get heavy rain in one or two places. Heavy rain may cover a few places in several districts till Wednesday, said officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). On Saturday, many weather stations across the State recorded rain even during the day till 5.30 p.m. Villivakkam received 3 cm, Ennore and West Tambaram 2 cm each and Meenambakkam and Nungambakkam 1 cm each. Aruppukottai in Virudhunagar, Madurai, Valparai and Coimbatore were among the other stations that received rain. Kurinjipadi in Cuddalore district recorded 16 cm, the highest amount of rainfall in the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Saturday. Officials said a fresh low pressure area is likely to form over Southeast Bay of Bengal around November 9 under the influence of an upper air cyclonic circulation over Southeast Bay of Bengal. As it is expected to become more marked and move towards north Tamil Nadu coast in the next two days, it may bring heavy to very heavy rain at a few places over north coastal districts. The department has issued a red alert as extremely heavy rain is possible around November 11 and 12. Fishermen have also been advised to return to coast by Tuesday. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said this year, the low pressure area had sustained the wet weather, with its slow movement and moisture. The next weather system brewing over the Bay of Bengal is expected to bring more rain over north coastal region, including Chennai, and the IMD is monitoring its further development. Inundation map To mitigate floods and prevent water logging in the city, the IMD is collaborating with the National Centre for Coastal Research (NCCR) to prepare an inundation map based on its heavy rain forecasts. Inputs such as ward boundaries, elevations and rain received in rivers in upstream regions will be used to run inundation models to develop the map. M.V. Ramanamurthy, director, NCCR, said the inundation map would provide details on ward-wise locations that are vulnerable to inundation a few days ahead to help government agencies alleviate floods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wet-spell-in-state-to-continue-for-a-few-more-days/article37363763.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||862 people test positive in Tamil Nadu||On a day when Tamil Nadu’s daily COVID-19 case count dropped further to 862, fresh infections fell below 100 in Coimbatore after almost eight months. Only Chennai reported cases in three digits, while Ramanathapuram logged none for the second day in a row. Chennai saw a small rise in cases, with 122 people testing positive, when compared with 106 the previous day. There were 99 cases in Coimbatore. The district last reported fewer than 100 cases in mid-March. Chengalpattu saw 79 cases, Erode 67, Tiruppur 60 and Salem 54. As many as 18 districts recorded under 10 cases each — Ariyalur reported one and Perambalur and Theni saw two each. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 27,08,230. Fatalities in State Ten people succumbed to the infection — seven in private hospitals and three in government facilities. Thirty-one districts saw no deaths. While three people died in Coimbatore, there were two deaths in Thanjavur. Chennai recorded one fatality. The State’s toll touched 36,214. Another 1,009 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,61,428. The State’s active caseload stood at 10,588. Of these, Chennai has 1,251, followed by Coimbatore with 1,179. Eleven districts have under 100 patients undergoing treatment for COVID-19. Theni has the least number of active cases at 24. A total of 1,01,023 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 5,18,30,749.  The State’s active caseload stood at 10,588. Of these, Chennai has 1,251, followed by Coimbatore with 1,179. Eleven districts have under 100 patients undergoing treatment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/862-people-test-positive-in-tamil-nadu/article37363748.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CBSE schools begin practical exams for Class XII students||With the term 1 board examinations in major subjects beginning on December 1 for CBSE Class XII students, many schools have started practical examinations or are scheduling them for the week after the Deepavali holidays. This year, CBSE students will have their board examinations at the end of term 1 and term 2, and both examinations will be in different formats. Scheduling and conducting practical examinations have been left to the schools. This is among the changes that the CBSE has made to the examination pattern this year because of the COVID-19 pandemic. “Unlike the previous years, an external examiner does not have to oversee the practicals. Schools have been given the flexibility to conduct the exams on their own this year. They will have to upload the marks on the CBSE portal before the written examinations begin,” said C. Satish, director-general, ABS group of schools. Several schools are scheduling the practical examinations for the early part of November so that students will have adequate time for revisions. Examinations in some minor subjects, too, are set to begin from November 16. The term 1 examination will be a 90-minute paper with only multiple-choice questions. And for students, this is a new format. “We have started conducting the practical exams, and they will be over by early next week. Thereafter, subject teachers will begin revisions, and chapter-wise questions have been prepared for the same,” said K. Manoharan, principal, SBOA School. As the format is new, it is important for students to have a good understanding of all concepts and be well prepared before the examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbse-schools-begin-practical-exams-for-class-xii-students/article37364190.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||25-year-old arrested in Bihar for Tasmac employee’s murder||The Kancheepuram police have arrested a 25-year-old man in Bihar for the murder of a Tasmac employee in Oragadam last month. The accused was identified as M. Umeshkumar. He was arrested by a special team that camped in Bihar for two weeks. Police said that Thulasidas, 43, a Tasmac employee, closed the shop and went to the two-wheeler parking lot along with his colleague Ramu, 34, on October 4. Two persons hiding near the parking lot approached them and stabbed Thulasidas to death with knives and later shot him dead. Ramu was injured and was shot in the back. Kancheepuram Superintendent of Police M. Sudhakar said, “We intensified our investigation and pursued all clues by analysing CCTV footage and other evidence. Based on those clues, we were able to zero in on two accused who hailed from Bihar and our team went there. We have secured a key suspect involved in the murder. He was brought here and remanded in judicial custody on Friday.” A manhunt has been launched to nab the other accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-year-old-arrested-in-bihar-for-tasmac-employees-murder/article37363738.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala’s aim and mine are the same, says T.T.V. Dhinakaran||Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Saturday said that his and his aunt V.K. Sasikala’s aim were the same — to retrieve the AIADMK. However, he said he believed in retrieving the AIADMK through democratic means by winning elections. Replying to a query during a press conference in Chennai as to whether he has the support of Ms. Sasikala, Mr. Dhinakaran said: “You are aware if I have Chinnamma’s [Sasikala’s] support. She is my aunt [Chithi] first and then comes politics. Our aim has been the same.” He said the need for such a query on whether he had her support did not arise at all. “Everyone knows we have her support. My point is that there is no need for her statement to prove it.” When asked why Ms. Sasikala has not publicly mentioned the AMMK at all, Mr. Dhinakaran said: “She is AIADMK's general secretary [the AIADMK has officially abolished the post of general secretary] and has been using the AIADMK flag. Then, how will she speak. Can I tell her to hold the AMMK flag or can she tell me to hold the AIADMK flag? My route is different than hers but our destination is the same.” Though both their aims were the same, he had a different approach, he said. “As I said we will retrieve [the AIADMK] through democratic means. I have already said we are waiting for the next elections.” To a query on the statement made by AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam that the party would decide on whether to allow Ms. Sasikala back into the party, Mr. Dhinakaran welcomed it. “Mr. OPS is someone who is generally composed and thinks before making a statement,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikalas-aim-and-mine-are-the-same-says-ttv-dhinakaran/article37363773.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||An umbrella rally taken out to highlight environmental issues||Several residents and youth groups came together for an umbrella rally to raise awareness about a host of environmental issues the city has been grappling with, including the loss of biodoversity and climate change. A group of women danced to the beats of drums while children and senior citizens carried placards and painted umbrellas to underscore the pressing environmental issues in the city, including saving the Pulicat lake. Benisha B. of the Chennai Climate Action Group said against the backdrop of the ongoing United Nations Climate Change Conference, it was time local issues of the city were given importance. “These meetings don’t bring solutions for our issues. The Ennore-Manali region, an important ecological cluster which houses a huge petroleum refinery and a coal-based power plant, has turned into a pollution hotspot. The beaches are becoming a prey for urbanisation and this has to stop,” she said. Vandana Viswanath, a climate activist, said it was heart-wrenching to see the wetlands being polluted and decimated by power plants. “Apart from disturbing the ecosystem and causing a loss of biodiversity, a multitude of people’s livelihood is greatly affected,” Ms. Viswanath said. Musician T.M. Krishna said that though the understanding and the awareness among the youth about environmental issues had grown significantly, it was important to sustain such campaigns and keep the momentum. “What we need to realise is social justice and environmental change are intertwined,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-umbrella-rally-taken-out-to-highlight-environmental-issues/article37363743.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC launches portal for women to lodge sexual abuse complaints||The Gender Sensitisation and Internal Complaints Committee (GSICC) of the Madras High Court has launched an online portal for women to lodge complaints related to sexual harassment within the precincts of the court complex. Complaints could be lodged in English or Tamil through the portal on the High Court’s website. The complainant must first enter her mobile phone number and generate a One Time Password. The initiative for the online portal was taken by GSICC members Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana, P.T.Asha and R.N.Manjula. An in-house software team of the computer wing of the court had created the portal. Though not a single complaint was received in 2020 as the court had functioned virtually during most part of the year due to COVID-19, the committee had utilised the opportunity to conduct sensitisation programmes on gender equality for the court staff. Sarah Karunakaran and Moses Selvakumar of Madras School of Social Work and activist advocate D. Nagasaila were roped in to conduct the programme for 1,775 staff in 31 sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-launches-portal-for-women-to-lodge-sexual-abuse-complaints/article37363775.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM chairs meeting on temple scheme||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday chaired a meeting to discuss ways to implement an integrated scheme at the Subramaniyaswamy temple in Tiruchendur, Thoothukudi, at a cost of Rs. 300 crore. HR&CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu, Minister for Fisheries Anitha R. Radhakrishnan, Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Secretary of Tourism, Culture and Religious Endowments Department B. Chandra Mohan, Subramaniyaswamy temple fit person R. Kannan Adityan, HCL vice-president Srimathi Shivashankar and HCL Corp president (strategy) Sundar Mahalingam took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-chairs-meeting-on-temple-scheme/article37363750.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK must explain move or face consequences: OPS||If the government fails to explain the circumstances leading to the release of water from the Mullaperiyar dam, even before its storage reached the Supreme Court-permitted level of 142 feet, the DMK will have to face consequences, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam said on Saturday. Rejecting a statement made by Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan during his visit to the dam on Friday, Mr. Panneerselvam said questions raised by the AIADMK over the issue still remained unanswered. “I expect the State government to explain what happened. If not, the DMK will face consequences,” he said in a statement. He said the question on whether the release of water from the Mullaperiyar dam to Kerala was an arbitrary action of Kerala or did Tamil Nadu give its nod for the move remained unanswered. If it was an arbitrary action by Kerala, how were officials from Tamil Nadu present during the event, he asked. “Questions remain on whether farmers and other parties were consulted if Tamil Nadu gave its nod, and what the need to release water to Kerala was, when the storage had not reached 142 feet. It is condemnable to criticise the AIADMK, instead of providing answers to these queries,” Mr. Panneerselvam said. The DMK Government has the duty and responsibility to clear the doubts of farmers, he said. The AIADMK will hold an agitation, condemning the government for not clearing these doubts, he said. Countering charges against him made by Mr. Duraimurugan that Mr. Panneerselvam had not visited or inspected the Mullaperiyar dam, he said he had visited the area at least 14 times since 2002. Asserting that the AIADMK had “every moral right” to speak about any issue concerning the people of Tamil Nadu, he listed the efforts taken by his party to ensure the rights of the State in the Mullaperiyar and Cauvery water issues. “The people of Tamil Nadu will realise whether the DMK has the moral right, given the party’s past actions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-must-explain-move-or-face-consequences-ops/article37363758.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kongu Vellalar Trust thanks Chief Minister||Members of the Kongu Vellalar Trust, led by its president Best S. Ramasamy, called on Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat on Saturday. The trust thanked him for considering its representation on the setting up of a women’s college. Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan accompanied them. The trust had sought sanction for using agricultural land on the Avinashi-Vanjipalayam road in Tiruppur district to set up a women’s college. It had said that the institution would be named after freedom fighter Dheeran Chinnamalai. In a week, the request was favourably considered after a representation was made to Mr. Stalin, an official release said.  The trust had said that the college would be named after freedom fighter Dheeran Chinnamalai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kongu-vellalar-trust-thanks-chief-minister/article37363760.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prakash Rao Colony residents stage protest||A cross-section of residents of Prakash Rao Colony in Pulianthope staged a protest on Saturday demanding a permanent solution to the problem of waterlogging in the area. They blocked the Pulianthope Main Road for some time. According to residents, the area gets inundated every time it rains and sewage overflows with the rainwater. The situation turned worse a few days go as rainwater and sewage stagnated on the street, and even entered houses. Drinking water was contaminated due to sewage overflow. The protesters said the area required a stormwater drain, while the height of the road should be increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prakash-rao-colony-residents-stage-protest/article37363741.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro to cover openings in roof at seven stations||Chennai Metro Rail plans to cover the openings in roofs of select elevated stations along the phase I project, to prevent rainwater falling over the platform. Metro train commuters have to tread carefully on the platforms of the elevated stations because they turn slippery with rainwater during monsoon. This is because, at elevated stations including Koyambedu, Arumbakkam, CMBT, Vadapalani, Ashok Nagar, Ekkatuthangal and Alandur, arched roofs have an opening in the middle that runs parallel to the track all along the platform. While sources said this was done to ensure enough ventilation and lighting, it becomes a problem during the rains. For six years, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) had not attended to this problem. It has decided to close the openings soon. According to CMRL officials, the gaps in the roof will be covered with galvalume and polycarbonate sheets. Tenders have been floated and the contract would be awarded in three months. The contractor would have to design, supply and install these sheets in the roofs of the seven elevated stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-to-cover-openings-in-roof-at-seven-stations/article37363744.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More toilets for persons with disabilities at HC||Persons with disabilities will soon get washroom facility on the first and second floors of the 129-year-old heritage building of the Madras High Court, as the construction of two more storeys of a standalone toilet block is under way. As of now, washroom is available only on the ground floor. People on the top floor have to either come down or trek some distance to reach the toilets in the annexe building. According to a senior court official, a washroom facility was available on the first floor about two decades ago. However, that toilet block was dilapidated and hence while reconstructing it, the block was restricted to the ground floor. Subsequently, when complaints surfaced regarding the lack of disabled-friendly toilets, the washroom block was modified accordingly, and facilities such as hand railings and sliding doors were provided on the ground floor. Now, it has been decided to add more two more storeys to the washroom block so that it can be accessed from the first and second floors too, of the heritage building. The funds had been allocated and construction was almost complete, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-toilets-for-persons-with-disabilities-at-hc/article37363745.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for selling property attached by Income Tax department||The Entrustment Document Fraud (EDF) Wing on Saturday arrested a 44-year-old man for allegedly selling a flat which was attached by the Income Tax Department in Sholinganallur. According to the police, Jayalatha, a tax recovery officer of Income Tax (I-T) Department lodged a complaint alleging that Ganapathi Subramanian failed to pay income tax between 2011 and 2014 and had dues totalling Rs. 4.24 crore. Despite repeated notices, he did not respond and hence his flat measuring 1,600 square feet in Sholinganallur was attached by the department in 2017. A letter was sent to the sub-registrar, Neelankarai about the attachment. In 2019, when the department staff verified online records of the Registration department, it was found that the title deed of the land was in the name of Sanjay. Further enquiry revealed that Ganapathy Subramanian sold the property to P. Sanjay through Sunil Jain after giving a power of attorney. The complaintant alleged that the then sub-registrar of Neelankarai abetted the illegal sale and sought action against all the four. The case was registered in 2019 and Sanjay and Sunil Jain were arrested. Ganapathy Subramanian, the main accused, was reported to be absconding. The police have arrested him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-selling-property-attached-by-income-tax-department/article37363764.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin wrote to PM to release MGNREGS wages before Deepavali: Minister||Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to facilitate disbursement of wages ahead of Deepavali for 20 lakh labourers under MGNREGS, Rural Development Minister K. R. Periyakaruppan said on Saturday. In a press release, the Minister said the letter was not written to politicise the issue of disbursement of wages under MGNREGS. On Wednesday, Union Minister of State for Fisheries and Information and Broadcasting L. Murugan accused Mr. Stalin of misstating that the Centre had delayed the sanction of funds. Pointing to the disbursement of Rs. 3,524.69 crore, released by the Union Government by September 15 to the State, Mr. Periyakaruppan said a letter was written on October 5 seeking to release Rs. 561.81 crore towards payment of wages for the period between September 15 and October 5. As the arrears to be paid were increasing, the Minister and the Secretary of the Department met with L. Murugan and the Department Secretary on October 26 to stress the need for releasing the arrears to the tune of Rs. 1,046.2 crore. Mr. Stalin wrote the letter on November 1, pointing to pendancy in the release of wages amounting to Rs. 1,178.12 crore. It was released on November 2, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-wrote-to-pm-to-release-mgnregs-wages-before-deepavali-minister/article37363768.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Brain tumour awareness week observed||The International Brain Tumour Awareness Week was observed at Cancer Institute (WIA) on Saturday. The annual global event was organised to spread awareness about and dispel common myths on brain tumours and their treatment. According to a press release, the week was observed from October 30 to November 6. There were nearly 130 types of brain tumours. The International Association of Cancer Registries has reported that there are over 28,000 cases of brain tumours reported in India each year and more than 24,000 die due to such tumours annually. The Tamil Nadu cancer registry has reported 1,200 new cases of brain tumours annually with the highest incidence noted in Chennai. At the event, patients who had undergone brain surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy participated and took the stage to allay fears of such treatments and to give courage to those who were diagnosed with brain tumours. Vijay Sundar Ilangovan, consultant neurosurgeon, Cancer Institute, said the common symptoms of brain tumours were unrelenting headache, vomiting, weakness of hands and legs, speech disturbances and memory disturbances. He said 250 surgeries of brain and spine were performed the Cancer Institute after the facility was introduced in 2018. Director of the institute G. Selvaluxmy said brain tumours could be treated with radiotherapy alone in certain locations and treatment outcomes of brain tumours had seen tremendous improvement over the last three decades. Arvind Krishnamoorthy, head of Surgical Oncology, Cancer Institute, said although brain tumours were not as common as some other tumours, they had a disproportionately high physical, psychological and socio-economic impact on the lives of patients. A panel discussion on brain tumours and treatment was held with doctors answering questions from patients and their caregivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancer-institute-observes-brain-tumour-awareness-week/article37363739.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala: speed up paddy procurement||V.K. Sasikala, aide of late AIADMK leader Jayalalithaa, on Saturday urged the State Government to speed up the procurement of paddy and clear dues to farmers, especially in the Cauvery delta region. In a statement, she said there were complaints that farmers were incurring losses as paddy was sprouting in bags after getting wet in the rain. Since several thousand bags of paddy were already lying at direct procurement centres, waiting to be procured, farmers were being forced to keep their produce covered with tarpaulin sheets, she said, urging the government to clear the paddy bags. Interestingly, Ms. Sasikala signed her statement as the AIADMK general secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikala-speed-up-paddy-procurement/article37363765.ece
07 November 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||State gets new Finance Secretary||The Tamil Nadu Government on Saturday effected a reshuffle of civil servants, appointing senior IAS officer N. Muruganandam as its Finance Secretary. Incumbent S. Krishnan was posted as Industries Secretary, a post previously held by Mr. Muruganandam. Mr. Krishnan, who holds the rank of Additional Chief Secretary, was among the few IAS officers retained in their posts after a regime change in May 2021. In a government order, K. Gopal was posted as Transport Secretary and Dayanand Kataria as Secretary of the Public Works Department. Sandeep Saxena was posted as Secretary of the Water Resources Department. Ramesh Chand Meena is the new Principal Secretary, Energy Department, and Dharmendra Pratap Yadav was posted as Secretary of the Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi Department. Selvi Apoorva was posted as Secretary of the Youth Welfare & Sports Development Department and Beela Rajesh as Commissioner of Land Reforms. P. Amudha has been appointed as Secretary of the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department on her return to the State cadre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-gets-new-finance-secretary/article37363751.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kongu Vellalar Trust thanks Chief Minister||Members of the Kongu Vellalar Trust led by its president Best S. Ramasamy called on Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in the Secretariat on Saturday and thanked him for the women's college to be named after freedom fighter Dheeran Chinnamalai. Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan accompanied them. The Trust had pleaded to sanction to use its agricultural land on Avinashi-Vanjipalayam road in Tiruppur district for setting up a women's college to be named after freedom fighter Dheeran Chinnamalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kongu-vellalar-trust-thanks-chief-minister/article37363886.ece
07 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||After two years struggle, Kadar tribals in ATR to get homestead patta||Over two years of struggle by 23 families of the aboriginal Kadar tribe to get homestead patta in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) has come to an end. Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise V. Senthil Balaji will hand over pattas to 21 Kadar tribal families in an event at Valparai on Sunday, said officials who are in the know of the development. They said that 21 out of the 23 families who had sought for patta will get lands inside the ATR as an alternative for their traditional settlement namely ‘Kallarukudi’ which was destroyed in a landslide in August 2019. The alternative land Theppakulamedu is in the core area of the tiger reserve, around 15 km away from the hill town of Valparai. The 23 families, consisting of around 90 people, were evicted by the Forest Department after heavy rain and landslip hit Kallarkudi in August 2019, following which they erected temporary shelters in an adjacent area. They were shifted to an unused quarters of a tea estate at Thaimudi, around 10 km from Valparai, where they stayed until October 2 this year. The families had been demanding an alternative land inside the forest under provisions of the Forest Rights Act (FRA), 2006, since then. Agitating the long delay in issuing patta, the families launched a protest near the border of ATR on October 2, on Gandhi Jayanthi, and shifted themselves to Theppakulamedu two days later. “Forest officials have informed us that patta will be given by the Minister on Sunday. Families are happy that the government finally acknowledged our traditional rights to live in forests,” said Rajalakshmi Jayapal, a tribeswoman. Though the Revenue Department had initiated efforts for awarding patta in an alternative land inside forests, ATR authorities put up resistance citing that Theppakulamedu falls in ‘critical tiger habitat’. “This is the first instance of tribal families getting back land in a core area of any of the tiger reserves in Tamil Nadu, after being evicted. This could also be a first instance in the country,” said S. Thanraj of Ekta Parishad, Tamil Nadu. He also lauded the efforts of the Revenue Department and District Collectors who intervened in the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-two-years-struggle-kadar-tribals-in-atr-to-get-homestead-patta/article37363807.ece
07 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||House collapses due to rain||Coimbatore district received widespread rain on Saturday, inundating many low-lying areas in the city. A house on Bazaar street at Puliyakulam collapsed due to the impact of the rain. The resident Arockiamary and family members were not inside the house when the house collapsed. She told media persons that the house was built over 50 years ago. Coimbatore was among the list districts which were likely to get moderate to heavy rain with thunderstorm between 4 p.m. and 10 p.m. on Saturday as per a forecast issued by the Regional Meteorological Centre, Chennai. It registered a total rainfall of 216.3 mm and average rainfall of 15.45 mm in the 24 hours that ended at 8 a.m. on Saturday according to the district administration. The rainfall recorded in different places during the 24 hours period were: Annur 12 mm, Mettuapalayam 16.5 mm, Cincona 39 mm, Chinnakallar 62 mm, Valparai PAP 14 mm, Valparai taluk 13 mm, Sholayar 20 mm, Aliyar 1 mm, Periyanaickenpalayam 30.8 mm and Tamil Nadu Agricultural University 8 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/house-collapses-due-to-rain/article37363812.ece
07 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man hacked to death||A 26-year-old man was hacked to death near Saravanampatti in Coimbatore late on Friday as a result of rivalry between two local gangs. The police said that K. Ashok Kumar (26), a resident of Hudco Colony at Gandhima Nagar near Saravanampatti, was murdered by a group of four men. The victim, a construction worker, was part of a local gang, headed by Unnikrishnan, which had rivalry with another gang. Kumar had posted a photo of himself holding a machete on a social media platform with a caption daring the rival gang, which has ‘Workshop’ Manikandan and Vikku alias Shanmugam as leaders. Police said, provoked over this, Shanmugam, Shiva, Babu and Amarnath, followed Kumar when he was on the way to his house around 9 p.m. The men assaulted him with machetes and he suffered injuries on the left side of chest, head and left leg. The assailants escaped from the place. Kumar was initially taken to a private hospital from where doctors referred him to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. He died before being taken to CMCH. The Saravanampatti police are on the lookout for the assailants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-hacked-to-death/article37363792.ece
07 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||High yarn prices impact wage talks for weavers||The spike in cotton yarn prices in the recent days is likely to impact the wages talks for job working powerloom weavers. The job working powerloom units in Tiruppur and Coimbatore district have been demanding hike in wages from the textile manufacturers, who give the job work orders to the weavers. The job working units say the wages are not revised for almost eight years and some of them are getting lower than the agreed wages. The job working unit owners said nearly 10 % of the weavers have left the job work and moved out to other vocations because of low wages. And, those who had two or three jobs have left job working and moved to other works. With job work weaving becoming unviable the weavers are demanding higher wages and the Labour Department officials are holding talks with the weavers and the textile manufacturers. The next round of talks in the presence of the Labour Department officials will be held here on November 12. Meanwhile, the job working powerloom weavers in Somanur said there is a lot of confusion because with high yarn prices the job working units are getting less orders now. The yarn prices will decline only when cotton arrivals pick up later this month. The wage talks are expected to gain momentum only after that, say the weavers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-yarn-prices-impact-wage-talks-for-weavers/article37363805.ece
07 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Steps taken to reduce elephant deaths on railway tracks: Union Minister||Union Environment Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Bhupender Yadav has told DMK MP from Pollachi K. Shanmuga Sundaram that his Ministry has been taking various measures to mitigate deaths of elephants on railway tracks. Mr. Yadav said the MoEFCC was closely working with the Tamil Nadu Forest Department and the Southern Railway to avoid deaths of elephants on railway lines. The Minister, in a reply to a letter from Mr. Shanmugasundaram regarding the deaths of eight elephants due to train hits on railway lines between Kanjikode and Madukarai in the last five years, said that various measures were being taken to reduce such instances across the country. Many advisories have been issued for speed restrictions, clearing vegetation and installing signage board in vulnerable stretches, said the Minister. Mr. Yadav said that a committee from the Project Elephant visited the stretch between Kanjikode and Madukarai and suggested measures to mitigate the elephant deaths.  The National Green Tribunal (NGT) tasked the committee the Project Elephant to look into the elephants deaths on railway lines that link Tamil Nadu and Kerala through forest areas of Coimbatore and Palakkad districts, taking suo motu cognizance based on a report carried by The Hindu in its columns on May 29, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-taken-to-reduce-elephant-deaths-on-railway-tracks-union-minister/article37363808.ece
07 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Officials’ failure to communicate new building rules inconveniences residents||For the past couple of months, Sheena Philip, a resident of Perur Chettipalayam, has been running from pillar to post to have the Chettipalayam Panchayat assess her property for tax. Three months after submitting application, the Panchayat officials had told her in September that she would have to first pay building plan renewal fees because the plan approval she had at the time of starting construction was valid for only a year and that she had not completed the work within the time frame, said Ms. Philip. As she dug deeper into the issue to gain clarity, the resident said she realised the Panchayat ought to have given her building plan approval for five years and not a year and the local body’s demand for renewal had no legal backing. This was because at the time of the Panchayat granting the building plan approval, the Tamil Nadu Combined Building Development Rules, 2019, that was in force had said that plan approvals were valid for five years. After pointing out this to the Chettipalayam Panchayat officials and later to the block and district officials, Ms. Philip petitioned the Chief Minister’s Cell. She said she was forced to knock on the Chief Minister’s office after reaching out to consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon because the officials claimed to be unaware of the 2019 Rules. The Chief Minister’s Cell replied that it had sent a copy of the relevant government order to the Chettipalayam Panchayat officials after seeking an explanation. Armed with the reply from the Cell when Ms. Philip reached out to the Chettipalayam Panchayat official she was told that though the Cell had sent the government order, it was not specific to her, said Mr. Kathirmathiyon. This only went on to prove what he had been fighting for since the State government framed the Rules in 2019, he said. After the government framed the Rules, the Directorate of Panchayats wrote to assistant directors in all districts in 2019 to inform panchayats. Sadly, they did not. The failure to communicate the Rules continued even after he pointed it out in January this year. The result was that panchayats gave plan approval for only a year. This problems was prevalent in all panchayats in the district. Therefore, the fault squarely lay with the assistant directors, Mr. Kathirmathiyon said. The Chettipalayam Panchayat officials said it was only now that they learnt about the 2019 Rules. They awaited a communication from the Assistant Director, Panchayats, in Coimbatore and henceforth would issue building plan approval with five-year validity. As for the plans they had approved with one-year validity after the 2019 Rules were framed, the officials reiterated they awaited a communication from the Assistant Director, Panchayats. Officials in the office of the Assistant Director, Panchayat, said they had already instructed all panchayats to grant approvals with five-year validity and not collect renewal fees. Mr. Kathirmathiyon said the confusion clearly showed that public continued to suffer at the hands of Panchayat officials despite efforts the State government had taken to provide relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-failure-to-communicate-new-building-rules-inconveniences-residents/article37363816.ece
07 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. rescues elephant that fell into pit||The Forest Department rescued an elephant that was found trapped in a pit near Periyanaickenpalayam in Coimbatore district on Saturday. The male elephant, aged around seven, was found in a pit within the campus of the Central Reserve Police Force. A Forest Department team headed by Assistant Conservator of Forest C. Dinesh Kumar and Periyanaickenpalayam forest range officer S. Selvaraj rescued the calf from the pit using an excavator in an operation that lasted nearly four hours. The elephant was found in the pit around 1 p.m. The elephant’s attempt to get out of the pit on its own failed due to the slush and an excavator was brought to the place to lift the animal out of it. Veterinarians Rajesh Kumar from the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve and assistant veterinarian Vetrivel from Kovanoor came to the spot and checked the elephant’s health. The veterinarians administered a few bottles of glucose as it was tired of struggling to come out of the pit. The pit was levelled using the excavator and the elephant was made to stand around 5 p.m. It slowly walked into a nearby area, said a forest official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-rescues-elephant-that-fell-into-pit/article37363794.ece
07 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ganesha Ecosphere inks pact||Ganesha Ecosphere, a PET bottle recycled fibre producing company with three production facilities, has signed an agreement with Applied DNA Sciences to deploy “CertainT” platform to trace and certify that its fibres are from PET recycling. This will give a confirmation of raw material authenticity at all stages of the textile value chain to the customers of Ganesha Ecosphere, said B.P. Sultania, Joint President of Ganesha Ecosphere, in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ganesha-ecosphere-inks-pact/article37363803.ece
07 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||ATR to celebrate hornbill festival||The Pollachi Division of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) has dedicated the month of November to hornbills. In a unique move, the ATR administration has come up with a hornbill festival to highlight the importance of hornbills and educate people on the need to protect and conserve them. During the month-long festival, those who wish to know about hornbills also get a chance to visit their habitats in the presence of experts and Forest Department staff. An initiative by ATR Field Director S. Ramasubramanian and Deputy Field Director (Pollachi) M.G. Ganesan, the hornbill festival is part of a series of programmes through which the tiger reserve plans to highlight key species. Assistant Conservator of Forests S. Selvam said that hornbills are seen in the all four forest ranges of Pollachi division of ATR, namely Pollachi, Valparai, Ulandy and Manambolly. “Out of the nine species of hornbills found in India, Pollachi division of ATR is home to four species – Great hornbill, Malabar grey hornbill, Malabar pied hornbill and Indian grey hornbill. Of these, Indian grey hornbill is seen deep inside the forest close to the borders of the Eravikulam National Park. Other species are found in accessible areas,” he said. As part of the festival, 20 persons who registered first will take part in a full day programme on November 13. Experts will explain them on hornbills, their habitat and life cycle at the Advanced Wildlife Management Training Centre at Attakatti. Interactions with resource persons, visits to history museum, butterfly garden, orchidarium, field trip to hornbill habitats and nature trail in Upper Aliyar also part of the one-day programme which is charged at Rs. 500 per person. “ATR administration will conduct more such sessions based on the response from the first batch,” said Mr. Selvam. The ATR administration has plans to conduct similar festivals to educate people on other key species including Lion-tailed macaque and the Nilgiri tahr. For bookings and further details, contact at atrreception@gmail.com, 94425-47654, 75984-99420, 98425-95826.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/atr-to-celebrate-hornbill-festival/article37363810.ece
07 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Daily caseload falls below 100-mark in Coimbatore district||The daily caseload of COVID-19 cases fell below the 100-mark in Coimbatore district on Saturday after a gap of nearly eight months. The last time the district had less than 100 cases per day was on March 16. The district reported 99 new cases, while 126 persons recovered. The Health Department said that the district had 1,179 active cases of the disease on Saturday. Three more persons from the district died of COVID-19 and the death toll rose to 2,428. The test positivity rate (TPR) of the district stood at 1.3 % on Friday when it reported 102 new cases of the disease. Tiruppur district had 713 active cases of the disease, including 60 persons who tested positive on Saturday. A total of 79 persons recovered from the disease. Tiruppur district had a TPR of 1.4 % on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-caseload-falls-below-100-mark-in-coimbatore-district/article37363814.ece
07 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek Collector’s help||At the monthly farmers’ grievance redress meet at the Coimbatore Collectorate recently, farmers from Annur fell at Collector G.S. Sameeran’s feet seeking intervention in protecting their land, identified for acquisition to set up an industrial estate by the State government. They said the State government’s move would rob them of their livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-seek-collectors-help/article37363815.ece
07 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||No power||Masakoundanchettipalayam sub-station November 8   (9 a.m. to 2 p.m.) : Masakoundanchettipalayam, Ponnegoundenpudur, M. Rayarpalayam, Sundamedu, Chennappa Chettipudur, Manickampalayam, Kallipalayam, Part of Thottiyanur, and Oraikalpalayam.  November 9 (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.) : Chinnathadagam, Seeranaikenpalayam, Madhampatty, Periyanaikenpalayam, and Devarayapuram sub-stations: Anaikatti, Nanjundapuram, part of Pannimadai, Periya Thadagam, Chinna Thadagam, Pappanaikenpalayam, Seeranaikenpalayam, PN Pudur, Vadavalli, Vedapatti, Veerakeralam, Telugupalayam, Velandipalayam, Saibaba Colony, part of Sundapalayam, Selvapuram, Madhampatty, Alandurai, Kuppanur, Karadimadai, Poondi, Semmedu, Theethipalayam, Perur, Goundanur, Kalampalayam, Perur Chettipalayam, Devarayapuram, Boluvampatti, Viraliyur, Narasipuram, JN Palayam, Kaliannanpudur, Puthur, Thennamanallur, Koundayampalayam, Thendral Nagar, Periyanaikenpalayam, Naikenpalayam, Kovanur, Gudalur Koundampalayam, Jothipuram, Press Colony, NO 4 Veerapandi, Idigarai, Sengalipalayam, Poochiyur, Samanaikenpalayam, Athipalayam, Govindanaikenpalayam, Maniakarampalayam, Paamalai, and Narasimhanaikenpalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-power/article37363804.ece
07 November 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Dengue prevention measures intensified||The district administration has begun block-wise medical camps to coordinate with the fever cases recorded in various government hospitals, as part of dengue prevention measures. Ahead of the north-east monsoon, fever prevention and mitigation measures have been initiated in the district. According to Collector S. Dhivyadarshini, dengue prevention measures were being jointly undertaken by the Department of Public Health and the local bodies. Six health inspectors were overseeing the collating of information that includes the names and addresses of in-patients and out-patients at the government hospitals, and the various primary health centres with complaints of fever. The list is shared with the eight blocks and the local bodies. According to the administration, block medical officers and block development officers, based on the list of addresses of reported fever cases, shall organise medical camps in the respective panchayats. Further, the eight block-level primary health centres will organise mobile medical camps in a concerted manner, Ms. Dhivyadarshini said. In addition, all school medical teams will be engaged to create awareness of the various symptoms of fever. Any symptoms of fever should not be neglected, the administration has said. Public were urged to clean water tanks and water collection points with bleaching powder and water collection vessels should be sealed tight to prevent mosquito breeding in fresh water. Public were also urged to provide support to conservancy workers, who carry out door-to-door sanitation works. Fumigation The Collector has called upon the public to provide unhindered access to the backyards and other water collection points to enable fumigation by the dengue prevention staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dengue-prevention-measures-intensified/article37363899.ece
07 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Retail price of tomato shoots up in Erode||Following drop in the arrival of tomato to the wholesale markets, its retail price has increased to Rs. 70 a kg on Saturday. The Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market, which is a wholesale market that functions at V.O.C. Park Ground, receives about 5,000 boxes, each weighing 15 kg of tomatoes from other States and from Talavadi. Due to rain in the past one month in production areas, the wholesale price of tomato has increased from Rs. 20 a kg to Rs. 50 a kg now. Traders said that due to Deepavali, farmers did not harvest tomatoes. Also, crops were damaged due to rain leading to drop in production. Hence, on an average less than 2,200 boxes arrive every day at the wholesale market for the past one week, they added. In retail, tomatoes are being sold between Rs. 60 and Rs. 70 a kg causing hardship to the consumers. Shopkeepers said that fine quality tomatoes are being sold not less than Rs. 70 a kg and since it is very essential in our food, people are spending more to purchase tomatoes. They said that the price of tomatoes is not expected to fall in the next three months or until the rainy season comes to an end. “As monsoon intensifies, production will also be affected pushing the price up further”, shopkeepers said and added that price may touch Rs. 100 a kg depending upon the rain. Wholesale traders said that less than 3,000 boxes would arrive in the market every day from October to December during which wholesale price will be in the range of Rs. 50 to Rs. 60 a kg. “Price of tomatoes depends on the arrivals”, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retail-price-of-tomato-shoots-up-to-rs-70-per-kg-in-erode/article37363897.ece
07 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Divisional-level Dak Adalat on Nov. 18||Divisional-level Dak Adalat will be conducted at the Office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Erode division, between 11 a.m. and noon on November 18. Complaints A press release from Stefan Simon Tobias, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Erode division, said that postal customers may send their complaints related to the services offered by the department to the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Erode division, Erode - 638 001 so as to reach the office before November 10. The cover should be superscribed as “Dak Adalat case”. The grievances may also be handed over in person at the office between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. before November 10. Details The complaint should contain full details such as date and time of posting, full address of the sender and addressee, registered number with date and office of booking for MO, VP, Registered, Insured and Speed Post articles. If the complaint is about savings bank of Postal Life Insurance, the complaint should contain the account number, policy numbers, name and address of the depositor, insurant, name of the post office, the details of recovery and any reference of the Postal Department, wherever available, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/divisional-level-dak-adalat-on-nov-18/article37363888.ece
07 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco issues advisory to prevent electrocution||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution and Corporation Limited (Tangedco) has issued advisory to the public to prevent electrocution during the north-east monsoon. A press release from K. Indirani, Superintending Engineer, Erode Electricity Distribution Circle, asked the public to use three-socket pins for refrigerator, grinder and other household appliances. All electric wirings should be done by the contractors authorised by the electricity board and electrical goods with ISI mark should only be used. Earth connection using an electric earth should be given for households. All the wiring in houses should be checked once in five years . People were asked not to touch any line passing through their terrace or use the lines for drying clothes and also not place advertisement materials in the electric posts. During rainy season, the public should avoid moving near the transformers or junction boxes and not touch any snapped live wire. “Instead they should immediately alert the electricity offices in the area”, the release added. Issues related to power disruption can be taken up with the Tangedco office at 0424-2260066, 0424-2240896 and WhatsApp helpline number 94458-51912. They can also contact the State government’s newly launched ‘Minnagam’, a service call centre to register various electricity complaints by the consumers at helpline 94987-94987.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-issues-advisory-to-prevent-electrocution/article37363895.ece
07 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 67 new cases, one death||Erode district on Saturday reported 67 new COVID-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 1,04,693. While 61 persons were discharged, 724 are under treatment. One person died of COVID-19 and the district’s toll rose to 690. Salem district reported 54 fresh cases and the overall tally rose to 1,00,241. While 51 persons were discharged, the district had 610 active cases as on Saturday. Namakkal district reported 39 cases, taking the overall tally to 52,511. While 45 persons were discharged, 452 are under treatment. Coimbatore district reported 99 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, while 126 persons recovered. Three more persons from the district died of COVID-19 and the toll rose to 2,428. Tiruppur district had 713 active cases of the disease, including 60 persons who tested positive on Saturday. A total of 79 persons recovered from the viral disease on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-67-new-cases-one-death/article37363890.ece
07 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown on November 8||In view of maintenance work at Mettukadai sub-station , power supply will be disrupted in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on November 8. The areas affected are as follows: Mel Thindal, Keel Thindal, Selvam Nagar, Palayapalayam, Sudanandan Nagar, Jeeva Nagar, Muthampalayam Housing Unit, Veerapampalayam, Nanjanapuram, Therkupallam, Nalliyampalayam, Sengodampalayam, Valliputhiranpalayam, Balaji Garden, Veppampalayam, Pavalathampalayam, Maruthi Nagar, Vidhya Nagar, Villarasampatti, Kaikattivalasu, Moolakarai, Mettukadai, Pungambadi, Nathakattupalayam, Elayacoundanpalayam, M.G.R. Nagar, Kadirampatti, Vannankattuvalasu, Nasiyanur, Thottipalayam, Rayapalayam, Sithakuttai, Attayampalayam, Merku Pudur, S.S.P. Nagar, Thendral Nagar, Muthumanickam Nagar, Rasampalayam, Karuvil Parai Valasu, Karuvil Parai Kulam, Velappa Goundan Valasu and Muniyappanpalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown-on-november-8/article37363893.ece
07 November 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Toddler rescued from locked room||Fire and Rescue Services personnel rescued an 18-month-old boy from a locked room at a house at Rasi Nagar in Kaliappanur near here on Friday night. According to sources, Sivachandran of Tiruppur had come to his relative Ragunathan’s house to celebrate Deepavali. Sivachandran’s son Darshid was caught alone in the room after the door got locked from inside. On hearing his cries, the family members tried to open the door. But they failed and alerted the Fire and Rescue Services personnel who rushed to the spot and opened the door.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toddler-rescued-from-locked-room/article37364057.ece
07 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Take steps to rehabilitate beggars, High Court tells State Government||Considering the fact that despite begging being an offence, people were begging and using children as a shield, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has asked the State government to take steps and ensure that the Beggars Rehabilitation Scheme and the Prevention of Begging Act are implemented in the strict sense. Justice B. Pugalendhi observed that the right to life and to live with dignity was guaranteed under the Constitution. Therefore, it is the duty of the State to ensure that all its citizens live with dignity. The government should pay more attention to this aspect and allot a particular department to ensure the implementation, the judge said. Begging is an offence as per the Tamil Nadu Prevention of Begging Act, 1945 and whoever is found begging shall be punishable up to six months. It was enacted to prevent begging. Even though begging is termed an offence, it has not been curtailed effectively. A large number of people are involved in it and can be seen at various places. The government is spending huge money on various welfare schemes. Social security schemes were being implemented by the Centre and the State. A work guarantee scheme under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme was being implemented but the number of beggars in the State has increased. The court took note of the fact that the Government Care Camp in Melpakkam near Chennai, a one of its kind home for beggars which was opened with a view to prevent begging and rehabilitate beggars, was in a dilapidated condition. Since 2016, there was no conviction and no one was accommodated at the camp. It was hearing a bail petition filed by R. Pandiyan of Tiruchi. It was said that he had kidnapped a child he knew and indulged in begging. The child was rescued. Taking note of the fact that he was in judicial custody for over 100 days and no final report was filed, the court granted him bail.  It is the duty of the State to ensure that all its citizens live with dignity. The government should pay more attention to this aspect and allot a particular department to ensure the implementation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-steps-to-rehabilitate-beggars-hc/article37363776.ece
07 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court quashes FIR registered against protesters||Assembly and expression of thought and protest are fundamental rights, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court observed and quashed the First Information Report registered against a group of protesters in Madurai. Justice G. Ilangovan observed that even though they had not obtained prior permission, they had only exercised their fundamental right. In 2019, a group of 15 members had staged a demonstration in front of the American College condemning the Pollachi sexual assault incident. The petitioners challenged the FIR registered against them. They said that the protest was peaceful and no untoward incident or unlawful activity took place. The court took note of the fact that there was no public nuisance and the FIR stated that the group, without prolonging the demonstration, disbursed when the police arrived and asked them to disburse. There was no intention to cause inconvenience to the public, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-quashes-fir-registered-against-protesters/article37364061.ece
07 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to permit heavy vehicles on new bridge across Kollidam||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought response from the authorities in a public interest litigation petition seeking permission to allow the operation of heavy vehicles on the newly built high level bridge across Kollidam river near Grand Anicut. A Division Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar sought response in the petition filed by V. Jeevakumar of Thanjavur district. The petitioner said that authorities had only permitted light vehicles to ply over the bridge. He said that road users and commuters have demanded the operation of bus services on the newly constructed bridge across Kollidam river near Grand Anicut that connects Thiruvanaikovil road in Tiruchi district and Grand Anicut road in Thanjavur district. The travel time between Kumbakonam and Tiruchi will be reduced substantially. A representation was submitted to the authorities, but no steps have been taken so far, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-permit-heavy-vehicles-on-new-bridge-across-kollidam/article37364059.ece
07 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||City hospital signs MoU||EnvisionTEC, a global 3D printer company headquartered in Germany, and Nala Dental Hospital in the city have signed an MOU for in-house fabrication of clear aligners, the next generation treatment modality in teeth alignment and correction of jaw growth. The MOU was released here on Saturday by Collector S. Aneesh Shekar and the hospital Director J. Kannaperuman. According to a press release, the aligners help in avoiding regular braces which have limitations such as insertion of metal and wire inside the mouth that is visible and does not allow food intake while wearing them. If the jaw bones are healthy, there is no age ceiling for tooth correction with aligners, Dr. Kannaperuman said. Tooth alignment is important not only for appearance but also for better phonation, chewing and overall oral health. With the in-house production, the cost and time of treatment could be considerably reduced, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mou-signed/article37363885.ece
07 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Consider Sri Lankan woman’s plea, High Court tells Centre||Taking into account the plight of an elderly woman from Sri Lanka who requires care and support, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Centre to consider the representation made by her seeking to shift her son from the Tiruchi camp to the Mandapam camp in Ramanathapuram district, where she is presently residing, on humanitarian grounds. The court was hearing the petition filed by M. Parvathy Pillai. The petitioner, along with her family members, came to India from Sri Lanka in 2007 and were residing at the Mandapam camp. Under these circumstances, in 2019, a case of cheating was registered against her son M. Niruban. The State passed a restriction order and he was kept in the Tiruchi camp. Niruban was granted bail, but he was kept in the Tiruchi camp. The 69-year-old petitioner Parvathy, unable to maintain herself, made a representation to the Tiruchi Collector to consider her plea and allow her son to stay in the Mandapam camp. Since no action was taken, she filed the petition. Justice G. Ilangovan took note of the fact that there was a restriction order and it cannot be termed as a detention order or a confinement order. The petitioner’s son was allowed to come out of the Tiruchi camp and go back with the permission of the Collector. The court observed that the woman was suffering from many health issues and had no one to take care of her. The restriction order was passed as a criminal case was pending against the petitioner’s son. But, considering the plight of the woman, the court said that it was of the considered view that this was a fit case that can be considered on humanitarian grounds. The court directed the Centre to consider the representation made by her on humanitarian grounds and pass appropriate orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consider-sri-lankan-womans-plea/article37363883.ece
07 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MoU signed||EnvisionTEC, a global 3D printer company headquartered in Germany and Nala Dental Hospital in Madurai have signed an MoU for in house fabrication of clear aligners, the next generation treatment modality in teeth alignment and correction of jaw growth. The MoU was released here on Saturday by Collector Aneesh Shekar and the hospital director Kannaperuman. According to a press release, the aligners help in avoiding regular braces which have limitations such as insertion of metal and wire inside the mouth that is visible. The braces also does not allow food intake when the person is wearing them. If the jaw bones are healthy, there is no age ceiling for tooth correction with aligners, Dr. Kannaperuman said. Tooth alignment is important not only for appearance but also for better phonation, chewing and overall oral health, he pointed out. With the in-house production, the cost and time of treatment will reduce, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mou-signed/article37364185.ece
07 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Modification in HC judges sitting arrangement||There is a modification in the sitting arrangement of the new set of judges who will preside over the court proceedings at the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court from November 8. Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana will be the administrative judge of the High Court Bench for the next three months. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan will hear public interest litigation petitions and writ appeals from 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/modification-in-hc-judges-sitting-arrangement/article37364058.ece
07 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 138.50 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 4,010 cusecs and a discharge of 2,305 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37363882.ece
07 November 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Poigai dam reaches full capacity after 21 years||The water storage in Poigai dam in Kanniyakumari district has reached its full capacity 21 years after it was commissioned by the former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi. The capacity of the dam, situated in Aralvaimozhi, is 42.65 ft. “Even though copious rain in the district contributed to the dam reaching its capacity, renovation work carried out in Chunganodai and Irappaiyar ensured that the water reached the dam,” explained A. Vasanthi, PWD Executive Engineer, who has additional charge of Kodayar river basin. She said renovation was done in 2017 in areas which were totally inaccessible for 7 km. “The goods necessary for renovation were transported by donkeys. In 2019, the water storage reached 33 feet,” Ms. Vasanthi said. The dam would feed eight tanks and irrigate over 383 hectares in Kanniyakumari and Tirunelveli districts. N. Rakkisamuthu, a farmer from Shenbagaramanputhur, said the government should repair the channels and waterbodies so that agriculture could be continued in areas regularly irrigated before the construction of the dam. “We made use of the water from the Poigai river and tanks fed by it and cultivated dry crops. Paddy was cultivated as a second crop. The dam created an uncertainty as water would be released only if there is adequate storage. A lot of agricultural lands have been sold for other purposes in the last two decades,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dam-reaches-full-capacity-after-21-years/article37363800.ece
07 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Schools for Classes I to VIII to reopen tomorrow||Schools in Puducherry are set to open their doors on Monday, to receive 1,64,161 students of Classes I to VIII, after holding online classes for several months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Earlier, the government had allowed the reopening of schools for Classes IX to XII. Physical classes for students of Standards I to VIII will be conducted in a staggered manner. Like for the higher classes, the primary classes will function from 9.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. Classes for students of Standards I, III, V and VII will be held on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, while classes for students of Standards II, IV, VI and VIII will be held on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Preparations are on to ensure that COVID-19 safety protocols are followed by the educational institutions, Director of School Education P. T Rudra Goud said, adding that around 90% of the school staff are vaccinated. Vaccination drive “A section of the remaining staff would have been infected by the virus and hence must wait for the government-prescribed window period to be over to get the jab. There could be some staff who are vaccine-hesitant due to multiple reasons and we will try to persuade them to get vaccinated,” he told The Hindu . The Director said the mid-day meal programme would be resumed from the first day. On Friday, Education Minister A. Namassivayam visited the Central Kitchen at Lawspet. On the re-launch of ‘student-only’ buses, Mr. Goud said a tender has been floated to invite interested operators for joining the programme. The buses could be started from the end of this month or next month, he added.  Preparations are on to ensure that all COVID-19 safety protocols are followed by the educational institutions P. T Rudra Goud, Director of School Education||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-for-classes-i-to-viii-to-reopen-tomorrow/article37364145.ece
07 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Police moot joint inspection of cracker manufacturing units in Puducherry||Post-Deepavali celebrations, the Puducherry Police department has proposed periodic inspection of cracker manufacturing units along with officials of Revenue Department. The department wanted the joint inspection to be done by including experts to ascertain if the cracker manufacturing units are adhering to the rules prescribed by the licencing authorities including, the nature and quantum of chemicals used. There are 14 licensed cracker manufacturing units in Puducherry, said a senior official of the Revenue department. “We have asked for a periodic joint inspection of the cracker manufacturing units to ascertain whether the firms are following the rules and regulations. Though the incident in which two persons got killed in an explosion on Deepavali day at Kottakuppam has no direct link to the Union Territory, we are concerned, as a few criminal elements have used countrymade bombs in the recent past. So, we want to have a strict monitoring of the cracker manufacturing units and hence the sought the assistance of the Revenue department,” Senior Superintendent of Police (Law and Order) R. Lokeshwaran told The Hindu . The police have recommended the inclusion of experts so that scientific details could be collected to ascertain whether the manufacturing units are functioning as per rules and regulations, he said. Stating that the law and order situation was well under control, the senior law enforcement officer said the Police department had mooted the introduction of a more stringent law on the lines of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act to prevent heinous crimes in the Union Territory. “The law is more stringent than our Goondas Act. The legislation will make it difficult for persons arrested under it to get bail for at least three years and will act as a deterrent for people indulging in organised criminal activities. Our proposal is with the Home Department for further course of action,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-moot-joint-inspection-of-cracker-manufacturing-units-in-puducherry/article37364147.ece
07 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records one death, 20 fresh cases||The Union Territory on Saturday recorded one COVID-19 death and 20 new cases. The lone death was reported from Yanam where a 47-year-old succumbed to the virus while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Kakinada. According to the data released by the Health Department, the death toll in the Union Territory had gone up to 1,862. In the last 24 hours ending Saturday, 10 a.m., 20 more persons contracted the infection. The new cases were detected from screening 1,523 persons. Among those who tested positive for the virus, seven are from Mahe, six from Karaikal, five from Puducherry and two from Yanam, data revealed. There are 304 active COVID-19 cases in the Union Territory. The test positivity rate in the Union Territory stood at 1.31% while case fatality rate was 1.45%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-one-death-20-fresh-cases/article37364148.ece
07 November 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||ONGC gives its materials for development works||Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) has agreed to allow the district administration to use sand and blue metal, worth about Rs. 85 lakh, available at the sites where drilling works were taken up at Alangudi and Karambakudi taluks for development works. Collector Kavitha Ramu, in a press release, said ONGC was engaged in restoring the lands acquired temporarily for drilling works in the two taluks to their owners. The process was being done by ONGC as per the guidelines of the Union Ministry of Forest and Environment. As part of the process, ONGC had consented to allow the district administration to use about 11,000 cubic metres of sand and blue metal for development works. The consent letter was handed over to the Collector by ONGC officials, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ongc-gives-its-materials-for-development-works/article37363871.ece
07 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Yercaud - Kuppanur ghat road restoration work continues||Road restoration work continued for the second day on Saturday on Yercaud - Kuppanur ghat section where landslip occurred at seven places on Friday. Due to rain in the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, landslip occurred in the stretch resulting in boulders and trees falling on the road disrupting vehicle movement completely. District Collector S. Karmegam inspected the landslip sites and asked the officials from the Public Works Department, Highways Department and the Revenue Department to complete restoration works on a war-footing. Earthmovers were pressed into service and boulders, trees and mud were removed from the road from Friday afternoon. Officials said that works were expected to be completed in three or four days after which two-wheelers and four-wheelers would be allowed initially. Later, heavy vehicles would be allowed to use the stretch, they added. People in Yercaud use the ghat road to transport fruits, flowers, vegetables and other commodities to the markets regularly. Since restoration work is in progress, vehicles were diverted through Yercaud - Hasthampatti Junction to reach markets. Also, vehicles from Harur, Kallakurichi, Tirupattur and Tiruvannamalai were asked to use the main road from Hasthampatti Junction to reach Yercaud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/yercaud-kuppanur-ghat-road-restoration-work-continues/article37363892.ece
07 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||MBBS aspirant, who attempted suicide, dies||An MBBS aspirant, G. Subhash Chandra Bose, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Salem after a suicide attempt, died on Saturday. He had completed Class XII in 2019, and had attempted to clear the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for medical admissions, for the past two years. According to the police, family members claimed he was dejected over his low NEET score. Thalaivasal police said no suicide note was recovered. Police registered a case under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Postmortem was conducted at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital and the body was handed over to the relatives. The body was buried in the village in the evening.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mbbs-aspirant-who-attempted-suicide-dies/article37363799.ece
07 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Water level nearing 115 feet in Mettur Dam||The water level at Stanley Reservoir in Mettur was inching closer to 115 feet, against the full reservoir level of 120 feet, on Saturday. Officials of the Public Works Department said that at 8 a.m. Saturday , the inflow was 15,740 cusecs and the discharge was 400 cusecs into the canal and 100 cusecs into River Cauvery. The water level stood at 114.46 feet and the storage was 84.91 tmc against the capacity of 93.50 tmc. At Bhavanisagar Dam in Erode district, the inflow was 4,822 cusecs while the discharge was 100 cusecs into River Cauvery. At 8 a.m. Saturday, the water level stood at 103.53 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 105 feet. The storage was 31.57 tmc, against the capacity of 32.80 tmc. Rainfall recorded in the area was 7.8 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-nearing-115-feet-in-mettur-dam/article37363898.ece
07 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Thammampatti receives 100 mm rainfall||Thammampatti in the district received 100 mm rainfall during the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. The rainfall recorded in other places are: Yercaud 41 mm, Gangavalli 32 mm and Anaimaduvu 12 mm. No untoward incidents were reported due to rain in the district. In Erode district, Gunderipallam received the maximum of 24 mm rainfall, followed by Nambiyur 14 mm, Kodiveri 12 mm, Gobichettipalayam 11.4 mm, Elanthakuttaimedu 5.4 mm and Varattupallam 4.8 mm. In Namakkal district, Kolli Hills recorded 54 mm rainfall followed by Mohanur 24 mm and Namakkal 16 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thammampatti-receives-100-mm-rainfall/article37363894.ece
07 November 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Bid to break open ATM||Thiruvidaimaruthur police are investigating a complaint of an attempt to break open an automated teller machine (ATM) at Veppathur near Kumbakonam on Saturday. According to police, the incident took place around 2.45 a.m. when an unidentified man attempted to break open the ATM of a nationalised bank with a crowbar. He left the ATM premises as his efforts turned futile. On Saturday morning, local people notice the damage caused to the ATM and informed the police who rushed in and seized the crowbar left behind by the unidentified person. Forensic experts visited the scene of crime to lift all possible foreign finger prints, police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-break-open-atm/article37364056.ece
07 November 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||PWD engineers issue first flood warning||With steady inflow in Vaigai dam and widespread rain in the catchment areas, the PWD engineers have issued the first flood warning as the storage level in the dam reached 66 feet (maximum level is 71 feet) with an average inflow of 4,025 cusecs and a discharge of 969 cusecs at 10 a.m. on Saturday. The rainfall (in mm) in the region during the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m was: Bodinayakkanur: 55.6, Gudalur: 7.3, Manjalar: 15, Periakulam: 45, Sothuparai: 30, Periyar dam: 6.6, Thekkadi: 13.8 and Veerapandi: 35 mm. The PWD engineers said that the Vaigai dam, which was constructed 64 years ago, had five times witnessed maximum storage level twice in a calendar year due to rainfall in January and June. “However, this (2021) year may be the first time when the dam is likely to reach the maximum level for the third time in a single calendar year,” the PWD engineers said even as rainfall continued in the catchment areas in Periyar dam and surrounding pockets. The water in the dam was being used for both irrigation and drinking purposes in Theni, Madurai, Dindigul, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga districts. Madurai The PWD engineers, in coordination with the police and revenue departments, have cautioned the people to stay away from venturing near the Vaigai in Madurai. As a precautionary measure, barricades have been installed along the banks on both sides, the officials said. The police have installed check posts on the Alwarpuram, Kuruvikaran Salai, near PTR Bridge, Arapalayam (Amma bridge), among other causeways. Similarly, authorities have put up signboards cautioning the people near Sellur, Aruldosspuram and other areas to ensure that cattle was not left unattended. A senior police officer said that with water flow likely to be forceful from Sunday morning so that the bridges would be under surveillance as people stood on parapet walls and took selfie on their mobile phones, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-flood-warning-issued-in-vaigai-dam/article37363796.ece
07 November 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Three of a family die in road accident||Three persons, including a three-month old baby, died in a road accident when the car in which they were travelling in from Kodaikanal to Periakulam via Adukkam ghat section fell into a 200-feet gorge on Friday night. Following calls from the public, police and fire and rescue service personnel rushed to the spot. But bad light and rain delayed the rescue operation. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Gokul (30) of Thenur in Madurai district was a practising advocate in Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. He was married to Nandhini Bharati (27) of Satya Nagar Subbulapuram in Theni district about a year ago. She was working in the Agriculture department in Subbulapuram and the couple had a three-month old girl. They had gone to Kodaikanal two days ago. Along with them, Nandhini’s mother Alagurani (48) and another relative Karthikeyan (25) were also in the car. They had planned to go to Subbulapuram to drop Alagurani and proceed to Madurai. As they were approaching Keezhavipaarai, Gokul, who was said to be behind the wheels, lost control at a bend and the car fell into the gorge. Due to recent rains, the stretch had seen a landslide about a week ago and officials had carried out repair works. It is suspected that loose soil on the edge of the road may have led to the vehicle falling into the gorge. According to the villagers, three persons – Nandini, her daughter Dhanayazhini and Alagurani – died on the spot while Gokul and Karthikeyan suffered multiple injuries. They were rushed to Theni Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. District Fire Officer (Periakulam) Palaniswami, Periakulam DSP Muthukumar and team supervised the rescue operation. The three bodies were sent to the GH for postmortem. Further investigation was on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-of-family-die-as-car-falls-into-gorge/article37363774.ece
07 November 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||‘Avoid visiting waterbodies’||With the region experiencing widespread rainfall, the fire and rescue service department are geared to face the challenges ahead, said District Fire Officer S. Kumar here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, he said that the government had instructed to keep round-the-clock surveillance on all waterbodies, including tanks and channels. With public cooperation, deaths can be avoided to a large extent as many youngsters, not knowing the consequences, visit waterbodies for a dip and to take selfie on their mobile phones. With waterbodies receiving copious inflow, the situation was being closely watched and surplus water was being let off in the channels to avoid breach and any possible damages. As a result, low-lying areas were inundated and some dwellings were also damaged. Fire and Rescue Services Director Karan Singa had urged all station fire officers and personnel to be vigil during such widespread rainfall. The department had already trained first responders across the district and also imparted training on handling life jackets to them. The officials, in coordination with the revenue and disaster management department, had identified vulnerable locations and volunteers have been positioned in the respective segments. In case of any flooding, wherein human population or cattle had to be rescued, in minimal time, the teams would reach the spot, Mr. Kumar said. Fire and rescue department officials said that in 2020, about 40 people had died in the district during the rainy season. Either they were washed away in the floods or had drowned while taking bath in waterbodies. In this year, till date, more than 50 people had died so far, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/avoid-visiting-waterbodies/article37363881.ece
07 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Corporation launches special drive to clear garbage||With garbage generated on account of Deepavali piliing up in different parts of the city, Tiruchi Corporation has launched a special drive to clear the wastes. The city generates about 450 tonnes of garbage a day normally. Of this, Gandhi Market, Central Bus Stand and Chathiram Bus Stand contribute 10% of the garbage. The city generated nearly 700 tonnes of garbage on the day of Deepavali alone. While the left overs of firecrackers contributed a portion of the garbage, wrappers, boxes and polythene covers, which were dumped by permanent and seasonal traders, accounted for the rest. The Corporation launched the drive with available sanitary workers, who returned to work after the holiday on Thursday. But there were several absentees on Friday. Though the garbage generated on arterial roads such as Thillai Nagar Main Road, Cantonment, Srirangam, K.K. Nagar have been collected, the waste accumulating on several interior roads and streets are yet to be collected. Heaps of burnt crackers, cardboard boxes, polythene covers and others were spotted in various streets in Bheema Nagar, Woraiyur, East Boulevard Road, Varaganeri, Palakarai, Edatheru and other places on Saturday. Similarly, the waste left by the seasonal traders in Super Bazaar, Singarathope and other commercial areas were also unattended by the workers. “The sanitary workers carried out the door-to-door collection of domestic waste as usual Friday and Saturday. But, the cracker waste strewn on various streets has not been cleared yet,” says R. Rajesh of Srirangam. Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujubur Rahuman told The Hindu that the garbage collection on account of the festival had almost doubled in the city. More than 2,000 sanitary workers had been deployed to clear the waste. Almost all vehicles except earthmovers and water tankers had been involved in the special drive to transport the garbage. Seasonal garbage found in most of the parts of the city had been cleared. Instructions had been given to the Assistant Commissioners and sanitary officials to clear the garbage in interior parts. Thanjavur More than 300 tonnes of garbage generated on the streets during the Deepavali festivities were cleared in Thanjavur Corporation limits on Friday. A total of 550 people and 40 vehicles were deployed in the special operation carried out on Friday in all 51 wards, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-launches-special-drive-to-clear-garbage/article37363874.ece
07 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 safety norms to be strictly enforced in Tiruchi||With Deepavali out of the way, the Tiruchi City Corporation plans to crack the whip on those not following COVID-19 safety protocol, especially wearing of masks. Large crowds had gathered at N.S.B. Road, Singarathope, and Big Bazaar Street for shopping despite rains in the city in the run-up to Deepavali. Officials fear that the gatherings could create COVID-19 clusters. Senior health officials have suggested that the civic body, along with the police and revenue officials, resume levying penalties for flouting COVID-19 norms. “It is sad to see that the public has forgotten the situation that prevailed a few months ago. We continue to insist on wearing masks, but only if the people understand the ill-effects will they follow the norms,” a district health official said. A section of the public says the weather in the city caused discomfort and they were unable to wear masks. “I feel breathless when I wear it. In this weather, it makes it worse. Besides, we have all got the COVID-19 vaccine. We believe we are safe,” a resident of Sangiliandapuram said. The public needs more awareness, a senior citizen said. “We are trying to be careful as we have pre-existing ailments which could worsen our condition if contracting COVID-19. However, the youth and the working population too need to be cautious,” he said. Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman told The Hindu that they were planning to resume levying fines as it would make the public follow the safety protocol. “A sense of laxity has set in as the number of cases reported is low. However, such behaviour could lead to a spike. We will begin checks soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-safety-norms-to-be-strictly-enforced-in-tiruchi/article37363866.ece
07 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Air Quality Index ‘satisfactory’ in Tiruchi||Despite unrestricted use of firecrackers as part of Deepavali celebrations, the air quality in the city was found to be “satisfactory” on Thursday by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. The Air Quality Index (AQI) in the Gandhi Market area in the city was 66 and 80 on Wednesday and Thursday, respectively. The AQI in Ramalinga Nagar was 49, categorised as ‘good’ on Wednesday, though it deteriorated slightly to 56 (‘satisfactory’) on Thursday. An AIR quality index of 0-50 is categorised as ‘good,’ and 51 to 100 is ‘satisfactory’ with further grading of ‘moderate,’(101 to 200) ‘poor,’(201 to 300) ‘very poor’ (301 to 400) and ‘severe’ (above 401). According to the pre and post-Deepavali data of the TNPCB’s Advanced Environmental Laboratory, Tiruchi, the AIQ in Gandhi Market area had been ‘satisfactory’ from October 28 to 30 and November 1 and ‘good’ on October 31 and November 2. The AIQ in Ramalinga Nagar had been consistently ‘good’ between October 29 and November 3 though it was just ‘satisfactory’ on October 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-quality-index-satisfactory-in-tiruchi/article37363862.ece
07 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Campaign to prevent crime against children||Police have launched an awareness campaign on child safety across the central zone ahead of Children’s Day and Child Safety Week. The campaign has been launched in all nine districts in the zone and is aimed at checking sexual abuse and other crimes against children. Under the initiative, police personnel will go door-to-door in the villages to meet and interact with the people to sensitise them on the need to completely eliminate crime against children. The police teams have distributed awareness pamphlets containing contact phone numbers and helplines in emergency situations. People are being told to get in touch with officials at the One Stop Centre by dialling 182, Women Help Desk at 1091, 1098 Childline or police at 100. The campaign will go on till Children’s Day on November 14 and is being conducted under the leadership of the Additional Superintendents of Police, Crimes Against Women and Child, in each district. Deputy superintendents of police, police officers and constables will visit the villages under their jurisdiction to carry out the sensitisation drive. Volunteers, non-governmental organisations and child welfare committee members are also being involved in the campaign. So far, police teams have reached out to 64,539 households with the help of 1,883 volunteers since the start of the campaign on November 1. This apart, 1,465 awareness camps have also be conducted in which nearly 65,000 people participated, a police press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/campaign-to-prevent-crime-against-children/article37363870.ece
07 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Two persons arrested by cyber crime police||Cyber crime police here on Saturday arrested two persons, including a BJP functionary, for posting objectionable messages on a fake facebook account of another BJP functionary of Tiruchi. In his complaint, BJP district secretary Kaleeswaran , stated that unknown persons created an FB account in his name and posted derogatory and objectoinable posts aimed at tarnishing his image and a few other party functionaries. Investigation revealed that Ravi Muthukumaran of Thoothukudi created the fake account at the behest of Thilaga Sivamoorthy 50, of Karumandapam, the district secretary of party’s agricultural wing. Both of them were arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-persons-arrested-by-cyber-crime-police/article37363872.ece
07 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Land alloted for two fire stations in Tiruchi||With allottment of land by the district administration, the Fire and Rescue Services Department is poised to get its own buildings for fire stations at Pullambadi and Thuvarankurichi Nearly two acres of land each have been allotted at Pullambadi and Thuvarankurichi for construction of fire stations along with staff quarters. Communication in this regard has been sent from the district administration to the department here, according to senior officials. The Tiruchi Fire Division accounts for a total of nine fire stations: Tiruchi, Srirangam, Navalpattu, Lalgudi, Pullambadi, Samayapuram, Manapparai, Thuvarankurichi and Uppiliapuram. The fire stations at Tiruchi, Navalpattu, Manapparai, Lalgudi and Uppilliapuram function from their own buildings, while units at Thuvarankurichi and Samayapuram operate from rented structures. The fire station at Pullambadi function from a building belonging to the town panchayat. Funds for project According to a senior official, boundary markings have been done at Pullambadi on the site allotted for construction of the fire station. Funds will be sought from the State government for construction of the buildings to be undertaken by Tamil Nadu Police Housing Corporation. The Tiruchi Fire Division received and attended to 185 fire calls and 482 rescue calls from January 1 to October 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/land-alloted-for-two-fire-stations-in-tiruchi/article37363861.ece
07 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||148 fresh cases in delta region||The central region reported 148 fresh cases of COVID-19 cases on Saturday. Four deaths of the viral infection were registered. Two patients died of the illness in Thanjavur district, and one each in Karur and Tiruchi districts. Both Tiruchi and Thanjavur registered 30 fresh COVID-19 cases each. The other seven districts in central Tamil Nadu reported less than 25 COVID-19 cases each. In Karur, 21 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Tiruvarur, meanwhile, registered 16 fresh cases, while seven fresh cases each were registered in Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts. In neighbouring Mayiladuthurai district, three patients tested positive, while two were reported in Perambalur and one in Ariyalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/148-fresh-cases-in-delta-region/article37363877.ece
07 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Draft electoral roll for urban local bodies released||Collector V. Vishnu released the draft electoral roll for urban local bodies comprising 370 wards, including 55 wards in Tirunelveli Corporation, 42 wards in two municipalities and 273 wards in 17 town panchayats here on Saturday. The first copy was received by Corporation Commissioner Vishnu Chandran in the presence of Regional Director (Municipality) Vijayalakshmi, Assistant Director (Town Panchayat) Kuthalingam and PA (to Collector - Elections) Ramlal. The Collector told reporters that there were 55 wards in Tirunelveli Corporation limits with 2,03,882 men, 2,12,471 women and 37 others as per the 2011 census. The two municipalities had 42 wards with 35,479 men, 37,883 women and 2 others. The 17 town panchayats had 273 wards with 1,15,984 men, 1,22,600 women and 10 others. As per the guidelines of the State Election Commission, it has been proposed to have 1,200 people as the maximum number of voters in a polling station. Hence, under the urban local bodies jurisdiction, there would be 908 polling stations across the city and district with a total of around 7.28 lakh voters, he said. Keeping in mind the pandemic situation, the officials have made elaborate arrangements in this connection and the Standard Operating Procedure would be in place, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/draft-electoral-roll-for-urban-local-bodies-released/article37364180.ece
07 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||TVL_water level||The water level in Papanasam dam was 136.50 feet (max. level 143 ft) with an inflow of 1,365.05 cusecs and discharge of 1,404.75 cusecs. The water level in Manimuthar dam was 84.70 ft (max level 118 ft) with an inflow of 450 cusecs and discharge of 10 cusecs. The rainfall (in mm) during the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. are as follows: Servalaru: 1, Ambasamudram: 4, Cheranmahadevi: 1, Moolakaraipatti: 6, Nellai: 0.5 mm, said PWD officials on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tvlwater-level/article37364184.ece
07 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Solar power lights up seven tribal settlements in ATR||Conservation organisation World Wide Fund for Nature-India (WWF-India) recently installed solar-powered LED lights in several residences in the seven tribal settlements within Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) – Tiruppur Division. According to a press release, WWF-India collaborated with DCB Bank to provide solar-powered home-lights to the tribal settlements of Thalinji, Kodanthur, Aattumalai, Poruparu, Easalthittu, Karimutty and Poochukottanparai. The initiative, carried out with the assistance of the Forest Department, has benefited 398 families. “With the crucial support of the Forest Department – Tiruppur division of ATR, community consultation meetings were held to discuss beneficiaries, logistics for installation, the involvement of local youth in the installation of the home-lights, and a pathway to making this a community-driven sustainable model,” the release said. Mullai Pandian, coordinator of WWF-India who oversaw this project, said that the installation was completed by December 2020. “In remote villages, electrification might not be possible,” she said on the decision to provide solar-powered lights to the households. The LED lights take about nine hours to charge under sunlight and has batteries with a backup capacity for three days. Hence, these could be used without any hassles in the night time, she said. A couple of youths from each of the seven settlements were trained in installation and minor repair works of the LED lights so that the residents could be independent, Ms. Pandian added. T. Kavitha, a resident of Easalthittu tribal settlement, said that children from many households were able to study in the evenings under the LED light after the installation. “We are also able to come out in the dark,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solar-power-lights-up-seven-tribal-settlements-in-atr/article37363802.ece
07 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Women duped of jewellery||Two women were duped of 18 sovereigns of jewellery by two men who posed as policemen on Saturday. The police said that Sarasu (66) and her sister Santhamani (64) of Pitchampalayam were cheated by two men on 60 Feet Road at Kumar Nagar in Tiruppur around 10 a.m. Two men, who came on a two-wheeler stopped near the women and introduced themselves as policemen. They told the siblings that the area was notorious for chain-snatchers and asked them to keep the jewellery in their bag. The women removed their jewellery and handed over to the duo who offered to keep them safely inside the bag. The men handed over the bag to the women and left the place. Later, they found that the bag did not have their jewellery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-duped-of-jewellery/article37363793.ece
07 November 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Security, amenities put in place for ‘Girivalam’||The Karthigai Deepam festivities at the Arunachaleswarar temple in Tiruvannamalai will begin on Sunday, with detailed security arrangements and civic amenities put in place for a restricted number of devotees because of the COVID-19 pandemic. A total of 13,000 visitors, including 3,000 from Tiruvannamalai, will be allowed for darshan after registering their details on the temple’s website with their voter identity cards, Aadhaar numbers and driving licences. No charges will be collected for the registration onwww.arunachaleswarartemple.tnhrce.in. Devotees in Tiruvannamalai district can get their entry tickets by showing their proof of address at the special desk at the Collectorate, the Tiruvannamalai municipality office, the office of the Joint Commissioner (HR&CE) and the taluk offices between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. on November 7 and 8. Only 5,000 visitors were allowed for the festival in 2020. All devotees should have taken their second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine and must have undergone an RT-PCR test, 24 hours before the visit. “Hotels and lodges were regularly checked to prevent bulk booking of rooms for more than three days. Further, 70 CCTV cameras have been installed to monitor the movement of vehicles and people during the festival,” A. Pavan Kumar Reddy, Superintendent of Police, Tiruvannamalai, told The Hindu . Collector inspects areas On Saturday, along with a team of officials, Tiruvannamalai Collector B. Murugesh inspected the temple area, the ‘Girivalam’ route and other key routes to ensure that all basic facilities and security arrangements were in place to prevent crowding. The key event of the festival, lighting of ‘Maha Deepam’, will be done at the Annamalaiyar hills without the participation of devotees. No devotee would be allowed to take the ‘Girivalam’ path from November 17 to 20. Further, they cannot provide ‘annadhanam’. Mr. Reddy said 10 police booths, with each manned by three policemen, were opened for the festival. Additionally, 13 watch towers at key intersections and on important routes were installed. Policemen in these towers would warn visitors against crowding and monitor the movement of vehicles and people. Along the ‘Girivalam’ route and the temple, 15 pickets were set up, with each having at least three policemen. Mobile police teams were deployed for round-the-clock patrol. Five teams of plainclothesmen were also formed to prevent crime, including phone thefts and chain-snatching. The district administration has created amenities, including installation of drinking water taps at many spots in the temple’s vicinity. A mobile medical team and an ambulance have been deployed. Apart from the existing bus stand, temporary bus stands have also been opened, along with three car parking lots, at Esaniyam, Chengam Road, Kanchi Road and Thirukoil Road. However, officials said no special buses and trains were arranged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-amenities-put-in-place-for-girivalam/article37364192.ece
07 November 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||PACS chairman placed under suspension||Chairman of Thappalampuliyur Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society Ravi has been placed under suspension by the Joint Registrar of Cooperatives, Tiruvarur Region. According to sources, a group of farmers from Alivalam hamlet lodged a complaint with the district administration and with the Joint Registrar of Cooperatives, Tiruvarur Region, in 2019 alleging disbursement of crop insurance compensation through the Thappalampuliyur Primary Agricultural Credit Society (PACS) to uncultivated lands. Subsequently, an inquiry was conducted by Cooperatives officials and the allegation was found to be true. As a fall out, a sum of Rs. 3,01,277 was realised by the society out of the total amount of Rs. 6,50,376 disbursed as crop loss compensation to 12 farmers who did not take up cultivation during 2018-19. As the Cooperatives Department was continuing its investigation presumably to get back the ‘wrongly disbursed’ compensation, the Thappalampuliyur PACS chairman, Ravi, was placed under suspension by the department anticipating that the chances of ‘destroying or diverting’ the witnesses was possible if he was allowed to continue in the post, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pacs-chairman-placed-under-suspension/article37363864.ece
07 November 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Technical team inspects ‘Kamalalayam’ tank||An expert team from the National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi, on Saturday inspected the Kamalalayam tank parapet damaged due to incessant rain recently. The team comprising Muthukumaran and Saravanan was accompanied by senior Revenue and Public Works Department officials during inspection of the damaged portion of the parapet of the tank and also assessed the strength of the banks on the four sides. Later talking to reporters, Muthukumaran said the banks of the tank on three sides could have weakened due to consistent movement of heavy vehicles, resulting in the caving in of the parapet following heavy rain. A detailed report identifying the cause and remedial measures would be presented to the government within a month, Mr. Muthukumaran added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/technical-team-inspects-kamalalayam-tank/article37363863.ece
07 November 2021||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district records 13 new COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,957 with 13 new cases reported on Saturday. While 48,638 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stands at 186. The district's death toll is 1,133. In Ranipet district, three cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,475. In Tirupattur district, three new cases were reported on Saturday and the total number of positive cases in the district stood at 29,332.  In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was eight, taking the total number of cases to 55,050. Out of this, 54,235 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 147. The Union Territory of Puducherry recorded one COVID-19 death and 20 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-records-13-new-covid-19-cases/article37364193.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Back on track||Southern Railway, with one of the well-connected networks in the country, is focussing on further expanding the track system to provide travel facility throughout the State by linking the districts with Chennai, as also with other parts of the country. Several infrastructure projects, having been delayed by the COVID-19 pandemic, are gathering pace. If all plans are implemented, they will be completed by 2024. The track expansion projects, being executed with a deadline, are part of National Rail Plan-2030 of the Indian Railways to be ‘future ready’ by catering to the ever-growing passenger capacity, improving operational efficiency and striking a balance between passenger and freight traffic to increase revenue from freight traffic. Southern Railway General Manager John Thomas said the infrastructure projects were being executed in a time-bound manner under Vision 2024, with their progress being monitored continuously. The projects would pave the way for greater speed, punctuality and safety. These projects would help to decongest the highly saturated routes. Push to passenger services The long-pending projects of the Madurai-Bodinayakkanur, Milavittan-Melmarudur and Tiruthuraipundi- Agastiyampalli lines would give a big push to passenger train operations in the remote southern parts. Two important projects — the Tambaram-Chengalpattu third line and the expansion of the Mass Rapid Transit System — are expected to further enhance the suburban network in Chennai. The gauge conversion between Madurai and Bodinayakkanur has been a long-pending project. The railways is set to complete the work by January next. The Andipatti-Theni section has been completed, and work in the Theni-Bodinayakkanur section is in progress. However, railway officials are doubtful of the operation of trains from Madurai to Bodinayakkanur in Theni district. The non-shifting of the overhead power lines will cause delay in getting clearance for train operations between Theni and Andipatti. A senior official said, “The high-voltage line was not an issue when the project, along with electrification, was planned. But, with electrification not done, clearance for the Andipatti-Theni stretch will not be possible without the power line being shifted.” Opposition to subway Another issue that stands in the way of the commissioning of the 90-km line, whose services were suspended for more than a decade, is the strong opposition to the construction of a subway at Vadapalanji in Madurai district. “Half the work for the subway has been completed, but locals are not allowing us to complete the work. They are insisting on the manned level crossing being retained,” the official said. The two issues prevent the linking of the most backward district of Theni with the State’s capital through Madurai. The district, earlier served by a British-era rail network to transport people and goods, especially spices, to other parts of the country, would have to wait even after gauge conversion is completed. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, citing the completion of the project, said train services could not be resumed unless a final decision was taken by the State Government to clear the hurdles. The other important rail project which would help bolster passenger traffic is the gauge conversion, in progress, in the Thiruthuraipoondi-Agasthiyampalli section through Vedaranyam. The project is being executed by the Tiruchi Division as part of the Mayiladuthurai-Thiruvarur-Karaikkudi gauge conversion. It is planned to be completed by January next. The completion of the project would restore rail connectivity after a long gap, besides freight traffic, especially the transport of salt from Agasthiyampalli. On schedule Prafulla Verma, Chief Administrative Officer, Southern Railway Construction Organisation, Chennai, said the gauge conversion work was going on as per schedule with the track having been laid up to 16 km. The construction of buildings for the six halt stations, including at Kariyapattinam, Neivilakku, Thopputhurai, Vedaranyam and Agasthiyampalli, was completed along 79 minor bridges. The officials are confident that the Rs. 250-crore project would be completed by January next. Southern Railway is set to take up a new broad gauge line from Karaikal to Peralam through Thirunallar, for which Rs. 177.69 crore has been sanctioned. The project, to be executed under Vision 2024, would restore the rail link between Karaikal and Peralam after a gap of over three decades. Third line project The third line project from Tambaram to Chengalpattu would help to segregate express and suburban trains, leading to operational efficiency and an increase in the speed of the long-distance trains. With the MRTS expansion, the suburban train services would get a boost, offering thousands of residents in southern parts of Chennai the cheapest mode of public transport. Southern Railway will give an impetus to freight traffic to augment revenue. It is executing a project from Madurai to Thoothukudi through Aruppukottai. The new line will be fully operational once the Milavittan-Melmarudur section is completed. The 18-km work will be completed by the end of this month once the Commissioner of Railway Safety conducts the inspection. It will benefit three power plants and a cement factory in Thoothukudi district. A railway official said the new line would help to transport raw materials from the Thoothukudi port. Cement can be taken directly from the plant to the port and then other parts of the country. Movement of raw materials to those plants by rail will not only be cheaper, compared with road transport, but will also be faster, helping to decongest roads in Thoothukudi. The cost of the project, which started in 2018, is Rs. 260 crore. The next phase of work between Melmarudur and Aruppukottai through Vilathikulam and Puthur, for 66 km, will be taken up after the sanction of the detailed project report by the Railway Board. The project would help to popularise the Madurai-Thoothukudi industrial corridor proposed by the State Government. Doubling work Another important project which would help to pave the way for freight traffic in the western parts is the doubling of the Salem-Magnesite-Omalur section. The project, to be carried out for 11 km, is expected to be completed by the end of 2022 at a cost of Rs. 22 crore. Since the Mettur thermal plants are located in the Salem-Mettur dam section, the doubling would help to speed up coal transport as well as passenger traffic. The project is executed in three phases — Salem-Magnesite-Omalur, Omalur-Mecheri Road and Mecheri Road-Mettur dam. Already track works in the Omalur-Mecheri Road and Mecheri Road-Mettur dam sections have been completed, and trains have been operating since last year. The new line project in the Rameswaram-Dhanuskodi section to a stretch of 18.70 km, which was announced two years ago, is yet to get a detailed project report. Land acquisition is yet to start. Headway in electrification Southern Railway has also made a headway in electrification. To cut the expenditure on diesel for operating long-distance trains and freight trains, the railways has been focussing on electrification. This financial year, it would complete electrification of nearly 675 km of tracks in the sections of Madurai-Manamadurai, Nagapattinam-Velankanni, Salem-Thalaivasal, Thalaivasal-Vridhachalam, Pollachi-Podanur, Tiruchi-Pudukottai-Karaikudi, Karaikudi-Manamadurai-Virudhunagar, Manamadurai-Ramanathapuram, Palani-Pollachi-Palakkad and Punalur-Kollam.  (With inputs S. Sundar in Madurai, R. Rajaram from Tiruchi and S.P. Saravanan from Salem)   The Madurai-Thoothukudi line through Aruppukottai will be fully operational once the Milavittan-Melmarudur section is completed. It will help to transport raw materials from Thoothukudi port A railway official   Infrastructure projects are being executed in a time-bound manner under Vision 2024, with their progress being monitored continuously. They will pave the way for greater speed, punctuality and safety and help to decongest the highly saturated routes John Thomas,General Manager, Southern Railway||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/back-on-track/article37363736.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Promoting safety at railway stations||The bomb blast in an express train at the Dr. MGR Chennai Central Station in May 2014 and the daylight murder of a woman commuter at Nungambakkam in June 2016 came as a rude wake-up call for Southern Railway to focus on improving the safety and security of commuters at railway stations on a par with the facilities available at airports. The Indian Railways made an allocation exclusively for improving the safety and security under the Nirbhaya Fund. In the first phase, Southern Railway identified the need to commission an integrated security system (ISS), comprising installation of closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras, baggage scanners, and door frame metal detectors at important stations attracting huge crowds. With the allocation from the Nirbhaya Fund, the ISS was commissioned at 15 important stations spread across six divisions, with Chennai Division gaining prominence. Southern Railway then initiated the Video Surveillance System (VSS) for installing CCTV cameras through Railtel.B. Guganesan, Chief Public Relations Officer, said: “In the first phase, 136 railway stations were fitted with the VSS at a cost of Rs. 67.94 crore. While the VSS has been commissioned at 43 stations in 2020-21, work is in progress at the remaining 93 stations. Hoping to make the entire network a safe commutation zone,Southern Railwayproposes to install the VSS at 441 stations in the second phase. The 441 stations, which comes under D and E categories, are being fitted with the VSS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/promoting-safety-at-railway-stations/article37363732.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kerala allows felling of trees to strengthen the baby dam||Earlier in the day, Tamil Nadu Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan told The Hindu: “It is an important development in our efforts to strengthen the baby dam. It will allow Tamil Nadu to increase the water level [in the Mullaperiyar dam] to 152 feet [when permitted by the Supreme Court].” “This long-pending request was crucial to strengthen the baby dam and the earthern dam, and the permission would enable us to initiate steps for strengthening these structures. On behalf of my government and people of the southern districts of Tamil Nadu, I thank you and the Government of Kerala...,” Mr. Stalin said in his letter, a copy of which was circulated to the media. It would go a long way in benefiting the people of both States, he said, hoping for this spirit of cooperation between the States to continue. The Chief Minister reiterated Tamil Nadu’s commitment to take all steps needed to further strengthen the Mullaperiyar dam and ensure the safety of the people living downstream in Kerala. “In this regard, I request you to expedite the other important requests from us, for grant of permission to repair the road between Vandi Periyar and the Periyar dam site and to transport the necessary materials,” he said. That was the only land route to the dam site, and hence these road works were essential to convey the materials and machinery to carry out repairs and strengthening works, Mr. Stalin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kerala-allows-felling-of-trees-to-strengthen-the-baby-dam/article37363761.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Holy hues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/holy-hues/article37363442.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||07-11-2021-city cinema||MISCELLANEOUS Sri Thyaga Brahma Gana Sabha (Regd) Vani Mahal. Ph: 28152166 Today at 10.00 am Lecture Demonstration on NOTES AND RAGAS by Dr. Radha Bhaskar Musicologist at Vani Mahal. ALL ARE WELCOME. Entry as per Govt. SOP Guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/07-11-2021-city-cinema/article37363767.ece
07 November 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Ensure quality food at government hostels’||L.K. Atheeq, district in-charge Secretary, reviewed the preparation to reopen all government hostels and anganwadis in the district here on Saturday. “The State Government has allowed all government schools, residential schools, hostels, and anganwadis to open as the lockdown ended. We should be fully ready to welcome the students back,” he said. He asked officers to ensure that quality food was given in all these centres and to ensure that drinking water was available in all these places. “The residents should get proper food as per the government menu. They should get bed sheets and other things as prescribed by the hostel manual. No government facility should suffer from water scarcity. Water supply should be provided by taking up works under the Jal Jeevan mission. Similar focus should be given to anganwadis,” he said. He asked senior officers to visit the hostels regularly. He would also visit the facilities, he said. New hostels should be built near villages and towns. All vacancies should be filled. All scholarships should be released on time, he said. Urban development bodies should allow civic amenity sites to anganwadis. Priority should be given to set up anganwadis on school premises. Officers should build a tank in each panchayat limit. Afforestation should be taken up before the next rains, he said. He identified four taluks that had achieved lower targets in COVID-19 vaccination and asked officers to speed up the vaccination drives there. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said 35.66 lakh people had got the first dose of vaccine till now and around 3.9 lakh are yet to get it. As many as 1.7 lakh are yet to get the second dose. Death rate was zero and only two patients were admitted in hospitals, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensure-quality-food-at-government-hostels/article37363917.ece
07 November 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Time for non-BJP ruled States to cut tax on fuel: Joshi||“BJP-ruled States have reduced taxes on petrol and diesel. Now it is time for non-BJP ruled States to reduce taxes,” Pralhad Joshi, Union Minister of Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines, said in Dharwad on Saturday. “The Union Government has reduced the taxes as it does not want the people to suffer. Governments in BJP-ruled States have also reduced the taxes for the same reason. It is time for the other governments to do so,” he said. “I want to know why Congress-ruled states are not reducing the taxes. Do Congress leaders have answers for this?” he said. “Now that the Centre has reduced the cess on petrol and diesel, Rahul Gandhi has nothing to do. He may have gone to Italy. He may stay there for a month,” he alleged. He alleged that Mr. Rahul Gandhi was making irresponsible comments against the Narendra Modi Government as he had no administrative experience. “At least D.K. Shivakumar has some administrative experience as he has held several ministries at the State level. We expect responsible comments from Mr. Shivakumar,” Mr. Joshi said. He claimed that despite the loss in Hangal, BJP had got 53% of the votes in Hangal and Sindagi. “We have not been rooted out in Hangal. We have registered a great victory in Sindgi. The Congress lost by over 30,000 votes. It is the Congress that will be rooted out in a few years. Siddaramaiah and others are taking objection to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai camping in Hangal for a few days. I would like to remind him that he had camped in Gundlupet for two weeks. It is common practice for the CM to stay in a constituency during byelections,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/time-for-non-bjp-ruled-states-to-cut-tax-on-fuel-joshi/article37363913.ece
07 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two killed||Two persons were killed and two others injured in a road accident near Budarshingi village in Dharwad district on Saturday. A tanker coming from Haveri rammed another tanker parked on the roadside. Kalmesh Yankammanavar, 26, of Hungund in Bagalkot district and Kallappa Jadhav, 26, of Adavi Somapura near Shiggaon, were killed on the spot. The tanker was parked as it had a flat tyre and the cleaner was trying to replace it. Bhavu Dhakane, the driver, and Vinayak Manabbayi, another passenger, were injured. A case has been registered. Two die on the spot In Kalaburagi, going triple on a motorcycle proved fatal for two youths as their vehicle colldied with a tractor in Aland road on the outskirts of the city on Friday. Siddram, 24, of Lad Chincholi and Siddappa, 22, of Sannur village died on the spot. Bhagesh sustained severe injuries and was shifted to hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-killed-in-road-accidents/article37363915.ece
07 November 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Centre urged to release land for IT park in Belagavi||C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Minister for Higher Education and Science and Technology, has urged the Union Government to speed up the process of releasing some land held by the Defence Ministry to the State Government to set up an IT park. He tweeted on Saturday that he had met Rajnath Singh, Defence Minister, and urged him to expedite the transfer of 750 acres of land adjacent to the national highway in Belagavi to set up the park. He told Mr. Rajnath Singh that representatives of Belagavi region and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry had been demanding it. “Mr. Rajnath Singh was briefed about the Government’s vision to expand our IT sector beyond Bengaluru which would involve setting up the park in Belagavi,” Mr. Ashwath Narayan said. The Department of Electronics, IT/BT and Skill and Technology is very keen on developing the park at the said land. Last year, Abhay Patil, MLA, had urged the Centre to transfer land to the State Government. Mr. Patil had claimed that the land had belonged to the State Government earlier, which was transferred to the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-urged-to-release-land-for-it-park-in-belagavi/article37363918.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Spate of eye injury cases; PM2.5 pollution up||Fireworks lit up the sky on Thursday and Friday as well as Saturday as people across Bengaluru celebrated Deepavali. However, the celebrations brought their share of health concerns, ranging from breathlessness due to rising pollution levels in some neighbourhoods to injuries. At least 45 people sustained eye injuries from crackers during the three-day festival. The maximum number of cases has been reported to Minto Ophthalmic Hospital, followed by Narayana Nethralaya. Patients included not just those lighting crackers but also bystanders. According to information provided by Sujatha Rathod, director, Minto Ophthalmic Hospital, as many as 23 people with eye injuries were treated at the hospital over the past three days. Of these, three people had grievous injuries, while others had superficial injuries, she said. “While 20 cases had superficial injuries, they may have facial scars and can recover with medical intervention,” she said. K. Bhujang Shetty, chairman and managing director of Narayana Nethralaya, said that of the 20 cases treated at the hospital, none was sight-threatening. As many as 12 patients were children, while 11 were onlookers. “This year, fortunately, we are seeing much fewer cases than previous years. This can be attributed to better awareness and also the rain that played spoilsport,” he said. Two cases were reported and treated at Agarwal Eye Hospital; both patients were children. High pollution levels Data from the National Air Quality Index showed that Bapujinagar recorded high levels of pollution at 115 AQI on November 5. The most prominent pollutant was PM2.5. Pollution levels nearly doubled when compared with 64 AQI recorded on November 3, when the prominent pollutant was carbon monoxide (CO). Similarly, Jayanagar 5th Block recorded an AQI of 99 on November 5 as against 70 AQI just two days prior to that. Here, too, the primary pollutant changed from CO to PM 2.5. Residents in several parts of the city complained of breathlessness while others said they could see a “a low cloud of smog” in the evening. “In some areas of Kasturinagar, more than the sound, the problem was the pungent smell of crackers that made breathing very difficult, resulting in headache and general discomfort. This, even after we had shut windows and doors.It took more than an hour for the air to clear,” said Praveen N. who lives on the ground floor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/spate-of-eye-injury-cases-pm25-pollution-up/article37363711.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many pre-schools unlikely to reopen tomorrow||While the State Government has given permission for pre-schools to reopen on Monday, a majority are unlikely to do so immediately. Managements said they will need a few more days to open their doors to children. While some will use the time to clean and sanitise their premises, others, who were operating out of rented spaces but shut down operations and ended the lease, are hunting for new premises to restart. Pruthvi Banwasi, secretary, Karnataka Council of Preschools, said many of the centres had packed and kept their material in godowns. “They gave up their rented premises and will now have to find a new place to set up their activities before starting offline classes,” he said. He added that these pre-schools will continue with online classes till they are able to make arrangements to reopen physically. One pre-school owner said that staffing is also a problem. “Teachers and centre heads had quit their jobs during the pandemic when they were not paid salaries or were asked to take hefty cuts. Now, owners are scrambling to hire qualified staff,” he said. Enquiries from parents According to Mr. Banwasi, the Council has been receiving enquiries for admissions after the State Government announced that pre-schools could resume operations. He, however, said most enquiries are from working parents. “Families with good support systems are not keen to send their children for offline peer group activities,” he said. Bengaluru-based Greeshma S., whose daughter studies in kindergarten, is glad that pre-schools are reopening as she had resumed reporting to her workplace physically. “I had to depend on my father to come and spend time with my daughter when she sat for her online classes. Although I have a nanny, she was unable to help her with the classes. I am glad that my daughter will go to pre-school and I hope she will be able to grasp things faster,” she said. Anganwadis too, which are gearing up to reopen on Monday, are facing problems. Anganwadi workers and helpers point out that they do not have adequate space and will be unable to follow physical distance at their centres. ‘Little time to focus’ Anganwadis are currently allowed to operate for two hours till further notice. S. Varalakshmi, president, Karnataka Rajya Anganwadi Naukarara Sangha, said although they are allowed to reopen, anganwadi workers are roped in from several other activities and programmes. “This leaves them with very little time to focus on children and ensure that all SOPs are followed,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-pre-schools-unlikely-to-reopen-tomorrow/article37363925.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Diesel price cut brings relief to RTCs||The recent reduction in fuel prices has brought relief to cash-strapped road transport corporations (RTCs). An official with the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) said the Rs. 19.47 a litre reduction in the price of diesel will help the corporation save an estimated Rs. 90 lakh a day. “Diesel consumption has been gradually increasing after services resumed in June. Earlier, it was 300 kilo litres a day, and now it has gone up to 500 kl depending on bus operations,” said the official. After both the Central and State Governments reduced taxes on fuel, the price of diesel dropped from Rs. 104.50 a litre to around Rs. 85. The price is lower for the RTCs because they purchase fuel at bulk rates. According to the official, after the revision of rates, RTCs are purchasing fuel at around Rs. 81 a litre depending on the location. The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) consumes close to 2 lakh litres of diesel a day, and the reduction will help the corporation save Rs. 38 lakh daily. “After consecutive increases in fuel price, operational expenses increased to Rs. 65 per kilometre whereas earning per kilometre was around Rs. 35. The reduction in fuel price will help us reduce operational expenses to some extent,” said a BMTC official. For over a year-and-a-half, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, all the four RTCs in Karnataka have been relying on the State Government to pay salaries. Petrol price a burden While the drop in diesel price has brought much-needed relief to transport operators, vehicle owners say it will make little impact. The decision of the Government to reduce fuel taxes and calling it a ‘Deepavali gift’ did little to impress motorists who have been struggling with the rising cost of fuel and essential commodities. In a response to Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s announcement, Whitefield Rising posted on social media: “Sir, reducing the price by a little after it reached Rs. 113+ is not a gift. Petrol is still Rs. 100+. The common man and all of us feel it keenly. Especially after the pandemic when jobs are scarce and the income is tight.” Many people feel the government’s decision had little to do with their plight, and more with the outcome of the recent byelections in Sindgi and Hangal. After reduction of taxes, petrol price has dropped from Rs. 113.93 to Rs. 100.63 a litre. Ashwin G. a motorist, said, “Petrol costs more than Rs. 100 even after the reduction. For common people, who own two-wheelers, spending Rs. 100 a litre is a huge burden.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/diesel-price-cut-brings-relief-to-rtcs/article37363720.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru police detain hacker Sri Krishna||Jeevan Bima Nagar police on Saturday detained software engineer and alleged hacker Sri Krishna, whose name recently cropped up in connection with a multicrore bitcoin scam. The Opposition Congress has alleged the involvement of two senior BJP leaders in the scam. Sri Krishna, who was out on bail after his arrest in November 2020, was detained for reportedly participating in a drunken brawl at a star hotel on Airport Road. Based on a complaint filed by the hotel staff, the police detained Sri Krishna, or SriKi as he is called, and his associate, identified as Vishnu Bhat. Sri Krishna has been staying in the hotel after he got out on bail two months ago. According to the police, he and Bhat got into an argument. The police recovered a laptop and other electronic gadgets from his room for verification. “Right now,he has been detained for questioning and based on the outcome necessary action will be taken,” a senior officer said. Arrested last year The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police had arrested Sri Krishna in November 2020 in what appeared to be a drug peddling case, where he purchased drugs using bitcoins from dealers abroad on the dark web. However, the investigations threw up many twists and turns after the CCB probe found that the software engineer allegedly hacked websites to steal data, and used ransomware to encrypt data which he would release for payment in bitcoins. His modus operandi came to light during an ongoing investigation into an international drug racket where seven people have been arrested, including former Minister Rudrappa Lamani’s son Darshan Lamani and his associates. The case resurfaced again after Congress leaders recently alleged that two top BJP politicians were involved in the cover-up of Rs. 10,000 crore worth of transactions in bitcoins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hacker-sri-krishna-detained/article37363718.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister, civic chief inspect rain-hit areas||Karnataka Urban Development Minister B.A. Basavaraj, accompanied by Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, on Saturday inspected Pai Layout, several areas of which, especially 16th Cross, was badly affected by the recent spate of heavy rain. According to residents, every timeit rains, water from Kaggadasapura lake bund area gushes into the layout due to a blockage in the ‘rajakaluve’. “As a result, water enters the layout from BWSSB’s pipelines,” they said. The Minister directed the BBMP to clear the silt and blockage from the drain, so that the problem is resolved permanently. Drones will be used to conduct a survey and a report will be submitted soon. On Friday, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai ordered the BBMP to submit a report on short- and long-term interventions required to prevent flooding. He specifically asked the civic body to identify stretches where the retention wall of storm-water drains is weak, and pockets where water gushes into homes. “I will ensure funds for these interventions, and will personally review the work every month,” he said after chairing an emergency review meeting on rain preparedness on Friday. “Rain damage is mostly being reported from the West, South, and Mahadevapura zones. Our immediate efforts will be focused on these areas,” he said. The Chief Minister also announced that he had ordered the State Disaster Response Force to raise three more companies — of 200 trained rescuers each — taking the total companies dedicated to Bengaluru to four. The BBMP’s 64 rescue teams of 15 members each will be augmented to 30 members pooling in resources from Home Guards and Civil Defence. “I have assured the BBMP that the cost of rescue efforts will be recovered from the SDRF funds,” he said. Towards long-term solutions for flooding, the BBMP has taken up construction and strengthening of retaining walls of storm-water drains, said Mr. Gupta at a press conference on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-civic-chief-inspect-rain-hit-areas/article37363713.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress, BJP spar over ex-CM’s statement about Dalit leaders||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s remarks on Dalit leaders have sparked off a heated exchange of words between BJP and Congress leaders and they continue to question each others’ commitments towards the welfare of Dalits. On Saturday, Congress leaders slammed BJP leaders for “shedding crocodile tears” for Dalits for vote bank politics by spearheading a propaganda against Mr. Siddaramaiah and branding him as an anti-Dalit. The Congress held a demonstration in Mysuru against the BJP for “conspiring against Mr. Siddaramaiah by misrepresenting his remarks and misleading the community”. During bypolls The BJP leaders have demanded an apology from Mr. Siddaramaiah for his alleged remark that Dalit leaders had joined the BJP to “earn a livelihood”. Mr. Siddaramaiah, in response, said that his remarks while addressing a meeting of Dalit community members during the campaign for byelections in Sindgi had been misrepresented. His statement that a few Dalit leaders had joined the BJP to serve their selfish ends had been deliberately twisted by the BJP to mislead the community, he said. BJP national general secretary and MLA C.T. Ravi questioned Mr. Siddaramaiah’s commitment towards Dalits and said many leaders such as Minister Govind Karjol and MP Ramesh Jigajinagi joined the BJP when the party was out of power and continued their commitment towards upliftment of the underprivileged people. Comparision of schemes KPCC working president Ramalinga Reddy and former Minister R.B. Thimmapur held a press conference and provided comparison of welfare programmes launched during the Siddaramaiah-led Government and the BJP Government and claimed that the BJP leaders had neglected Dalits and this was revealed in the release of small amounts to fund schemes. While the Siddaramaiah-led Government spent Rs. 88,395 crore on welfare of Dalits during 2013-18, the BJP Government incurred expenditure of merely Rs. 23,261 crore during 2008-13. While the BJP Government set up 196 residential schools, the Congress Government established 270 schools during the period, Mr. Reddy claimed. The BJP Government had rendered a blow to contractors of SC/ST communities by amending the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurements Act (KTPPA), the Congress leaders alleged. The Siddaramaiah-led Government provided 50% quota for SC/ST contractors in construction works of up to Rs. 1 lakh, they said. Earlier ‘silence’ At Mysuru, KPCC former working president R. Dhruvanarayan sought to know why the Dalit leaders in the BJP did not speak out when the saffron party leaders like Ananthkumar Hegde and others talked about amending the Constitution. BJP MLC N. Ravi Kumar and State BJP SC Morcha president Chalavadi Narayanaswamy alleged that Mr. Siddaramaiah had sidelined Dalit leaders when in power. The Congress had mastered the art of “using and dumping” Dalits, they alleged. At Kalaburagi, BJP State unit spokesperson and MLA for Sedam Rajkumar Patil Telkur questioned whether the former had switched parties for livelihood.  BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi questioned Mr. Siddaramaiah’s commitment towards Dalits and said many leaders such as Govind Karjol and Ramesh Jigajinagi joined the BJP when the party was out of power and continued their commitment towards upliftment of the underprivileged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-bjp-spar-over-ex-cms-statement-about-dalit-leaders/article37363924.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Draft voters’ list to be out tomorrow||The annual revision of the electoral rolls is under way and the draft voters’ list will be published on November 8. To enable citizens to submit applications for addition/deletions or any other changes, a special drive will be held on all Sundays of this month. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) chiefcommissioner Gaurav Gupta, who is also the District Election Officer, told reporters here on Saturday that the voters’ list revision was an annual exercise, not really related to the elections to the civic body. “However, the same list will be used for theBBMP polls whenever it is held,” he said. Citizens will have time till December 8 to submit applications for either address change within the same Assembly constituency, change of address outside the constituency, addition/deletion, etc. This time around, citizens need not even go to the offices of the assistant revenue officer, booth-level officer or election officer concerned. Online applications Applications may be submitted online with the requisite documents, either through the Voter Helpline app that is available on the Google Play Store, or by visitingwww.nvsp.inorwww.voterportal.eci. gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/draft-voters-list-to-be-out-tomorrow/article37363708.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for kidnap and murder of student||The Rajarajeshwarinagar police arrested a goods van driver and hisbrother for the kidnap and murder of their former employer’s son, a 21-year-old-hotel management student. His body was found in a gunny bag near a ‘rajakaluve’ earlier this week. According to the police, the accused Tajamul Pasha, 39, and his brother Syed Nasir, 26, were employees of the victim’s father, Mani, a fruit vendor from Bharatinagar. “A few months ago, they asked Mani for a loan ofRs. 1.5 lakh, which he refused to give them,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Sanjeev Patil, who was supervising the investigation. The brothers quit their job three months ago and came up with a plan to kidnap Mani’s son, Tarun, to get the money. On November 1, ahead of Deepavali, theytold Tarun that they would help him source firecrackers at less expensive rates. They took him to their sister’s house at Arekere and locked him in the terrace room. They gagged and taped his mouth to stop him from screaming. “However, Tarun died due to asphyxiation following which the accused dumped his body in a storm-water drain at R.R. Nagar. They then called Mani and demanded Rs. 50 lakh for the safe release of his son,” said a police officer. By then, Mani had filed a missing person’s complaint with the police as his son had not returned home. The next day, Tarun’s body was found in the gunny bag. Using call record details, the police, who had been alerted of the ransom call, tracked down Pasha and Nasir near a bus stand minutes before they were to board a bus to flee the city. The police are yet to question their sister who is absconding. “The probe revealed that other people were also involved in the crime,” said Mr. Patil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-for-kidnap-and-murder-of-student/article37363715.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Puneeth’s doctor gets police protection||Bengaluru police have provided security cover for the residence and clinic of Dr. Ramana Rao, who had treated actor Puneeth Rajkumar following a cardiac arrest. Some fans of the late actor had been showing resentment towards the doctor ever since the death. A KSRP platoon has been deployed outside the residence at Sadashivanagar and patrolling has been intensified around the house to keep an eye on possible protest. Earlier in the day, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association - Karnataka (PHANA-K) requested the State Government to provide police protection to Dr. Rao and other medical professionals involved in the treatment of Puneeth Rajkumar. In a letter addressed to the Chief Minister, PHANA pointed out that visual media and social media channels are carrying narratives blaming lack of care by the medical professionals who had treated the actor. “This kind of judgemental and hypercritical media frenzy is creating distrust in society as well as risk to the lives of the medical professionals who served the deceased,” stated the letter. PHANA has said that attempts by non-professionals to analyse the medical condition of the deceased person is a “gross violation of the health care privacy of an individual / family.” “We strongly oppose attempts by the public to point fingers at the treating physicians, especially Dr. Ramana Rao, who did his best,” stated the association’s letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/puneeths-doctor-gets-security-cover/article37363717.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Council Chairman seeks age relaxation of two years for posts of assistant professor||In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic prevailing over the last 18 months, Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti has appealed to the State Government to provide age relaxation of two years for candidates applying to the post of assistant professors in government first grade colleges in Karnataka. The Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) has invited online applications from eligible candidates for the posts and the last date for submission is November 20. The result of K-SET examination was declared on November 2. K-SET qualified candidates and other eligible candidates who have not yet applied can submit online applications for the post of assistant professor as per the rules. No recruitment in two years In a letter to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Mr. Horatti said the government has not made any recruitment for the past two years owing to the pandemic. Hence, many candidates have crossed the age limit fixed by the government. To ensure eligibility, he urged the government to extend the age limit for two more years. As per the notification, the age limit for general category candidates has been fixed at 40 years, OBC candidates at 43 years, and SC/ST candidates at 45 years. Minimum qualification The Council Chairman also mentioned the relaxation offered by University Grants Commission for the post of assistant professors. The UGC delayed the need for a PhD as a minimum qualification for recruitment of assistant professors in universities from July 2021 to July 2023. The decision was taken because the pandemic had brought research work of PhD students to a standstill over the last 18 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/council-chairman-seeks-age-relaxation-of-two-years-for-posts-of-assistant-professor/article37363921.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Skill assessment survey on the cards: Minister||Karnataka will conduct a skill demand assessment survey to identify region-wise skill requirement, said Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. This survey, he said, will pave the way to train youth accordingly to cater to current needs. He recently met Union Minister of State for Skill Development & Entrepreneurship Rajeev Chandrashekhar in Delhi to discuss the survey and skill training programme. He also underlined the need to map skills of artisans, including handloom weavers. Mr. Chandrashekhar expressed the need to hold a national-level conference of IT Ministers in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/skill-assessment-survey-on-the-cards-minister/article37363922.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Residents voice concerns about traffic issues||Youths performing wheelies and bike stunts as well as lack of traffic sense among motorists were the main concerns raised by Yelahanka residents at the traffic Janasamparka Divas held by the North Division police on Saturday. Many residents also voiced their concerns about private buses driving rashly, putting both pedestrians and motorists at risk.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic North) Savitha S. assured residents that they would intensify the crackdown on erring motorists and install signage and parking boards to ensure traffic discipline. The police also assured citizens that timers would be installed at traffic signals to help ease of vehicle movement. To a quarry on the lack of road discipline, Ms. Savitha said awareness programmers would be taken up in schools and colleges. Many residents demanded that the police restart drives against drunken driving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-voice-concerns-about-traffic-issues/article37363707.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||224 new COVID-19 cases, 5 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday reported 224 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of positive cases to 29,89,713. Bengaluru Urban district recorded 148 fresh cases, the maximum across the State. Five patients succumbed to COVID-19 on Saturday, one each in Belagavi, Bidar, Mandya, Kolar, and Koppal. No deaths were reported in Bengaluru Urban. With this, the death toll rose to 38,107. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. Active cases As many as 317 people were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,43,487. At present, there are 8,090 active cases across Karnataka. The positivity rate for the day was 0.37%, while the case fatality rate was 2.23%. Tests Around 59,144 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 50,466 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,12,76,935.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/224-new-covid-19-cases-5-deaths/article37363705.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Demand to install statue of Puneeth||Fans of actor late Puneeth Rajkumar have demanded that his statue be installed in the city. In response to the growing demands, civic chief Gaurav Gupta said the High Court had issued orders regarding installation of statues. He added that the State Government would take a decision on this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-to-install-statue-of-puneeth/article37363706.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Woman murdered||A 31-year-old woman was strangled to death at her house at Pattegarapalya on Saturday allegedly by her male friend during a fight. According to the police, the victim, Gayathri, worked as domestic help but was living alone after she separated from her husband. She was in a relationship with the accused, Manju Prasad, a contract auto driver with the BBMP, said the police. The Vijayanagar police arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-murdered/article37363722.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SWR services to airport||After more than six months, South Western Railway (SWR) has decided to resume train services to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). From November 9, two pairs of DEMU services will stop at KIA Halt station. Chief PRO of SWR Aneesh Hegde said two pairs of DEMU — Channapatna–Kolar and KSR Bengaluru–Kolar — will be operated via KIA Halt six days a week except Sundays. These two are in addition to six DEMU services that SWR will operate between Bengaluru and Kolar. Schedule As per the schedule, train number 06383 will leave Channapatna at 4.50 p.m. and reach Kolar via Jnanabharathi Halt, KSR Bengaluru, Yeshwantpur, Yelahanka, and Devanahalli. From KSR Bengaluru, the train will leave at 6.05 p.m. reach KIA Halt at 7.07 p.m., and the final destination, Kolar, at around 9.30 p.m. Train number 06384 will leave Kolar at 6.15 a.m., reach KIA Halt at 8.22 a.m. and KSR Bengaluru at 9.40 a.m. The other train service is from KSR Bengaluru to Kolar via Cantonment, Byappanahalli, and Yelahanka. The train (number 06387) will leave KSR Bengaluru at 8.35 a.m. and reach KIA Halt at 9.48 a.m. Train number 06388 will leave Kolar at 2 p.m., reach KIA Halt at 4.08 p.m. This train service terminates at Cantonment at 5.30 p.m. In January, SWR introduced train services to KIA. However, all the 10 train services were suspended in April citing poor occupancy. Between January and April, only 2,098 passengers used the train service. Officials said hardly 20 people used the train to commute between the city and the airport. After suspension of the services, rail activists had demanded both SWR and BIAL to revisit train schedules to increase the patronage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demu-train-services-to-kia-to-resume-on-nov-9/article37363716.ece
07 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hasanamba festival draws to a close||The doors of Hasanamba Temple in Hassan were closed in the presence of elected representatives and senior officers on Saturday. The closure of the temple marks the valedictory of the Hasanamba festival that began on October 28. The temple is opened for devotees only during the annual festival. Four lakh Rough estimates by the district administration state that around four lakh people visited the temple during the festival. The administration had made arrangements for the devotees, who stood in long queues for the deity’s darshana. Excise Minister K. Gopalaiah, who is also Minister in-charge of the district, MLA Preetham Gowda, Deputy Commissioner R. Girish and Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda were amng those present when the doors were closed following the traditional rituals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hasanamba-festival-draws-to-a-close/article37364084.ece
07 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Four cases in Hassan||Hassan reported four fresh cases of COVID-19 and one death due to the infection on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, three were in Hassan taluk and one in Arasikere. So far 1,376 people have died in the district due to the infection. The total number of cases reported in the district are 1,11,778. As many as 120 people are undergoing treatment. There were no fresh cases of COVID-19 in Shivamogga district on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-cases-in-hassan/article37364101.ece
07 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||DGP’s appeal to public||Director-General and Inspector General of Police Praveen Sood said the public should inform the police if they notice any unlawful activity, instead of taking the law into their hands. Speaking to presspersons in Hassan on Saturday, he said the police would act as per the law. “We will definitely take action against those who commit crimes. It would be wrong if people take the law into their hands,” he said. Reacting to a question, the officer said the police had been getting better salaries in Karnataka compared to a few other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dgps-appeal-to-public/article37364102.ece
07 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Three persons held for theft||Shivamogga Police on Saturday arrested three persons on allegations of their involvement in seven cases of theft and dacoity reported in the district in the last two days. They are Gagan, 19 of Ayanur Gate, Vishal, 19, and Preetham, 19, of Bommanakatte in Shivamogga town. The police recovered a bike, 10 mobile phones, and a silver chain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-persons-held-for-theft/article37364110.ece
07 November 2021||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||‘Was reduction in fuel price a Deepavali gift?’||Mocking the BJP statement terming tax cut on fuel as 'Deepavali gift', KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar said the BJP should ask voters whether it was really so. Speaking to mediapersons in Hangal on Friday after offering prayers to ‘Gramadevate’ (Goddess Durga), he said they (Congress leaders) had asked whether compensation had reached them and whether gas prices had reached Rs. 1,000. “To all these questions, the people have given answer in the Hangal bypoll. The prices of LPG, cement, steel have also gone up. They should also come down, isn't it?” Mr. Shivakumar said he had prayed to Goddess Durga to shed light on Karnataka, which was covered in darkness due to BJP misrule. “The voters of Hangal did not yield to any pressure and did not sell their votes. The voter has trusted us. Both Congress candidate Srinivas Mane and the party will retain that trust,” he said.  Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that it would be better if Mr. Shivakumar looks into his party’s affairs as it is on the verge of a split at the national level. Speaking to mediapersons in Hubballi before taking a flight to Bengaluru, he responded to Mr. Shivakumar's claim that many in the BJP were eager to join the Congress after the bypoll defeat in Hangal, saying that Congress had suffered an insulting defeat in Sindgi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/was-reduction-in-fuel-price-a-deepavali-gift/article37363912.ece
07 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||New face-recognition attendance system at KIOCL pellet plant||Adapting to new technology, KIOCL on Saturday formally launched new face-recognition attendance system at its pellet plant. The 600-odd employees hitherto used to punch in and punch out. KIOCL Chairman and Managing Director T. Saminathan said the new system was adopted as the contactless way of recording attendance is the safe method during this COVID-19. Launching the system, Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament and State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel lauded KIOCL for adapting to changes in technology in its working. “I have seen adoption of face recognition software in Parliament. This new system helps organizations to keep track of movement of employees in the premises, which is necessary for strategic asset like KIOCL,” he said. Mr. Kateel said the State and the Central Governments are taking steps to address concerns of KIOCL about mining lease. He said despite going under difficult period the KIOCL has been contributing towards the development of Dakshina Kannada. KIOCL, which has good number of Dakshina Kannada residents as its employees, has contributed towards building toilets in three districts of the state. It has contributed towards setting up a 100-bed unit in the government hospital in Moodbidri and also building an oxygen generation unit. Earlier, Mr. Kateel and Mr. Saminathan felicitated Dakshina Kannada District Health and Family Welfare Officer Kishore Kumar and Taluk Health Officer Sujay Bhandary for helping KIOCL in vaccinating 99 % of its employees and other personnel working at its units in the city. Of this 99% included nearly 60% of personnel who have completed vaccination course. The two also gave away certificates to personnel who have taken the Atal Pension Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-face-recognition-attendance-system-at-kiocl-pellet-plant/article37364078.ece
07 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Bharatiya Vikas Trust secures Ashden Award in ‘Energy Access Skills’ category||The Bharatiya Vikas Trust (BVT), Manipal, established by the late T.A. Pai, has bagged the Ashden Award 2021 in the ‘Energy Access Skills’ category. The Trust’s master trainer Sudhir Kulkarni and consultant Sudeeptha Ghosh received the award from Costa Rica President Carlos Alvarado Quesada during the Climate Change Conference at Glasgow, Scotland, on Thursday, said a statement from the trust. The award, besides comprising a purse of £20,000, helps the winner exchange ideas and concepts with similar organisations working in the sustainable energy sector. Ashden, working towards finding solutions for climate change for two decades, has been conferring the awards to organisations working in the same direction. Over 800 organisations across the world had pitched for this year’s awards in nine categories while two including BVT, were among the winners from India. The statement said various initiatives of the trust also create employment besides alleviating the impact of climate change. The trust trains and educates people to imbibe environment-friendly skills in line with the global practice of deploying environmental-friendly measures. The selection was done in a transparent manner and a team from Ashden learned about the work of the trust with a visit, the statement said. The trust has trained over 1,000 employees of its stakeholders in the field of solar energy skills in the last two decades and worked in the fields of employment generation for the youth, as well as executed works in rural development. It aims to extend its work area across the country and offer training to stakeholders as well as consumers. The late T.A. Pai, one of the architects of Manipal, founded the trust. His wife Vasanthi Pai later led initiatives on women empowerment. Retired agriculture technology officer from Syndicate Bank K.M. Udupa expanded its growth and focused on renewable energy inspired by Harish Hande. Working towards self-employment through human resource empowerment, the trust focusses on bringing change in the life of the common man. If a bank officer was convinced about the benefits of solar energy, he would extend financial support to the eligible. Though the results of this action might not be visible, it would enhance one’s income and indirectly contribute to the development of a village. The trust has been exploring and executing available opportunities in this direction. The trust is working in four important directions under present Managing Trustee Ashok Pai, including women empowerment, renewable energy-financial institutions, rural administration management and sustainable agriculture sector. Eligible people undergo regular training in these fields. Believing that reliable and affordable energy solutions were key for poverty eradication since 1996, the trust has conducted over 1,000 training sessions on solar energy skill improvement since 2001 covering over 50,000 end-consumers. It has also trained hundreds of bank officials from 680 finance institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bharatiya-vikas-trust-secures-ashden-award-in-energy-access-skills-category/article37364090.ece
07 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Brace up for huge challenge to manage the Earth: Sivan||Secretary of the Department of Science and Chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation K. Sivan called upon young graduates to brace up for the challenge to manage the Earth and its outer Space to make it sustainable for human habitation. Delivering the virtual address for the 19th annual convocation of the National Institute of Technology, Surathkal, here on Saturday, Mr. Sivan said global challenges like climate changes and natural disasters are going to dramatically change the face of the Earth and the humankind. “This is going to impact our lives. This is going to be the biggest challenge to our future generation and we need to sustain in this changed scenario,” he said. In order to respond to these challenges, there was need of strategies that will enable humans to adapt to this unprecedented situation. It was not only through science and technology but also through social, economic, cultural, and other related characteristics of society, he said. The world was fast evolving post the pandemic and this was impacting several facets of the society. Science and technology have been the key elements in this tranformation process. Youngsters have to contribute to develop a new blueprint to manage the Earth and its outer space and make it sustainable for human habitation. Calling upon the young engineers to make good use of the immense possibilities in India to become start-up entrepreneurs, Mr. Sivan said many youths were doing good in space start-ups in the country. Young graduates should make good use of these opportunities. Lauding the NITK for continuing its association with ISRO’s research activities, Mr. Sivan said this association would be expanded in the future to a larger scale as sectoral reforms in Space has opened huge opportunities for the institution. As many as 1,681 were awarded degrees, which included 120 PhD, 766 postgraduates, and 795 BTech students. Nine BTech students and 30 postgraduate students received gold medals and medals. The Doctor of Science (Honoris Causa) degree for the first time was awarded to Suhas L. Yathiraj, an alumnus of the institution and presently the District Magistrate of Gautham Buddh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, who was the silver medalist at the 2021 Tokyo Paralympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/brace-up-for-huge-challenge-to-manage-the-earth-sivan/article37364080.ece
07 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||NEET: Two Alva’s students get all-India ranks in ST category||Harshitha Gangadharappa Negaluru and B.P. Shaiksha Nayaka of Alva’s PU College, Moodbidri, secured 4th and 8th All-India Ranks in Scheduled Tribe category at the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test for medical and dental courses. Alva’s Education Foundation chairman M. Mohan Alva told reporters in Moodbidri that more than 350 students would secure admissions under General Merit quota in government medical/dental colleges. “Among the students who scored over 500 marks, 175 students were adopted by Alva’s. The foundation spent over Rs. 2 crore on these students,” he said. He said 20 students scored above 650 and 62 scored above 600. As many as 250 students scored between 500 and 600, while 360 students scored between 400 and 500 and 313 have scored between 300 and 400 marks. Expert PU College A total of 1,051 students from the Expert PU College have qualified for admission to medical colleges. According to a press release by the college, V. Tanush Gowda topped with 700 marks. He was ranked 162 in the general category and 33rd in OBC category. Thejas, who got the same marks, was ranked 165 in the general category and 121 in the reserved category. Reetam, who secured 695 marks, ranked 307 in the general category. The college said 25 students scored over 650, while 41 scored over 625. There were 50 students who scored more than 600 marks and 115 students who scored more than 550. As many as seven students of the college are ranked within 1,000 in the general category. Excellent PU College Meanwhile, many students from Excellent PU College, Moodbidri, scored marks over and above 650 in the exams. They include Nagarjun A.M. with 690, Darshan T.S. with 685, Sathwik Bhat with 680, Adarsh M with 670, Nikhil R. Sonnad woth 666, Anish Krishna with 662 and Deekshith D.V. with 655 marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/neet-two-alvas-students-get-all-india-ranks-in-st-category/article37364091.ece
07 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MRPL, MSNIM host ‘Vigilance Awareness Competitions’||Manel Srinivas Nayak Institute of Management, Bondel, and Mangalore Refineries and Petrochemicals Ltd., hosted the ‘MRPL-MSNIM Vigilance Awareness Competitions 2021’ for students for MRPL’s Vigilance Awareness Week. The contests were held on an all-India basis online in October. Competitions were conducted in Essay writing (English, Kannada, and Hindi), Poster/E-Poster, Debate and Short Film to create awareness and to curb corruption. The award distribution ceremony was held on Thursday at MSNIM campus. Participants joined in online.  Vaishnavi, Shri Madhwa Vadiraja Institute of Technology & Management, Udupi; Dipika, National Institute of Fashion Technology, Bengaluru; and Fathima, Government First Grade College, Punjalkatte, won the first three prizes in English Essay writing. Fathima, Govt. First Grade College, Punjalakatte, Jenisha, Alvas College, Moodbidri, and Asma Banu, Government First Grade College, Punjalkatte, won in Hindi Essay writing. Pruthvi Shetty, Dr. G. Shankar Women’s First Grade College, Udupi, Shameer, Government First Grade College, Punjalkatte, and Shobha, Dr. G. Shankar Women’s First Grade College, Udupi, won in Kannada Essay writing. Rohit, Global Academy of Technology, Bengaluru, Aisha Panda, Buxi Jagabandhu School, Odisha, and Gowprami, Besant Women’s College, Mangaluru, won in the poster competition. Chinthan, MSNIM and Kavya, Besant Women’s College, received consolation prizes in the short film category. Niharika Balthilaya and Bhoomika J.S., Shri Madhwa Vadiraja Institute of Technology and Management; Krishna Prasad and Vaishnavi, Manipal Institute of Management, Manipal; Prathibha Sethi and Nitin Mundra, K.S. Hedge Medical Academy, Mangaluru; and Sunag and Sujatha, Universal Group of Institutions, Bengaluru, won in the debate competition. Mr. Prasad was also adjudged best debater.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mrpl-msnim-host-vigilance-awareness-competitions/article37364092.ece
07 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC to start non-AC service to Mantralayam||KSRTC’s Mangaluru division will introduce a non-AC sleeper coach service between Mangaluru and Mantralayam from November 10. An official release here said the service will leave Mangaluru at 6 p.m., Udupi at 7.20 p.m., Manipal at 7.30 p.m., Kundapur at 8.15 p.m., Siddapura at 9 p.m., Tirthahalli at 11 p.m., Shivamogga at 1.30 a.m., Honnali at 1.30 a.m., Harihara at 2.15 a.m., Harahapanahalli at 3 a.m., Hagaribommanahalli at 3.45 a.m., Hosapete at 4.45 a.m., and Ballari at 6 a.m. to reach Mantralayam at 8.30 a.m. In the return direction, the service will leave Mantralayam at 6.30 p.m., Ballari at 9.15 p.m., Shivamogga at 3 a.m., Tirthahalli at 4.15 a.m., Kundapur at 6.45 a.m., and Udupi at 7.45 a.m. to reach Mangaluru at 9 a.m. Fares from Mangaluru to Mantralaya are fixed at Rs. 970, from Udupi at Rs. 910 and from Kundapura at Rs. 860. Tickets may be booked in advance onwww.ksrtc.inor the nearest ticket booking counter. Details may be had from Mangaluru Bus Terminal, 7760990720; advance booking counter, 9663211553; Udupi bus stand, 9663266400; Kundapura bus stand, 9663266009 or Mantralaya bus stand, 08512279444.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-to-start-non-ac-service-to-mantralayam/article37364068.ece
07 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Prabhakar Kamath passes away||Prabhakar Kamath, founder of Ideal Ice Creams and the famous Pabbas’ Ice Cream Parlour in Mangaluru, passed away here this morning. He was 80. Mr. Kamath had suffered severe head injuries when he was hit by a scooter in Bejai on October 28. He succumbed to injuries at a private hospital. He founded Ideal in 1975 that went on to become one of the popular ice cream brands across the country. Ideal has five parlours in Mangaluru and has thousands of retail distributors across the country. Mr. Kamath’s mortal remains were kept at his residence in the noon to allow people to pay last respects and was cremated at the Boloor crematorium in the afternoon. Mangaluru South MLA D Vedavyasa Kamath, MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, and others condoled his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prabhakar-kamath-passes-away/article37364072.ece
07 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Case against man for derogatory reference to Prophet Mohammed||The Dakshina Kannada district police have registered a case against a person from Sullia taluk of the district for his alleged derogatory reference to Prophet Mohammed on Facebook. In a complaint filed with the Bellare police, Naufal, a resident of Bellare village, accused Jagadish Kaivaltadka of making derogatory reference to Prophet Mohammed on Facebook while commenting on the recent incident of a group of youth defiling Karinjeshwara temple by wearing footwear. Mr. Naufal said Kaivaltadka has hurt religious sentiments and has instigated communal hatred. The Bellare police registered the complaint for the offence under Section 505 (2) of Indian Penal Code. Police are trying to trace the accused and also verify whether the post was by Kaivaltadka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-against-man-for-derogatory-reference-to-prophet-mohammed/article37364075.ece
07 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man accused of killing son enlarged on bail||A Mangaluru court has granted bail to Rajesh Prabhu, owner of Vaishnavi X’press Cargo Private Limited, who was accused of murdering his son. On Tuesday, the II Additional District and Sessions Judge Abhay Dhanpal Chougala granted bail to Mr. Prabhu and directed him, among other things, to execute a bond of Rs. 1 lakh with two sureties. He has been asked not to tamper with evidence or contact any prosecution witness. He has also been directed to surrender his passport and his firearms to the investigation officer. Following a heated exchange of words with two employees on October 5, Mr. Prabhu fired twice from his licenced pistol. One of the bullets hit his 16-year-old son, Sudhindra, who died on October 8. The Mangaluru South police, who had initially registered a case under Sections 307 and 308 of the Indian Penal Code removed Section 308 and inserted 302 (murder). Mr. Prabhu was arrested and was in police custody for three days before being moved to the Mangaluru district prison. In his regular bail application filed under Section 439 of the Criminal Procedure Code, he contended that he had no intention of causing the death of his son. Moreover, he is suffering from severe heart problems and requires medical attention. His wife Shanthala Prabhu is under severe depression following the son’s death. Allowing his bail petition, the judge said mere possession of a licenced pistol for personal protection, at this pre-investigation stage, is not reason to conclude that Mr. Prabhu has committed an offence under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 304 (culpabale homicide not amounting to murder ) or 302 (murder). The judge considered the need for Mr. Prabhu to undergo further investigation to rule out coronary artery disease and Ms. Shanthala Prabhu’s health condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-accused-of-killing-son-enlarged-on-bail/article37364081.ece
07 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Ten booked for assaulting minor boy||The Subrahmanya police booked 10 persons for allegedly assaulting a 16-year-old boy by falsely accusing the latter as a arecanut thief. According to a complaint by the minor boy, he was bringing around 25 kg of arecanut, which was grown on the field taken on lease by his family members, to the nearby market on October 27. Around 7 p.m., the 10-member group waylaid him at Kadtalkaje of Guttigar village of Sullia taluk. Accusing the boy of stealing the arecanut from a nearby farm, the group assaulted him. Following the video of the assault going viral on social media, the boy filed a complaint on November 2. The police registered a case against Jeevan, Varshit, Sachin, Mokshit, Sanath, Murali, M.P. Dinesh, Eshwar, Chandra, and Chetan for offences punishable under Sections 143, 341, 323, 324 and 506 of the IPC. All the 10 appeared before the jurisdictional magistrate on Saturday, who granted them bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ten-booked-for-assaulting-minor-boy/article37364073.ece
07 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Couple injured||A stone quarry operator and his wife suffered burns following burst of crackers on the premises of their house in Padumundu near Shiriyara of Kota in Udupi district on Saturday. The police gave the names of the injured as Dinesh Shetty, 48, and Vasanti Shetty, 40.  The Kota police registered a case suo motu . Services of Forensic Science Laboratory personnel were requisitioned to examine the explosive substance that burst.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/couple-injured/article37364082.ece
07 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||briefly||The Mangaluru Ramakrishna Mission was presented the Swatantryada Amruta Mahotsava Special Rajyotsava Award in recognition of its services to society, including the five-year Swachh Mangaluru campaign, recently in Bengaluru. Swami Ekagamyananda of the mission received the award from Chief Minister Basavaraja Bommai, Kannada and Culture Minister V. Sunil Kumar, Revenue Minister R. Ashoka, Tejaswi Surya, MP, and others, said a release from the mission.    Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Saturday issued orders withdrawing the night curfew being enforced between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. with immediate effect. The order follows similar one issued by State Disaster Management Committee head and Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar on Friday.   Karnataka Border Areas Development Authority (KBADA) chairperson C. Somashekara will be touring Dakshina Kannada district on Tuesday. He will meet the Deputy Commissioner and other officials at 10.30 a.m. He will attend the Karnataka Rajyotsava celebrations at Mangalore University at 3 p.m. on Wednesday and leave for Bengaluru in the night, said an official release.    Karnataka Minorities Commissioner Chairman Abdul Azim will be touring Dakshina Kannada district on Monday and inaugurate a multipurpose cooperative society for minorities at Ammu Rai Complex in Bellare, Sullia at 11.30 a.m. He will meet leaders from minority communities at the Inspection Bunglow in Sullia at 2.30 p.m. and will leave for Bengaluru in the night, said an official release.    Power supply would be affected in Bunder area between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Monday. Areas affected include Bunder Police Station, Bombay Lucky Hotel, Azizuddin Road, Bhatkal Bazar, Ansari Road, Kandathpalli, Chamber Road, and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37364070.ece
07 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||He gave up his job to pursue his passion||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled the statue of Jagadguru Sri Adi Shankaracharya at Kedarnath on Friday the city-based sculptor Arun Yogiraj who watched the proceedings from Mysuru, was overcome with mixed feelings. Though there was a sense of joy in having successfully completed the task, it was supplanted by grief over the recent death of his father – B.S.Yogiraj Shilpi – from whom he inherited the family tradition. His father was a recipient of many awards including the Amarashilpi Jakanachari award instituted by Karnataka Shilpa Academy and the Karnataka Rajyothsava award. An MBA from the University of Mysore, Arun Yogiraj trained for six months in the HR Department of a private company. “But I listened to my inner voice and left the private sector job and returned to Mysuru to carry forward the family tradition,” he said. He worked for nine months on the project and completed it in June. “I spent a month at Kedarnath for the installation of the statue but had to return a week ahead of the unveiling. Though everybody appealed to me to stay on for the unveiling by the Prime Minister, my mother’s health was sinking due to my prolonged absence and hence I returned home,” said Mr. Yogiraj. Around the same time he had to be in Kedarnath, Mr. Yogiraj also won a project from Czech Republic but had to turn it down to complete the installation of Shankaracharya’s statue. The statue was a labour of love and did not entail any difficulty though he worked on it for almost 14 hours daily for nine months. “The statue was transported by road for the most part and airlifted from Chamoli airbase by the IAF’s Chinook helicopter to Kedarnath,” said Mr. Yogiraj. The black granite was procured from H.D. Kote and the raw material was originally 80 tonnes. After the completion of the project, the statue weighed 28 tonnes in all. In recognition of his contribution, district in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar and others felicitated the sculptor at his residence on Friday. But Arun Yogiraj is not resting on his laurels. He has another project on hand – a 25-feet tall monolithic statue of Anjaneya or Hanuman which will be installed at Chunchunkatte. He is looking forward to its completion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/he-gave-up-his-job-to-pursue-his-passion/article37364087.ece
07 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Congress criticises BJP’s ‘conspiracy’||The Congress held a demonstration in Mysuru on Saturday to criticise the BJP for allegedly conspiring against former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah by misrepresenting his remarks on Dalits and misleading the community. Party leaders gathered in front of B.R. Ambedkar’s statue at Town Hall under the leadership of Working President of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) R. Dhruvanarayan and shouted slogans criticising the BJP while hailing Mr. Siddaramaiah for the welfare programmes he implemented for the Dalits during his tenure at the helm. Earlier, Mr. Dhruvanarayan, who is also a former MP representing Chamarajanagar Lok Sabha constituency, told reporters that Mr. Siddaramaiah, while addressing a meeting of Madiga community members during the campaign for by-elections in Sindagi recently, had said that a few Dalit leaders had joined the BJP to serve their selfish ends. But, this statement had been “deliberately twisted” by the BJP to mislead the Dalit community. The BJP leaders were conspiring against Mr. Siddaramaiah in an effort to bring disrepute to him for political reasons, said Mr. Dhruvanarayan while pointing out that the former Chief Minister had also sought to know why the Dalit leaders in the BJP did not speak out when the saffron party leaders including Ananthkumar Hegde talked about amending the Constitution. The KPCC Working President said the Dalit community was aware about the conspiracy hatched by the BJP to mislead it. The BJP, he said, was trying to divide the community that stood by the Congress and the efforts to misrepresent Mr. Siddaramaiah’s statement was part of its design to tarnish the Congress leader’s fair name. Mr. Dhruvanarayan said that Mr. Siddaramaiah’s contributions to the Dalit community during his tenure as Chief Minister could well make it to the history books. “The BJP has no right to talk against Mr. Siddarmaiah”, he said while accusing the saffron party leaders of being ‘subservient’ to the diktat of RSS. If the BJP had concern for Dalits, he said the party’s government should implement programmes for the community’s welfare. ‘Political reasons’ KPCC spokesperson H.A. Venkatesh, in a statement, said the BJP was only trying to mislead the Dalit community against Mr. Siddaramaiah for political reasons. The party had not concern for Dalits or social justice, he said while asking the saffron party to name even a single programme for Dalits it had implemented during its tenure. A large number of Congress leaders including Dharmasena, MLC; former MLAs Vasu and M.K. Somashekar; and former Chairman of Karnataka State Bhovi Development Corporation G.V. Seetharam were present during the staging of the demonstration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-criticises-bjps-conspiracy/article37364107.ece
07 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 cases in Mysuru drop to single digit||COVID-19 cases in Mysuru dropped to single digit for the first time on Saturday after a gap of several months, ever since the cases started to fall after the second wave early this year. Nine persons tested positive on Saturday with 48 persons discharged the same day upon recovering from the infection. Zero deaths were reported on Saturday. With the continuous fall in new infections and faster recovery, the active case tally has also dropped and stands at 235 as on Saturday. The test positivity rate on Saturday was 0.54 per cent with about 1,665 tests done. Nanjangud, H.D. Kote and Mysuru taluks reported zero cases. Five cases have been reported in Mysuru city while one case each was reported in the remaining taluks of Hunsur, T. Narsipur, K.R. Nagar and Periyapatna. The active cases are expected to hit zero soon as such cases have dropped to single digit in T. Narsipur, Nanjangud, Mysuru, K.R. Nagar and H.D. Kote. Hunsur and Periyapatna have 16 and 20 active cases respectively while the number stands at 186 in Mysuru city. Speaking to The Hindu , District Health Officer K.S. Prasad said cases dropping to single digit has occurred after a long gap, and can be attributed to substantial decline in infection rate. The new infections are on the wane. Dr. Prasad, however, said the tests have dropped below 2,000 a day with the fall in infection rate and people not coming for the tests. “Tests have come down because people are not coming to get tested. This is because of the drop in infection in the community. Earlier, the tests used to be more as people with symptoms coming for the tests,” he argued. Dr. Prasad said the admissions in hospitals have also seen a substantial drop with lesser number of SARI and ILI cases. These cases were contributing largely to COVID-19 numbers and have come down noticeably, thereby bringing down the number of admissions in both government and private hospitals, he added. As many as 123 have been home isolated in Mysuru while 72 are in government and 31 patients are admitted in private hospitals. There are zero cases in the COVID-19 Care Centres, and about nine cases in dedicated COVID-19 Healthcare Centres. Meanwhile, as many as 29,000 people were vaccinated in Mysuru district on Saturday. After the festive season, people rushed to the vaccination centres to get the jab – first and second doses - expanding the vaccination coverage. Dr. Prasad said 89-90 per cent of the eligible populations have received their first dose and 52 per cent have got their second dose in the district so far. The drive is on to reach the target. The Department of Health is making all best efforts to expand the coverage of the second dose and reach the targeted numbers by December.  89-90 per cent of the eligible populations have received their first dose and 52 per cent have got their second dose in the district so far  The Department of Health is making all best efforts to expand the coverage of the second dose and reach the targeted numbers by December||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-cases-in-mysuru-drop-to-single-digit/article37364109.ece
07 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Active cases in Chamarajanagar dwindle to three||The active COVID-19 cases in Chamarajanagar district situated along Karnataka’s border with Tamil Nadu and Kerala dwindled to just 3 including the two fresh cases reported on Saturday. The COVID-19 media bulletin released by the Chamarajanagar district administration on Saturday showed two discharges. However, the two fresh cases reported on Saturday were among the three reported in the district during the last seven days. While zero fresh cases reported were on October 31, November 1, 2 and 3, one case had been reported on November 4 and two on November 6. It may be mentioned here that Chamarajanagar district had witnessed about 24 deaths due to oxygen shortage in the first week of May during the peak of COVID-19 second wave. Also, concerns were raised in the district after the cases spiked in neighbouring Kerala. District Health Officer Vishwesharaiah told The Hindu that there has been no let-up in the testing in the district. “We are almost reaching the daily swab collection target of 2,000”, he said. The health officials were testing people coming to the medical facilities and outpatient departments of hospitals with symptoms, he said adding that the decline in cases in Chamarajanagar district was in line with the dwindling of cases in the rest of the state and the country. The district, so far, had reported a total of 32,021 cases and 519 deaths. Vaccination Also, Dr. Vishweshwaraiah said the district had achieved a good rate of vaccination. According to the data provided in the media bulletin, a total of 6.24 lakh persons had been administered the first dose while 3.58 lakh persons had been administered both the doses in the district. Dr. Vishweshwaraiah said the district had a population of around 7.5 lakh people above the age of 18 years. “We have covered a majority of the district’s population with the first dose”, he said before adding that some pregnant and lactating mothers were showing hesitation. The good vaccination rate may also be among the reasons for the decline in COVID-19 cases in the district, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/active-cases-in-chamarajanagar-dwindle-to-three/article37364105.ece
07 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Farmers fear fall in paddy prices over ‘bumper’ yield||Farmers are anxious that the price of paddy will likely fall with bumper yield expected in the State this year, thanks to bountiful rains. They fear that the plentiful yield might bring down the price. In this regard, farmers want the government to immediately establish paddy procurement centres, announcing the support price. The Federation of State Farmers’ Organisations and the Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers’ Association have written to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai urging him to take immediate steps for establishing centres for procuring paddy as there is a likelihood of fall in paddy prices in view of good yield. Association President Kurubur Shanthkumar said in the letter that the government must announce the support price and establish the procurement centres at the earliest. With paddy harvested in November and December, the merchants take advantage of the situation and buy the produce from farmers at a lesser price and later sell it in the procurement centres in the name of farmers. This is nothing but grave injustice against farmers who toil in the fields but get a raw deal after the harvest, he said. He suggested that the farmers’ producer companies in the State can be given permission for opening paddy procurement centres to prevent injustice to farmers. Such companies must get loans at subsidised rates so that they could buy the produce directly from farmers. This will benefit farmers and put an end to merchants’ ploy of buying the produce at lesser rates. Mr .Shanthkumar urged the Chief Minister to establish a system where all varieties of paddy grown by farmers are procured by the government whenever there is a fall in prices, after verifying the RTCs submitted by farmers. He also urged the government to helpfarmers’ producer companies in making available logistical support to farmers for marketing their harvest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-fear-fall-in-paddy-prices-over-bumper-yield/article37364111.ece
07 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for murder of kidnapped boy||The police have arrested one person in connection with the murder of the nine-year-old boy, who went missing from Hanagodu village in Hunsur taluk near here on Wednesday. The police said they received a complaint that the boy Karthik, a Class IV student, had been missing since Wednesday when he left home to buy crackers. Superintendent of Mysuru district police R. Chethan said the police had rounded up a few suspects and sustained interrogation of one of them led to the recovery of the boy’s body from a bush near the village. The Hunsur Rural police had now registered a case of murder and continuing the investigation to learn about the motive behind the boy’s abduction and death. Police sources said the boy’s father Nagaraj, a trader, had received a call for ransom from an unlisted number, hours after his son went missing on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Mr. Chethan said the police had also received a complaint from the residents of Hanagodu that several people from the village and surrounding villages were becoming addicted to online betting games. The villagers had alleged that the youth, who had become addicted to the games, were taking to crime and suspected the same reason to be behind the abduction and murder. Mr. Chethan said the police were told to take action against illegal activities including online gambling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-for-murder-of-kidnapped-boy/article37364085.ece
07 November 2021||Mysuru/Hassan,KARNATAKA||Coffee farmers seek help||Mysuru district recorded 68 mm of rainfall during the 24-hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on November 5 following incessant overnight rains. According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), this is the highest for November in the last 10 years. The all-time high was recorded on November 4, 1994 when the district received 106.6 mm of rainfall. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre has said that the highest rainfall in the region during the last 24 hours was recorded in Nelligere gram panchayat limits in Nagamangala taluk of Mandya district (174 mm). Mysuru district has received 304 mm of rainfall against a normal of 156 mm from October 1st to November 4th, which is 95% higher than normal. The incessant rains have highlighted the ecological fragility of Chamundi Hills where a portion of the road leading to the Nandi statue caved in yet again on November 5, the third time in a fortnight. The road had caved in on October 20, and suffered further damage a few days ago. The retaining wall has caved in and with it a portion of the road too has been washed away. Meanwhile, PWD engineers and officials have maintained that the repair work is yet to be taken due to continuous rains. An expert team will inspect the terrain and suggest a technical solution before repairs can be taken up. At the Hebbal industrial area, Jain Kaigarike Cotton Waste – a small scale unit – was inundated. Suresh Kumar Jain, proprietor of the unit and secretary of Mysore Industries Association, said water had entered the factory as the storm water drain outside was clogged with building debris and other waste. The wet weather prompted Hassan District Planters’ Association (HDPA) to appeal to the Coffee Board and the Union Government to rescue coffee growers who are in dire straits following untimely rains. HDPA chairman K.N. Subramanya said it had been raining in offee-growing areas since June this year. Incessant rains have brought down the yield of black pepper and coffee, which has led to a huge loss to farmers. Growers have been struggling to dry harvested coffee beans. Growers require driers and poly-houses to maintain the quality of coffee. The Board has appealed for subsidy. The association wants coffee in the list of crops that get benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna (crop insurance scheme).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coffee-farmers-seek-help/article37364100.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Helping hands||fire||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/helping-hands/article37364104.ece
07 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||CPI(M) seeks to send out strong message on discipline||The decision of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretariat to publicly censure former Minister and party State committee member G. Sudhakaran over lapses in the Left Democratic Front's (LDF) election campaign in the Ambalappuzha Assembly constituency is seen as an end of an era for the CPI(M) in Alappuzha. By taking action against one of the senior-most leaders in the cradle of the Communist movement, the CPI(M) has sent a message that discipline is paramount and there is zero tolerance for violating the party line. “After V.S. Achuthanandan, Mr. Sudhakaran has emerged as the tallest leader in the CPI(M) in Alappuzha, despite he being the CPI(M) State committee member and his compatriot T.M. Thomas Isaac a central committee member. He was seen as a leader close to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan but it didn't prevent the party from taking action against him, which shows the party considers the voice of its next line of leaders in Alappuzha, who complained against Mr. Sudhakaran, seriously. Though Mr. Sudhakaran has escaped with censure, it is still a harsh punishment and he is set for a political exile, especially given his age. With the disciplinary action against Mr. Sudhakaran, the CPI(M) in Alappuzha is all set for a generational shift with leaders such as Saji Cherian, A.M. Ariff and R. Nazar set to steer the party in the coming years,” said a political observer. Mr. Sudhakaran was the third prominent leader in the CPI(M) in Alappuzha to face disciplinary action for election lapses, the previous two were C.B.C. Warrier and T.J. Anjelose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-seeks-to-send-out-strong-message-on-discipline/article37364005.ece
07 November 2021||HYDERABAD,KERALA||State likely to get 350 more liquor shops||Over 350 more liquor shops were likely to be allotted across the State to the existing 2,216 outlets in the new excise licensing period for 2021-23 which will come into force from December 1. This was the outcome of a video conference of Excise and Prohibition Director Sarfraz Ahmed with Deputy Commissioners, Joint Commissioners, Assistant Commissioners and Superintendents at the district level to inform them about the broad government policy on Saturday, sources said. They added that the shops will be increased in pockets that reported high sales in the just concluded license period from November 1, 2019, to October 31, 2021. The licence for these two years was extended till this month end to compensate for the loss of business owing to lockdown in 2020 and 2021. The government issued an order after the conference listing out various components of the policy, including the decision to follow reservation in allotment of liquor shops to Goud community (15% , SCs (10% ) and STs (5%). The allotment will be proportional to the population of that category in the State. The allotment will be done by draw of lots. There will be no change in non-refundable application money of Rs. 2 lakh and the license fee. The retailer margin after crossing the benchmark turnover has been increased from 6.4% to 10 %. The benchmark turnover which was earlier seven times the annual license fee has been increased to ten times. The privilege tax will be collected at 10% on the turnover as against 13.6 % earlier. However, the licensees earlier paid the annual license fee in four instalments but they will now pay every alternate month, aggregating to six instalments. The successful applicants will have to submit only one bank guarantee equal to 25% of the annual license fee for a period of 25 months. Earlier, they furnished two bank guarantees for four instalments of annual licensee fee. There was no change in population based slab rates of license fee. Applications could be made for more than one shop but each one had to be accompanied by non-refundable fee of Rs. 2 lakh. There was also no need of Earnest Money Deposit (EMD).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-may-allot-350-more-liquor-shops/article37363931.ece
07 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||No pilgrimage through forest path this year||Travel through the forest path to Sabarimala will not be allowed this year also during the Mandalam-Makaravilakku season, which will begin on November 16. At an online meeting held on Friday by District Collector Sheeba George to review arrangements for the pilgrim season, it was decided to ban travel through the Sathram route considering the safety of the pilgrims. On the main roads hit by landslips, single-line traffic will be allowed. Special squads of various departments will be formed to check the quality of food served to pilgrims. Police aid posts will be set up to help the pilgrims. Control rooms will be opened at the taluk office at Peerumade and Manjumala village office. Steps have been taken for registration of temporary roadside shops. The institutions providing free food to pilgrims should register at the respective local body. The Collector also directed the District Medical Officer to make available services of doctors during night time. Local bodies should arrange resting places, toilets, and bathroom facilities. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation will initially start eight special services for pilgrims, which will be increased considering the requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-pilgrimage-through-forest-path-this-year/article37364043.ece
07 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Kalpetta Municipality begins town beautification works||The Kalpetta Municipality began the first phase of beautification works of the town with the cooperation of various merchants’ bodies on Saturday. The civic body would beautify around a 1-km stretch of the town, from the old bus stand to the traffic junction during the first phase, Municipal Chairman Keyamthodi Mujeeb told The Hindu . Apart from placing flower plants on both the sides of roads in the town, cleaning works would be performed in the morning and evening every day to keep the town neat and tidy, Mr. Mujeeb said. The civic body has also earmarked a Rs. 1.42-crore project to install street lights as a part of the beautification work, he said. Merchants had contributed 500 ornamental plants worth Rs. 2.5 lakh. The plants were put up on the sides of the National Highway 766. “We are planning to beautify the entire town by erecting flower plants on both the highway side during the second phase and the civic body has earmarked Rs. 5 lakh for the purpose”, Mr. Mujeeb said. The project would be completed in six months, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kalpetta-municipality-begins-town-beautification-works/article37363980.ece
07 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KSRTC’s idling buses hobble city’s transport system||With almost the entire fleet of low-floor AC buses operated from the Kerala Urban Road Transport Corporation’s (KURTC) Thevara depot and a vast number of ordinary buses operated by Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) remaining grounded during the past 18 months, the public transport system in Kochi city and suburban towns has gone for a toss. The KURTC, a subsidiary of the KSRTC, has been repeatedly citing the excuse of possible low footfall if the AC buses operated within the city and to the suburban towns, although AC luxury and inter-State buses resumed operations a few months ago. A bulk of Tirukochi and other ordinary services too have not resumed service, forcing commuters to rely on two, three and four wheelers for travel. Over 100 such buses that were parked at the Ernakulam bus stand are in a state of disrepair. However, KSRTC sources said most of them were among the 900 buses that would be scrapped across Kerala in the coming months. “Altogether, 116 new buses will be simultaneously added to the RTC’s fleet, while the rest will be availed on dry lease,” they said, without committing on when low-floor AC buses would resume service. A transport planner, who was associated with Kochi Metro and a slew of other public transport initiatives, decried the KSRTC’s abysmal fleet utility, which would further take a beating due to its fast-dwindling bus fleet. “The agency can ensure optimal patronage of its fleet only if it readied a journey-planner app, so that commuters get to know of the bus location and the number of vacant seats available per bus. In addition, decision-making must be decentralised to the district level. It is also high time it rationalised bus routes, depending on the commuter demand. There is no point in idling a few hundred buses in Ernakulam district for months together, when commuters are facing the heat of skyrocketing fuel prices,” he said. Another reason for the low patronage of KSRTC buses is that the agency has no proper enquiry system, with bus stands making do with just a single telephone, which is almost always busy. Many RTCs have adopted software for their operation, crew management and for tracking buses, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtcs-idling-buses-hobble-citys-transport-system/article37363993.ece
07 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Sanction for new courses under MGU||The State Government has given administrative sanction to start new courses, additional batches, and increase intake for self-financing programmes in nearly 33 unaided institutions under Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU). The approval is applicable to the academic year 2021-22. Self-financing colleges The unaided self-financing institutions are in Ernakulam (11), Kottayam (8), Idukki (8), and Pathanamthitta (6). A few undergraduate programmes sanctioned include Arabic Language, Computer Applications, Commerce, Food Technology and Quality Assurance, Hotel Management and Culinary Arts, and Animation and Visual Effects. The postgraduate courses are in areas like Journalism and Mass Communication, Multimedia, Social Work, Psychology, and Artificial Intelligence. Additional batches The increase in intake for various programmes is in the range of 40 to 60. Five colleges have received nod to start additional batches in five undergraduate and postgraduate courses. The affiliation will be provided by the university based on conditions under an agreement to be executed by college managements. The institutions have to earmark 50% seats as per merit and reservation norms prescribed by the government, while they can fill the remaining 50% seats as management quota. Colleges have to seek accreditation by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council by next year, according to the order issued by the Government. Infrastructure The colleges should have adequate infrastructure to offer courses. Fee should be based on the structure fixed by the Government. The institutions have to agree to offer courses approved by the Government and the university. The no-objection certificate issued by the Government is valid for one year. It will be renewed based on request by the institution and subject to satisfactory compliance with conditions.  Colleges should earmark 50% seats as per merit and reservation norms prescribed by the government, while they can fill the remaining 50% seats as management quota||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-govt-gives-sanction-for-new-courses-under-mgu/article37364002.ece
07 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Fish seller from Paravur hits a jackpot||P.A. Askar, a fish seller from North Paravur in Ernakulam district, won the first prize of Rs. 70 lakh in the Akshaya lottery draw on Wednesday. On Saturday, he was on his toes, selling fish to retail customers as usual despite fortune smiling at him. He said he would continue selling fish, as it had sustained him and his family for long. He added that he was in debt, having availed a loan from a service cooperative bank to build his little home at Paravur, and that the money would also go into servicing the debt. Mr. Askar said the pandemic had added to his difficulties, pointing to the serious disruption in business. He usually would take fish stocks from Munambam harbour and sell them to retail customers, which helped him sustain his family comprising his father, mother, wife, and a son. His daughter had been married off. Mr. Askar said he had been a regular buyer of lottery tickets and usually bought four to five tickets on a daily basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fish-seller-from-paravur-hits-a-jackpot/article37363997.ece
07 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rare arterial anomaly corrected at city hospital||Doctors at Lisie Hospital here treated a 26-year-old woman with anomalous systemic arterial supply to the lower lobe of the left lung from the aorta with a minimally invasive procedure. The patient had been suffering from repeated bouts of haemoptysis for the last 10 years. Initially, she used to cough up blood at intervals of six months and then once in three months. However, the frequency increased to weekly bouts in the past few months. She was also suffering from bouts of breathlessness. Doctors said a CT scan revealed an abnormal vessel arising from the aorta. An arteriovenous malformation was suggested, and the patient was posted for embolisation. She was advised an open surgery owing to the possibility of lung damage following loss of blood and the large size of the vessel making embolisation difficult. Doctors conducted a detailed multi-phasic CT scan, which revealed the rare condition. She was evaluated by a multidisciplinary team, and a decision was taken to close the abnormal vessel using minimally invasive techniques considering her young age.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rare-arterial-anomaly-corrected-at-city-hospital/article37364003.ece
07 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. for more hydro power projects, says CM||The State Government is considering setting up hydro power generation facilities with the support of local self-government bodies and cooperative institutions, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday. He was inaugurating the 4.5-MW (14 million units per year) hydro power generation facility at Arippara in Kozhikode district. A communication from Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL), which built the Arippara facility at a cost of Rs. 52 crore over a period of five years, cited the Chief Minister as saying that small hydel power generation facilities were cheaper and environment-friendly. He also said that the facility at Arippara was a landmark in the history of CIAL, which runs its airport fully on solar power. CIAL’s solar power generation initiative has caught the attention of the whole world, he added. Mr. Vijayan said the Government was of the view that power generation should be dependent on renewable sources. The aim is to bank dominantly on water, wind, and sun for energy generation, he added. The previous LDF Government had initiated several measures to implement energy generation programmes, and they are being pursued vigorously, he added. The Chief Minister also lauded the efforts of CIAL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-for-more-hydro-power-projects-says-cm/article37364004.ece
07 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Health check-up cards for those aged above 30||Health Minister Veena George said here on Saturday that the government would work out a project to issue health check-up cards at the panchayat level to those aged above 30 years for timely diagnosis of lifestyle diseases. Lifestyle diseases, including cardiovascular and gastrointestinal disorders, among those above 30 years of age could be detected through the project, she said at the inauguration of the Hridayathil Hibi Eden project for providing free angioplasty treatment to needy patients, initiated by Hibi Eden, MP. Ms. George said the Health Department has plans to develop health tourism to encourage those abroad to avail health services offered by the State. Free registration for angioplasty can be done on the phone (+914843503177). Beneficiaries will be selected by a medical board. The procedure will be done at Indira Gandhi Co-operative Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-check-up-cards-for-those-aged-above-30/article37363999.ece
07 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||BIS licence for coconut oil brand||The Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) has granted the all-India first licence for using BIS standard mark (ISI Mark) for coconut oil for edible purposes as per Indian Standard Number 542:2018 to Mezhukkattil Mills, Aluva, said a communication here. IS number 542: 2018 identifies the level of purity of coconut oil with specification for critical chemical requirements and provides strict measures to prevent adulteration and pesticide residues in the oil. Kerala has over 600 coconut oil making units and is one of the largest consumers of edible coconut oil, but the quality of the commodity is a matter of concern. BIS is committed to consumer safety and takes all measures to bring manufacturers under the certification fold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bis-licence-for-coconut-oil-brand/article37363991.ece
07 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,073 new COVID cases in Ernakulam||A total of 1,073 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Saturday. As many as 1,016 got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 15 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 9.7%. The regions where positive cases were higher than 30 included Keezhmad (47), Thrikkakara (37), Piravom (35), Vadakkekara (32), and Chendamangalam (31). As many as 8,742 people are under treatment for the disease in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1073-new-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article37364000.ece
07 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Implement panel report on Church row: forum||The State Government must immediately implement the recommendations of the State Law Reforms Commission on the dispute in the Malankara Church, said Quest For Peace, a Church peace committee, which is making efforts to establish a consensus between the Malankara Church groups and end the litigations and wrangling. Quest for Peace chairman and senior priest of the Jacobite Church Father Varghese Kallupara said the commission recommendations could be a permanent solution to disputes among Church groups. The Supreme Court had ruled in July 2017 that there would be no parallel administration of the Malankara Church, and that all parishes would be under the control of the Orthodox faction. A referendum The recommendation of the Commission chaired by former Supreme Court judge K.T. Thomas is that the State conduct a referendum to determine the rights over various parishes and related institutions under the Malankara Church.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/implement-panel-report-on-church-dispute/article37364001.ece
07 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||A heritage structure goes to seed||At a glance it’s just a derelict brick structure lost in the thickets. But a closer look will reveal distinct architectural features of the once-majestic edifice. Located near Kollam railway station where weeds vie for more territory, the 117-year-old Cheena Kottaram has remained in a dilapidated state for decades. Built in 1904 by Sri Mulam Tirunal Rama Varma, the ruler of erstwhile Travancore, the building was also called Railway Palace as the royal family used to stay there during transit. At that time, Quilon-Sengottai was the only rail route connecting Kerala and Tamil Nadu and the king used to board trains from Kollam. Over the years the line was extended to Thiruvananthapuram ending the royal visits and the relevance of the building. Later, the railway authorities used it as an office and storage space. Historical value According to experts, the property is an important piece in the history of Railways in Kerala as it was one among the first buildings that came along the commissioning of the metre gauge line. The building has a unique Indo-Saracenic architectural character with coloured window glasses and terracotta tiles. Though a single-storey structure, its double-height adds elegance and creates the illusion of a huge double-storied building. “The style is Gothic with slopping roofs and exposed brick work. The original roof was in pagoda style and the residents started calling it Cheena Kottaran (Chinese Palace) due to that,” says Manoj Kumar Kini, urban designer and Principal of the Kerala State Institute of Design (KSID). Can be salvaged  He adds that the building is not beyond redemption but Railways, which own the property and nearby buildings, seem least interested in restoring the structure. While most tiered towers are missing today, the leaking roof tiles were replaced with metal sheets with utmost disregard to its heritage value. Cheena Kottaram is yet to be declared as a monument by the State or the Centre and Kollam MP N.K. Premachandran says despite repeated appeals, officials are not keen on conserving the property. “We have submitted a proposal to convert the structure into a heritage museum and the authorities said they will look into it,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-heritage-structure-goes-to-seed/article37364053.ece
07 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||774 new cases in Kollam||Kollam reported 774 new cases of COVID-19 and 554 recoveries on Saturday. While 765 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include one NRI, two persons from other States, and six health workers. At present, the district has 19,917 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 25,47,558. While 1,165 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 4,10,131 primary and 22,193 secondary contacts of the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/774-new-cases-in-kollam/article37364050.ece
07 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Award presented||Swami Bodhendratheertha handed over the R.Sankar Memorial Award 2021 to former Sree Narayna College Principal and Sree Narayana Educational Society president K.Sasikumar at a function here on Saturday. The award instituted by the R.Sankar Charitable Trust for the best educationist carries a purse of Rs. 10,001 and citation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-presented/article37364047.ece
07 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Applications invited||The College of Engineering, Karunagapally, under the IHRD, has invited applications for the posts (temporary) of assistant professor in Computer Science and Mechanical Engineering departments and demonstrator in Electronics and Electrical Engineering departments. Candidates can appear for written test/interview at 10.30 a.m. on November 11 with original certificates. For details, visit ceknpy.ac.in or call 04742665935.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/applications-invited/article37364048.ece
07 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam rejigs tourism profile||Taking a cue from the success of Kumarakom and Aymanam, more villages across Kottayam are now embracing the practices of responsible tourism to open themselves up to visitors. According to officials, 15 local bodies in the district have now joined hands with the Responsible Tourism Mission to come up with locally owned tourism products and services. The new destinations include the backwater town of Vaikom and the nine adjoining panchayats, besides a handful of villages on the eastern high ranges. Resource directory As part of it, the RT Mission has embarked on a mission to prepare a tourism resource directory for the entire district — a first for any district. Training for development of tourism entrepreneurship has been launched in many of these villages, which will be followed by special tourism grama sabhas, community empowerment initiatives, and development of accommodation units. Commenting on the initiative, K. Rupesh Kumar, coordinator, RT Mission Kerala, says the project envisages identifying several under-explored rural destinations across these villages with the help of the local government. Tourism circuits and packages with their focus on rural lifestyles, cultural heritage, taste diversity, and tropical greenery will be developed with the involvement of local residents. “The objective is to develop at least one rural destination in every local body and network different locations to generate a new profile. As at Kumarakom or Aymanam, these packages will create employment and stay carbon neutral to the maximum possible extent,” he says. In high-range destinations, mud houses and other camping facilities will be developed for experiential stay while caravan parking points will be developed adjacent to farms. Sustainable tourism The project, according to Mr.Kumar, is in line with an announcement by Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas to develop the district as a hub of sustainable tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-rejigs-tourism-profile/article37364045.ece
07 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU keeps accused teacher off official duties||In view of the mounting pressure from different quarters, including from the State Government, Mahatma Gandhi University on Saturday barred a teacher, accused of abusing a Dalit PhD student using casteist terms, from discharging his officials duties. In a statement, Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor, said that he would directly hold the charge of the university centre where the Dalit student is pursuing her research, instead of Nandakumar Kalarikkal, the accused teacher. Her research This is in addition to giving her an opportunity to complete her research by exempting the additional fee and providing the necessary library-lab-hostel facilities. Since her previous guide had opted out, she will be allotted a new guide. The student, however, stood firm on her demand of dismissing Mr. Kalarikkal from service. She also said she would continue the hunger strike, as there was no clarity on the action initiated. “The statement issued by the MGU is a mere eyewash. The institution has not initiated any action against him. I will not end the protest till he is ousted from the International and Inter University Centre for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (IIUCNN),” she posted on Facebook. Minister’s stance Earlier in the day, Higher Education and Social Justice Minister R. Bindu had reached out to the student, promising to address her concerns by keeping the accused teacher out of his office. “The university has been asked to explain what prevents it from conducting an inquiry on the accused teacher by keeping him out of the office. It has been asked to furnish the documents based on which the university has cited a technical impediment to taking action against the teacher,” said the Minister. Appeal to student “If the university keeps dragging its feet, authorities will be instructed to ask the teacher to stay away. The student is requested to take this as an assurance and withdraw the protest,” she added. The PhD student, who launched the hunger strike in front of the university entrance on October 29, alleged that she was not allowed to enter the laboratory and faced casteist abuse from Mr. Kalarikkal . During the course of the hunger strike, she also raised sexual harassment charges against a fellow researcher.  Higher Education Minister R. Bindu promises to address her concerns||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-keeps-accused-teacher-off-official-duties/article37364014.ece
07 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Landslips: KSSP calls for rehabilitation measures||Taking note of the threat of natural disasters in the high range areas bordering Kottayam and Idukki districts, the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) has recommended long-term measures for the rehabilitation of people in the landslip-hit Koottikkal and Kokkayar grama panchayats. A meeting of experts, convened by the Kottayam district committee of the ‘Parisara Samiti’ under the KSSP, discussed the steps to be taken in this regard. Based on the outcome of these discussions, a report will soon be submitted to the Government. The meeting was attended by experts and geologists, representatives of universities and the Rubber Research Institute of India, researchers, and KSSP members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/landslips-kssp-calls-for-rehabilitation-measures/article37364046.ece
07 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Illegal sand mining rampant in Chaliyar||Noticing the rising market price of river sand and its demand in the construction industry, illegal sand miners are again back to their unlawful business in the Chaliyar river near Mavoor. Unlike in the past, the labourers employed for the illegal sand extraction process hoodwink the revenue department and the police squads and cart off the quarried stock from the isolated areas. Customised country boats made of solid metal are reportedly used for the purpose at night. Some of the local residents and youngsters at Mavoor, Peruvayal, Feroke, and Beypore are also suspected of working hand in hand with the sand mining labourers to monitor the movement of checking squads and get easy money as commission. “The usual trickery on seeing the police is to abandon the country boats along with the stock and escape from the spot. We have started impounding such boats instantly as that is the first practical option to suppress the illegal work in a gradual way,” said a police officer, who recently took part in a major operation in the Chaliyar, seizing three customised boats. According to him, a full-fledged search is now underway on the riverbank to find out all hidden boats used for the purpose. In support of the police and the revenue squads, some of the local administrators have formed their own vigilance committees with the participation of local volunteers. According to them, the unlicensed trade is causing a huge revenue loss to the local bodies apart from endangering the river basin. Many such local bodies and the local environmental organisations have called upon the district administration to form a stronger patrol squad that can intercept the illegal boats and sand-laden trucks. What they want is the arrest of the illegal players, who escape from the spot using their capabilities in swimming. Fishermen and migrant labourers are also suspected to be a part of such illegal mining gangs for raking in quick bucks. According to some of the private building contractors in the city, many of the illegal sand miners in the Chaliyar are also experts in mixing the river sand with the impure sea sand for high revenue. There are small scale and large scale purchasers, who fall prey to such trickeries which can cause huge damage to constructions, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/illegal-sand-mining-rampant-in-chaliyar/article37363974.ece
07 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Generational shift at CPI(M) conferences||After successfully setting an electoral lifeline by breaking the 40-year-old tradition of switching parties every five years in the State, the CPI(M) is consciously giving a facelift to the party apparatus. The ongoing party meetings at the grass-roots reveal that more youths, especially women, are joining the ranks of leadership. Currently, the branch and local committee meetings have concluded in majority of the districts, while area committee conferences have commenced in others. The election of 19-year-old S. Subhalakshmi and 21-year-old Jaseema Dasthakeer as branch secretaries of Vilakkuvettam in Punalur and Vayalikkada in Chathannur respectively has already brought the focus on the paradigm shift. Women Hundreds of women occupy positions of branch secretaries and an increasing number of women has been elected local committee secretaries across the State. A proposal of the CPI(M) to put an age ceiling for its Central committee members at 75 (earlier 80 years) has to be ratified by the 23rd Party Congress, scheduled to be held in Kannur in April next year. Old faces Party sources say the process of replacing old faces had started when the CPI(M) leadership decided to choose Pinarayi Vijayan as Chief Minister over V.S. Achuthanandan after the Left Democratic Front emerged victorious in 2016. Now, the withering away of factionalism has fortunately given the leadership the liberty to try out with the pragmatic approach. The generational shift became more definitive and visible after the Assembly polls in 2021 although Mr. Vijayan drew flak for taking an arbitrary decision on the constitution of the Cabinet. Today, the party has softened its stubborn hardline position to accommodate the aspirations of the growing middle class in the State. The business class, though temporarily feels perturbed about the gloomy economy, is not that unhappy. Untamed However the bureaucracy remains untamed, the sources say. The resolve for change, party functionaries say, began by drawing lessons from the collapse of the CPI(M) unit in West Bengal. That senior leaders controlled all echelons of the party with a mishmash of outdated ideas was the living evidence that the Left Front, which uninterruptedly ruled the State for 34 years from 1977 to 2011, failed to win even a single seat in the West Bengal Assembly polls of 2021. While the CPI(M) is going through an interim period without factionalism, the leadership cannot ignore the emerging caste equations within the organisational structure in future. Nevertheless, it will also have to take on the Congress which has become hostile and aggressive after K. Sudhakaran took charge as State Congress chief, sources say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/generational-shift-at-cpim-conferences/article37364012.ece
07 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode native shortlisted for Children’s Peace Prize||Mohammed Azim, a differently challenged teenager from Velimanna in Kozhikode, is among the three finalists shortlisted for the 17th International Children’s Peace Prize, instituted by the Kids Rights Foundation. The prize is awarded annually to a child, who has made a significant contribution to advocating children's rights and improving the situation of vulnerable children such as orphans, child labourers and children with HIV/AIDS. The three were shortlisted from more than 160 nominations from 39 countries across the world. Besides Azim, the other finalists are brothers Vihan and Nav Agarwal from Delhi, known for their campaign against pollution and Christina Aden from England, for her campaign demanding free food for school children during COVID. Malala Yusafsai, Greta Thunberg, and Nkosi Johnson (posthumous) were some of the previous winners of the prize. The Children’s Peace Prize is announced by former Nobel Peace Prize winners and this year, Kailash Satyarthi, 2014 Nobel Peace Prize winner, will announce the winner. Mohammed Azim, who was born without hands, has grown as an inspiration for differently abled children across the globe to continue their education at any cost and pressurising governments to make arrangements for it. Though he is 90% disabled and commutes in a wheelchair, he has fought for the primary school in his village to be upgraded as high school, as he could not travel much to accomplish his secondary education. Now 15 years old, he travelled 450 km in his wheelchair over 52 days leading a march highlighting the issue and filed a petition in the High Court. He organised protest programmes too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-native-shortlisted-for-childrens-peace-prize/article37363973.ece
07 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Officials yet to assess damage caused by landslips: farmers||The Revenue and Agriculture departments are yet to take stock of the huge damage caused by the recent episodes of landslips in various parts of Kavilumpara panchayat in Kozhikode district. Farmers from the area say all food and cash crops in more than six hectares have been swept away in the incidents. The issue is yet to draw the required attention of the authorities for extending compensation for the needy, they say. According to the leaders of local farmers’ organisations, many of the affected fields at Chappanthottam, Poyilomchal, Valluvankunnu, and Mulavattam are now filled with larger stones and mud, making it challenging for any fresh farming project. Such types of loss are hardly estimated by the revenue department authorities in their records for financial assistance, they complain. Though the local panchayat authorities have visited the affected spots, including the damaged Kuttiyadi Ghat Road to assess the loss, they are unable to declare any financial package for the farmers as a temporary solution. According to them, only a district-level report with proper recommendation by the District Collector will help the farmers to have some relief. “As the landslips have not claimed any life or destroyed a large number of houses, the Revenue department authorities are treating it as a less serious incident. In effect, it has affected the daily income of over 30 families in the panchayat,” said a local body member from the area. He said that the multiple landslips had caused a huge mental shock for them which should be properly addressed by the authorities with a suitable relief package. Meanwhile, Revenue Department sources said a comprehensive report with details of the total loss would be submitted to the district administration soon as part of the usual procedures. They also claimed that the district administration had the preliminary records of the already reported loss by the village authorities to help the farmers secure the eligible compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/officials-yet-to-assess-damage-caused-by-landslips-farmers/article37363975.ece
07 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Parties scared of women with independent opinions: activist||“The concept that women are the property of the men in their lives, is the root cause of lesser representation of women in politics”, said activist Jyothi Narayanan here on Saturday. Speaking at the discussion on “Diminishing presence of women in politics” organised by Progressive Muslim Women’s Forum NISA here on Saturday, she said that women’s presence was always low in politics and that the recent incidents only highlighted it. “How is her delivering a child dishonour to Anupama’s father? It is because he considered her his property that he could use in whatever way he wanted”', she said. Political parties always had difficulty finding women candidates for election, because they were always in pursuit of women who reflected the ideas of the men in the organisation, rather than women who thought independently, Ms. Narayanan said. She vehemently criticised the religious entities for conditioning the women in such a way that there would never be unity among them, in order to field their own candidates. NISA president V.P. Zuhra appreciated the strength of girls from the IUML’s feeder organisation Haritha for raising their voice against sexual harassment within the organisation. “IUML announcing 20% representation for women in the party was a success of their fight”, Ms. Zuhra said. Earlier, former Principal of the Government Law College, Eranakulam, T.G. Ajitha, released a book written by Ms. Zuhra titled Gender Justice in Islam .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parties-scared-of-women-with-independent-opinions-activist/article37363971.ece
07 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Call to open Gender Park fully to women||V.P. Zuhra, president of NISA, a Kozhikode-based forum for progressive Muslim women, has demanded the State government take immediate steps to make the Gender Park campus in the city useful to women. Speaking to media here on Friday, Ms. Zuhra pointed out that despite two inaugurations, the first one six years ago, the facilities at the Gender Park are yet to be of any use to women. The government has so far spent Rs. 26 crore on the facility, which was envisaged as a platform to combine various projects for women and transgenders. However, it is yet to be thrown open for women, she alleged. “I had to take permission from Thiruvananthapuram to just go and sit there at the library to complete writing my book,” she said, adding that the Gender Park does not provide any solace to women, at this time, when gender-based violence and injustice are on the rise. She complained that the lack of a full-time director for the Gender Park. Ms. Zuhra has written to the Secretary of the Administrative Reforms Commission besides Minister for Women and Child Welfare Veena George to expedite steps to make the Gender Park active and thus useful to citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-open-gender-park-fully-to-women/article37363969.ece
07 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Demand to reopen special school hostels||The Society for Rehabilitation of Differently Abled (SRDA) has requested the State Government to take steps immediately to open hostels attached to special schools. Chairman of the Society Shahul Madavoor said that most special students stayed far away from their schools and in the present circumstances were finding it difficult to commute. On the other hand, regulations on accommodating students made commuting in private vehicles unaffordable for most families of special children, he added. He asked the government to ensure that the hostels are open following COVID protocol for other reasons too. Besides, these children are not included in the mid-day meal scheme and in the present condition, they do not even get help for mid-day meal after the classes that end by noon. While schools were closed as part of the lockdown, all other students got food kits in place of mid-day meals. But visually and hearing impaired children were excluded, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-to-reopen-special-school-hostels/article37363978.ece
07 November 2021||MALAPPURAM/PALAKKAD:,KERALA||Construction sector facing major crisis||The construction sector in the State is facing one of its worst crises in recent memory with the spiralling prices of building materials and exorbitant invoicing by cement companies. Contractors in the government and private sectors have been demanding retendering of their respective work in view of the price hike. The Builders Association of India (BAI) and Kerala State Cement Dealers Welfare Association (KSCDWA) are planning a stir in front of the Assembly on Wednesday. Various stakeholders are expected to attend a march, which will be inaugurated by Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan. When contractors aver that they cannot continue without revising their work tenders, cement dealers are up in arms against hefty invoicing being made by cement companies. For a cement bag sold for Rs. 460, a dealer is paying the company Rs. 560. The excess amount is being reimbursed to the dealer in a few months, that too in phases. A protest is fuming among cement dealers not only against what they describe as the unethical practice of hefty invoicing by the companies, but also against the unsympathetic attitude of the Government. An agreement signed between the Government and cement companies and dealers in 2019 had stipulated that no price increase would be implemented without State permission. “All promises have been thrown to winds. We witnessed an increase of about Rs. 100 in cement price during the COVID-19 period. The increase in recent months was about Rs. 40 per bag,” said Sirajuddin Ellathodi, general secretary, KSCDWA. Invoice issue The high invoice issue is likely to have a wide-ranging impact on the construction sector. The imaginary high invoice set by the companies is seen as a projected figure to which the companies are trying to push up the prices. Although the companies return the price difference (PD), the companies are getting a “free-of-cost working capital”. A company collecting a PD of Rs. 100 a bag from the dealers will be getting an additional revenue of over Rs. 200 crore a month. Currently cement is being sold for Rs. 430 to Rs. 460 a bag, and the companies are collecting Rs. 520 to Rs. 560 a bag from the dealers. “We demand net billing for cement, like other building materials. Apart from raising an additional working capital, dealers are not sure if the companies will return the PD. This practice will soon wipe out medium and small traders,” said Mr. Ellathodi. The contribution of Government-owned Malabar Cements to the State’s building industry is hardly 4%. The Government’s stake in the State’s construction sector is high. Still the Government looks unsympathetic to the sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/construction-sector-facing-major-crisis/article37364015.ece
07 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||KSRTC stir affects passengers||A strike by the employees of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) for the second day on Saturday caused much hardship to the passengers here. The transport utility’s employees kept off work, demanding pay revision. Although the strike was called for one day on Friday, the INTUC-affiliated Transport Democratic Federation (TDF) stayed away from work on Saturday too, forcing the Left and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-supported unions to join the strike.  Only one service was conducted from Palakkad to Kozhikode on Saturday. Many passengers had reached the KSRTC stand here with the hope of resumption of services. Several had to go back. According to KSRTC officials, the corporation suffered a loss of nearly Rs. 50 lakh in two days in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-stir-affects-passengers/article37364136.ece
07 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||54 kg of ganja seized from crashed car, two arrested||Excise officers seized 54 kg ganja from a car that crashed at Kanjikode, near here, on Saturday. Two persons who tried to run away were arrested. An excise team led by Assistant Commissioner M. Rakesh tried to stop the car on the basis of a tip-off at Narakampulli, Kanjikode. But the car sped away and crashed against a tanker, before resting on a divider with flat tyres. The excise team arrested Ranjit and Shihab when they tried to run away. They are from Malappuram. According to the officers, the ganja was found in the car in four sacks. The contraband is valued at Rs. 30 lakh.  In a bid to evade excise officers, car driven into a tanker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/54-kg-of-ganja-seized-from-crashed-car-two-arrested/article37364138.ece
07 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||More districts to get a taste of chicken project||The Kerala Chicken project, being implemented under Kudumbashree, will be expanded to Alappuzha, Palakkad, Malappuram and Kannur districts, Minister for Local Self Governments M.V.Govindan has said. Currently, the project is being implemented in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kozhikode. In a press release on Saturday, he said that the project is being expanded considering demand from the public and its success in the districts where it was implemented. Target set Fresh chicken is being provided to the consumers by ensuring reasonable prices and profits for chicken farmers, who are members of Kudumbashree. The Government aims to increase production to cater to at least 50% of the domestic market. The Kudumbashree Broiler Farmers' Producer Company Limited has been formed to co-ordinate the production and sales of chicken. As part of a contract farming arrangement, one day old chicks are provided to chicken farmers and then bought back by the company once they attain full growth, to be sold through Kerala Chicken outlets. The farmers are paid for the upkeep of the chicks. Under the project, farm management training was provided to 248 chicken farmers. Currently, 248 broiler farms and 87 chicken outlets are operational.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chicken-project-for-more-districts/article37363995.ece
07 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Surprise checks at 24 restaurants||A special squad of the city Corporation's health wing on Saturday carried out surprise inspection in restaurants in the Medical College area to check the sanitation levels and to ensure that stale food is not being sold. Inspections were carried out in as many as 24 restaurants in the area by a team led by Health Inspector S.S.Minu. Notices were issued to owners of restaurants, which were found to be lacking in hygiene. Mr.Minu said that the kitchen and the backyards of some of the restaurants were found to be unclean. The owners of these restaurants have been given seven days to clean up the surroundings, failing which their licenses will be cancelled.  The team also carried out checks in juice shops and other shops selling food products. Cakes and dates kept on the racks for selling even after the expiry date marked on the covers were seized from some shops. The Corporation team also carried out the Corporation's awareness campaign against the use of plastic carry bags during the inspections. Checks were carried out in lodges to ensure that the surroundings are being maintained in a hygienic manner. Special squad The special squad has been deployed to carry out round-the-clock checks in establishments of various kinds. The team also consisted of Junior Health Inspectors Jayakrishnan, Preethi and Mohammed Navas. The inspections will continue in the following days too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surprise-checks-at-24-restaurants/article37364177.ece
07 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man arrested for murdering father||The Nemom police have arrested a 52-year-old man for allegedly murdering his father on Friday midnight. The police identified the accused as Cleetus of Vallakadavu. He has been booked for the murder of his father, 80-year-old Elias, around 12.30 a.m. following a brawl under the influence of liquor. The incident occurred at the Settlement colony near Karakkamandapam where the duo have been residing in a rented flat for nearly six months since the death of Elias’ wife. Cleetus allegedly stabbed his father in his neck using a pair of scissors. On being alerted by their neighbours, the police rushed to the flat to find Elias lying in a pool of blood. The accused was soon taken into custody. Despite being rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital, Elias’ life could not be saved. According to the police, the duo used to quarrel frequently and also engage in brawls at times in drunken stupor. The accused has been remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-for-murdering-father/article37364172.ece
07 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Doctor accused in assault case brought from Ooty||The Chirayinkeezhu police on Saturday recorded the arrest of Danish George, a doctor accused of assaulting his sister’s husband a week ago. Danish, who was apprehended from a hotel in Ooty late Friday, was brought to Chirayinkeezhu on Saturday. He was taken by the police to collect evidence. A team led by Attingal Dy.SP D. Suneesh Babu accompanied the accused to the spot near his house where he assaulted his sister’s husband Mithun Krishnan, a Dalit. The couple had married against Danish’s family’s wishes. According to the police, the accused confessed to attacking Mithun ‘in the heat of the moment’ outside his house after the couple were called for a conciliatory meeting. While Danish claimed that a friend of Mithun, who accompanied the couple, misbehaved with his mother, the police are yet to ascertain the claim. The accused, who runs a clinic in Kochi, had been booked under provisions of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/doctor-accused-in-assault-case-brought-from-ooty/article37364173.ece
07 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||6,546 cases, 6,934 recoveries in State||Kerala logged 6,546 new cases of COVID-19 when 66,486 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 50,08,381 cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 33,515 with the State adding 467 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Saturday. These include 50 deaths that occurred in the past few days, 186 undeclared deaths of the period before June 2021, and 231 deaths that have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. The State’s active case pool had 72,876 patients on Saturday, with 6,934 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. According to the Health Department, only 7% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals like COVID first-line/second-line treatment centres. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals in the State went up again over the 1,000 mark to touch 1,017 cases. The number of patients requiring ventilator support dropped significantly to 412. On Saturday, the number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 332. Hospitalisations have dipped and at present 6,409 persons are being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals across the State. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases at 1,037, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 888, Kollam 774, Kozhikode 754, Thrissur 724, Kottayam 508, Kannur 394, Palakkad 343, Pathanamthitta 267, Wayanad 220, Malappuram 215, Idukki 181, Alappuzha 142 and Kasaragod 99 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6546-cases-6934-recoveries-in-state/article37364017.ece
07 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Equipping children to face the struggles of life||Kanal Innovations, a charitable organisation that works for the empowerment of children, has launched Resilience, a campaign that takes a holistic approach to equipping children to face the struggles of life through right attitude and perception. Paradigm shift The Resilience campaign assumes significance against the backdrop of COVID-19 that has created new challenges and led to a paradigm shift in educational system, digital involvement, and social life. As part of Resilience, Kanal intends to give a new thrust to its ‘Vayanaidam’ initiative that is an amalgam of library and social space whose administration is fully in the hands of children. This increases the self-confidence of children, helps develop leadership qualities, and empowers them to fight social injustice, child marriage, sexual exploitation, drug abuse, and dropping out of school. The most recent ‘Vayanaidam’ will be started at Karimba in Palakkad in association with the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) of the Women and Child Development Department by the end of the month. Karimba has been chosen as the location for Vayanaidam in order to reach out to the community to address various problems there, including the growing menace of substance abuse, says Kanal Innovations director Anson P.D. Alexander. The main hurdle is the absence of a child-friendly reporting mechanism in the area, says Anson. Children need a safe space to report a problem, be it related to drug abuse, child abuse, or any other issue. Conducting awareness classes and expecting children to report problems during these without any assurance of privacy has not been yielding the desired results. While more outreach programmes are needed, instead of public fora, a mechanism that gives children the confidence to report problems in private is needed, says Anson. Awareness programme A Kanal volunteer there says there are not enough awareness programmes targeted at children and adolescents or their sustained follow-up in the panchayat. Children’s general awareness and that of sex education is also poor despite good education levels. Drug abuse continues to be a problem, with students involved in it often dropping out of school. Better outreach programmes targeted at children are needed to increase their confidence and equip them to make social interventions, especially in areas that concern them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/equipping-children-to-face-the-struggles-of-life/article37364168.ece
07 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Anupama’s documents not found, panel told||Parents of Anupama S. Chandran who has alleged that her child was given up for adoption without her knowledge have told the Kerala Women’s Commission that her identity and education documents could not be found despite a search. Anupama had said that her documents were not being returned. The commission had on Friday directed the parents to produce the documents. Detailed reports on Anupama’s complaint had been sought from the police, district Child Welfare Committee (CWC), and the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare but had not been received. Following this, the commission sent fresh letters asking for the reports. Seventy complaints were disposed of at the two-day commission sitting held to address complaints from Thiruvananthapuram district. Reports were sought on 19 complaints. Counselling was directed in one case. Commission chairperson P. Satheedevi; members M.S. Thara, E.M. Radha, Shiji Sivaji, and Shahida Kamal; director Shaji Sugunan; and law officer P. Girija participated in the sittings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anupamas-documents-not-found-panel-told/article37364170.ece
07 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plea on wheat flour dumping||Excess supply of ‘atta’ (wheat flour) to ration shops in the district for distribution over the past two months is causing difficulty for dealers, the Kerala State Retail Ration Dealers’ Association has said. In a statement here on Saturday, association State secretary Kuttiyil Syam said aration shops were piled with nearly 500 kg to 1,000 kg of Atta, priced at Rs. 17 a kg. More flour was being supplied this month without ascertaining stock. Atta that was beyond the ‘use by’ date could not be distributed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-on-wheat-flour-dumping/article37364169.ece
07 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||888 new COVID cases in capital||The district recorded 888 COVID-19 and 1,229 recoveries as the number of active cases fell to 11,121 on Saturday. The test positivity rate stood at 10.9%., a press bulletin issued by the Health Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/888-new-covid-cases-in-capital/article37364171.ece
07 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth held for harassing woman||The Kovalam police have arrested a youth on charge of attempting to sexually harass a woman. The police identified the accused as Abdul Rahman, 24, of Vizhinjam. He was accused of barging into the woman’s house and attempting to assault her on Thursday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-held-for-harassing-woman/article37364174.ece
07 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Swami Lokahitananda passes away||Swami Lokahitananda, former president of the Sri Ramakrishna Ashrama in Thiruvananthapuram and former director of Sri Ramakrishna Mission Charitable Hospital (SRKMCH), passed away here on Saturday due to age-related ailments. He was 87. A medical doctor by profession, he served in the Tamil Nadu Government service as well in the Singapore Government service before joining the Sri Ramakrishna Math and Mission as a novice monk at its headquarters in Kolkata in 1965. He had served in the Math’s health facilities at Kolkata, Ranchi, the TB sanatoriums and hospitals in Delhi as medical officer. He was later posted in Thiruvananthapuram as the director of the SRKMCH in 1988 and was given the additional authority as the president of the Mission’s Thiruvananthapuram centre. He was known for his deep knowledge of spirituality and the philosophy and teachings of Sri Ramakrishna and Swami Vivekananda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/swami-lokahitananda-passes-away/article37364175.ece
07 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong. to stage protest against fuel price hike||Congress workers will lay siege to district headquarters on Monday in protest against the Kerala Government’s marked reluctance to slash local fuel tax to cushion citizens from the ravages of the inflationary spiral caused by the rising price of crude. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran said the siege, Chakra Sthambanam, would last barely 15 minutes and would not inconvenience the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-to-stage-protest-against-fuel-price-hike/article37364019.ece
07 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Television awards||Minister for Cultural Affairs Saji Cherian will present the State Television Awards for 2020 at Nishagandhi Auditorium at 6 p.m. on Monday. Transport Minister Antony Raju will release the television award book by handing over a copy to Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil. The award ceremony will be followed by a music concert by Harish Sivaramakrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/television-awards/article37364022.ece
07 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Feminism an evolving process: writer||Feminism is a political movement for social change and women’s emancipation, writer and activist Sara Joseph has said. She was delivering a remembrance speech on the first death anniversary of Sheena Jose, former Assistant Professor in Government IASE (Institute of Advanced Studies in Education), Thrissur, and an active member in the feminist movement in the State. Ms. Joseph spoke on the topic ‘Feminist politics and activism in Kerala’. Three-day event The three-day programme was organised by Poorasooryam, the alumni association of IASE, and Sheena’s friends. “Feminism is an evolving process. It is not static. There is no common language or method of protests or functioning for it. It changes according to time, issues, persons and places, ” said Sara Joseph. ‘Not afraid of criticism’ The struggles of feminists in the past years have been reflecting in the current society. Women and girls express their opinions boldly and question social norms. “Women are not afraid of social criticism any more. They dare to do what they want and wear what they like,” she said. On the second day, Lakshmi Priya, Assistant Professor, Institute of English, Kerala University, will speak about ‘Third National Education Policy and gender justice’. On the third day Amrit Raj Mani, Gender Specialist, Kerala Institute of Local Administration, will speak about ‘Gender justice and classrooms’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/feminism-an-evolving-process-writer/article37364140.ece
07 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||ESAF project for financial literacy||Revenue Minister K. Rajan inaugurated a State-level local sustainable economic development training programme organised by the ESAF Small Finance Bank in collaboration with NABARD (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development). K. Paul Thomas, MD and CEO, ESAF Small Finance Bank, presided over the function. The project is aimed at bringing financial empowerment at the local level through training. Initially, it will benefit 300 panchayats across Kerala. “ESAF Small Finance Bank’s Statewide initiative in collaboration with NABARD is a step towards building financial literacy at the grass roots level,” said the Minister. P. Balachandran, Chief General Manager, NABARD, released a handbook to equip citizens with skills and knowledge for their long-term financial needs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/esaf-project-for-financial-literacy/article37364139.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||At the receiving end||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/at-the-receiving-end/article37363977.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Delectable mix||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/delectable-mix/article37364143.ece
07 November 2021||AMARAVATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Live up to your word on fuel prices, Naidu tells Jagan||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday demanded that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy fulfil his election promise of making petrol and diesel available in the State for the lowest price in the country. At a press conference, Mr. Naidu questioned the Chief Minister’s silence, pointing to the fact that other States were reducing the burden on the people by slashing the fuel price. Going by his word given in the past, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy should slash the prices by Rs. 16 to Rs. 17 per litre on petrol and diesel to make fuel cheapest in the country, Mr. Naidu demanded. Compared with Chandigarh, the rate of petrol was higher by Rs. 16.75 and diesel by Rs. 16.10 in Andhra Pradesh. In comparison with Lucknow, people in Andhra Pradesh were paying Rs. 15.70 more for petrol and Rs. 10.20 for diesel, Mr. Naidu said. Protest on Nov. 9 The Chief Minister owed an explanation on why fuel rates were highest in the State contrary to his promise of making them lowest, Mr. Naidu said. The TDP would launch a protest against the “exorbitant fuel prices” on November 9 to highlight the problems faced by the people on this count, besides issues of bad roads and absence of road safety network, Mr. Naidu said. The TDP cadres would stage an hour-long dharna at petrol bunks from 12 noon, he added. In the past, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had said that the people of the State were crossing the border to buy petrol from Karnataka where it cost them less. “Now, the cost of petrol is lesser in Karnataka by Rs. 10.42. Similarly, the cost of diesel is lesser in Bengaluru by Rs. 12,” Mr. Naidu said, and questioned, “What will Mr. Jagan say about this?” Following the Union government’s announcement slashing the excise duties on petrol and diesel by Rs. 5 and Rs. 10 respectively, many States had followed suit and brought down the prices further to give relief to the people, Mr. Naidu observed. “But people in Andhra Pradesh, who are already under tremendous financial pressure, have no relief on this count too,” said Mr. Naidu. Farmers’ padayatra Mr. Naidu said there was an overwhelming response from all sections to the ‘maha padayatra’ by the Amaravati farmers, who had been relentlessly fighting in support of their demand that Amaravati be allowed to continue as the only and single capital of Andhra Pradesh. “But Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is out to ruin the State. People will not keep quiet for too long. If he tests their patience like this, they will soon show the YSRCP government the door,” Mr. Naidu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/live-up-to-your-word-on-fuel-prices-naidu-tells-jagan/article37364128.ece
07 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rally marks anniversary of Jagan’s padayatra||A massive rally in the city marked the fourth anniversary of Praja Sankalpa Yatra, taken up by Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on November 6, 2017, from Idupulapaya to Ichchapuram, to lay the foundation for the manifesto of the YSR Congress Party for the 2019 general elections. In the rally taken out from the Zilla Parishad Junction to YSR Statue in the city, Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav and Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy reminded the public that it was the first-hand understanding of their problems by party president and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy that enabled taking administration to the people’s doorstep. More than 90% of ‘Navarathnalu’ has been fulfilled with several innovative developments and welfare schemes launched over the past two years in the State, said Mr. Venkatarami Reddy after garlanding the statue of former CM Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rally-marks-anniversary-of-jagans-padayatra/article37363479.ece
07 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP demands govt. to roll back Amaravati cess||The Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government must immediately roll back the Amaravati cess of Rs. 4 per litre on petrol and diesel and Rs. 2 per litre Road Development Cess as it failed to construct the capital at Amaravati and also was not developing new roads in the State, said Bharatiya Janata Party district president K.N.V. Srinivas. Leading a rally from the Tower Clock to RDO’s office and holding a dharna seeking reduction in fuel prices in line with other States, which had reduced the local taxes following reduction of Central taxes, Mr. Srinivas pointed out that 17 States and 11 Union Territories had reduced the VAT or other local levies to bring down the fuel prices below Rs. 100-mark, but Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was not bothered about the difficulties of the common man. He said lack of development in the State and the sharp rise in fuel prices, making it the the highest in the country, was leading to a rise in the prices of essentials in the State. While the TDP government collected Rs. 2 per litre Amaravati cess, the present government had increased it to Rs. 4 and added road cess to fleece the common people, he alleged. Party leaders submitted a memorandum to the Revenue Divisional Officer seeking an immediate reduction in the prices of petrol and diesel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-demands-govt-to-roll-back-amaravati-cess/article37363477.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chairman of Railway Board inspects progress of work at ICF||The Integral Coach Factory in Chennai plans to roll out the third rake of Vande Bharat Express in March 2022. Chairman Railway Board Suneet Sharma inspected the ongoing work and expressed satisfaction over the progress made in the much-awaited project of manufacturing 102 Vande Bharat trains to be operated across the country. “The shells of at least five Vande Bharat trains are in the final stages of completion. Electrics are expected to be fitted in a couple of months. We hope to roll out one rake by March 2022,” a senior ICF official told The Hindu on Saturday. The first two takes of Train18, India’s first Semi-high speed trains rolled out by ICF in 2018, are now being operated as Vande Bharat Expresses on the Delhi-Varanasi-Delhi and Delhi-Katra-Delhi routes. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the operation of 75 Vande Bharat trains on the occasion of the Independence Day this year, the Ministry of Railways floated tenders for manufacturing 58 rakes, each comprising 16 coaches. Tenders were already floated for making 44 rakes. Of the 58 rakes of 16-car composition, 30 would be rolled out from the ICF, Chennai, 14 from the Modern Coach Factory, Raebareli and 14 from the Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala. In the latest tenders, railways have insisted on the compliance of the Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order 2017, and said there was “sufficient local capacity and competition in supply of the tendered item in required quantity and therefore public procurement of this items is restricted to Class-I Local Suppliers only”. Linkage reviewed Mr Suneet who reviewed the work with ICF General Manager A K Agarwal and other senior officials expressed satisfaction with the progress made in the among of Vande Bharat and Linke Hofmann Busch coaches and urged Team ICF to lead the project from the front, sources in the factory said adding that the CRB/Chief Executive Officer also announced an award of Rs. 1 lakh to ICF staff in recognition of their work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/icf-to-roll-out-third-rake-of-vande-bharat-express-in-march/article37363756.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala allows felling of trees for dam repair||The Kerala Government has granted permission for felling 15 trees downstream the baby dam at Mullaperiyar. This will enable Tamil Nadu to strengthen the baby dam. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin wrote to his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday, thanking him for granting the permission. Earlier in the day, Tamil Nadu Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan told The Hindu: “It is an important development in our efforts to construct a baby dam. It will allow Tamil Nadu to increase the water level [in the Mullaiperiyar dam] to 152 feet [when permitted by the Supreme Court].” “This long-pending request was crucial to strengthen the baby dam and the earthern dam, and the permission would enable us to initiate steps for strengthening these structures. On behalf of my government and people of the southern districts of Tamil Nadu, I thank you and the Government of Kerala...,” Mr. Stalin said in his letter. It would go a long way in benefiting the people of both States, he said, hoping for the spirit of cooperation between the States to continue. A copy of the letter was circulated to the media. The Chief Minister reiterated Tamil Nadu’s commitment to take all steps needed to further strengthen the Mullaiperiyar dam and ensure the safety of the people living downstream in Kerala. “In this regard, I request you to expedite the other important requests from us, for grant of permission to repair the road between Vandi Periyar and the Periyar dam site and to transport the necessary materials,” he said. That was the only land route to the dam site and hence these road works were essential to convey the materials and machinery to carry out repairs and strengthening works, he said. Resisted proposal Mr. Duraimurugan, who visited the dam on Friday, had made a strong case for cutting the trees for strengthening and construction of a baby dam. “Kerala resisted the proposal on the ground that trees would be felled. Even during my visit, I raised the issue,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-allows-felling-of-trees-for-dam-repair/article37363727.ece
07 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elaborate arrangements for Southern Zonal Council meet||The Chittoor district administration is making elaborate arrangements for the conduct of the Southern Zonal Council Meeting(SZCM) scheduled on November 14 in Tirupati. The much-awaited conclave of the dignitaries of the southern States will see the participation of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and the Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala and Telangana, along with senior Cabinet Ministers. The meet will also be attended by the Lieutenant Governors of the Union Territories of Andaman & Nicobar, Puducherry and Lakshadweep islands. Training session Initiating a training session for the liaison officers and various government officials on SZCM meet duties here on Saturday, Joint Collector Venkateswar said that in view of the participation of over 70 VVIPs, round-the-clock medical alert would be in place at the SVRR and SVIMS Hospitals in Tirupati and Ashwini Hospital at Tirumala. Meanwhile, the authorities of Chittoor and Tirupati police districts have chalked out an action plan for security arrangements in coordination with the Central teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elaborate-arrangements-for-southern-zonal-council-meet/article37363482.ece
07 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP for boost to tourism in Nellore, Chittoor||In a bid to tap the tourism potential in Chittoor and Nellore districts, Tirupati MP M. Gurumurthy on Saturday said that special initiatives would be taken up and facilities at tourist places would be improved on a war-footing. Addressing a meeting with officials at Tirupati, he sought the officials to chalk out an action plan before November 29 explaining as to how to give a fillip to various tourism projects in the region. Mr. Gurumurthy reviewed some of the pending proposals and those which were shelved due to fundcrunch.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-for-boost-to-tourism-in-nellore-chittoor/article37363480.ece
07 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman alleges harassment by YSRCP leaders||A woman volunteer working at the village secretariat of Settivanattam of SR Puram mandal on Saturday lodged a complaint with the area police alleging physical assault and harassment by local YSR Congress Party leaders. The volunteer, Anitha, who belongs to the Scheduled Caste, alleged that the local leaders in the village had been harassing her for the last several months and that the upper caste leaders had also humiliated her by calling names and mentioning her caste. Video footage of the volunteer talking about the problems she had faced had gone viral in the district, and it caught the attention of political parties as the volunteer hailed from GD Nellore Assembly constituency (SC reserved), represented by Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-alleges-harassment-by-ysrcp-leaders/article37363481.ece
07 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uniform design for new bridges across Musi||A design competition announced by the Hyderabad Road Development Corporation Limited (HRDCL) for the newly-proposed bridges on the Esa and Musi rivers has yielded over 30 different designs from various contestants. Winning design Only one winning design will be applied uniformly to all the 14 bridges, officials from the Municipal Administration department informed. The idea is to bring structural uniformity to the facades of all the structures on the river for easy recall value and aesthetics. In future, the existing bridges on the river too, may be given a facelift following the same design, a highly placed official shared. The entries had been received till October 25. Panel soon? A committee might be constituted soon to choose the best design from the entries, sent by professional and amateur architects, students, firms, colleges, universities and other agencies from across the country. Government has taken a decision to add 10 more bridges to the existing 21 along the span of 50 kilometres on Musi river. In addition, the four existing causeways will be upgraded to bridges, by elevating their height, officials shared. The causeways are located at Manchirevula, Ibrahimbagh, Chaderghat and Musarambagh. On Esa river, bridges are planned to connect Sun City with Chintalmet, and Inner Ring Road with Kismatpur, besides two bridges to connect the IT corridor in Budvel. Across the Musi river are planned eight more bridges, which include the one between Pratapsingaram and Gowrelly, the hawkers’ pedestrian bridge planned in front of Salar Jung Museum, a bridge on the link road being developed by HRDCL connecting Bandlaguda with Peerzadiguda, and the remaining between Uppal and Chaitanyapuri, Hydershakote and Ramdevguda, besides another bridge at Attapur in addition to the existing one. Check dams The Rs. 400 crore project will include construction of check dams all along the river for retention of water within. The dams are being planned away from the bridges as per the suggestions by Irrigation experts, the official said. The idea is to develop boating facilities for recreation, in line with the Musi River Development Project. Nine of these bridges have been proposed by the GHMC, and five by HMDA. Minister K.T. Rama Rao made a mention of the bridges in the recent monsoon session of the Legislative Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uniform-design-for-all-new-bridges-across-musi-river/article37363950.ece
07 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||High-level panel to probe ‘irregularities’ in MSN Charities||The State government has constituted a three-member high-level committee to inquire into the alleged encroachment of land and financial irregularities of the Malladi Satyalingam Naicker (MSN) Charities in Kakinada. The committee is headed by Endowments Department Regional Joint Commissioner M.V. Suresh Babu (Rajamahendravaram), Deputy Commissioner, Kakinada, M. Vijaya Babu, and Assistant Commissioner Ramesh Babu. An extent of 1,686 acres of land, several educational institutions, and three temples of MSN Charities had been brought under the purview of the Endowments Department in 1971, the MSN Charities Parirakshana Samithi. (MSNCPS) said. In 1912, Malladi Satyalingam Naicker (1840-1915), a ship merchant hailing from the fishermen community, had established the MSN Charities to offer free education to the needy. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy enquired about the state of MSN Charities in a recent meeting on the proposed merger of aided institutions. He constituted a three-member committee to inquire into the alleged encroachment of land, revenues, pending cases, and academic affairs of MSN Charities,” said Mr. Vijaya Babu. “MSN Charities has 1,258 acres of land now. We are inquiring into every aspect of MSN Charities since 2017. The committee will submit a report to enable the government take a decision on its future,” he said. The Endowments Department has so far not chosen the option of surrendering the staff or properties of MSN Charities as proposed under the merger plan. MSNCPS members led by Malladi Raju on Friday met Mr. Vijaya Babu and urged him not to give consent to the merger of MSN Charities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-level-panel-to-probe-irregularities-in-msn-charities/article37364121.ece
07 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chiefs of seven standing committees elected||The East Godavari Zilla Parishad members on Saturday chose chairpersons of seven standing committees during the election conducted by the Zilla Parishad Chairman Vipparthi Venu Gopala Rao. The election was held on the Zilla Parishad campus in the presence of Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu. Mr. Venu Gopala Rao has been elected unanimously as the Chairman of four standing committees with portfolios of works, roads, electricity, irrigation, health, education, rural development, planning, and finance. Vice-Chairperson M. Padmalatha was elected as the Chairperson of the standing committee on social welfare. Vice-Chairman-II B. Anubabu became the Chairman of the standing committee on agriculture. Addressing the ZPTC members, Mr. Venu Gopala Rao sought their support to take timely decisions on various development issues in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chiefs-of-seven-standing-committees-elected/article37364156.ece
07 November 2021||KOLLETI KOTA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Is Kolleru a safe haven for making ID liquor?||Kolleru Lake, a famous tourist destination known for fishing and as a birds paradise, has, of late, become a safe haven for manufacturing Illicitly Distilled (ID) liquor. The police are shocked to identify an ID liquor brewing unit in the middle of the lake on the borders of Krishna and West Godavari districts. More than 50 policemen, led by Krishna district Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal and comprising Gudivada Deputy Superintendent of Police N. Satyanandam and Kaikalur CI Y.V.V.L. Naidu, went into the lake recently and raided the unit located about 3-km from Pandiripalligudem village in Kaikalur mandal. Aided by satellite images and drone videos, the police, along with Excise personnel, local fishermen and media crew, travelled from Kaikalur to Pandiripalligudem by road. After reaching the spot, the SP, the DSP and other police officers took small fishing boats to reach the exact location, situated half-a-kilometre away amidst ‘Kikkisa grass’ that grows up to a height of 15 feet. The officers were stunned when they saw the arrangements made for brewing ID liquor on a ‘ mancha ’ (a wooden platform built at a height in the lake). The ‘ mancha ’ was built at a height of five feet in water with wooden rafts. The accused arranged utensils, drums, water cans, stoves, jaggery and other material to prepare ID liquor, said Mr. Siddharth Kaushal. “The operation was completed in six hours on Wednesday. Police seized about 100 drums, 10 gas stoves and cooking gas cylinders, many utensils and water cans, 50,000 litres of jaggery wash and 1,000 litres of ID liquor,” said Kaikalur SI Challa Krishna. The DSP said the gang was using gas stoves to avoid smoke. Four persons of Akiveedu, Pandiripalligudem and Alapadu were arrested in the case, Mr. Satyanandam said. “More than 20 persons might be involved in the racket. We suspect that they may have been indulging in the activity for more than two years. Instructions have been given to probe deep into the illegal trade,” Mr. Siddharth Kaushal told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/is-kolleru-a-safe-haven-for-making-id-liquor/article37364199.ece
07 November 2021||KOVVUR (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Elderly woman jumps into canal, rescued||An 80-year-old woman jumped into a canal at Dammennu village in Undrajavaram mandal on Saturday and was rescued by the police. Anguished that her children were not taking proper care of her and that they had admitted her to an old-age home, she had jumped into the canal. ASI T. Prasad Rao and constable J. Arun Kumar of Undrajavaram police station who saw her taking the plunge, jumped into the canal and saved her. Persons who have suicidal tendencies or in distress may dial 1091 for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/elderly-woman-jumps-into-canal-rescued/article37364195.ece
07 November 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Orvakal aerodrome committee meeting held||Aerodrome at Orvakal needs to take the permission of the Andhra Pradesh State Pollution Control Board for setting up a dumping ground and for disposing of the waste from the aerodrome, which should be done within one month, District Collector P. Koteswara Rao told officials at the Orvakal Aerodrome Environment Management Committee meeting on Saturday. Paramedical staff The Collector also chaired a meeting of the aerodrome committee on Saturday and asked District Medical and Health Officer Ramagiddaiah to make arrangements to deploy paramedical staff to meet any medical emergencies. The police personnel were asked to up security arrangements and ensure that the area around the aerodrome was properly scanned. ‘Conduct mock exercises‘ He ordered regular conduct of mock anti-hijacking exercises on the aerodrome premises. He asked officials to ensure no animals and birds entered the airfield and measures to that effect needed to be taken.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/orvakal-aerodrome-committee-meeting-held/article37364151.ece
07 November 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Education policy aims to create vibrant knowledge society, says Governor||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has said that a National Research Foundation (NRF) would be created as an apex body for fostering a strong research culture across the higher education spectrum and the Higher Education Commission of India (HECI) being set up by the Centre would help in achieving the objectives of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. Participating in the fifth convocation of Krishna University (KRU) in virtual mode on Saturday, Mr. Harichandan said that NEP aimed at increasing the Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) from the present 26.3% to 50% by 2035. The Governor said that NEP-2020 was built on the concept of Access, Equity, Quality, Affordability and Accountability, with an aim to transform the country into a vibrant knowledge society and a global knowledge superpower with holistic and multi-disciplinary form of education suited to 21st century needs. “I congratulate the university staff and students for functioning from own campus spread over 103 acres at Rudravaram village near Machilipatnam. I also appreciate graduate and post-graduate students who received medals for their excellent performance and degrees during the convocation,” Mr. Harichandan said. Defence Research & Development Organisation chairman G. Sateesh Reddy, the chief guest, exhorted the students to equip themselves to compete at the global level. Prof. N. Balakrishnan, scientist, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, had been conferred the Degree of Honoris Causa, during the convocation. Krishna University Vice-Chancellor Prof. K.B. Chandra Sekhar said that construction of hostel buildings, engineering and pharmacy colleges were under progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/education-policy-aims-to-create-vibrant-knowledge-society-says-governor/article37364198.ece
07 November 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hoysala-era temple gets a major facelift||The restoration of a major Hoysala-era temple at Somnathapura, which was in ruins, is nearing completion. Consecrated around 1265 CE and being one-of-its-kind, the Panchalingeshwara temple fell into disuse decades ago and crumbled owing to lack of maintenance; it even slipped out of public memory but for locals and scholars in the field of archaeology. The restoration was taken up by the Department of Archaeology, Museums and Heritage, Government of Karnataka, at a cost of nearly Rs. 3.87 crore almost three years ago. The extant portion of what remained of the temple was dismantled slab by slab and reassembled with the same orientation so as to maintain the originality as per the standard norms prescribed by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). In places where the original material could not be used, the authorities have used a substitute. Sources in the State Archaeology Department said that this was the first-ever restoration work of the temple. Though the bulk of the civil works have been completed only three of the original five shrines are in place. Unlike the typical Hoysala temples exuding with sculptures, the walls of this temple are relatively plain. Describing the significance of the temple, N.S. Rangaraju, convener of INTACH, Mysuru chapter, and former professor of the Department of Ancient History and Archaeology, University of Mysore, said the Hoysala period saw a surge in temple-building activity of which some have survived. But there were only two temples with such a design incorporating five shrines (Panchakuta) aligned in a straight line within a single complex. The second such temple is at Govindanahalli in Mandya district which is well protected and frequented by devotees and tourists alike. However, about the restoration of the Panchalingeshwara temple at Somanathapura, Prof. Rangaraju expressed concern that new material had been used in abundance, giving the temple a new look. “The restored temple has a modern look and the perforated stone windows ( Jaalandhara ) was not reflective of the Hoysala style,” he said. But sources in the State Archaeology Department said the norms prescribed by the ASI had been followed and substitute material had been used only in the absence of the original.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hoysala-era-temple-gets-a-major-facelift/article37363440.ece
07 November 2021||NALGONDA/KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bus driver takes passengers for a ride||Sixty-four passengers, all of them migrant workers from Assam bound for their home, were literally taken for a ride after the driver of a private bus they were travelling decamped during a lunch halt, on the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) in Narketpally police limits here on Friday. Narketpally police along with several other teams along the highway stretch couldn’t trace the bus till Saturday evening. According to police, the white-coloured bus, with registration number KL-38-D-709 and with the sticker ‘Gang Boss Travel Hub’ on the windshield, originated in Kerala and was on its way towards Assam. The bus was overloaded with 64 workers, including four women and two children, from Bihar, West Bengal and Assam. Aggrieved passengers, who are sheltered at a private hall since Friday evening, said the bus driver and cleaner had hinted about a repair. While the travellers were having lunch, the driver and the cleaner fled the place. The passengers’ luggage and belongings were in the bus. As the bus did not return even after several hours, the passengers realised they were taken for a ride and approached the Narketpally police. “CCTV footage at Pantangi toll plaza showed the bus exited Choutuppal at around 12.20 p.m., not long after the passengers got off for lunch at a dhaba. However, the bus didn’t coss any toll plaza on the Outer Ring Road,” an official at the station told The Hindu . It is being suspected that the bus driver might have taken the service road after Choutuppal plaza to avoid highway surveillance. Except for clothes and bedding, and one passenger who leftRs. 24, 000 cash in his bag, no other passenger reported loss of valuables, the official added. Narketpally police have registered a case of cheating against the bus driver, the cleaner and its agents. The bus bearing the sticker Gang Boss Travel Hub was initially registered in the Sub-RTO Office, Thodupuzha, Idukki district. Ownership change A change of ownership was recorded in 2018 and the bus is at present under the jurisdiction of Kodungaloor Sub-RTO Office in Thrissur. The current owner is Anand Sankar Narayanan of Kodungaloor, whose telephone details have not been updated in Kerala Motor Vehicle Department (MVD) records, said a senior official of the department. As per records, its permit is valid till 2023. It paid tax till June 2020, while its fitness certificate expired in October. The fitness validity of such vehicles had been extended to December 31 a week ago, he added. Meanwhile, C H Nagaraju, Kochi City Police Commissioner said the police have not received any information about passengers of the Kerala registered bus getting stranded in Telangana. No complaint has reached us so far. It has to be probed whether the bus left from Ernakulam district (which has sizeable number of migrant workers at Perumbavur and Kochi city), he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bus-driver-takes-passengers-for-a-ride/article37363426.ece
07 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Huge haul of phones in Gudur||In a huge haul of mobile phones, SPSR Nellore police recovered more than 225 smart mobile phones worth Rs. 23.6 lakh with the arrest of two inter-State offenders who had reportedly committed a series of thefts in Chennai and near Gudur, on Saturday. The offenders, M. Krishna(36) and M. Pawan(20) from Akiveedu in West Godavari district, had taken a room on rent in Egmore(Chennai) claiming that they were labourers, police said. Preliminary probe revealed that they had formatted the mobiles to erase all details stored in them before selling them in Vijayawada and other places. Gudur Rural police, who nabbed the offenders when they were getting down from a bus from Tamil Nadu near Chilakur, said 15 cases were pending against Krishna in West Godavari district, where a suspect sheet had also been opened. Superintendent of Police Ch.Vijaya Rao patted the Gudur Circle Inspector Srinivasa Reddy and other staff for swiftly nabbing the offenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/huge-haul-of-phones-in-gudur/article37363484.ece
07 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decision to have three capitals unthoughtful: farmer leader||The ‘maha padayatra’ by the farmers from Amaravati received a rousing reception on entering Prakasam district, at Adusumalli village on Saturday. Farmers in large numbers led by Samyukta Kisan Morcha Prakasam district convener Ch. Ranga Rao joined the ‘Nyayasthanam to devasthanam’ walkathon to Tirupati, in Parchur Assembly segment of Bapatla Lok Sabha constituency. Firm resolve Leading the march, Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti leader A. Siva Reddy vowed to continue the agitation till the State government announced Amaravati as the sole capital of the State. Activists of the TDP, the CPI and the CPI(M) joined the padayatra that reached Parchur in the evening. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Ranga Rao demanded that the YSRCP government give up its “unthoughtful decision” of locating capital at three places. ‘State sans capital’ It was unfortunate that the residuary State of Andhra Pradesh remained without capital as Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, after backing Amaravati as the State capital while in the Opposition, retracted after coming to power, Mr. Ranga Rao said. TDP State vice-president D. Janardhan Rao, TDP MLAs Dola Balaveeranjaneya Swamy and Yeluri Sambasiva Rao, and CPI Prakasam district secretary M.L. Narayana were among those who expressed their solidarity with the agitating farmers who had parted with their valuable lands for the great cause.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/decision-to-have-three-capitals-unthoughtful-farmer-leader/article37364125.ece
07 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police rescue man who attempts suicide||A man from Cheruvukommupalem near here attempted to end his life by consuming pesticide. Alerted by his brother, who dialled 100, special teams identified his location by tracking his mobile phone. A police team pulled Vijaybhaskar Reddy out of his car near Koppolu flyover and rushed him to Government General Hospital. GGH doctors said on Saturday that he was out of danger. Mr. Vijaybhaskar Reddy allegedly resorted to the extreme step following a family dispute with his brother, said Ongole Rural circle inspector R. Rambabu. Those with suicidal tendencies can dial 100 for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-rescue-man-who-attempts-suicide/article37363485.ece
07 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ongole GGH doctor bags international award||B. Thirumala Rao, assistant professor at the Govt. Medical College and General Hospital in Ongole, was presented the Venus International Health Care Outstanding Research Award for the year 2021 in Chennai on Saturday. He was given the award, instituted by the Centre for Health and Medical Sciences of Venus International Foundation ), for his research work in the fields of nutrition, diabetes, liver diseases and medical education and for his contribution in raising awareness on prevention of non-communicable diseases. Dr. Thirumala Rao, a post-graduate in community medicine from PGIMER, Chandigarh, bagged the award during an annual healthcare summit. Under his guidance, many medicos conducted research and published papers in journals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ongole-ggh-doctor-bags-international-award/article37363483.ece
07 November 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. will help State universities get NIRF rankings: Minister||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh has said that the State government aimed at improving academic and infrastructure facilities in the State universities to enable them to secure good ranks in the National Institute of Ranking Framework (NIRF). Mr. Suresh on Saturday inaugurated a two-storey engineering workshop building built at a cost of Rs. 6 crore on the Adikavi Nannaya University (AKNU) campus here. Vice-Chancellor Prof. M. Jagannadha Rao explained to the Minister, MP M. Bharat and Rajanagaram MLA Jakkampudi Raja about the engineering courses, infrastructure and laboratory facilities for research. The university had recently obtained recognition of the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) for engineering courses, he said. Addressing the gathering, Mr. Suresh promised to grant full budget in the financial year 2022. “I will strive to get a capital grant for AKNU by convincing Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on the need for financial aid to the university,” said Mr. Suresh. AKNU is the biggest university with 410 affiliated institutions. Mr. Bharat said that the Central government had sanctioned Rs. 8.3 crore for the construction of a sports ground on AKNU campus under the ‘Khelo India’ programme. Prof. Jagannadha Rao thanked Jakkampudi Raja for his support for various initiatives on the campus. Engineering students displayed their academic projects in an exhibition on the campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-will-help-state-universities-get-nirf-rankings-minister/article37364155.ece
07 November 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||13 Vambay colonies will be renovated: MP||MP Margani Bharat on Saturday said that 13 Vambay colonies would be renovated at Rs. 12.70 crore in the city and rural Assembly segments. Mr. Bharat received grievances from local people during his padayatra to mark the completion of four years of the Praja Sankalpa Yatra of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Hundreds of YSRCP activists took part in the padayatra conducted between Lala Cheruvu and Quarry Market area. Mr. Bharat said that the Housing Department authorities had recently proposed to renovate the 13 Vambay colonies consisting of 8,900 houses. “The majority of the promises made by Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during the Praja Sankalpa Yatra have been fulfilled,” said Mr. Bharat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/13-vambay-colonies-will-be-renovated-mp/article37364153.ece
07 November 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sankar Foundation eye hospital inaugurated||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Revenue Dharmana Krishnadas on Saturday told the Medical and Health Department officials to make Srikakulam a blind-free district. He said more medical camps should be conducted in remote areas to identify patients with eye problems and ensure quick treatment to improve their vision. Along with former Minister and Srikakulam MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao, he inaugurated a new eye hospital of Sankar Foundation here. Mr. Prasada Rao said that thousands of fishermen were suffering from eye diseases and other complications due to the direct exposure to sunlight during fishing in the sea. He lauded the managing trustee and CEO of the foundation for her initiative to expand services to remote areas. Ms. Manimala said the foundation had served 21.34 lakh patients and conducted 3.61 lakh eye surgeries in the last two decades She said the foundation had five hospitals both in A.P. and Odisha and would establish one in Vizianagaram district very soon. “Avoidable blindness is the major concern. That is why, we are conducting more medical camps and extending our support to the YSR Kantivelugu programme,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sankar-foundation-eye-hospital-inaugurated/article37364158.ece
07 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Film reopens old wounds for Chacko’s family||Jithin Chacko was not yet born when Chacko, his father, was murdered by Sukumara Kurup and his accomplices in 1984. Chacko used to work as a film representative. Though he had seen mediapersons coming to his house on the day of his father's death every year, it was not until he was 12 or 13 years old that he began to understand the facts relating to the case, Jithin tells The Hindu . When he and his mother Santhamma heard about the film Kurup being made, with the absconding murderer in the titular role, they were afraid that the man who changed the family’s fate forever would be glorified as a hero. “When we heard that a big star like Dulquer Salman was playing the hero, we were apprehensive. So, we sent a legal notice to the producers. They called us and screened the movie for us. Only I went. Unlike the impression conveyed by the trailer, we don't think the film would make people think positively of what Sukumara Kurup did. There are many things that we don’t know about him that the film has added,” says Jithin. Third film  Kurup is the third Malayalam movie based on the crime, after NH 47 directed by Baby in 1984 and Pinneyum directed by Adoor Gopalakrishnan in 2016. Jithin says none of the makers had contacted the family before making their films. “I was too young when NH 47 was released. Some people have told me that it shows the murder as it is. We heard about Pinneyum only recently. It seems Kurup and his family were treated sympathetically in that film. We can’t understand how such films can be made without giving a thought to our family,” he says. Insurance fraud Sukumara Kurup, who had a well-paying job in Abu Dhabi, was inspired to stage his own death after hearing about an insurance fraud case in Germany. He thought his family could claim a Rs. 50-lakh insurance policy if they could prove he was dead. On January 22, 1984, Sukumara Kurup and his accomplices were going around in a car looking for a victim with a similar physique, when Chacko hitched a ride from Karuvatta. Later that night, his charred body with the face disfigured was found in a burnt ambassador car in a farm close to the Kollakadavu bridge in Kunnam, near Mavelikara. “On hearing the news, my mother’s father died of shock, while my father’s mother was paralysed. My mother could not even see my father's body. I have not talked much with my mother about his death. “I remember my mother telling me that officers like DSP Haridas used to come for investigation in those days, but it stopped eventually, even as Kurup remains absconding. We don’t discuss these things because it is too painful, but when the film was being made, we had to,” says Jithin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/film-reopens-old-wounds-for-chackos-family/article37363438.ece
07 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) publicly censures veteran leader Sudhakaran||The CPI(M) State committee has publicly censured former Public Works Minister and party veteran G. Sudhakaran. In a press release here on Saturday, the CPI(M) faulted Mr. Sudhakaran for not behaving as expected of a party State committee member during candidate selection and campaign for the 2021 Assembly election. It termed the reprimand as a corrective action. Mr. Sudhakaran evaded the media as he stepped out of AKG Centre here. He made a beeline for Cliff House, where he spent an hour with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Flaws in electioneering The CPI(M)’s decision to form a panel to probe the purported flaws in electioneering in Alappuzha district had stoked speculation that Mr. Sudhakaran was the likely target of a hostile party inquiry. The panel comprised CPI(M) Central committee member Elamaram Kareem and CPI(M) State secretariat member K.J. Thomas, both senior to Mr. Sudhakaran in the party hierarchy. The panel focussed on electioneering in the Ambalappuzha constituency. Rumours were rife that Mr. Sudhakaran had stayed off the campaign trail after the CPI(M) nominated A.H. Salam for the seat. Moreover, the panel reportedly heard that Mr. Sudhakaran had allegedly done little to counter the campaign that certain fundamentalist outfits had preferred Mr. Salam over the veteran leader for the Ambalappuzha seat. Some party members faulted the CPI(M) district leadership for keeping Mr. Sudhakaran out of the loop during campaigning. They claimed Mr. Sudhakaran had chaired 18 campaign meetings, knocked on doors and successfully headed election fund collection. Notably, there was no erosion of CPI(M) votes in Ambalappuzha. The party probe against Mr. Sudhakaran had raised eyebrows because the CPI(M) had not conducted similar inquiries in Kundara and Thripunithara where party candidates had lost at the hustings. Hints in poem Mr. Sudhakaran had in August penned a poem that had hinted at a parting of the ways. It became a political talking point against the backdrop of the inquiry. When asked whether the verse was a thinly veiled criticism of the party, Mr. Sudhakaran had said somewhat cryptically: “Readers interpret poems as they experience it individually.” When journalists asked him about the party censure and his close-door meeting with Mr. Vijayan, Mr. Sudhakaran struck a similar sphinx-like enigmatic silence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-publicly-censures-veteran-leader-sudhakaran/article37363434.ece
07 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD cancels VIP break darshan from Nov. 13 to 15||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has cancelled the VIP break darshan for three days from November 13 in view of the Southern Zonal Council (SZC) meeting in Tirupati. Union Minister Amit Shah will chair the meeting on November 14. The Chief Ministers of all the member States – Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Puducherry – have been invited to the meeting. Lieutenant Governors of Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep have been invited to attend the meeting as special invitees. A host of officials are expected to attend the meeting that is aimed at discussing and resolving the disputes among the member States and between the Centre and the member States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-cancels-vip-break-darshan-from-nov-13-to-15/article37364126.ece
07 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt.’s claims on Adani power full of untruths’||Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee Payyavula Keshav on Saturday said, instead of coming up with straight replies to the questions raised on “irregularities” in the purchase of 9,000 MW from Adani Solar company, the YSRCP government made “misleading statements.” Addressing the media on Saturday, Mr. Keshav referred to the press release issued by Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, and said it was “full of untruths and half truths aimed at confusing the people.” “The government has no answer why it plans to pay Rs. 3.50 to Rs. 4.50 per unit in 2024 to the Adani firm when it could buy it for much lesser price of Rs. 1.26 per unit,” the TDP leader said. There was no truth in the government’s claim that purchase of power from outside would be cheaper than producing it in the State, he said. “A gazette issued by the Centre clearly says that inter-State transmission charges waiver will be applicable only to the power projects that start functioning in December 2022,” Mr. Keshav asserted. “But the Minister says that the waiver will make Adani power from Rajasthan, which will start in 2024, cheaper,” he said. Pointing to the fact that former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had developed a green corridor system for 6,000 MW solar power in the State itself, Mr. Keshav wondered where was the need for the YSRCP government to buy power from outside. He slammed the YSRCP government for transforming Andhra Pradesh into “Adani Pradesh” by “blindly following the business model of the Gujarat industrialist,” which would adversely impact the interests of the people in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govts-claims-on-adani-power-full-of-untruths/article37364130.ece
07 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati farmers stage protest at CRDA office in Thullur||A large number of farmers and labourers from Amaravati staged a demonstration in front of the CRDA office at Thullur on Saturday demanding payment of pending pensions and annual lease amounts, and provision of houses and livelihood. They also insisted that Amaravati be retained as the sole capital of Andhra Pradesh, and various assurances given to those who parted with lands under the pooling scheme should be fulfilled. Expressing solidarity with the protestors, CPI (M) leader Ch. Babu Rao said both the Central and State governments cheated the people of Amaravati by reneging on their commitments. He observed that there was neither agriculture in Amaravati nor sustainable means of livelihood to the beneficiaries of Land Pooling Scheme. Development activity in Amaravati had come to a standstill as the State government distanced itself from the projects planned and executed to some extent by the TDP government. At least now, the government should realise the consequences of ‘three capitals’ and revive the development of Amaravati, Mr. Babu Rao demanded. CPI (M) leaders M. Ravi, M. Bhagya Raju, and V. Venkateswara Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-farmers-stage-protest-at-crda-office-in-thullur/article37364123.ece
07 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transfer of Brahmin Corp. to BC Welfare Dept. challenged||The Rashtriya Brahmana Sangatana (RBS) filed a PIL in the Andhra Pradesh High Court praying for the suspension of G.O. Ms. No.103 (dated September 21, 2021), through which the A.P. Brahmin Welfare Corporation (APBWC) was proposed to be transferred from the control of the Revenue (Endowments) Department to the Backward Classes Welfare Department (BCWD). In the PIL, which was scheduled to be heard on November 8, RBS spokesperson Guduru Sekhar said that the APBWC had been established in December 2014 and was later transferred to the Revenue (Endowments) Department upon the request of the BCWD by way of G.O. Ms. No.44 (dated March 27, 2015). “While the members of the Brahmin community are benefiting from the activities of the APBWC and its schemes such as Vedavyasa, Gayatri, Dronacharya, Bharathi, Chanakya and Garuda, the State government’s decision to transfer it to the BCWD is unnecessary,” the petitioner said. ‘No connection’ “The APBWC has no connection whatsoever with the BCWD. Therefore, the issuance of the impugned G.O. is illegal and against Articles 14, 19, 21 and 300-A of the Constitution,” the petitioner told the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/transfer-of-brahmin-corp-to-bc-welfare-dept-challenged/article37364122.ece
07 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Padmanabham murder case triggers a row||The murder case of 40-year-old M. Bangarraju of Padmanabham mandal on November 3 has snowballed into a political controversy, resulting in a dispute between two communities. Even as three days have passed after the body of Bangarraju was found, his family members refused to take it from the mortuary of the King George Hospital (KGH) for final rites. The kin informed the officials that they would take the body only after the police arrest the culprits. According to reports, Bangarraju, who worked as a lineman for the APEPDCL, left his house on October 31 and was found dead under suspicious circumstances near Yenugulapalem village . With visible injuries on his body, the police said that it was a murder and have launched an investigation. It is learnt that police have taken one person named Govind into their custody. Meanwhile, the family members alleged that body of Bangarraju was found near a farm house belonging to K. Lakshman, a family member of a YSRCP leader. They alleged that Govind and his friend Lakshman had murdered Bangarraju over financial disputes. It has triggered a row as locals, members of a community Bangarraju belonged, staged protests. They alleged that police were not taking action against Lakshman due to political pressure. On Saturday morning, family members of Bangarraju, along with many people from the community, staged a protest at the Collectorate demanding immediate arrest of the culprits. They raised slogans accusing negligence and apathy by the police. Wife of the deceased, M. Nandani, who has been staging a protest near the KGH, said that they would not take body until the police arrested the culprits. She threatened that she would end her life, if justice was not served. Meanwhile, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders met the family members. Former MLA Palla Srinivas demanded strict action against the culprits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/padmanabham-murder-case-triggers-a-row/article37364203.ece
07 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal people continue to live in penury in hotbed of ganja trade||In October 2016, the Greyhounds, the anti-naxal force of Andhra Pradesh, killed more than 30 Maoists in an exchange of fire (EoF) in Ramaguda, an interior tribal hamlet in Pedabayalu mandal of Visakah Agency, the cut-off region of Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB). A visit to the site confirmed that the bodies of the Maoists were strewn around in around two acres of ganja fields. Prior to the incident, a high-level committee of Maoists leaders apparently held a meeting for two days in the area. And this indicates that the Maoists’ claims of not having links with ganja smuggling in Visakha Agency do not hold water. Nine mandals of the total 11 in Visakha Agency, including those in the AOB region where the Maoists hold sway, ganja is grown rampantly. And their claim that they have no links appears to be baseless as nothing moves without their consent in those regions. The question is whether the tribals have prospered due to the trade with an estimated turnover of a few thousand crores per annum. The answer appears to be a big ‘no’. In Ramaguda or for that matter any interior tribal hamlets, the particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTG) still continue to live in abject penury. Most of them still fight for one square meal a day. Visakhapatnam Range DIG L.K.V. Ranga Rao was right to point out and ask the tribals in a recent meeting if they had prospered, going by the magnitude of ganja smuggling from the region. “If the tribals are not gaining, then who is reaping the fortunes? It is the middlemen comprising businessmen from the districts of Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari, Krishna and Guntur and from the States of Tamil Nadu and Kerala, with the backing of the Maoists,” said Mr. Ranga Rao. Political debate Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang has also confirmed that the Maoists have a cut in the trade. Ganja cultivation and its smuggling are not new to Visakha Agency. The first ganja smuggling case was booked in 1973, even before the NDPS Act, 1985 came into force. It has been over four decades and it is now that the issue has gained prominence due to the raging political debate. The first to enter the twilight zone was the smugglers from Tamil Nadu, mainly from Salem, Dindigal and Theni districts. They brought in seeds and technology as the cool climes of Visakha Agency offered conducive environment for ganja cultivation. “They took land of tribals on lease and made them bonded labourers on their own land and made crores by selling the contraband in upcountry markets. And this happened under the watchful eyes of the Maoists,” said a senior police official engaged in anti-Maoist operations. Only some tribals groups, who live in the roadside villages and are a bit educated, have gained from the trade, said Mr. Ranga Rao. They learnt the trade quickly and turned into middlemen from cultivators and joined hands with the smugglers. The tribals in the interior parts get peanuts from the land rents, as they do not understand the value of money and are happy with what they get. This is the biggest advantage that the smugglers have, said S.V.V.N. Babji Rao, Deputy Commissioner, SEB. ‘Parivartana’ The district administration has embarked on an awareness drive to prevent the tribals from undertaking ganja cultivation and have started to destroy the standing crop. However, experts feel that mere destruction of plantations would not serve the purpose as the tribals have been growing ganja for at least three decades. “There is a need to show them lucrative alternate crops in terms of yield and revenue, they said. “The crop pattern should be supported by a marketing network such as using the services of the Girijan Cooperative Society (GCC),” said Killo Surendra of the Adivasi Sangham. According to the DGP, the State government’s ROFR initiative will be a game changer, as the tribals can now own their land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-people-continue-to-live-in-penury-in-hotbed-of-ganja-trade/article37364133.ece
07 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bhargav remanded for violating bail norms||Social media influencer Chippada Bhargav, popularly known as ‘Fun Bucket Bhargav’, was sent to remand again after the court cancelled his bail on Friday. He was on bail. The court cancelled the bail based on a memo filed by the Disha Police, Visakhapatnam, that Bhargav had violated the conditions on which he was granted bail. On April 19, Bhargav, a native of Vizianagaram and a resident of Hyderabad, was arrested on charge of raping a minor and impregnating her. According to the complaint filed by the family members, Bhargav allegedly had approached the girl by promising her some offers on social media. He had allegedly blackmailed the girl claiming that he had her nude pictures. Threatening her that he would make those pictures public, Bhargav allegedly raped her. After his arrest in April this year, Bhargav was released on bail in June. According to police, Bhargav, after being released on bail, spoke to the media, claimed his innocence and tried to defame the victim. Based on the videos of his media interview, Additional SP of Police (Disha Police Station) Prem Kajal sumbitted a memo to the court, seeking cancellation of the bail. The court sent Bhargav to remand till June 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bhargav-remanded-for-violating-bail-norms/article37364201.ece
07 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Conduct survey on needs of power consumers’||Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (APERC) Chairman C.V. Nagarjuna Reddy has said that the Discoms must extend services to power consumers on the standards of performances norms. He was speaking to the APEPDCL and officials on Saturday as part of his four-day tour of all Discoms in the State. Other members of the APERC P. Rajagopal Reddy and Thakur Ram Singh were also present on the occasion. APEPDCL Chairman and Managing Director K. Santhosha Rao explained the functioning of the Centralised Call Centre. The APERC Chairman said that all Discoms should supply 24-hour uninterrupted and quality power to the consumers. He asked the officials to conduct a detailed survey on the needs of the consumers. Mr. Nagarjuna Reddy visited the SCADA Centre at Pedawaltair and sub-stations at Outer Harbour, M.V.P. Colony and inspected the underground cable works. Directors K. Rajabapaiah, B. Ramesh Prasad, D. Chandram and others were present on the ocasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conduct-survey-on-needs-of-power-consumers/article37364204.ece
07 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police step up vigil on ganja smuggling||The district police conducted random checking at bus stations, railway stations and other public places as part of the anti-narcotics drive, ‘Parivartana’, to check ganja smuggling. The drive was carried following the instructions Visakhapatnam Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao. The police personnel checked buses, auto-rickshaws, baggages of passengers, lodges as part of the drive. Vehicles plying in several vulnerable routes were checked using dogs squad. Special checkposts have been set up in the Andhra-Odisdha Border (AOB) region. Creating awareness Speaking to the owners of the lodge managements, APSRTC bus drivers, jeep drivers in the rural as well as Agency, the police sought them to inform if they found any person moving suspiciously. Similar instructions were given to APSRTC drivers and other transporters. The police said this drive was aimed at sensitising people about the smuggling. The drive is being supervised by Chintapalle ASP D. Tushar, Paderu ASP P. Jagadish, Narsipatnam ASP Ch. Manikanta, and Anakapalle DSP B. Sunil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-step-up-vigil-on-ganja-smuggling/article37364131.ece
07 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SAIL gets new independent director||BJP Senior leader Kasi Viswanatha Raju has been appointed as an independent director of the Steel Authority of India Limited, on Saturday. He worked as president of the BJYM and was the State executive member for two consecutive terms and also served as the vice-chairman of the State Finance Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sail-gets-new-independent-director/article37364134.ece
07 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||18 kg hashish oil seized||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials seized 18 kg of hashish oil near Chintapalle on Saturday. The accused who was transporting the contraband fled, abandoning his vehicle after noticing the SEB teams near the Chinna Bridge between Annavaram and Lothugedda villages. The SEB team recovered 18 packets of hash oil, each weighing 1 kg. The estimated market value of the seized contraband would be around Rs. 18 lakh. A case has been registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/18-kg-hashish-oil-seized/article37364205.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seeking blessings||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seeking-blessings/article37364197.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seeking blessings||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seeking-blessings/article37364160.ece
07 November 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Adivasi girl from remote village bags IIT seat||Hailing from a poor Adivasi family, Karam Srilatha of the remote Mamidigudem village in Charla mandal of Bhadrachalam Agency, secured a seat in the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-BHU, Varanasi, by excelling in JEE (Advanced)-2021, against all odds. However, her ambitious plan to join the prestigious IIT appears to have struck a stumbling block due to abject poverty. Srilatha completed her Intermediate course at the State-run residential college in Kalwakurthy of Nagarkurnool district and got a seat in B. Tech (Ceramic Engineering) at IIT-BHU in Varanasi based on her 919 rank in the JEE (Advanced)-2021, sources said. The talented tribal girl is on the verge of losing the lifetime opportunity to pursue higher studies in IIT due to the poor financial condition of her parents, both farm labourers, sources added. The relatives of the girl are running from pillar to post to secure financial help for the tribal girl to enable her to join the Varanasi-based IIT and to bring laurels to their interior tribal village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/adivasi-girl-from-remote-village-bags-iit-seat/article37363961.ece
07 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man held for posing as an IPS officer||A 29-year-old man was arrested by Jawaharnagar police on charge of posing as an IPS officer working in the Ministry of Home Affairs and cheating a woman on a matrimonial website. The accused, Vuppala Hari Prasad, was arrested from his residence at Housing Board Colony in Miryalaguda. According to police, the victim, a resident of Yapral, lodged a complaint on November 3, stating that two months ago her mother uploaded her profile on the Telugu Matrimony website and eight days ago she received a request from a person by the name of Hariprasad Vuppala. Phone calls Hariprasad introduced himself as an IPS officer and told them that he is working in the Ministry of Home Affairs, and expressed his intentions to marry her and started calling over the phone. He claimed that his father, Deepak, was a Special CBI Judge, Bengaluru. When the woman inquired about his posting and raised doubts about the profile, Hariprasad sent his ID cards, payslips and appointment letters to the woman, but she was not convinced with his profile and stressed him to prove that his profile is true, police said. Further, the complainant stated that Hariprasad created fake ID cards, payslips and appointment letters and uploaded his profile in the matrimony site. “When he came to know that complainant was suspecting him, on October 27, Hariprasad called and threatened her with dire consequences,” they said. Based on her complaint, a case was registered and Hariprasad was arrested on November 4, and later remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-posing-as-an-ips-officer/article37363959.ece
07 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hockey star faces stark realities||Even for someone of the stature of triple Olympian N. Mukesh Kumar, life is not easy as an administrator to promote the sport in his capacity as Secretary of Telangana Hockey. The 50-year-old renowned right-winger of yesteryears, who took voluntary retirement from Air India recently to focus more on giving the sport a new direction in the State, is now facing the harsh realities of indifferent authorities. “It is a pity that we have to pay Rs. 5000 per day to conduct matches for the on-going Legends League championship featuring eight teams owned by franchisees. By any means this is not a money-spinner as all the franchisees are spending for providing jerseys and sports equipment besides refreshments to all the players,” says Hockey Hyderabad secretary K. Vidyasagar. “We have written to Telangana Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud, Hyderabad District Collector, Sports Authority of Telangana State to at least give the ground free. We are now forced to spend about Rs. 50,000 only towards hiring the ground,” he said. “If it is a private tournament organised by someone else other than the Hyderabad Hockey the authorities have a reason to charge. But, it is really disappointing that we are being charged for a ground where we spend more money on marking, watering also and often we have to spend to clear stones from the playing area, which might cause injury to the players,” the secretary said. Mr. Mukesh said it would be great if the authorities took a magnanimous view and helped out the Association. “We are not asking for financial help. All we need is to get the ground free of cost,” he said. “On one hand we see many give lectures in promoting sport, especially hockey after the great show and on the other you see we (former players) struggling to raise funds to ensure the sport is kept alive,” Mr. Mukesh said. Interestingly, despite all the hurdles, Mr. Mukesh and his team are planning a week-long Dhanraj Pillay invitation tournament soon to sustain the momentum and interest of the young talent which was seen going all out in the Legends League. For his part a senior official of SATS says they are helpless as they need to raise funds to pay salaries for the staff recruited on contract.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hockey-star-faces-stark-realities/article37363942.ece
07 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Niloufer Hospital to have separate ward for Shishu Vihar children||A separate ward for children from Shishu Vihar and other homes is being readied at Niloufer Hospital, which would be inaugurated soon. Niloufer Hospital specialises in care for women and children, including infants. Children from zero to six years, who are abandoned, or are from disputed relationships, missing children found by various government teams, and others are provided shelter at Shishu Vihar. At times, newborns are found dumped by the side of the road, or some secluded place. A doctor is always available at the government facility to take care of these children. “If children need hospitalisation, they are mostly taken to Niloufer Hospital. An attender is also sent with the child during admission,” said officials. The paediatric hospital’s administrative officials said that currently, children are being treated along with other patients. The special ward will be dedicated only to children from Shishu Vihar. It will have a kitchen, and some other facilities. Doctors from the hospital said that infants, who are abandoned in bushes, garbage bins, or other places soon after birth are underweight, and suffer from infections. Newborns are treated for infections first, and then, feeding issues are addressed. “Seldom do we find these abandoned babies in proper weight, and without any health complications. After recovery, they are sent back to Shishu Vihar,” said a doctor from the hospital. A few days ago, junior doctors at the hospital pointed out that medical infrastructure and manpower were not enough. There is dearth of monitors, blood vacutainers, and other resources. The administrative officials said that the issue is being addressed and some facilities like monitors are expected in two to three days.  Seldom do we find these abandoned babies in proper weight, and without any health complications. After recovery, they are sent back to Shishu Vihar. Doctor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/niloufer-hospital-builds-ward-to-treat-shishu-vihar-children/article37363948.ece
07 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||4 former Maoists held for extortion, robbery||A group of former Janashakti Naxalites were arrested by the Rachakonda police on Saturday on charges of extortion and robberies in and around Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district and Hyderabad. Police seized an illegally-possessed tapancha, an air pistol and an air revolver and live rounds from the accused, who have been identified as Pittala Srinivas alias Srinanna (45) from Chennur in Janagoan, Vallala Nagamallaiah alias Mallesh (58) from Pathagutta in Yadagirigutta, Edavalli Srinivas Reddy alias Chandranna (49) from Chikkadpally and Gangapuram Swamy alias Mallesh (55) from Perepalli in Nalgonda. Police said that the accused previously worked with CPI (ML) Maoist and CPI (ML) Janashakti groups. “They left the extremist groups and surrendered before the police who bounded them over before the Mandal Executive Magistrate under security acts,” Commissioner of Police Mahesh Bhagwat said. In fact, they got acquainted with each other while they were working in similar and banned extremist organisations and after departing from the groups, they worked as daily labourers, but could not succeed economically. “Having experience in criminal intimidation and extortion, the group has indulged in various criminal activities after leaving the outlawed parties,” he said. In 2019, Srinivas and Swamy along with their associates committed a dacoity under the limits of Kodakandla police station in which they threatened the wine shop owner with country-made weapons and robbed Rs. 6 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/4-former-maoists-arrested-for-extortion-and-robbery/article37363952.ece
07 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Factly report on health misinformation||As misinformation about health has become viral, city-based Factly has come out with a Health Misinformation Report and has also hosted a podcast called Un-Viral that aims to set doubts at rest. “We were part of the Global Health Fellowship program by Facebook. As part of the programme we did a ‘Health Misinformation report’, the first of its kind that maps the health misinformation landscape in India. We also launched a dedicated health misinformation podcast ‘Un-Viral’,” informs Rakesh Reddy Dubbudu of Factly. Accurate information The information was also hosted on the site. The false news on camphor as a cure for COVID-19 have particularly been widely read implying that people are seeking avenues for accurate information and more so in case of health-related misinformation, says Mr. Reddy. Other fact-checking organisations that did similar work as Factly are based out of Indonesia, Philippines, Colombia, South Africa, Turkey, Italy and the United Kingdom. Each of these 10 organisations that was part of the Facebook’s fact-checking program brought in a new team member (Health Fellow) to help them approach the complex and important topic of health misinformation especially in the context of COVID-19. In the preface to the Health Misinformation Report, well-known microbiologist Gagandeep Kang wrote: “The value of this effort undertaken by the Factly-Facebook Health Fellow to create a landscape, provide accurate information and obtain inputs from experts cannot be overstated.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/factly-report-on-health-misinformation/article37363944.ece
07 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Waqf Board gets possession of encroached property||The Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) on Saturday said that it has taken possession of a property in Nampally which was encroached. The board took possession of the land parcel after the apex court ruled in their favour. According to TSWB chairman Mohammed Saleem, the waqf property is endowed to Mir Rahmat Ali Shah graveyard, near Tek Masjid, notified by muntaqam number 998 and measures approximately 1,000 square yards. The said land parcel was encroached and a firewood stall was setup. This was later converted into a hotel. Illegal documents cancelled The board said that the Supreme Court directed the land be vacated and hand over the possession to the board within three months. Mr Saleem deputed a team of officials to remove the encroachment, and reiterated saying: Once a property is waqf, it is always waqf. He also pointed out that illegal registration documents have been cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/waqf-board-gets-possession-of-encroached-property/article37363963.ece
07 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||I am Sonia loyalist, says Komatireddy||Affirming his faith in Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi’s leadership, Bhongir MP, Komatireddy Venkata Reddy, however, continued to take potshots at the State leadership saying the party could secure much lesser votes in Huzurabad than in Badvel bypoll where the Congress presence is almost nil. Mr. Venkat Reddy, who has openly criticised Mr. Revanth Reddy’s appointment as the TPCC chief and is staying away from the party activities ever since, said that he did not campaign in Huzurabad as there were bigger leaders in the party. When questioned how can he criticise the party’s loss when he did not campaign there despite being a tall leader, he said he is a “district leader.” He was sharing this views with reporters after meeting senior leader V. Hanmantha Rao, who has taken the responsibility to pacify Mr. Venkat Reddy, at the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) office. Mr. Reddy has been staying away from all the party programmes and meetings, including the meetings presided by the AICC incharge Manickam Tagore. Mr. Reddy said he was indebted to Sonia Gandhi for her decision to grant Telangana and will always be loyal to her for her sacrifice. “I will start my tour soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/i-am-sonia-loyalist-says-komatireddy/article37363960.ece
07 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC opens VTPIS tenders||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation has opened tenders for the Vehicle Tracking and Passenger Information System (VTPIS) which is scheduled to be covered 4,170 buses. TSRTC sources said that the tenders were scheduled to be opened on November 5. However, while the sources confirmed that tenders indeed have been opened, they remained tightlipped about the number of companies which have responded to the tenders. The sources said that more clarity on the number of bidders will be obtained on Tuesday, when more information would be shared. In a separate development, responding to requests of introducing mini-buses in old city, TSRTC Managing Director V C Sajjanar, through his Twitter handle said that the request would be examined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-opens-vtpis-tenders/article37363962.ece
07 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS logs 164 COVID cases||Telangana has recorded 164 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday taking the total to 6,72,367.While 36,999 samples were examined, results of 1,598 were awaited. One more COVID patients has died. The new 164 infections includes 51 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 14 from Medchal Malkajgiri and 12 from Rangareddy. No infection was detected in four districts. From March 2, 2020 to November 6, 2021, 2.77 crore samples were tested and 6,72,367 were detected with the virus. Of the total cases, 3,815 were active cases, 6,64,588 have recovered, and 3,964 have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-logs-164-covid-cases/article37363940.ece
07 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Excel in NEET, IIT: minority students told||Minorities Welfare Minister Koppula Eshwar on Saturday encouraged students to do better in competitive exams. Mr. Eshwar chaired a review meeting with advisor to government on minority welfare A.K. Khan, secretary Ahmad Nadeem, and TS Minorities’ Residential Educational Institutions Society secretary B. Shafiullah. He said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had set up 204 TMREIS schools that have been providing quality education, and 124 schools have been upgraded to junior colleges. As many as 48 buildings house them for which rents are being paid. He also underscored that food and nutrition for students should not be compromised, and the managements should regularly keep stock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/excel-in-neet-iit-minority-students-told/article37363954.ece
07 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three held for online fraud||The cyber crime police of Rachakonda commissionerate arrested three members of a gang from Siliguri in West Bengal for duping several people to the tune of Rs. 36 lakh on the pretext of online crypto trading. The accused are Nur Alam Haque (23), a bank employee from Cooch Behar, Ekram Hussain (23) from Khoka Basti and Mohammed Ijarul (24) from Khoka Basti. Police seized five mobiles, six SIM cards, three cheque books, six debit cards of different banks and froze Rs. 50 lakh from their bank accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-held-for-online-fraud/article37363953.ece
07 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Teak logs seized||Forest department officials have seized a vehicle with illegal teak timber worth Rs. 1.5 lakh at Singampally village of Pegadapally Range in Jayashankar Bhupalpally district on Saturday. The timber was being transported from Chhattisgarh in a vehicle in which rear seating was removed to accommodate the logs, officials informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teak-logs-seized/article37363956.ece
07 November 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||17 kg ganja seized, one arrested||The Khammam rural police nabbed a suspected member of a ganja smuggling gang and seized 17 kg ganja from his possession near Warangal crossroads on the outskirts of the town on Friday evening. According to sources, a police team intercepted an autorickshaw and found the banned ganja concealed in the vehicle. One of the occupants of the auto was detained for questioning, sources said. Meanwhile, Khammam Urban police stepped up efforts to nab the remaining three, including an Armed Reserve (AR) constable of Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, in connection with ganja smuggling case busted two days ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/17-kg-ganja-seized-one-arrested/article37363951.ece
07 November 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Nakrekal MLA takes care of stranded migrants||For the stranded 64 migrant workers, after their hired private bus from Kerala decamped with their luggage on Friday, Nakrekal Legislator Ch. Lingaiah assumed the role of a local guardian. From providing immediate accommodation at a private hall in the town on Friday evening, to sending them off to their destinations in locally arranged transport and everything in between, the Legislator exceeded in his humanitarian assistance. Sources close to Mr. Lingaiah said about Rs. 3.5 lakh personal funds were spent to arrange a private bus for 47 workers, from Narketpally to their homes in Guwahati. Along with packed food, the aggrieved were also given Rs. 500 each for expenses on the way. For the 15 workers hailing from West Bengal and Odisha, train tickets were booked for travel to their homes from Secunderabad Junction, in addition to Rs. 1000 pocket money per head. Only one woman, along with her daughter, chose to return to Kerala where her husband was still working. Mr. Lingaiah said he was moved by the plight of the stranded workers, and also instructed police authorities to ensure quick action against the absconding crew of the private bus. On his gesture, he said: “I have just done my bit.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mla-comes-to-aid-of-stranded-migrants/article37363939.ece
07 November 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Alternative crops will fetch better revenue’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that alternative crops like oil seed and pulses will offer better revenue to farmers, and urged them to switch over to them. Addressing a gathering of farmers after extending sunflower seed to farmers by Oilseeds Corporation of India at Chinnakodur mandal headquarters on Saturday, he said that farmers need to change according to times and should utilise the opportunity of Farmers Producers Organisations (FPOs) aimed at benefiting farmers. He said on about 1,000 acres, sunflower is being cultivated. The Minister extended oil seed to 750 farmers, besides inaugurating a Rythu Vedika. “Farmers should come forward to cultivate alternative crops where the returns are high. The country is missing out on precious foreign exchange in oil seed. Palm oil cultivation will be beneficiary for farmers. To arrest import of palm oil, we have to cultivate the crop on 70 lakh acres. This is the best opportunity for farmers. We are getting ready to cultivate oil palm nursery on 50,000 acres in Chinnakodur mandal,” said Mr. Rao. Referring to paddy cultivation, he said that the Food Corporation of India has made it clear that it would not buy rice as sufficient quantity for four years is already stocked and as there is no more place to keep paddy. He said that it is of no use even after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao visited New Delhi thrice and made an appeal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/go-for-alternative-crops/article37363957.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||In protest mode||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-protest-mode/article37364167.ece
07 November 2021||Agartala,||Bangladeshi cattle lifter lynched in Tripura district||A Bangladeshi cattle lifter was lynched by villagers at Kamalnagar, a border village in Tripura’s Sipahijala district on Saturday, the police said. The cattle lifter was lynched when he along with a group entered the house of a villager at about 1.30 a.m. on Saturday and attacked him when he tried to resist, the police said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bangladeshi-cattle-lifter-lynched-in-tripura-district/article37363850.ece
07 November 2021||Bhopal,||Judicial commission submits report on Jheeram Ghati massacre||Eight years after the 2013 Jheeram Ghati Naxal attack in which 29 people, including senior leaders of the State unit Congress, were killed, the judicial commission set up to probe the massacre submitted its report to Chhattisgarh Governor Anusuyia Uikey on Saturday. The 10-volume 4,184-pages report was submitted by Santosh Kumar Tiwari, secretary of the commission and registrar of the Chhattisgarh High Court to the Governor at the Raj Bhavan, an official said. The Commission was constituted three days after the incident on May 28, 2013. It was headed by Prashant Kumar Mishra, former Chief Justice of Chhattisgarh High Court. Mr. Mishra is currently Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court. The Naxals had attacked a convoy of Congress leaders in Jheeram valley in Darbha area of Bastar district, killing 29 people, including then State Congress chief Nand Kumar Patel, his son Dinesh Patel, former leader of Opposition Mahendra Karma. Former Union minister Vidyacharan Shukla was seriously injured in this attack and later died during treatment. On September 29, 2020, the Supreme Court dismissed a plea of the Chhattisgarh Government against the refusal to examine additional witnesses by the judicial commission set up to probe the 2013 Jheeram Ghati Naxal attack. On occasions, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has alleged that the massacre was a political conspiracy but the BJP government did not investigate properly. “Eight years ago, on May 25, several Congress leaders lost their lives after their convoy was attacked by Naxals. It was our Congress government at the Centre in 2013 that had handed over the probe to the National Investigation Agency at that time. However, due to pressure by the current Central Government, neither the NIA nor the State Government was allowed to investigate upon the matter,” Mr. Baghel had told reporters in Raipur on May 25 this year. Former Chhattisgarh Government headed by Dr. Raman Singh had approached for a CBI inquiry into the incident on March 29, 2016, which was declined by the Union Government in December 2016, an official said.  Due to pressure by the current Central Govt., neither the NIA nor the State Government was allowed to investigate the convoy attack case Bhupesh Baghel Chhattisgarh Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/judicial-commission-submits-report-on-jheeram-ghati-massacre/article37363860.ece
07 November 2021||Chandigarh,||Akali Dal seeks lower tax on fuel||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) held a protest here on Saturday against the Congress government in Punjab demanding a reduction of Value Added Tax (VAT) on fuel. Led by its chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, the Akali protesters raised slogans against the State government for not giving relief to people in petrol and diesel prices by reducing taxes on fuel. Chandigarh police cane-charged the protesters, when they tried to lay siege to the residence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. A few Akali workers sustained injuries in the police action, claimed the protesters.  ‘Govt. has done nothing’ Speaking to reporters, Mr. Badal slammed the Congress-led government for not slashing the tax on fuel. “All States have reduced the prices of fuel. But this government has done nothing so far,” he said. He demanded slashing of the retail prices of fuel by Rs. 10 per litre. The Akalis also demanded from the government an adequate compensation to the farmers whose crop were damaged because of rains and hailstorm. “Farmers have not received the compensation yet and the Channi government is sleeping. Farmers have suffered a loss of Rs. 50,000 per acre. We came here to awake the State government,” Mr. Badal said, asking the Chief Minister to meet the affected growers. “Farmers are facing a shortage of di-ammonium phosphate needed for sowing of their crops,” said Mr. Badal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/akalis-seeks-lower-tax-on-fuel/article37363855.ece
07 November 2021||Hamirpur,||Three die in U.P. vehicle collision||Three motorcycle-borne men lost their lives after their vehicle was hit by an ambulance here, the police said on Saturday. Additional Superintendent of Police Anoop Kumar said the accident took place on Friday night in Sajeti area of Kanpur district on the Kanpur-Hamirpur road and the victims were not wearing helmets. The deceased have been identified as Gyanendra, 28, Akash alias Akku, 18, and Dinesh alias Chhanu, 19, — all residents of Hamirpur. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem examination, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/three-die-in-up-vehicle-collision/article37363848.ece
07 November 2021||Lucknow/Ballia,||Fasting MLA admitted to hospital in U.P.||Samajwadi Party’s Gauriganj MLA Rakesh Pratap Singh, who has sent his resignation to the Speaker over non-construction of roads in his constituency and started a fast in protest, was on Saturday admitted to a hospital by the police due to his worsening health. The MLA has been sent to the hospital due to ill health as doctors had advised it, Lucknow Police Commissioner D.K. Thakur said. He has been admitted to Lucknow’s Civil Hospital, he said. Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly and Samajwadi Party leader Ram Govind Chaudhary on the other hand, alleged that the MLA, sitting on fast before the Gandhi statue, was forcibly sent to hospital in an ambulance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fasting-mla-admitted-to-hospital-in-up/article37363851.ece
07 November 2021||Mumbai,||Panel’s work hit for lack of office space||The Bhima Koregaon Commission has suspended all hearings till the Maharashtra government provides it a suitable accommodation in Mumbai. The case On January 1, 1818, a battle between the Peshwas and the British resulted in the overthrow of the Peshwas. To honour the valour of the soldiers, a Vijay Stambh, a war memorial was built Bhima Koregaon village. In 1921, on January 1, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar visited the site which resulted in the initiation of an annual tradition to commemorate the occasion. Thereafter every year on January 1, large numbers of Bahujan gather at the Vijay Stambh to pay tribute to Dalits. On December 12, 2017, a public meeting by the name of Elgaar Parishad was organised in Pune at Shanivar Wada, 30 kilometres from Koregaon. On January 1, 2018 a large crowd of Dalits and Bahujans gathered at the Vijay Stambh. They were attacked by armed mobs of over 1,000 people, most of them on motorbikes holding saffron flags and shouting religious and political slogans. They engaged in violence including arson, stone pelting and attacks with swords, iron rods. This resulted in the death of a 28-year-old man and considerable loss of private and public property. What is the Commission On January 4, 2018, the State Government requested the Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court to nominate a sitting judge of the High Court as a Commission of Inquiry . On February 6, 2018, the Chief Justice conveyed that as per the judgments of the Supreme Court it is not possible to recommend a sitting judge. After three days, the Chief Justice forwarded three names of retired Chief Justices of High Courts. On February 9, 2018, retired Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court, Jay Narayan Patel and chief secretary of Maharashtra government, Sumit Mullick were appointed to head a Commission of Inquiry to make inquiries into the sequence of events that happened at Koregaon-Bhima on January 1 2018. Role and power The terms of reference of the Commission was to inquire the causes and consequences of the events; whether any individual or group of individuals was directly or indirectly responsible for the said incident; the adequacy or otherwise of the planning and preparedness by the district administration and police machinery for maintaining law and order; whether the steps taken by the police in order to avoid recurrence of such incidents. The Commission has the power to require any person to furnish information; power to enter or authorise to enter into any building or place and seize any books of accounts or documents; the commission to be deemed to be civil court and the proceedings before the commission be a judicial proceeding. The commission shall conduct the inquiry and submit the report within four months from the date of notification and shall determine its headquarters and regulate its own procedure. Functioning Although the Commission was appointed by a notification dated February 9, 2018, office posts like Secretary, Technical expert, clerk etc were created only by a notification dated March 31, 2018; but appointments were not made by the Government immediately.V.V. Palnitkar was appointed Secretary on April 28, 2018 who took steps to set up offices at Mumbai and Pune. In the meantime, appointment of staff, issuance of notifications, calling affidavits from public and organisations, scrutiny of affidavits was undertaken which was all done by June 8, 2018. The office premises at Pune required heavy repairs which were completed at the end of September, 2018. On June 9, 2018 another notification was issued and time for submission of the report of inquiry was extended to October 8, 2018. The last date for submission of affidavits was July 16, 2018. More than 500 affidavits were submitted and the Commission had to scrutinize them and prepare the gist of the affidavits. Actual work The actual work of recording evidence started only in September, 2018 and the time to submit report was extended from time to time. Despite emphatically mentioning that the Commission may require not less than six months for 50 more witnesses, a notification was issued on February 11, 2020, the last extension of two months was given upto April 8, 2020. The Commission held sittings in Mumbai from February 24 and 26 at Pune and March 9 to 14 and from March 23 and 28. However, after that the lockdown was announced owing to the COVID-19 pandemic and from April 2020 to August 2021 all hearings were suspended. Hearings suspended A letter was sent by Mr. Palnitkar on June 21, 2021, and October 23, 2021 followed by an e-mail on October 26, 2021 for providing suitable accommodation on emergency basis for an office in Mumbai to hold hearings there. The letter was written on behalf of the Commission addressed to the Chief Secretary, Additional Chief Secretary and Principal Secretary. It stated, if accommodation is not provided by October 29 the Commission would suspend its hearing. However, there was no response from the Government so the Commission has suspended all future hearings till the Government takes any step.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/panels-work-hit-for-lack-of-office-space/article37364097.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Govt. extends free ration scheme for poor till May 2022||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that the Delhi Government’s free ration scheme to citizens will be extended by six more months, i.e., till May 2022, due to the continuing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Kejriwal also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealing to him to do the same across the country. Inflation has increased to very high levels and the common man is finding it “difficult to even get two square meals”, Mr. Kejriwal wrote to Mr. Modi. He also pointed out that many youth were unemployed due to the pandemic. “The Delhi Government is extending its free ration scheme to the poor for six months. I urged the Central Government to also extend its ration scheme for six months by writing a letter to the Prime Minister. People are in a lot of trouble right now. It would not be right to leave their hand at this juncture,” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted. BJP leader hits out Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, however, accused Mr. Kejriwal and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia of “telling white lies” regarding the distribution of free ration to the poor as well as VAT on fuel prices. “As many as 72 lakh ration cardholders in Delhi have been provided free ration under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana since April last year, in addition to ration under the National Food Security Act by the Modi Government. The plan is still ongoing,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “On the other hand, despite the announcement, the Delhi Government is not giving away free ration to 60 lakh people who do not have ration cards. Even the Supreme Court had to direct the Delhi Government to make necessary arrangements of food and ration for the poor and migrant labourers,” he said. Mr. Bidhuri challenged Mr. Sisodia’s statement that the “Centre was responsible” for inflation in fuel prices. He argued that the AAP Government had increased VAT on both petrol and diesel after coming to power. “When the Aam Aadmi Party came to power in 2015, VAT was charged at 20% on petrol and 12% on diesel. The Delhi Government later increased VAT on petrol to 30%,” he alleged. “Not only this, 30% VAT was charged on diesel during the COVID-19 period. Even now, there is 30% VAT on petrol and 16.755% on diesel, which is the highest in the entire country,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-extends-free-ration-scheme-for-poor-till-may-2022/article37363846.ece
07 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Panel blames sudden low winds for noxious Delhi air||“Sudden unforeseeable low winds” were the key cause of the noxious air quality that gripped the Delhi National Capital Region following Deepavali, according to an expert sub-committee that is tasked with recommending pollution control measures under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) with no acknowledgement of the role of crackers or stubble burning. A day after Deepavali, the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Delhi, Faridabad, Noida, Gurugram and Ghaziabad shot to over 450 or at the highest level of pollution severity called ‘severe.’ Though there was a ban on the use of crackers in all these regions, these norms were brazenly flouted and a change in wind direction increased the load of pollutants from Punjab and Haryana from stubble burning. Ignores report The committee chose to ignore a scientific report from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) themselves on November 5, that explicitly holds “... crackers, biomass burning and unfavourable weather conditions that brought AQI to severe.” Minutes of all these meetings appear on the CPCB website. This report — and two others on November 3 and 4 — also say that wind speeds were expected to be less than 10 kmph, or at the level, that makes it hard for airborne pollutants to be flushed out. There was thus no “sudden drop” in wind speeds as the committee notes. These scientific reports on wind and pollution forecast are prepared daily. The expert committee is led by the Member-Secretary, CPCB, and has technical experts from the IMD as well as representatives from pollution control authorities in Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. This committee met on November 5, a day after Deepavali to take stock of the noxious situation in the National Capital region that saw air quality dip to ‘severe’ levels. “... The AQI was predicted to be within very poor category, however, as informed by the IMD, there were sudden unforeseeable low winds that resulted in Severe Air Quality. V.K. Soni, IMD, confirmed that it might be attributed to sudden calming of winds, which could not be captured by the model,” say the minutes of the sub-committee meeting held on November 5. Before its meeting on November 5, the expert sub-committee met on November 3, a day before Deepavali. Dr. Soni, meteorologist at the IMD and part of the committee, ruled out the possibility of air quality ever reaching the ‘severe’ category. “Even with higher emissions, model predictions do not indicate air quality reaching to ‘severe’ category ... in view of the above, the sub-committee suggests no additional measures except strict implementation of order issued earlier on October 18 and 28.” These are routine orders that State pollution control boards must implement assuming that air quality remains in the ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ categories. GRAP provisions According to the provisions of the GRAP, ‘severe’ air quality can prompt the sub-committee to order a halt on inbound trucks to Delhi or odd-even restrictions on cars as well as closure of brick kilns, stone crushers. However, following its assessment, the sub-committee has only recommended that government and private offices and other establishments reduce vehicle usage by at least 30% (by working from home, car pooling, and optimising their field activities, etc.) and pollution control implementing agencies to step up their efforts. The Commission for Air Quality Management, that has been set up by an Act of Parliament to oversee the implementation of pollution control had earlier this week claimed that instances of stubble burning during September to November first week, in Punjab and Haryana, was half that of previous years. However, the CPCB’s reports show that stubble burning on November 3, 4, 5 were not significantly lower — and that in Haryana was higher — than last year. A change in the direction of wind from easterly to northwesterly on Deepavali brought much of the carbon towards Delhi NCR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/panel-blames-sudden-low-winds-for-noxious-delhi-air/article37363854.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||COVID positivity rose on Deepavali||The Capital’s COVID-19 positivity rate increased on Deepavali after a continuous decline over the last five months, according to Delhi Government statistics. In fact, the positivity rate – a metric defined by the number of positive cases emerging out of the total number of COVID tests performed – increased on a daily basis in the run-up to the festival on November 4. According to Government statistics, the city’s positivity rate on November 1 was 0.07% and 0.08% on the next two days before shooting up to 0.14% on November 4 and decreasing to 0.10% on November 5. The last time a positivity rate of 0.14% was recorded was on June 23. A senior Government official, though emphasising that there was no need for alarm, said increasing positivity was certainly a cause for concern and illustrated the need to remain cautious and not letting the guard down against a possible COVID outbreak. According to Delhi Government records, the positivity rate had peaked at an alarming 36.24% on April 21 this year during the devastating second wave of COVID infections in the city. On Saturday, the city reported no new COVID deaths over 24 hours and the toll stood at 25,091 for the 15th day, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi Government. Thirty-six new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 14,40,071. A total of 34,554 tests were done in a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-positivity-rose-on-deepavali/article37363844.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||Probe ordered into collapse of multilevel car parking||The Delhi Government has ordered an inquiry into the collapse of a part of a multilevel car parking in Green Park earlier this week and the report will be submitted within 15 days, authorities said. The parking had been constructed by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia alleged that during the construction of the parking, huge money was collected from nearby shopkeepers in the name of parking conversion charges by the BJP-ruled municipal corporation. The shops of many traders were sealed to make way for the parking space. Mr. Sisodia said the Arvind Kejriwal Government will take strict action against the culprits and not tolerate wastage of taxpayers’ money. “The multilevel parking of Green Park has fallen prey to the BJP-ruled MCD’s corruption,” he added. Responding to the inquiry, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said AAP leaders were “running a vicious campaign against BJP-ruled corporations and the inquiry against the breakdown of SDMC’s car parking was part of their “mala fide campaign” against it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/probe-ordered-into-collapse-of-multilevel-car-parking/article37363847.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Govt. extends free ration scheme till May 2022||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that the Delhi Government’s free ration scheme to citizens will be extended by six more months, i.e., till May 2022, due to the continuing impact of the COVID pandemic. Mr. Kejriwal also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealing him to do the same across the country. Inflation had increased to very high levels with the common man finding it “difficult to even get two square meals”, Mr. Kejriwal wrote to Mr. Modi. He also pointed out that many were unemployed due to the ongoing pandemic. “The Delhi Government is extending its free ration scheme to the poor for six months. I urged the Central Government to also extend its ration scheme for six months by writing a letter to the Prime Minister. People are in a lot of trouble right now. It would not be right to leave their hand at this juncture,” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted. BJP leader hits out Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, however, accused the AAP Government of lying about the ration scheme as well as VAT on fuel prices. Mr. Bidhuri accused both Mr. Kejriwal and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia of “telling white lies” regarding the distribution of free ration to the poor as well as VAT on fuel prices. “As many as 72 lakh ration cardholders in Delhi have been provided free ration under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana since April last year in addition to ration under the National Food Security Act by the Modi Government. The plan is still ongoing,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “On the other hand, despite the announcement, the Delhi Government is not giving away free ration to 60 lakh people who do not have ration cards. Even the Supreme Court had to direct the Delhi Government to make necessary arrangements of food and ration for the poor and migrant labourers,” he said. ‘AAP increased VAT’ Mr. Bidhuri also challenged Mr. Sisodia’s statement to the effect that the Centre was responsible for inflation in fuel prices. He argued that the AAP Government had increased VAT on both petrol and diesel after coming to power. “When the Aam Aadmi Party came to power in 2015, VAT was charged at 20% on petrol and 12% on diesel. The Delhi Government later increased VAT on petrol to 30%,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-extends-free-ration-scheme-till-may-2022/article37364034.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||Slight improvement, but AQI still ‘severe’||The air quality in the city improved slightly on Saturday but continued to be in the ‘severe’ category for the second consecutive day due to unfavourable weather conditions, firecracker emissions and rampant stubble burning in neighbouring States, according to official data. Several other cities in the National Capital Region — Gurugram, Faridabad and Noida — as well as towns in north India, such as Baghpat and Bulandshahr, also reported ‘severe’ air pollution for the second day post-Deepavali. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5 in Delhi was 41% and the number of active fires was 5,159 on Saturday, both highest this season, said government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. Delhi’s AQI (air quality index) was recorded at 437 on Saturday, down from 462 on Friday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board bulletin. On Friday, the air quality dropped to its poorest levels for the day after Deepavali in five years, according to official data. It was also the first day with ‘severe’ air pollution this season. The AQI of Delhi is expected to improve from Sunday evening because of strong surface winds sweeping through Delhi-NCR. “Delhi’s AQI is likely to improve to the upper end of ‘very poor’ category as surface winds are becoming stronger, dispersing air pollutants. Strong northwesterly winds enhance transport of emissions from stubble burning. Share of crop residue burning emissions in PM2.5 is 41% (effective fire count 5,159),” said SAFAR. The fog or smog condition in Delhi-NCR also improved on Saturday. “Fog/smog conditions today [November 6] morning has improved in Delhi NCR as was forecasted. It was shallow fog with visibility 600 to 800 metre range reported at two airports from 5.30 a.m. to 9.30 a.m,” IMD said in a statement on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/slight-improvement-but-aqi-still-severe/article37363849.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||Biryani shop workers threatened on Deepavali, case registered||Employees at a biryani  shop in north Delhi’s Burari were abused and threatened by a man on Deepavali for opening the eatery on a “Hindu festival” on Thursday. The police have registered a case and initiated a probe into the matter. The  shop owner, who identified himself as Magroob Ali, said he was away at the time of the incident but his three employees were present at the shop. Mr. Ali said that around 7.30 p.m. on Thursday, a visibly drunk man started abusing them for keeping the shop open on Deepavali. The man had insisted that the shop be “shut immediately because they can’t open a shop serving non-vegetarian food on a Hindu festival in a Hindu-dominated area”. A video clip also shows the man making derogatory remarks about a community. One of the employees, apparently overwhelmed, said that they were about to shut the shop. Mr. Ali said that the employees then shut the shop but other shopkeepers gathered in their support, after which the man fled. “I have been running this shop for the last eight years. The shopkeepers around stood with us when the incident took place. That’s when the man fled,” Mr. Ali said. He said that both the police and the people stood in their support. “We are not scared by this incident because everyone stands with us. We have never faced anything like this before. I opened the shop on Friday and Saturday both,” he said. A senior police officer said they learnt about the incident when the video went viral on Friday. “After the video came to our notice, we verified the facts and took suo motu cognisance. A case under Section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. The man in the video is yet to be identified,” the officer said.  I have been running this shop for the last eight years. The shopkeepers around stood with us when the incident took place. That’s when the man fled Magroob Ali Shop owner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/biryani-shop-workers-threatened-on-deepavali-case-registered/article37363839.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. alert to Zika cases in U.P.: Sisodia||Amid several cases of Zika virus being reported in the last two weeks in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur district, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said the city Government was alert and watchful of the developments. Delhi shares a border with Uttar Pradesh too and many people commute back and forth from the two States, for work or other purposes. Thirty more people have tested positive for Zika virus in Kanpur, taking the total number of those infected in Kanpur district to 66, including nine IAF personnel, a senior official had said on Friday. Of those infected, 45 are men and 21 women, according to officials. The first case in Kanpur was reported on October 23 when an Indian Air Force (IAF) warrant officer had tested positive for Zika virus. On Saturday, at a press conference in New Delhi, Mr. Sisodia was asked about the situation in Delhi, given the frequent movement of people between Delhi and U.P., via Ghaziabad and Noida by road, or train and other means of transportation. The Deputy Chief Minister said the Delhi Government is alert and watchful of the Zika virus cases reported in Uttar Pradesh. Zika is a mosquito-borne virus and hence, getting rid of mosquitoes is the safe way out. To check the spread of the disease, health teams in Kanpur are undertaking sanitisation programmes, including anti-larvae spraying and identifying fever patients, screening seriously ill people and pregnant women. Health officials have been asked to step up surveillance and ensure door-to-door sampling and testing for Zika virus in the industrial city. The spurt in Zika virus cases in Kanpur comes amid relatively low number of COVID-19 cases reported, including in Delhi. Delhi on Friday recorded zero death due to COVID-19 and 32 fresh cases, even as the positivity rate climbed to 0.14% after fluctuating in the range of 0.05-0.10% for the past several weeks, according to data shared by the city Health Department. Dengue cases rising However, cases of dengue have been rising rapidly in the national capital in the past few weeks. Over 1,530 cases of dengue have been reported in Delhi this year till date, out of which nearly 1,200 were logged in October alone, the highest count for the month in the last four years, according to official data. Six deaths due to dengue have been recorded this year in the national capital till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-alert-to-zika-cases-in-up/article37363857.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||BJP playing politics over Chhath Puja, says AAP||Politics over Chhath Puja in Delhi intensified on Saturday with the Aam Aadmi Party accusing the BJP of not letting ‘Purvanchalis’ prepare ‘ghats’ required to perform rituals pertaining to the festival. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) urged the BJP to stop playing “dirty politics” over Chhath Puja and let people celebrate the festival in Delhi. “And, if they [BJP] continue playing dirty politics over Chhath Puja, Purvanchalvasi [People who hail from Purvanchal region of Uttar Pradesh] will not forgive them,” AAP legislator Sanjeev Jha warned while addressing a press conference at the party headquarters here. The BJP hit back, accusing the AAP of trying to create tension over the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-playing-politics-over-chhath-puja-says-aap/article37363835.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. clears policy for insulated electric cables||The Delhi Cabinet has approved a policy to convert 11kV bare electrical wires into insulated cables. Bare electrical wires, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said, spoil the beauty of Delhi and pose a threat to life and property. The CM added that the Delhi Government is also working on undergrounding the electrical wires hanging over the streets. While proposing the policy, the Power Department said that as the 11 kV bare electric wires passed through large parts of Delhi, all such networks were getting replaced with insulated conductors. According to the statement from the CM's Office, 2,264 km bare conductor network will be converted into insulated network by TPDDL, BYPL and BRPL under the policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-clears-policy-for-insulated-electric-cables/article37363834.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||Age determination of juvenile offenders shall be completed in 15 days: HC||The Delhi High Court has directed that the process of age determination of a juvenile in conflict with law shall be completed within 15 days of filing of documents and ossification test by the Investigating Officer (IO) of a case. The High Court said the IO shall ensure that the ossification test in relation to the juvenile is completed, a report is obtained and filed before the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) within 15 days from the date the test is ordered by the board. “In all cases pertaining to juveniles in conflict with law, regardless of the nature of offences alleged, the JJB shall ensure that the process of age-determination of the juvenile is completed within 15 days from the filing of documents relating to proof of age/ossification test report by the IO, as the case may be,” a Bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani said. The High Court issued various directions for further streamlining the process of inquiries relating to juveniles and made it clear that they should be scrupulously complied with by all the authorities concerned. The Bench was dealing with various issues pertaining to the interpretation and effective implementation of some provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act. The court granted four weeks’ time to the State to apprise it of the number of cases where inquiries are pending in each JJB here against juveniles for a period between six months to one year, along with the date of institution of the inquiry and the date of the first production in each case. The court said the information shall preferably include the rehabilitation plan/ individual care plan for each child or juvenile. It listed the matter for further consideration on December 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/age-determination-of-juvenile-offenders-shall-be-completed-in-15-days-hc/article37363837.ece
07 November 2021||Silchar (Assam),||Silchar to host green summit||Sustainable development and conservation strategies for the Northeast are on the agenda of the Northeast Green Summit beginning here from November 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/silchar-to-host-green-summit/article37364095.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Moving images||A classical dancer striking a traditional pose before a Rajasthani fort, with a camel sneaking from behind. An android leaping straight out of science fiction. These contrasting images are part of an ongoing online exhibition at the India International Centre, celebrating the bus art of Tamil Nadu to mark the sapphire anniversary of the State. Shot by multifaceted artist Vijay Jodha, the images are interesting in the context of any discussion about high art versus low art, refined versus kitsch, and where the bus art fits in. Vijay has tried to go beyond simple documentation to capture the interplay between the images and the audience, in this case the driver, conductor and the people travelling in these buses. “Just as bus art is a legitimate art form in itself and by extension these are akin to galleries on wheels that go to the people rather than the other way round, you have what would be a counterpart to an art gallery visitor,” says Vijay, who shot at least 100 buses for the project over almost a decade. Vijay has had the opportunity of interviewing and doing films with some of the biggest artists India has produced. Some of his work has been displayed at top art venues in India and overseas. “I had a lot of close exposure to so-called high art. Then there is the other non-gallery art that attracts sociologists rather than art critics. Some of them are even called kitsch and dismissed as unworthy of critical attention. The bus art seems to be at the lowest end of that category. Despite being on the margins, it is so vibrant and imaginative. It is that part that attracted me because most of my work has been around marginalised people, marginalised issues and practices.”  Hand-painted hoardings culture  Unlike the decorated trucks, cycle rickshaws and other vehicles seen across India, Vijay says, artwork on Tamil Nadu buses are not hand-painted. Even though machine-produced, he finds their presence a tip of the hat to the large hand-painted hoardings culture of Tamil Nadu. “It was a unique and signature public art of modern Tamil Nadu. Sadly, those have been displaced by printed hoardings for years now. Even when they were around, they weren’t seen as a worthy art form vis-à-vis the work displayed in the galleries. I think M. F. Husain was the first artist to notice them and he created a whole body of photographs around them back in the 1980s,” recounts Vijay. He hopes that bus art will become a vehicle for creative expression. “The coming of good quality and relatively inexpensive digital printing has democratised the hoarding business. It is no longer the monopoly of the famous and the powerful such as politicians and film stars. If you were to travel across Tamil Nadu, you will find digitally produced hoardings put up in the smallest of places and for all kind of reasons, including somebody’s birthday or wedding. In fact, I recall somebody once sent me a picture of a hoarding put up to publicly congratulate a youngster for getting a visa to study in America,” he laughs. But the downside, he says, is like many other parts of India, these inexpensive and widely accessible printed hoardings have dealt a body blow to the State’s traditional hoarding painters’ community, which, as you may recall, was one of the most accomplished, producing some of the most spectacular work in the whole country. Fortunately, he notes, the community of artists has started to make a comeback and is finding new avenues through public art. “I hope the private bus owners or the State transport authorities in Tamil Nadu take a cue and get these artists to work on buses soon. In Delhi, the Metro authorities have done that with respect to some of the metro stations.” Not only, he adds, would this address their livelihood issues, it would also take their art to the masses across the State and beyond. “That’s a deep desire with any artist – that her artwork travels far and wide, gets seen by as many people as possible.”  Platform for artistic expression  Having been involved with setting up of a museum of everyday art of traditional India in New Delhi decades ago, Vijay feels, he can say quite authoritatively that the idea of aesthetic concerns and artistic expressions is a non-elitist, close part of daily routine and everyday life intrinsic to Indian civilisation. “Even simple water storage facilities such as our centuries-old stepwells display the most intricate and beautiful carvings. So, this idea of vehicles serving as a platform for artistic expression is probably a yearning rooted in an ancient sensibility. It manifests itself with decorated trucks across India, on the back of cycle rickshaws in Allahabad, on the sides of these buses in Tamil Nadu, to cite three instances,” points out Vijay. One doesn’t see why this bus art of Tamil Nadu cannot be replicated in other places. “It is for the transport authorities to give it a push. The way the Delhi Metro has done with some of its stations, for example, and got artists to do these murals. Or somebody can take the lead among the private transport companies. Aircraft used to look pretty dull too, until Richard Branson and his Virgin airlines appeared on the scene.” Vijay hadn’t had the opportunity to meet any of the artists behind the striking work but that is the next step in this project. “So far it was only travelling and shooting in bus stands at Chennai, Nagapattinam, Dindigul, Thanjavur, Tiruchirappalli and Puducherry. The artistic choices and practical issues that lie behind the art are certainly worth exploring. But even without meeting them and having seen and photographed scores of buses across Tamil Nadu, it is apparent to me that they have deliberately stayed away from the staple of billboards in Tamil Nadu – politicians and film stars. It seems almost like that is the turf of the other artists. The bus artist’s turf is the rest of the area that begins with architecture and dance from an ancient Indian past to androids from the world of modern, western science fiction.” But even within these very visually pleasing and apolitical graphics, Vijay spotted a political statement in the form of many visuals celebrating Jallikattu — a Tamil tradition that was briefly banned by the courts and continues to attract the ire of certain groups.  (Colours Unlimited: The Bus Art of Tamil Nadu is on view until Nov. 14)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/moving-images/article37363833.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Big deal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/big-deal/article37364038.ece
07 November 2021||Hamirpur,||Three killed in U.P. accident||Three motorcycle-borne men lost their lives after their vehicle was hit by an ambulance here, police said on Saturday. The accident took place in Sajeti area of Kanpur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/three-killed-in-up-accident/article37364035.ece
07 November 2021||Silchar (Assam),||Silchar to host NE Green Summit from Nov. 16||Sustainable development and conservation strategies for the Northeast and its contiguous biodiversity zones, a round table of forest ministers of the region, besides green art and green music events are on the agenda of the three-day Northeast Green Summit beginning here from November 16. The focus area of the sixth edition of the summit is “Greening after Covid: Regional Cooperation, Innovation & Entrepreneurship”. Union Minister of State for Environment Ashwini Chaubey is expected to attend the summit, where delegates from Bangladesh, Bhutan and Myanmar will also brainstorm on various issues. Several stalls showcasing sustainable products from across the northeastern region will be part of the summit, which is organised by Vibgyor NE Foundation and supported by United Nations Environment (UNEP). Cyclothon event As a run-up to the event, a green cyclothon is being organised on November 8 to create awareness among the public about the rapidly-depleting resources. The rally also aims to promote the heritage points of southern Assam, also known as the Barak Valley, and eco-tourism and create awareness on sustainable development. “The agenda of the forest ministers' round table will be primarily to focus matters of common concerns — climate change, animal migration, movement of forest produce, management of natural resources on inter-State and international borders, forest and wildlife offence with ramifications across each other’s territory among many other issues,” says former IFS officer C.P. Marak, who is an advisory board member of the summit. A Silchar Declaration may be unveiled at the end of the round table, subject to consensus on the issues raised, Mr. Marak adds. According to Rajdeep Roy, Lok Sabha member from Silchar and one of the brains behind the summit, the forest ministers’ round table is expected to come out with certain consensus and resolutions to evolve guidelines which will positively contribute towards conservation of natural resources and livelihood of forest-dependent people. Atul Bagai, India head of UNEP, says while the northeast is comparatively at a better position in terms of greenery and natural resources, the effect of global warming and climate change is evident with delayed rains and longer summers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/silchar-to-host-ne-green-summit-from-nov-16/article37363858.ece
07 November 2021||Washington,||House passes Biden’s infrastructure Bill||Democrats rescued President Joe Biden’s faltering domestic agenda on Friday, passing a giant infrastructure package that is one of the pillars of his $3 trillion economic vision after rebel moderates had earlier blocked a vote on his social welfare expansion. Despite hours of cajoling lawmakers, party leaders had risked seeing Mr. Biden’s two-pronged legislative strategy collapse as they failed to unite the party’s feuding progressive and moderate factions. Comfortable majority But the breakthrough came as lawmakers rubber-stamped the Senate-passed $1.2 trillion infrastructure Bill on the House floor by a comfortable 228 votes to 206. The passage of the infrastructure spending marks a legacy-making achievement for Mr. Biden, amid plunging personal approval ratings and a humiliating upset defeat for his Democratic Party in the Virginia gubernatorial election. His spokeswoman Jen Psaki said the success was “proof that delivering for the American people is worth all the painful sausage making”. “Clean drinking water for kids, broadband access, electric vehicles, biggest investment in public transit. It’s happening. And more to come,” she tweeted. The Democratic party leadership in the House of Representatives began the day aiming to rubber-stamp the infrastructure Bill, the biggest upgrade of roads, bridges and waterways in decades, after sending an even bigger social welfare deal, worth up to $1.85 trillion, to the upper chamber. But six moderate Democrats refused to commit to the “Build Back Better” benefits package, arguing they first needed to see a full accounting of its economic impacts, which won’t be available for at least a week. With a majority of just three votes in the House, Speaker Nancy Pelosi was forced to postpone the vote on the Build Back Better package, which includes major investments in health, education, tackling climate change and expanding social welfare programs. Olive branch Progressives initially blocked the infrastructure vote amid suspicion that Senate centrists would reject the Build Back Better Bill as soon as they got their transport upgrades signed into law. But Ms. Pelosi refused to back down, insisting on the vote before the end of the day and offering an olive branch to the liberals — a procedural vote on the “rule” to at least get debate started on Build Back Better. “I am urging all members to vote for both the rule for consideration of the Build Back Better Act and final passage of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill tonight,” Mr. Biden had said in a late evening statement. “I am confident that during the week of November 15, the House will pass the Build Back Better Act.” The victory will be a salve to Democratic leaders who have spent two days in meetings painstakingly trying to bring aboard holdouts over multiple sticking points in Build Back Better, from prescription drug pricing to immigration provisions. Passing the infrastructure package into law required some tricky mathematics with several progressives, still smarting over the moderate rebellion, voting no — but Democrats were able to add 13 Republicans to their side of the ledger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/house-passes-bidens-infrastructure-bill/article37363352.ece
07 November 2021||Kabul,||Four women killed in Afghanistan||Four women have been found dead in the northern city of Mazar-i-Sharif, a spokesman for Afghanistan’s Taliban government said on Saturday, following reports that activists had been killed. Two suspects have been arrested after the four bodies were found at a house in the city’s fifth police district, Interior Ministry spokesman Qari Sayed Khosti said in a video statement. “The arrested people have admitted in initial interrogation that the women were invited to the house by them. Further investigations are under way and the case has been referred to court,” he said. Khosti did not identify the victims, but a source in Mazar-i-Sharif said that at least one of the dead was a women’s rights activist, whose family does not wish to speak to the media. Plans to fly out A report on BBC Persian , citing civil society sources, said the four women were friends and colleagues who had hoped to travel to Mazar-i-Sharif airport for a flight out of the country. A rights group source said on condition of anonymity that the women received a call that they thought was an invitation to join an evacuation flight and were picked up by a car, only to be found dead later. The Taliban, who seized power in Afghanistan in August after a 20-year war against the former U.S.-backed government, are a deeply conservative Islamist movement. Under their last period of rule, women were banned from public life and since the group’s return to government many rights activists have fled the country. Women’s demands Some women who remained have held street protests in Kabul demanding that their rights be respected and that girls be allowed to attend public high schools. Taliban fighters have broken up some of the protests, and the government has threatened to arrest any journalists covering unauthorised gatherings in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/four-women-killed-in-afghanistan/article37363349.ece
07 November 2021||Berlin,||3 injured in Germany knife attack||Three persons were wounded in a knife attack on a high-speed train in southern Germany on Saturday, local police said, adding a suspect had been arrested. Officers said the danger was over and a 27-year-old man was in custody, with unconfirmed media reports claiming the suspect was of Syrian origin and suffered from psychiatric issues. The motive for the attack on the passenger train, making its way from Bavaria to the northern city of Hamburg with roughly 300 people on board, was not yet clear. Local prosecutors are handling the case rather than the federal officials who would deal with suspected terrorism. The three victims were being treated in hospital, said police in Neumarkt in der Oberpfalz, adding that none had suffered life-threatening injuries. The ICE high-speed train was halted in the station of Seubersdorf, southeast of Nuremberg, and travel on the line was suspended. “This knife attack is horrible,” Interior Minister Horst Seehofer said on Twitter. Tense time “I would like to thank everyone, especially the police and the train staff, for their brave action, which prevented something even worse from happening. The motive for the crime is still unclear and will now be determined,” he added. The attack took place at a tense time in Germany, which faces terror threats from jihadists and right-wing extremist groups. Islamist suspects have committed several violent attacks in recent years, the deadliest being a truck rampage at a Berlin Christmas market in December 2016 that killed 12 persons. The Tunisian attacker, a failed asylum seeker, was a supporter of the Islamic State jihadist group. Seehofer said earlier this year that German authorities had foiled 23 attempted attacks since 2000. “Germany and Western Europe are still in the sights of radical Islamists,” he warned at the time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/3-injured-in-germany-knife-attack/article37363350.ece
07 November 2021||Los Angeles,||At least eight crushed to death at Texas music fest||A crush caused by a crowd surge killed at least eight persons and wounded several others at rap star Travis Scott’s Astroworld music festival in Texas on Friday night, authorities said. Officials said the crush happened as “the crowd began to compress towards the front of the stage” around 9:00 p.m. when Scott was performing. There were around 50,000 people in the audience at Houston’s NRG Park. “That caused some panic and it started causing some injuries, people began to fall out, become unconscious and it created additional panic,” Houston fire chief Samuel Pena said at a press conference. “We had at least eight confirmed fatalities tonight and scores of individuals that were injured,” he said, adding the cause of death could not be confirmed until after medical exams were completed. Mr. Pena said 17 persons were rushed to hospital, with 11 of them in “cardiac arrest.” Scott was on stage when the incident occurred and stopped his act on several occasions when he saw fans in distress near the stage, the Houston Chronicle reported. Survivors described chaotic scenes of people squeezed up against one another and many struggling to breathe, the Chronicle reported. “We were hanging on to each other to avoid getting separated,” one survivor said. “If you let go, you could easily drift apart.” ‘Extremely tragic night’ Senior Harris County official Lina Hidalgo said it was “an extremely tragic night”. “Our hearts are broken, people go to these events to have a good time, to make memories,” she added. Houston police are investigating the cause of the incident and looking at video footage from the arena. Videos shared on social media showed paramedics resuscitating unconscious fans in the audience as the concert continued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/at-least-eight-crushed-to-death-at-texas-music-fest/article37363348.ece
07 November 2021||Freetown,||Oil tanker explodes in Sierra Leone, killing at least 92||An oil tanker exploded near Sierra Leone’s capital, killing at least 92 people and severely injuring dozens of others after large crowds gathered to collect leaking fuel, officials and witnesses said on Saturday. The explosion took place on late Friday after a bus struck the tanker in Wellington, a suburb just to the east of Freetown. The mortuary at Connaught Hospital reported 92 bodies had been brought in by Saturday morning. About 30 severely burned victims were not expected to survive, according to Foday Musa, a staff member in the intensive care unit. Injured people whose clothes had burned off in the fire that followed the explosion lay naked on stretchers as nurses attended to them Saturday. Fireball in the sky Hundreds of people milled outside the main gates of the mortuary and near the hospital’s main entrance, waiting for word of their loved ones. It was not immediately known how many people were undergoing treatment for burns because patients were taken to hospitals and clinics across the metropolitan area. Video of the explosion’s aftermath showed a giant fireball burning in the night sky as some survivors with severe burns cried out in pain. President Julius Maada Bio, who was in Scotland attending the United Nations climate talks, deplored the “horrendous loss of life.” “My profound sympathies with families who have lost loved ones and those who have been maimed as a result,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/oil-tanker-explodes-in-sierra-leone-killing-at-least-92/article37363355.ece
07 November 2021||Colombo,||Chinese Embassy accuses U.S. of expanding military bases||Reacting  sharply to a Pentagon report on security developments involving China, flagging the Asian giant’s “likely consideration” of overseas military bases in countries such as Sri Lanka, the Chinese Embassy in Colombo accused the United States of widespread military occupation. “A thief believes everybody steals. Despite the withdrawal of U.S. military bases and troops from Afghanistan, the U.S. continues to maintain about 750 military bases abroad. These bases are costly in a number of ways: financially, politically, socially, and environmentally,” the Colombo-based Embassy said on Twitter, responding to a local journalist’s tweet on the U.S. Department of Defense report. The official handle of the Chinese mission also shared a map showing “military bases controlled by the U.S.”. Seeking influence The Chinese Embassy’s response comes amid a well-known geopolitical contest between the U.S. and China for greater influence in the strategic Indian Ocean region. The Chinese Embassy’s tweet is not the first instance of the China-U.S. clash playing out in Sri Lanka. U.S. Ambassador in Colombo Alaina B. Teplitz, who recently completed her term, has openly criticised Chinese projects. China, in turn, accused the U.S. Ambassador of “violating diplomatic protocol” and suggested that the U.S. “quit the addiction” to “preaching”, and “applying double standards.” While China-backed projects have in the past sparked questions within Sri Lanka on due process and transparency, there is currently mounting resistance to the U.S.’s involvement in a key energy deal in the island nation. Last month, the Ceylon Electricity Board agreed to sell a 40% stake in a power plant in Kerawelapitiya, near Colombo, to U.S. firm New Fortress Energy, and trade unions are resisting the move that they say, gives the U.S. a monopoly over LNG sales to the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-embassy-accuses-us-of-expanding-military-bases/article37363357.ece
07 November 2021||Lahore,||Lahore High Court acquits 6 JuD leaders||The Lahore High Court on Saturday set aside a trial court’s conviction and acquitted six senior leaders of Mumbai attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed’s banned Jamat-ud-Dawah (JuD) in a terror financing case. Saeed-led JuD is the front organisation for the proscribed Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), the terror outfit responsible for carrying out the 2008 Mumbai attack that killed 166 people, including six Americans. The trial court had found the leaders guilty of terror financing. They had been collecting funds and unlawfully financing LeT. It also ordered the confiscation of assets made from funds collected through terrorism financing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/lahore-high-court-acquits-6-jud-leaders/article37363669.ece
07 November 2021||Washington,||Russian analyst held for lying||A Russian analyst who contributed to a dossier of Democratic-funded research into ties between Russia and Donald Trump was arrested on Thursday on charges of lying to the FBI about his sources of information, among them a longtime supporter of Hillary Clinton. The case against Igor Danchenko is part an investigation into the origins of the FBI’s probe into whether Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign and Russia had conspired to tip the outcome of that year’s presidential campaign. The indictment is likely to boost complaints from Trump allies that well-connected Democrats worked behind the scenes to advance suspicions about Mr. Trump and Russia that contributed to the FBI’s election-year investigation. The case does not undercut investigators’ findings that the Kremlin aided the Trump campaign — conclusions that were not based on the dossier, which was barely mentioned in special counsel Robert Mueller’s report. But the indictment does endorse a longstanding concern about the Russia probe: that opposition research the FBI relied on as it surveilled a Trump campaign adviser was marred by unsupported, uncorroborated claims. The five-count indictment accuses Mr. Danchenko of making multiple false statements to the FBI when interviewed in 2017 about his role in collecting information for Christopher Steele, a former British spy whose research into ties between the Trump campaign and Russia was financed by Democrats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russian-analyst-held-for-lying/article37363353.ece
07 November 2021||Khartoum,||Sudan activists reject power-sharing with army, call strikes||Sudan’s protest movement has rejected internationally backed initiatives to return to a power-sharing arrangement with the military after last month’s coup, announcing two days of nationwide strikes starting Sunday. The movement called for the establishment of a civilian government to lead a transition to democracy.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sudan-activists-reject-power-sharing-with-army-call-strikes/article37363356.ece
07 November 2021||Beijing,||China has given 75.96% of population complete COVID-19 vaccine doses||China had given 1.072 billion people complete COVID-19 vaccine doses by November 5, Mi Feng, spokesman at the National Health Commission, said. That accounts for 75.96% of the nation’s 1.41 billion people.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-has-given-7596-of-population-complete-covid-19-vaccine-doses/article37363359.ece
07 November 2021||Mumbai,||Indusind refutes whistleblower claims||Terming whistleblower allegations of loan evergreening as “grossly inaccurate and baseless”, Indusind Bank admitted to having disbursed 84,000 loans without customer consent in May due to a “technical glitch”. Lending without consent was reported by the field staff in two days, and the glitch was rectified expeditiously, the lender said in a clarification on Saturday. On Friday, a media report cited anonymous whistleblowers writing to the bank management and the RBI about BFIL, the bank’s microlending unit allegedly resorting to evergreening of loans, wherein existing borrowers unable to pay dues were given new loans to show the books as clean. “The bank strongly denies the allegations of ‘evergreening’. All the loans originated and managed by BFIL, including during the COVID period which saw the first and second waves ravaging the countryside, are fully compliant with the regulatory guidelines,” the lender said in a statement. “Due to a technical glitch, nearly 84,000 loans were disbursed without the customer consent getting recorded at the time of loan disbursement,” it added. “Operational issues” due to the pandemic’s second wave like lockdowns, containment zones, and restrictions at the village/panchayat level had necessitated disbursement of some loans in cash, it said. At the end of September, 26,073 of these 84,000 clients were active with the loans outstanding at Rs. 34 crore, which is 0.12% of the September-end portfolio, the bank said, adding that it carries necessary provisions. SOP revised It also said that the standard operating procedure had since been revised to make biometric authorisation compulsory, and that in October, almost 100% of the disbursements were in the customers’ bank accounts, as in the pre-COVID time. During the pandemic, customers faced operational difficulties and some had turned into intermittent payers, though a large number demonstrated a strong intent to repay on many occasions, the bank said. It added that help was rendered to such clients, including through additional liquidity support to the extent of 20% of the outstanding as on February 29, 2020, as applicable under the ECLGS, restructuring, and additional loan with a longer tenor and lower EWI (equated weekly instalments) after they cleared their arrears and with their due consent. Nearly all lenders have reported reverses on microloans since the start of the pandemic. The activity is concentrated in rural areas, where field agents go deep to disburse loans and also collect dues in cash on a weekly basis. With the easing of curbs, all lenders are reporting an improvement in collections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indusind-refutes-whistleblower-claims/article37363685.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Booster shots, pediatric jabs to keep vaccine demand high’||Emcure Pharmaceuticals sees growth opportunities in biologics and vaccines, which it intends to introduce in emerging markets. As the first Indian firm to develop an indigenous mRNA platform, it is in the process of developing an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine via its subsidiary Gennova Biopharmaceuticals. Three other vaccines on the platform are under development, targeted at Zoster, Zika and Rabies, said Satish Mehta , MD and CEO.  At what stage is your COVID vaccine? In August, the Vaccine Subject Expert Committee (SEC) reviewed the interim Phase I data, and found that our vaccine candidate HGCO19 was safe, tolerable, and immunogenic in the participants of the study. The Drug Controller General of India then approved Phase II and Phase III study protocols for the vaccine, which are currently underway in India. We are committed to fulfilling the target of 60 million doses of our mRNA vaccine to the Government of India (GoI). As we near the final stages of trials for our vaccine, we look forward to positively contributing in the nation’s fight against the pandemic. Most Indians will be vaccinated by the time it is out. Are you not late? We are constantly watching the developments in India and all over the world. Our assessment as well as commentary by various experts indicate there will be a reasonable demand for booster shots of COVID-19 vaccines in India. There is also likely to be an additional demand from countries where a large part of the population has not yet been vaccinated. There is also expected to be demand for the paediatric category in India. We will continue to work towards addressing these opportunities where mRNA platform has shown promise (especially given our candidate is stable between 2-80 degrees Celsius). How is the new drug discovery pipeline at your firm? How and when will they be monetised? We are an R&D driven company and our focus has always been on science first. We have a strong track record in developing portfolios of differentiated products across several platforms, including chiral molecules, complex APIs, biologics and novel drug delivery systems. Our aim is to bring first to market specialty or differentiated generic drugs through the company’s own R&D efforts which we continue to [make], to address the needs in regions where we operate (India, Europe, Canada). What are your core therapeutic areas? In India, we are present in 19 different therapeutic areas that makes our offerings well diversified. Seven of our brands namely Orofer, Exhep, Metpure, Asomex, Zostum and Bevon are among the top 300 selling brands in India. Our approach has been to develop a customised basket of diverse product offerings which we feel are suitable for the market allowing us to do well in various regions. We are the largest pharmaceutical company in India in the gynaecology, blood-related and HIV antivirals therapeutic areas. We have also outgrown the Indian pharmaceutical industry in some other key areas like cardiovascular, oncology, vitamins, minerals and nutrients, anti-infectives and anti-diabetics. We also have a good portfolio of biosimilars where three of our six brands namely Elaxim, Tenectase and Hamsyl, were each ranked first in our domestic market for FY21, in terms of sales in India for their respective molecules. How much debt do you carry? As on March 31, our net debt stood at Rs. 1,589 crore. We intend to utilise a majority of the net proceeds from our forthcoming IPO towards repayment or prepayment of all or a portion of the principal amount on certain loans availed by us and the accrued interest.   We are committed to fulfilling the target of 60 million doses of our mRNA vaccine to GoI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/booster-shots-pediatric-jabs-to-keep-vaccine-demand-high/article37363682.ece
07 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Seeing triple-digit growth in mid-market’||German software firm SAP has been witnessing a triple-digit growth quarter-on-quarter in its mid-market segment business for the last about one-and-a-half years, helped by the company’s ‘Global Bharat’ programme for small and medium businesses (SMBs). “Global Bharat has picked up immense pace,” said Subramanian Ananthapadmanabhan, VP, Mid-Market, SAP Indian Subcontinent, SAP India . The programme was unveiled in June 2020 amid the digitalisation push due to the pandemic. ‘Tier 2 cities picking up’ “So, we have seen traction from SMBs in adopting SAP as a solution across all our solution lines. We are also seeing an increased traction in adoption in tier two cities because this program is not restricted to metros only.” The programme is aimed at enabling Indian MSMEs become globally competitive by equipping them with digital technologies. About 80%, or more than 9,500 of the company’s India customers, are in the mid-market or SMB segment. “The growth numbers that we are seeing have been in triple digits quarter-on-quarter,” he added. “We don’t break out the India numbers, but it’ll be fair to say that it has been in excess of 100% and in some quarters, even much more than that. We have seen a fantastic rise in our cloud story... in the last four quarters, the cloud business has also been growing exponentially, more than triple digits, in every quarter,” he added. ‘Wide adoption’ Mr. Ananthapadmanabhan added that in the last about six months, SAP India has been seeing increased traction from industries such as engineering and construction; life sciences, pharma and chemicals, while manufacturing has always been a strong area for the company. “If you look at digital natives [start-ups]... there we see demand across the board. So, whether it is an online commerce company or a retail start-up or a real estate start-up... at either various stages of funding or yet to find the first fund, but still want to start off with SAP. “They are talking to us, and they are adopting SAP,” Mr. Ananthapadmanabhan said. He added that while the net new share of business in mid-market has gone up to 65% from 28% a couple of years ago, the percentage increase in the number of SMB clients from 80% to 81% will ‘take a lot more net new acquisition’ as the base was ‘very big’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/seeing-triple-digit-growth-in-mid-market/article37363680.ece
07 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Suven Pharma Q2 profit rises 31% to Rs. 97 cr.||Suven Pharmaceuticals on Saturday posted a 31% increase in its consolidated net profit to Rs. 97 crore for the second quarter ended September 30.  Revenue from operations rose to Rs. 301 crore for the quarter under review, as against Rs. 237 crore in the year-earlier period, Suven Pharmaceuticals said in a regulatory filing. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact the business and research in India and its wholly owned subsidiary, Suven Pharma Inc. USA, it noted. The firm primarily operates in the contract development and manufacturing operations segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/suven-pharma-q2-profit-rises-31-to-rs-97-cr/article37363683.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Mumbai edges out Bengal||Karnataka outclassed Services by 33 runs in a Elite Group ‘B’ fixture, to go to the top of the points table, in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy at Guwahati on Saturday. Karnataka, with three wins in three matches, sits pretty on 12 points. Mumbai and Bengal, with two wins, trail the leader. Batting first, Karnataka rode on contributions from skipper Manish Pandey (51, 48b, 5x4, 1x6), Mayank Agarwal (28, 29b, 2x4, 1x6) and Aniruddha Joshi (23, 16b, 2x4) to post 142 for six. Spinners to the fore Spinners J. Suchith and K.C. Cariappa took the new ball, and third spinner K. Gowtham came in at first change. The trio gave away just 52 in its combined 12 overs. Speedster Vijaykumar Vyshak, making his T20 debut for Karnataka, picked up three wickets. M.B. Darshan, another pacer and debutant, scalped two. In another fixture, Mumbai put it past Bengal by 10 runs in a low-scoring match. After electing to bat, Mumbai struggled to get going, and posted 131 for seven. Only Shivam Dube (24, 23b, 1x4, 1x6) lasted more than 20 deliveries. Skipper Ajinkya Rahane, coming in on the back of two consecutive fifties, fell for 17. Prithvi Shaw’s dismal run in the tournament continued, dismissed by left-arm spinner Shahbaz Ahmed for six. Shaw has returned a disappointing 24 runs in three outings so far. Chase not enough Bengal was below-par in the chase, and was restricted to 121 for eight. Kaif Ahmed (31, 31b, 2x4, 1x6) and Ritwik Roy (30, 25b, 3x4, 1x6) put on 54 for the fifth wicket, but it was not enough. Mumbai pacer Mohit Avasthi picked up three for 25 in his four overs. Baroda whipped Chhattisgarh by six wickets to record its first win. Captain and left-arm spinner Krunal Pandya starred for Baroda with a four-wicket haul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-keeps-winning/article37363688.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Sai Kishore bowls TN to victory||R. Sai Kishore gave himself the perfect birthday gift with a four-wicket haul (4/28) that included a hat-trick and later C. Hari Nishaanth slammed a brilliant unbeaten 75 (49b, 2x4, 6x6) to help Tamil Nadu post a comprehensive, eight-wicket win over Pondicherry in the Syed Mushtaq Ali (Elite Group A) T20 tournament at Lucknow on Saturday. Asked to bat first, the Pondicherry innings never got going as the TN bowlers kept picking wickets and restricted the former to just 129, thanks to Sai Kishore and M. Mohammed. Dependable bowler The 25-year-old left-arm spinner has become a dependable bowler and struck thrice in the final over after being hit for a six off the first ball. Fabid Ahmed was the first of his victims in the last over, caught at long-off by T. Natarajan, before left-handed Iqlas Naha hit straight to the same fielder. Subodh Bhati then tried to slog sweep the spinner and got a top-edge which was taken by wicketkeeper N. Jagadeesan to complete the hat-trick. Chasing a modest target, Hari was slow to start going at a strike rate of just 50 until he got into double figures. After the fall of Jagadeesan, B. Aparajith came out with positive intent and the duo quickly found a higher gear. The left-handed Hari used the sweep shot to very good effect, not afraid to take on the Pondicherry off-spinners in hitting it against the turn as he plundered six sixes. As a result, TN chased down the target in just 16.1 overs for its third straight win. In the other Group A matches, Maharashtra defeated Odisha by 27 runs, with skipper Ruturaj Gaikwad slamming his third consecutive half-century (81) and left-arm medium-pacer Divyang M. Himganekar picking up four wickets. Punjab had a walk in the park with an 81-run win over Goa, riding on Prabhsimran Singh’s unbeaten 119 (61b, 11x4, 6x6).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sai-kishore-bowls-tn-to-victory/article37363725.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Railways puts it past Kerala||After two losses, Railways made its presence felt by shocking Kerala by six runs in a Group D match of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy at the Ferozeshah Kotla ground here on Saturday. In a group where all six teams have won and lost at least one match after three rounds, Gujarat displaced Madhya Pradesh at the top with a resounding 50-run victory. Assam is proving to be the surprise packet of the group after jumping to the second spot with its second win — a three-wicket verdict over Bihar. Railways pulled off the day’s biggest surprise, Asked to bat, the Railwaymen managed a fighting 144/6, thanks to some big hits late in the innings by Shubham Chaubey (19 n.o., 6b, 2x4, 1x6) and Harsh Tyagi (17, 11b, 1x4, 1x6). From the other end, wicketkeeper-batter Upendra Yadav anchored the innings with an unbeaten 39 off 37 balls. Kerala’s Sudhesan Midhun (3/24) and Jalaj Saxena (0/17) restricted the run flow. In reply, Kerala was 24/4 in the PowerPlay, losing its top batters — Mohammad Azharuddeen, Jalaj Saxena, Rohan Kunnummal and Sanju Samson — in that order. A 70-run stand followed between Vishnu Vinod (62 n.o., 43b, 4x4, 2x6) and Sachin Baby (25, 27b). Railways’ medium pacers Yuvraj Singh (3/23) and Ananta Saha (1/21) kept Kerala in check. Later, Unnikrishnan Manukrishnan’s cameo produced a 10-ball unbeaten 21 before Kerala fell agonisingly short of the target. After Bihar rode on Babul Kumar’s 82 to score 135/8, Assam’s skipper Riyan Parag smashed a 33-ball 58 to set the victory-course. At the Air Force ground, Gujarat gave no chance to Madhya Pradesh after skipper Priyank Panchal’s 79 in 162/3. Thereafter all five bowlers took wickets as MP crashed from 60/1 to 112.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/railways-puts-it-past-kerala/article37364040.ece
07 November 2021||Mexico City,||Verstappen dominates practice||Max Verstappen dominated practice at the Mexico Grand Prix on Friday, ending the session over half-a-second ahead of world champion and title rival Lewis Hamilton. The Dutch Red Bull driver, who has a 12-point lead over Hamilton in the championship with five races left, clocked a blistering 1min 17.301s. That was 0.424s ahead of Valtteri Bottas and 0.509s faster than Hamilton in the second Mercedes. Perez fourth Red Bull’s Sergio Perez, racing in front of his home fans at the spectacular Autodromo Hermanos Rodriguez, was fourth at 0.570s behind his teammate. Ferrari’s Carlos Sainz, 1.017s back from two-time Mexico GP winner Verstappen, filled out the top five. Bottas had edged out Hamilton in the morning session in a best time of 1min 18.341s, mastering the tricky, dusty conditions. Verstappen and Perez had been third and fourth fastest respectively at 0.123s and 0.269s.  Hamilton and Kimi Raikkonen in an Alfa Romeo, meanwhile, were put under investigation for not having followed the instructions of the race director to rejoin the track after coming off at the first turn in the opening session. Both men escaped with a reprimand. Lance Stroll of Aston Martin and Japanese driver Yuki Tsunoda of AlphaTauri will start from the back of the grid in Sunday’s race for taking too many engine parts after both also changed engines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/verstappen-dominates-practice/article37363493.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Andhra returns to winning ways||Andhra returned to winning ways in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy as it defeated Jharkhand by eight runs in an Elite Group C fixture at Vadodara on Saturday. After a winning start against Jammu and Kashmir in the opening fixture, Andhra went down to Haryana in its last outing. Quality cricket However, the team came up with quality cricket to get its campaign back on track. Put in to bat, openers K.S. Bharat (48, 47b, 5x4) and Ashwin Hebbar (45, 42b, 6x4) stitched together an 85-run stand. After they were dismissed, Andhra lost a couple of quick wickets. However, the seasoned Ricky Bhui (34 not out, 15b, 3x4, 2x6) took the team to a competitive 165 for four. Jharkhand got off to a solid start with openers Ishank Jaggi (62, 39b, 9x4, 1x6) and Utkarsh Singh (43, 42b, 6x4) putting up 109 in just 12 overs. However, things went haywire after the openers were dismissed by Harishankar Reddy — who bagged three wickets, conceding 24 runs. From a steady 109 for no loss, Jharkhand suffered a middle-order collapse as none of its seasoned batters could chip in. Even though Anukul Roy played a quickfire 16 off nine deliveries, it was not enough to guide the team home. With Harishankar and C. Stephen claiming three wickets each, Jharkhand fell eight runs short. Hooda, Lomror shine Deepak Hooda played yet another blitzkrieg — 70 not out off 36 balls — as Rajasthan defeated Himachal Pradesh by seven wickets. Mahipal Lomror scored 55 (39b, 6x4, 2x6).  Malik, Rasool excel Umran Malik’s four for 22 and a three-wicket haul by Parvez Rasool helped Jammu and Kashmir beat Haryana by seven wickets. With Malik and Rasool ripping apart the batting, Haryana was bundled out for 108. In its chase, Rasool remained unbeaten on 34 to ensure an easy win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/andhra-returns-to-winning-ways/article37364119.ece
07 November 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Warner fires, Australia in semifinals||Opener David Warner smashed an unbeaten 89 as Australia hammered West Indies by eight wickets to book a spot in the semifinals in the ICC T20 World Cup here on Saturday, after South Africa lost to Group I leader England in the other match of the day. Chasing 158 for victory, Australia rode on a 124-run second-wicket stand between Warner and Mitchell Marsh to romp home in 16.2 overs. Marsh, who hit 53 of 32 balls, got out to Chris Gayle who celebrated the wicket in what was likely his swansong in West Indies colours. Earlier, Josh Hazlewood took four wickets to keep West Indies down to 157 for seven despite skipper Kieron Pollard's 44 in the Super 12 clash. West Indies failed to give a winning farewell to Dwayne Bravo, who played his last international. Australia gave Bravo and Gayle a guard of honour after Warner hit the winning runs. Pollard rescued his side from 91 for five with his 31-ball knock and a key partnership of 35 with Bravo. Bravo scored 10 and walked back to claps and hugs. Openers Evin Lewis and Gayle started in attacking mode hitting the Australian pace bowlers to all parts of the ground in an opening stand of 30 off 14 balls. Gayle hit two sixes, before Pat Cummins got the veteran to chop a delivery on to the stumps. Gayle walked back to a standing ovation from teammates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/warner-guides-australia-to-semifinals/article37363443.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Three-in-a-row for Hyderabad, Delhi||Delhi and Hyderabad made it three wins in a row in Group E of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy on Saturday to consolidate their lead over other teams in the points table. Chandigarh captain Manan Vohra scored his maiden T20 century but couldn’t prevent his team from losing to Hyderabad at Sultanpur. Vohra’s unbeaten 106 (64b, 9x4, 5x6) accounted for more than 65% of his team’s total even as the rest of the top order proved brittle with no other batter scoring more than 19. In contrast, Hyderabad’s top order stood rock solid, Hanuma Vihari (57) and Tilak Varma cracking half-centuries. Tanmay Agarwal, the captain, scored a sprightly 34. Tilak’s unbeaten 61 (29b, 3x4, 6x6) took the contest away from Chandigarh as Hyderabad won with an over and two balls to spare. At Lahli, Delhi profited by inserting the opposition again, restricting Uttar Pradesh to 108 for eight. UP’s innings began on a positive note as the openers Abhishek Goswami and Madhav Kaushik gathered 53 in 8.3 overs. Seamer Deepak Punia (3/15) started the rot soon after and except Rinku Singh and Akshdeep Nath, who added 25 for fifth wicket, none of the batters provided much resistance. Delhi chased down its target in 13.2 overs, Anuj Rawat scoring an attacking 50 (32b, 1x4, 6x6). Dhruv Shorey played the second fiddle, making an unbeaten 38 (39b, 4x5). The closest clash of the day was in the afternoon between Saurashtra and Uttarakhand in Sultanpur. Uttarakhand came within two runs of posting its first win, finishing on 144 for five after being set a target of 147. Veteran Robin Bist was the fulcrum of the innings, making an unbeaten 45 (32b, 4x4, 1x6). Swapnil Singh (16 n.o., 6b, 2x4, 1x6) brought the side close after 27 were required to win at the fall of the fifth wicket, in nine deliveries. Jaydev Unadkat was the pick of the Saurashtra bowlers, taking two for 21. Sheldon Jackson was the team’s most successful batter with an unbeaten 62 (50b, 5x4, 3x6). Prerak Mankad contributed 47 (31b, 7x4).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/three-in-a-row-for-delhi-hyderabad/article37363819.ece
07 November 2021||Brisbane,||England’s first batch arrives in Australia for the Ashes||Joe Root and Ben Stokes led the first batch of England’s cricketers to land in Brisbane on Saturday ahead of the five-Test Ashes series against Australia. The squad, still to be joined by members of the Twenty20 World Cup side, walked through the terminal and into a waiting bus bound for 14 days’ quarantine on the Gold Coast. Acclimatisation The early arrival gives the team a month to acclimatise to the Australian summer before the first Test starts on December 8. Also among the arrivals was opening batsman Rory Burns, fast-bowler Jimmy Anderson and stalwart Stuart Broad. Although the team will be under strict quarantine, Cricket Australia confirmed players would be allowed to train at the Metricon Stadium throughout their isolation period. The talismanic Stokes, who has not played any cricket since July because of a finger injury and mental health issues, was only added to the 17-man squad last month. Stokes made his Ashes debut in 2013-14, scoring a maiden Test century in tough batting conditions in Perth but failing to prevent a 5-0 whitewash. But captain Root said India’s 2-1 series win in Australia earlier this year had given his team confidence. “One thing I think we can take a lot of heart and confidence from is the way India went and played there in their (Australia’s) last home series,” Root told a conference call on Tuesday. “They took them on in their own way, they played to their strengths, but they didn’t take a backward step at any stage,” Root said.  One thing I think we can take a lot of heart and confidence from is the way India went and played there in their (Australia’s) last home series — Root||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/englands-first-batch-arrives-in-australia-for-the-ashes/article37363488.ece
07 November 2021||DUBAI,||India has itself to blame||The fate of the supposed group of death of the ICC T20 World Cup would have been sealed by the time you read this. But, thanks to a combination of strange results and scheduling to suit television viewers in a certain territory, Group 2 could well be touted as the group of death, heading into the last two days of the tournament’s Super 12 stage. With England being assured of a place in the semis, Australia and South Africa were vying for the other slot from Group 1. In Group 2, however, three teams, albeit technically, are in contention for the other open spot, with Pakistan set to top the table. While two of these three teams — New Zealand and Afghanistan — will be up against each other, India, the favourite-turned-outsider, will be gunning for Afghanistan sitting in its swanky resort here. Underwhelming campaign The fact that India has to bank on Afghanistan to spring the biggest surprise of the tournament speaks volumes about the kind of campaign it has had. Having been demolished by two other main contenders in the group, even the biggest supporters of the Indian team would admit that it doesn’t deserve to be in the knockouts. Still, India has done everything it can in its last two games to give itself a shot to be in the semis. It revived its fortunes in Abu Dhabi with the run feast that saw the openers coming good and the big-hitters being promoted following a tweak in the batting order. The Men in Blue then celebrated captain Virat Kohli’s birthday by dismantling Scotland for 85 and blitzing past the target in just 39 balls. It helped India to better New Zealand’s and Afghanistan’s Net Run Rate, a factor that could be decisive should New Zealand succumb to Afghanistan. That India has failed to lift itself up in the ICC tournaments at crucial junctures will remain a blot on Kohli and coach Ravi Shastri’s otherwise successful partnership. No wonder then that Jadeja, at the end of his post-match press conference, came up with a matter-of-fact reply when he was asked what will India do if New Zealand wins on Sunday. “We will pack our bags and go home, what else?” Jadeja said. If India’s campaign ends even before its last game on Monday, it will have no one else to blame.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-has-itself-to-blame-for-the-situation-it-is-in/article37363447.ece
07 November 2021||SHARJAH,||South Africa shocks England, but bows out||Rassie van der Dussen smashed an unbeaten 94 as South Africa beat England by 10 runs but failed to qualify for the semifinals of the ICC T20 World Cup on Saturday. Group 1 winner England and runner-up Australia made the final four from the six-team pool. South Africa posted 189 for two after van der Dussen smashed six sixes in his 60-ball knock but needed to limit England to 131 or fewer to edge out Australia on NRR. England, which topped the group when it passed 109, finished on 179 for eight after a hat-trick by Kagiso Rabada in the final over. The pacer sent back Chris Woakes, skipper Eoin Morgan and Chris Jordan for the third hat-trick of the tournament. It was England's first loss in five matches. Van der Dussen and Aiden Markram, who hit 52 off 25 balls, put on an unbeaten partnership of 103 for the third wicket to give their team a challenging total. In reply, England started well with Jason Roy and Jos Buttler hitting boundaries in the first four overs. But Roy suffered a calf-injury issue while taking a run with Buttler and had to be helped off the field. South Africa seized the opportunity and Anrich Nortje sent back Buttler in the next over. Tabraiz Shamsi then trapped Jonny Bairstow for one. Moeen, who struck 37 off 27 balls, and Dawid Malan hit back in a partnership of 51 but Shamsi once again put the brakes before Rabada applied the finishing touches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/van-der-dussen-fires-but-sa-bows-out/article37363450.ece
07 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Noted coach Tarak Sinha passes away||Noted cricket coach and Dronacharya awardee Tarak Sinha passed away at the Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute & Research Centre in the early hours of Saturday. He was 71. A large number of cricketers, coaches, cricket officials were present during his cremation that took place at the Nigambodh Ghat on Saturday afternoon. For over two months he was battling lung cancer. He was bestowed the Dronacharya Award in 2018 after producing a number of Indian cricketers from the capital’s Sonnet Club. Time and energy Soon after his marriage, Sinha lost his wife in an accident. Since then, he devoted all his time and energy into spotting and grooming cricketers. Sinha’s more illustrious students included Shikhar Dhawan and Rishabh Pant who followed the footsteps of Ashish Nehra, Manoj Prabhakar, Raman Lamba, Sanjeev Sharma, Atul Wassan, Ajay Sharma, Surender Khanna, K.P. Bhaskar, Randhir Singh, Aakash Chopra. Woman cricketer Anjum Chopra, too, was his student. Fondly addressed as Ustadji by his students, Sinha’s name was synonymous with Sonnet Club. In the 1980s, he was the coach of the PGDAV College that ended the domination of fancied teams like St. Stephen’s and Hindu to win the inter-college title. Players like Lamba, Prabhakar, Bhaskar etc were all part of the PGDAV team. Speaking to The Hindu , Prabhakar said, “He brought the best out of me. I remember sessions with him and how I would come out a confident bowler. He was a towering figure when it came to motivation. From my college days to international cricket, I benefited from Ustadji ’s guidance. There won’t be another like him.” Bhaskar echoed similar sentiments. “He made a cricketer out of me. Taught me the importance of self-belief and I always backed myself because I remembered Ustadji always telling me to do well when the conditions were difficult. He explained things so beautifully that one never could forget them. I will miss his guidance because he was not just a cricket guru. He gave us life lessons.” Several of Sinha’s students went on to play for Delhi and other states in First Class and limited-over cricket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/noted-coach-tarak-sinha-passes-away/article37363690.ece
07 November 2021||ABU DHABI,||All Indian eyes on Afghanistan-NZ match||Afghanistan will face New Zealand in a crucial Group 2 Super 12 contest at the ICC T20 World Cup on Sunday. Both these teams, and India, are still in contention for the second semifinal spot. The whole of India will be closely watching this contest. If Kane Williamson’s men win, they will reach eight points and qualify. For Afghanistan to advance, it needs to beat New Zealand and hope for Namibia to shock India. Afghanistan can also progress even if India beats Namibia, but it has to win big against the Kiwis to dramatically improve its Net Run Rate (NRR). However, India, playing last, has the edge. India’s thrashing of Scotland means its NRR has jumped to 1.619. New Zealand’s batting has looked in good shape and its bowling, especially the eight overs of quality spin from Ish Sodhi and Mitchell Santner, will be crucial here, where the longer boundaries are a bigger challenge for batters looking to go big. Afghanistan, on the other hand, will be sweating over the fitness of Mujeeb Ur Rahman. In batting, openers Hazratullah Zazai and Mohammad Shahzad set the tone with their aggressive approach in PowerPlay. Whether they can do the same against the pace duo of Trent Boult and Tim Southee remains to be seen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-indian-eyes-on-afghanistan-nz-match/article37363449.ece
07 November 2021||manchester,||Manchester City deepens United’s crisis||Manchester United suffered another home humiliation as Manchester City cruised to a 2-0 win at Old Trafford on Saturday. Eric Bailly’s own goal and Bernardo Silva’s strike on the stroke of half-time was the difference between the sides on the scoreboard. Chelsea was held to a surprise 1-1 draw by struggling Burnley as Matej Vydra’s late equaliser rocked the Premier League leader. Barcelona threw away a three-goal half-time lead on the day Xavi Hernandez was appointed coach as Celta Vigo scored in the 96th minute to complete a stunning comeback in LaLiga.  The results: Premier League: Manchester United 0 lost to Manchester City 2 (Bailly 7-og, Silva 45); Brentford 1 (Henry 60) lost to Norwich 2 (Normann 6, Pukki 29-pen); Chelsea 1 (Havertz 33) drew with Burnley 1 (Vydra 79); Crystal Palace 2 (Zaha 61, Gallagher 78) bt Wolves 0.   La Liga: Espanyol 2 (Pedrosa 30, de Tomas 42) bt Granada 0; Celta de Vigo 3 (Aspas 52, 90+6, Nolito 74) drew with Barcelona 3 (Fati 5, Busquets 18, Depay 34).   Bundesliga: Bayern Munich 2 (Goretzka 30, Lewandowski 75) bt Freiburg 1 (Haberer 90+3); VfL Wolfsburg 1 (Nmecha 14) bt Augsburg 0; VfB Stuttgart 0 lost to Arminia Bielefeld 1 (Okugawa 19); VfL Bochum 2 (Novothny 66, Pantovic 90+7) bt Hoffenheim 0.   Serie A: Spezia (Sala 58) 1 bt Torino 0.   On Friday: Premier League: Southampton 1 (Adam Armstrong 3) bt Aston Villa 0.   La Liga: Athletic Bilbao 0 lost to Cadiz 1 (Ponce 6).   Bundesliga: Mainz 1 (Widmer 76) drew with Borussia M’Gladbach 1 (Neuhaus 38).   Serie A: Empoli 2 (Di Francesco 62, Zurkowski 71) drew with Genoa 2 (Criscito 13-pen, Bianchi 89) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/city-deepens-uniteds-crisis/article37363452.ece
07 November 2021||CHENNAI:,||Junior men’s Nationals at Kovilpatti||For the first time, the Junior National men’s hockey championships will be held at Kovilpatti from December 14 to 25. The camp for the Nationals will be held at the SDAT-Mayor Radhakrishnan Stadium here from November 10 to Dec. 12. Of the two Indian junior campers, Karthi and Mareeswaran, Karthi will join the camp in Chennai while Mareeswaran has been drafted into the 24-member team for the Junior men’s World Cup to be held in Bhubaneswar from Nov. 24 to Dec. 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/junior-mens-nationals-at-kovilpatti/article37363723.ece
07 November 2021||Pune:,||Alicia primed to win S.A. Poonawalla Million||Trainer P. Shroff’s ward Alicia, who is in great heart, should not find it difficult to win the S.A. Poonawalla Million (Gr. 3), the stellar attraction of Sunday’s (Nov. 7) races here. Rails will be announced one hour before the start of the first race.  MASOOM MASTER TROPHY (2,000m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30, 1.30 p.m.: 1. Noble King (5) Peter 60, 2. Power Of Thor (7) Dashrath 60, 3. Chastity (Late Guinevere) (1) Neeraj 59, 4. Memorable Moments (9) Sandesh 58.5, 5. Aira (2) Bhawani 57, 6. Royal Castle (3) J. Chinoy 56.5, 7. Dalasan (10) Parmar 56, 8. Aadhya (11) A. Prakash 55.5, 9. She Is On Fire (4) Zervan 55.5, 10. Grey Falcon (6) Aniket 51.5, 11. Patriots Day (12) Ayyar 51.5 and 12. Walk The Talk (8) Kaviraj 51.  1. MEMORABLE MOMENTS,   2. AIRA, 3. NOBLE KING   CARDINAL PLATE (1,000m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only, 2.00: 1. Dark Secret (6) Akshay 56, 2. Jughead (5) Kaviraj 56, 3. Scottish Scholar (7) Nazil 56, 4. Unclaimed Treasure (2) Peter 56, 5. Divine Soul (1) Ayyar 54.5, 6. Impermanence (3) Sandesh 54.5, 7. Murwara Princess (4) T.S. Jodha 54.5 and 8. Spirit Bay (8) Zeeshan 54.5.  1. IMPERMANENCE,   2. UNCLAIMED TREASURE,   3. MURWARA PRINCESS   JEFFERSON PLATE (2,000m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66, 2.30: 1. Arcadia (4) P.S. Chouhan 59, 2. Successor (5) Sandesh 58.5, 3. Mishka’s Pride (2) Yash Narredu 54, 4. Bold Legend (1) Kaviraj 50.5 and 5. Circle Of Love (3) Neeraj 49.  1. ARCADIA, 2. SUCCESSOR   INGLENOOK PLATE (1,400m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86, 3.00: 1. Revelator (1) Ayyar 59, 2. Enid Blyton (5) Neeraj 57.5, 3. Majestic Warrior (2) J. Chinoy 56.5, 4. Sunrise Ruby (3) Nazil 56.5, 5. Giant Star (4) Yash Narredu 54, 6. Bakhtawar (7) T.S. Jodha 53 and 7. Joaquin (6) Zervan 52.5.  1. ENID BLYTON, 2. GIANT STAR,   3. SUNRISE RUBY   STAR SUPERIOR TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward, 3.30: 1. St. Andrews (1) P. Shinde 59, 2. Flying Visit (6) Zervan 58.5, 3. Gazino (8) Yash Narredu 58.5, 4. Augustus Caesar (5) Neeraj 57.5, 5. Silver Flames (7) Parmar 57.5, 6. Mystic Bay (3) Peter 53.5, 7. Hidden Gold (2) Kaviraj 50.5 and 8. Excellent Gold (4) Nazil 49.  1. MYSTIC BAY, 2. AUGUSTUS CAESAR, 3. SILVER FLAMES   S.A. POONAWALLA MILLION (Gr. 3) (1,600m) (Terms), 3-y-o only, 4.00: 1. Flaming Fire (6) Yash Narredu 57, 2. Alicia (4) P.S. Chouhan 56.5, 3. Petronia (3) Nazil 55.5, 4. Chopin (1) Neeraj 54, 5. Juiced (2) Sandesh 54 and 6. Regal Command (5) Bhawani 54.  1. ALICIA, 2. FLAMING FIRE   RAO SAHEB KEDARI TROPHY (1,600m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 4.30: 1. Ladida (11) A. Imran Khan 59, 2. The Bawaji (6) Neeraj 58.5, 3. Fleur De Lys (12) Dashrath 58, 4. Multiencrypted (8) Parmar 56, 5. Royal Alamdaar (3) J. Chinoy 56, 6. Seminole (1) T.S. Jodha 55, 7. Zafiro (9) Ayyar 55, 8. Rasputin (5) Zervan 54.5, 9. Alpha Gene (4) Shelar 53.5, 10. Revolution (10) P.S. Chouhan 53.5, 11. Faranoush (7) Yash Narredu 52 and 12. Luminosity (2) Kaviraj 51.5.  1. THE BAWAJI,   2. MULTIENCRYPTED,   3. RASPUTIN   GREAT SECRET PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46, 5.00: 1. Dreams (4) P. Shinde 61, 2. Fuhrer (8) Kaviraj 59.5, 3. Raechelles Pride (13) Akshay 58.5, 4. Magic In The Wind (7) Parmar 56.5, 5. Alastair (12) P.S. Chouhan 56, 6. Lagertha (9) P. Vinod 54.5, 7. Peppoli (2) P. Dhebe 54.5, 8. Walshy (1) Zeeshan 54.5, 9. Gilt Edge (10) Nazil 54, 10. Flash Force (14) Peter 53.5, 11. Noble Lord (11) A. Prakash 53.5, 12. Remus (3) Yash Narredu 53.5, 13. Teispes (5) T.S. Jodha 52 and 14. Tormenta Storm (6) Ayyar 52.  1. ALASTAIR, 2. FUHRER,   3. DREAMS  Day’s best: ALICIA  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 2, 3 & 4. (ii) 5, 6 & 7. Tanala: All races. Super Jackpot: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/alicia-primed-to-win-sa-poonawalla-million/article37364093.ece
07 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Tata Steel Chess India is back||Several Grandmasters, including Levon Aronian, Le Quang Liem, Sam Shankland, Parham Maghsoodloo, Vidit Gujrathi, B. Adhiban and D. Harika, will be seen in action when the Tata Steel Chess India rapid and blitz tournament returns to the city following a COVID-19-induced break last year. The third edition of the event, to be held at the National Library from November 17 to 21 and offering a prize money of over $40,000, will also feature rising stars such as Nihal Sarin, R. Praggnanandhaa, Karthikeyan Murali, D. Gukesh, Raunak Sadhwani, Arjun Erigaisi and R. Vaishali. “There will be a new element of youth and women players participating this time,” said Chanakya Chaudhary, vice president (corporate services) of Tata Steel, at a virtual press conference on Saturday. Anand brand ambassador Viswanathan Anand, who played in the first two editions of the event and would be the brand ambassador this time, thanked Tata Steel for giving a platform to the young players. “They (the young players) will enjoy their home surroundings. I am hopeful a lot of wonderful chess will be there for the audience…I will enjoy it from a different side,” said Anand, who personally looked forward to playing in a few events in the near future. Concurrently, the event will host the Tata Steel Chess Festival, an open event being organised in association with GM Dibyendu Barua. This year the rapid competition has evolved into a rating tournament while the blitz remains a tournament for amateurs too. The Festival invited registrations from 150 players per format and registrations were closed within a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tata-steel-chess-india-is-back/article37364113.ece
07 November 2021||LOS ANGELES:,||Chinese GP to be back||Formula One has extended its contract with the Chinese Grand Prix, in a move that will keep the championship visiting Shanghai until 2025. F1 made its debut in China at the Shanghai International Circuit back in 2004. Although ongoing global struggles with the pandemic mean that the Chinese GP will not form part of next year’s record-breaking 23-race calendar, Formula 1 is aiming to return to the country as soon as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chinese-gp-to-be-back/article37363677.ece
07 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka in knockouts||Divya Gnanananda (128 n.o., 111b, 23x4, 1x6) powered Karnataka to a nine-wicket victory over Baroda in the BCCI Senior women’s one-day trophy in Nagpur. With five wins in Elite Group ‘E’, Karnataka qualified for the knockout rounds which will commence in Bengaluru on November 13.  The scores: Baroda 214 in 49.1 overs (Y.H. Bhatia 61, Tarannum Pathan 65, Hrutu Patel 28, V. Chandu 3/47, Shreyanka Patil 3/40) lost to Karnataka 218/1 in 35.3 overs (Vrinda Dinesh 69 n.o., Divya Gnanananda 128 n.o.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-in-knockouts/article37363678.ece
07 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM:,||MP and Goa qualify||Aashna Patidar (52, 125b, 8x4) and Pooja Vastrakar (40, 47b, 6x4) helped Madhya Pradesh score a 13-run win over Vidarbha in the BCCI senior women’s Elite Group D match and top the points table to qualify for the knock-out phase of the champonship here on Saturday. Goa is the other team which qualified from Group D for the knock-out stage to be held in Bengaluru.  The scores: Group D: At Visakhapatnam: Mizoram 58 in 38.1 overs (Shikha Pandey 4/6) lost to Goa 62/2 in 14.3 overs.   Gujarat 221/8 in 50 overs (Renuka Chaudhari 83, Bhavana Goplani 42, Priyanka Sharma 4/40) bt Haryana 180/7 in 50 overs (Sheetal Rana 45, Mansi Joshi 30, Renuka Chaudhari 3/35).   At Vizianagaram: Madhya Pradesh 193/8 in 50 overs (Aashna Patidar 62, Pooja Vastrakar 40, Kanchan Nagwani 3/31) bt Vidarbha 180 in 50 overs (Disha Kasat 72, Nikita Singh 3/24, Salonee Dangore 3/33).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mp-and-goa-qualify/article37364115.ece
07 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||HI names probables||Hockey India on Saturday named 24 players in the core probable group for a preparatory camp ahead of the men’s junior World Cup scheduled to be held in Bhubaneswar from November 24. The camp will begin from Sunday at the venue for the mega event. “The players will report to chief coach Graham Reid and coach B.J. Kariappa on 7 November for the preparatory camp ahead of the prestigious quadrennial event where 16 teams from across the world will vie for top honours,” HI said in a release. The junior players were preparing for the showpiece in the camp which was being held in SAI, Bengaluru in a bio bubble over the past few months. But now with less than three weeks left for the FIH event, “the core probable group will be vying to get used to the pitch at the Kalinga Hockey Stadium and get acclimatised ahead of the tournament.”  Core Probable Group:   Pawan, Prashant Kumar Chauhan, Sahil Kumar Nayak, Sanjay, Yashdeep Siwach, Shardanand Tiwari, Abhishek Lakra, Manjeet, Dinachandra Singh Moirangthem, Sunil Jojo, Cyril Lugun, Vivek Sagar Prasad, Rabichandra Singh Moirangthem, Vishnu Kant Singh, Gurmukh Singh, Ankit Pal, Mareeswaran Sakthivel, Uttam Singh, Maninder Singh, Araijeet Singh Hundal, Sudeep Chirmako, Rahul Kumar Rajbhar, Boby Singh Dhami, and Prabhjot Singh.   The groups:   Group A: Belgium, Malaysia, South Africa, Chile.   Group B: India, Canada, France, Poland; Group C: Netherlands, Spain, Korea, USA.   Group D: Germany, Argentina, Pakistan, Egypt .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/24-core-probables-for-junior-mens-wc-camp/article37363494.ece
07 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gold for Manu, Javad||Manu Bhaker, partnering Olympic champion Javad Foroughi of Iran, won the mixed air pistol gold in the President’s Cup shooting championship in Wroclaw, Poland. The Indo-Iranian team beat Mathilde Lamolle of France and Artem Chernousov of Russia 16-8 in the match for the gold.     Manu Bhaker, partnering Olympic champion Javad Foroughi of Iran, won the mixed air pistol gold in the President’s Cup shooting championship in Wroclaw, Poland. The Indo-Iranian team beat Mathilde Lamolle of France and Artem Chernousov of Russia 16-8 in the match for the gold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gold-for-manu-javad/article37363698.ece
07 November 2021||Saarbrucken (Germany),||Srikanth, Lakshya exit in the semifinals||Lakshya Sen outwitted Thailand’s Kunlavut Vitidsarn 21-18, 12-21, 21-19 and progressed to the semifinals of the Hylo Open Super 500 badminton tournament here on Friday. World No. 21 Lakshya prevailed in a see-saw battle over three-time junior world champion Vitidsarn and joined fellow Indian K. Srikanth in the semifinals. Lakshya, a 2019 champion, will face Singapore’s Loh Kean Yew next. The 20-year-old, who had claimed five titles in 2019, had a decent outing at the Denmark Open and French Open with second round and quarterfinal finishes respectively. The shuttler from Almora was forced to pull out of the event last year after his father and coach D.K. Sen tested positive for COVID-19. Lakshya came into the match with a 2-3 head-to-head record and battled for an hour and 18 minutes against Vitidsarn, who is ranked 24th in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakshya-enters-semifinals/article37363445.ece
07 November 2021||PARIS,||Djokovic to take on Medvedev in final||Novak Djokovic made sure he would clinch the year-end World No. 1 spot for a record seventh time by securing his place in the Paris Masters final on Saturday with a 3-6, 6-0, 7-6(5) victory against Poland’s Hubert Hurkacz. The top seeded Serbian overcame a wobbly start at the Bercy arena against an opponent who booked the last ticket for the season-ending ATP Finals on Friday before racing through the second and handling his nerves in the third. In the other semifinal, Daniil Medvedev beat Alexander Zverev 6-2, 6-2.  The results: Semifinals: Novak Djokovic bt Hubert Hurkacz 3-6, 6-0, 7-6(5); Daniil Medvedev bt Alexander Zverev 6-2, 6-2.   Quarterfinals: Djokovic bt Taylor Fritz 6-4, 6-3; Zverev bt Casper Ruud 7-5, 6-4; Medvedev bt Hugo Gaston 7-6(7), 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-to-take-on-medvedev-in-final/article37363456.ece
07 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sasikiran jumps to tied-fourth||K. Sasikiran bounced back from the loss in the previous round to outplay Ukraine’s Pavel Eljanov in 33 moves and jumped to the tied-fourth spot with nine others after nine rounds of the $425,000 FIDE Chess.com Grand Swiss chess tournament in Riga, Latvia, on Friday. Sasikiran’s brilliant knight-play stood out as the seasoned Indian carved out a clinical win to reach six points. Raunak Sadhwani was the only other notable Indian winner after facing Russia’s Alexey Dreev. In the women's section, unbeaten D. Harika also moved to the tied fourth spot after ending a five-round draw sequence. She punished Russia’s Alina Kashlinskaya for a late error in the endgame to reach six points.  The results (ninth round): Open: P. Harikrishna (5.5) drew with Samuel Sevian (USA, 6); K. Sasikiran (6) bt Pavel Eljanov (Ukr, 5); Nihal Sarin (5.5) drew with Bogdan-Daniel Deac (Rou, 5.5); Ivan Saric (Cro, 5) bt R. Praggnanandhaa (4); Arjun Erigaisi (4.5) drew with Temur Kuybokarov (Aus, 4.5); Raunak Sadhwani (5) bt Aleksey Dreev (3.5); S.P. Sethuraman (4) drew with Maxim Matlakov (Rus, 4); Surya Shekhar Ganguly (3.5) lost to Zhou Jianchao (Chn, 4.5); B. Adhiban (3) lost to Haik Martirosyan (Arm, 4); D. Gukesh (3.5) lost to Hjorvar Steinn Gretarsson (Isl, 3.5).   Women: Alina Kashlinskaya (Rus, 5) lost to D. Harika (6); Vantika Agrawal (5) drew with Antoaneta Stefanova (Bul, 5); R. Vaishali (5) drew with Pia Cramling (Swe, 5); Meri Arabidze (Geo, 4) bt Divya Deshmukh (3); Padmini Rout (3.5) drew with Hoang Thanh Trang (Hun, 3) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sasikiran-jumps-to-tied-fourth/article37363686.ece
07 November 2021||New Delhi,||Jeevan-Purav lose in final||Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan and Purav Raja were beaten 6-3, 6-4 in the doubles final by Nuno Borges and Francisco Cabral of Portugal in the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament in Tenerife, Spain.  Other results: $52,080 Challenger, Charlottesville, US: Singles (quarterfinals): Brayden Schnur (Can) bt Prajnesh Gunneswaran 7-5, 6-3.   €44,820 Challenger, Eckental, Germany: Singles (quarterfinals): Daniel Masur (Ger) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-3, 6-3.   €44,820 Challenger, Tenerife, Spain: Doubles ( semifinal): Jeevan & Purav w.o. Feliciano Lopez & Fernando Verdasco (Esp) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jeevan-purav-lose-in-final/article37363695.ece
07 November 2021||PRAGUE,||Samsonova, Teichmann excel||Russia’s Liudmila Samsonova and Jil Teichmann of Switzerland stole the show in the Billie Jean King Cup semifinals here on Friday as they set up a summit clash between the two countries.   The results (semifinals): Russia bt USA 2-1 [Liudmila Samsonova bt Sloane Stephens 1-6, 6-4, 6-3; Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova lost to Danielle Collins 7-6 (9), 6-7(2), 2-6; Veronika Kudermetova & Liudmila Samsonova bt Shelby Rogers & Coco Vandeweghe 6-3, 6-3].   Switzerland bt Australia 2-0 [Jil Teichmann bt Storm Sanders 6-0, 6-3; Belinda Bencic bt Ajla Tomljanovic 6-3, 6-2] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/samsonova-teichmann-excel/article37363455.ece
07 November 2021||Barcelona,||Xavi returns as Barca coach||Xavi Hernandez, the player who personified the attacking style made popular by Barcelona and Spain’s national team, is returning to Camp Nou as the new coach of his struggling boyhood club. Barcelona announced in the early hours of Saturday that Xavi has agreed to a contract through 2024.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/xavi-returns-as-barca-coach/article37363461.ece
07 November 2021||Chennai,||Manika bows out in singles||India’s Manika Batra enjoyed a good day at office in the World Table Tennis Contender Lasko in Slovenia on Saturday, reaching the women’s doubles final and the singles semifinals. Seventh-seeded Manika shocked Romania’s Bernadette Szocs, seeded third, 11-8, 4-11, 5-11, 11-6, 11-7 in a last-eight clash to set up a meeting with Wang Yidi of China, the top seed. Manika and Archana Kamath played brilliantly in the decider to defeat China’s Liu Weishan and Wang Yidi 11-6, 8-11, 11-6, 5-11, 11-8 in the doubles semifinals. They will meet Puerto Rico’s Melanie Diaz and Adriana Diaz on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/good-day-for-manika/article37363457.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Riding off into the sunset||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/riding-off-into-the-sunset/article37363459.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 07:36 IST,||Sudoku — November 7, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-7-2021/article37364213.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Battle hymn of an offbeat parent||“My father has not spoken to me since he read the book. I’m ready to be abandoned by my family this Diwali. Right now, I identify as a crazy woman who is determined to embarrass her family,” says Tahira Kashyap Khurrana, writer and filmmaker, laughing over a phone call from Mumbai. Tahira’s book The 7 Sins of Being A Mother , published by Juggernaut, has just released and has been hailed as humorous, honest and ribald in equal measure. The breezy, confessional-style book investigates modern Indian parenting at large, and Tahira’s experiences of motherhood in particular. With dashes of wry humour interspersed with slices of life that spill out of her bedroom and the labour room, the book travels beyond the family dining table Tahira colonised to write it. Tahira is the author of four books and travels between Mumbai, where she lives with her actor-husband Ayushmann Khurrana and her two children, and Chandigarh, her hometown where she was raised and the first part of the book is based. “This book is for women of every kind, who are always under scrutiny, who have to tick all the white boxes, suppress their libido while pregnant, be holier than thou and put their family first. I don’t judge if you nurse your child into toddler-hood. But don’t judge me for topping my baby’s feed with formula milk when I’m unable to. What do you mean ‘never mind’ when I tell you I’ve had a caesarean?” asks Tahira. All this, while her ‘boy’, as she refers to Ayushmann, goes about living his life without a blip. In the book, Tahira takes the seven cardinal sins and examines them in the context of parenting. “I speak for all mothers who may not feel maternal at first and are judged; for those who are made to feel guilty because they forgot their baby in a restaurant like I did. It’s not okay to do that, but I’m sure if the father had done the same the people in the lift would’ve laughed with him and not stared in horror like they did at me. It’s the way guilt is weighed in on the mother, more so in patriarchal societies, that rankles. Now, there is realisation that self-love is important, although mother’s guilt is inbuilt in our DNA,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/battle-hymn-of-an-offbeat-parent/article37364024.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||What creates culture also creates cult||Why did I pick ‘From Cult to Culture’ as the name for my column? Let me explain. Cult refers to religious groups, or brainwashed communities, who believe in the occult, the mystical, the spiritual, the paranormal or the supernatural. Culture refers to a community’s aesthetic expression: food, fashion, custom, literature, art. Both words, ‘cult’ and ‘culture’, have the same etymology — from words that mean cultivation as well as worship. This draws attention to the fact that originally religion was integral to all things political and economic. Cult and culture were integrated. This changed after humans privileged reason and science, after which religion was viewed with suspicion and cults struggled for respect. Cult is seen as indulging human fantasy and falsehoods like gods, soul, rebirth, heaven, and hell. These establish hegemonies such as tribe, clan, religion, caste, even gender, that beguile the masses and concentrate wealth in the hands of a few. Culture, on the other hand, is seen as responding to real needs, for resources, security, and respect. As cults lose legitimacy, historical events are now being explained using ‘real’ reasons such as economics and politics, while ‘false’ reasons such as religion and ideology are downplayed. Historians are arguing that the Crusades of the 10th century were actually European plunder of the affluent East, rather than merely the pushback of Christianity against Islam. The rapid spread of Islam in the 7th century is explained as the need for plunder and spread of agricultural technologies rather than jihad. Religion is being argued as simply being an excuse for materialistic motivations. Materialistic philosophies that value the measurable emerged around the 19th century, at the same time as scientific thinking, industrialisation, and Darwin’s Theory of Evolution. People concluded that natural evolution extended itself into social, intellectual, and material progress. The enlightened West was supposed to lead this project. Biologists observed that all organisms from plants to animals seek resources to survive; seek security from predators and rivals. Anthropologists concluded that humans, being animals essentially, invented culture simply to harness food and security. Culture had no other purpose, and art was simply an outcome of economic and political needs, and so needed to propel humanity’s economic and political progress. Religion was just an opium. The diversity of cultures around the world was the outcome of multiple cults, each with its own unique opium. These had to go, or at least restrained, before they became toxic.    Ironically, those who favour reason also function like cults — cancelling, if not killing, opponents over ideas, just like religions that sought to wipe out cults of ‘false gods’. But now the priests of reason are facing a brutal pushback from foul-mouthed political mobs, popular precisely because they are going against science and logic and propounding absurd ideas from Flat Earth to Creationism. This would not have been a shock had scholars recognised that cults underlie culture: irrational human fantasies have played a key role in granting people identities and making them feel good about themselves. Britain, for instance, wants to see itself as the force that spread science and ‘civilisation’ around the world, not as an enslaver of peoples. Cultures work not because they are right, reasonable, or fair, but because they indulge humanity’s primal yearning for meaning. Structures — however oppressive and hegemonic — make people feel special. To call these ‘opium of the masses’ or ‘fluid social constructs’ in the quest to invalidate them will therefore be met with fierce resistance. The rational utilitarian gaze says that only after humans invented weapons, controlled fire, found food and felt safe, did they began thinking about gods, about life, meaning and purpose. As evidence, scholars point to early stone tools and hearths going back at least 100,000 years before the the first burial sites, first jewellery or first cave art. In other words, culture came first, then cult. Before cults, there were no taboos, boundaries, structures, and hierarchies. Humans were simple, innocent, and egalitarian, before the creation of property. At Gobilkle Tepe in southeast Turkey, archaeologists found rings of gigantic, well-carved and carefully placed stones, with images of wild animals, which are over 12,000 years. This was built before humans made pots. These structures are not accompanied by signs of agriculture or herding. People have argued that this was a temple of hunters and foragers, a pre-historic cult. In other words, a belief in supernatural beings, gods, spirits, and ancestors mobilised people, which led to collaborative economic activities, which in turn led to competitive political structures. By this reasoning, the temple came first, not the field. But even this counter argument is linear, sequential, and teleological. And this is exactly how history is written by historians: as if humans are meant to grow, develop, progress from savagery to civilisation, from paganism to a true faith, from dark ages towards enlightenment. Any cyclical, simultaneous, alternative history, which is more likely, is deemed chaotic. Many archaeologists believe that the ring of megaliths was probably both a temple and a settlement at the same time, a simultaneous cultural and cultic space, where imaginary gods, carved on stone, lived among the people, with both hunger and faith nudging them towards economic and political innovations to make life easier. As humans collaborated with these mythic creatures, they created art, song, and dance, through which they communicated new ways of generating and distributing food and security. Neurobiologists draw attention to the pre-frontal cortex, which gives humans the power to imagine. It sits on top of the lower brain, which contains our deepest animal fears of starvation and death. Imagination heightens our hungers and fears. It also provides us with the wherewithal to invent and innovate — control fire, water, plants, and animals. Imagination also enables us to empathise with others, so we care for the weak and the disabled. We gossip, we learn from others, and improve on the learning. Imagination enables us to imagine scenarios that we have never actually experienced: flight without wings, travel through time, a world without hunger or fear. All this happens simultaneously, not sequentially. Humans did not first think of food and security, then about identity, gods and demons. It all happened in a haphazard, chaotic way. The utilitarian gaze insists the toolmaker came first, then the artist, then the priest. The scientific, materialistic mindset cannot appreciate the aesthetics of rocks placed around the fire or the magic created by the clockwise spin of the hunter before he drew first blood. The artist was the priest as well as the toolmaker. It all sprang from human imagination: cult as well as culture, simultaneously, symbiotically, chaotically. Imagination remains humanity’s most unique trait. It is the source of our subjectivities and our fantasies, our innovations, inventions, and visions about how life can or should be. It is also the one thing most difficult to understand and control, for it will always favour tribe or caste over faith, faith over nation, nation over world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/what-creates-culture-also-creates-cult/article37363666.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||An ideology of hatred||The history of violence is as old as civilisation. Settled, as opposed to nomadic, societies were mostly hierarchical, and no one got to be at the top — or wield power as a king — without violence being involved. Not surprisingly, history-writing for a long time was synonymous with the biographies of kings and chronicles of war. Liberal democracy, with its promise of equality, was supposed to resolve the problem of violence. While this promise has somewhat held in the mature democracies of the West, it hasn’t in the post-colonial world where India belongs. Violence has dogged Indian democracy right from its birth. How do we explain the continued co-existence of violence and democracy despite the fact that the two are antithetical to each other? Neera Chandhoke, a political science scholar, attempts to answer this question in The Violence in Our Bones: Mapping The Deadly Fault Lines Within Indian Society . The catalyst Chandhoke’s thesis is that human beings may entertain violent thoughts, but they do not descend to violent acts without an external catalyst — which could be an ideology, a political entrepreneur gifted in stoking hatred, or the momentary transformation that happens when an individual becomes part of a mob. These catalysts work on pre-existing fault lines until tectonic passions are inflamed, causing deadly explosions of violence. She identifies six such fault lines in India, devoting a chapter to each: India’s Partition, caste-based violence, communal conflict, Kashmir insurgencies, the unrest in the North-East, and Maoist violence. In each case, she details the historical background and political context, making the violence intelligible. Agent of violence The six chapters are preceded by an Introduction, where Chandhoke delves into the conceptual underpinnings of what constitutes violence, and a Conclusion, where she compares Frantz Fanon’s theory of revolutionary violence with the efficacy of Gandhian non-violence. An act of violence, for Chandhoke, comprises three elements: use of force, intention to harm, and actual harm being done. Of the three, the defining one is intentionality. This framework works well when the agent of violence is an individual or even a collective, such as a mob. But its limitations emerge when Chandhoke deploys it to critique the idea of ‘structural violence’, where harm originates in an institution — an entity that offers little scope to pinpoint intention.     For Chandhoke, ‘structural violence’ is nothing but a misguided attempt to expand the concept of violence to include what is essentially ‘injustice’. She writes, “When millions of Scheduled Castes (SCs)... continue to be subjected to rank indignities... their situation is best conceptualised as social injustice.” But when security forces shoot them dead, that would be violence. “Violence infringes our right to bodily and mental integrity; injustice denies people a fair share in the benefits and burdens of their society.” This is a neat distinction. But it ignores a critical layer of meaning embedded in the term ‘structural violence’ — a costly miss that often leads to the absence of violence getting equated with non-violence. To return to the example of casteist indignities, why would, say, an SC boy ‘voluntarily’ carry his footwear on his head while crossing a caste Hindu area? In this instance, there is no force involved, no agent intending this indignity (there may be no one present in the vicinity). Yet harm has definitely been accomplished, with a human being humiliated for no reason. In Chandhoke’s schema, this would be injustice, not violence. But such an interpretation obscures a significant mode of violence without which an unjust society cannot reproduce itself: the memory of violence past. Ritual humiliation In a slave society, the master isn’t required to unleash violence every single day. Just because the slave seems happy to serve his master doesn’t make the latter non-violent. The structural violence of slavery or untouchability doesn’t need intentionality precisely because the intent is encoded in the collective memory of the tremendous violence that, in the distant past, accomplished the subjugation of a community. It is this memory, passed on through generations, that enforces a violent act of ritual humiliation so very ‘non-violently’. A contradiction Also, in privileging an individualistic approach to violence, centred on the bodies of the victim and perpetrator, Chandhoke’s framework is in danger of confounding the mover and the moved. For instance, some of the most vicious ideologues of violence are men who wouldn’t hurt a fly. Should we consider them ‘non-violent’ because they personally never hurt anyone? Chandhoke comes close to articulating this contradiction when she writes about Vinayak Damodar Savarkar and how his “cult of violence” inspires a young Indian student, Madan Lal Dhingra, to murder a British official. Was the “purposeful agent” of this murder Savarkar, or was it Dhingra who, in Savarkar’s words, “converted to our revolutionary views through my principles and guidance”? Today, as Savarkar is vigorously rehabilitated, and his views achieve respectability, thousands of such “conversions” happen daily over WhatsApp. The distinction Chandhoke makes between ‘religion as faith’ and ‘religion as politics’ is vanishing. Her spirited invocation of Gandhian non-violence as some sort of a panacea carries more desperation than conviction. But then, these are desperate times, and this book is a valuable intervention that should interest anyone concerned by the increasing normalisation of violence as a form of politics.  The Violence in Our Bones: Mapping the Deadly Fault Lines Within Indian Society Neera Chandhoke Aleph  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/an-ideology-of-hatred/article37363648.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A lesson in generosity||During the last two weeks of June one year, my little restaurant was closed for renovation. When the staff returned on the first of July, everyone was in a jolly mood. I made them happier by giving them the whole month’s salary. My two cleaning ladies, Komala and Kanagi, were quiet and their grave, troubled faces disturbed me. I hoped that they were not going to quit and leave me without help. At the end of the day, when they came and stood before me, my heart sank. Komala grabbed my hand and pressed something into it. It was half-a-month’s salary from both of them. “We have not worked for two weeks, so how can we take this money,” she said. I was stunned to hear this and deeply touched. I explained to them that as an employer I wanted to be fair and pay them the whole month’s salary. I put the money back into their hands. They were even more distressed. “We know that you had no customers during this time, and you have spent so much on the renovation; so you need the money more than we do,” Kanagi said and pushed the money back into my hands. Both women are mothers of small children. It is their desperate desire to give their children a better life than they have had that made them look for work so far away. I pushed the money back into their hands again and told them to keep it. “Amma, during the holidays, we went to work in the fields and were paid for it. So taking this money from you is not right.” The money came back into my hands. For the final time, I gave it back to them, and they took it reluctantly. The sincerity with which they kept pushing the money back into my hands made me tear up. The extra money would have meant so much to them, and yet, they were gracious and wanted to be fair to me. The next day, a girl who was one of my regular customers sulkily complained that her father, a well-to-do businessman, had bought gifts for his widowed sister and her children. “Did he not buy you anything,” I asked. “Yes, but why should he have to buy for them as well?” I pointed out Komala and Kanagi as they were clearing tables nearby, and told her the story of their graciousness. The whining stopped. I hoped that she would realise that her father’s benevolence to his sister’s family was an affirmation of compassion and the deep love of a brother and uncle. There is the college girl and Komala and Kanagi in all of us. How do we choose whom to be? ushajesudasan@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-lesson-in-generosity/article37363625.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Tell me a fable||Theosophists believe in the Akashic Library, a record of every thought that has ever existed and will exist. It’s a cosmic library that pervades the universe. We are enmeshed in a similar record today, with the endless proliferation of memes, TikToks, posts, tweets, where every utterance or random thought that crosses our mind is immediately produced and then endlessly reproduced. Amidst this easy replication, we might lose sight of the time when preserving the written word was a miracle. When, for a book to survive, “A scribe had to copy it, and a second scribe, decades later had to recopy that copy... and long after the second scribe’s bones were in the earth, a third came along and recopied it again... one bad-tempered abbot, one clumsy friar, one invading barbarian, an overturned candle, a hungry worm — all those centuries are undone,” as Anthony Doerr says in Cloud Cuckoo Land . Languages decay, libraries burn, stories die. This is the process that fuels Cloud Cuckoo Land , coming seven years after Doerr’s breakout novel, All the Light We Cannot See . Elements from that bestselling formula return: there are sieges within sieges, a girl and a boy on opposing sides of a war, ornithologically-minded characters, physically distinctive figures, often labouring under a secret shame. Doerr also borrows a key weapon from the arsenal of thriller writers — he keeps the chapters short to prevent ‘stopping points’ and the story advances in micro-scenes. Virtual library We begin in deep space, a century into the future, on the Argos , a starship carrying colonists fleeing a ruined Earth. Then we jump back to a small town in America, in the February of 2020, the last days of the pre-pandemic era. The next chapter goes back further, to the years around the siege and fall of Constantinople to the Ottomans in 1453. On the spaceship is Konstance, a teenage girl who is immersed in the Library, a vast VR environment that contains the sum total of human knowledge. In America, Zeno, an elderly translator, is caught in a hostage situation with Seymour, a young eco-terrorist radicalised by the loss of his owl. In Constantinople, we meet Anna, a young orphan who feels “some inarticulable sense of the pull of distant places, of the immensity of the world, and her own smallness inside it.” Her story collides with that of Omeir, an ox-herder who is press-ganged into the Sultan’s army that surrounds Anna’s city, and whose oxen pull a giant supercannon that will shatter that city’s walls. Intermeshed gears The engine that drives these intermeshed gears and cogs is a purportedly ancient text called Cloud Cuckoo Land , written by Antonius Diogenes, about a humble shepherd called Aethon who “lived 80 years a man, 1 year a donkey, 1 year a Sea Bass, 1 year a crow.” Aethon aspires to travel to a utopian city in the sky, run by a benevolent fowlocracy. Diogenes existed — though none of his works survives — but Doerr masterfully invents the central tale, the heart of this matryoshka of nested narratives. Thus, as we advance linearly through time — involving a few hours in the case of the standoff in America, decades in the lives of some of the other characters — the story is told and re-told across the gulf of the yawning centuries, picked up from where one character stopped. While the stories chase each other in this DNA-like strand, Doerr celebrates the very act of storytelling as something magical. Anna eases the pain of her dying sister by narrating Aethon’s adventures: “Maybe as long as she has more lines to read to her sister, the city gates will hold; maybe death will stay outside their door for one more day.” This struggle of memory against forgetting, both individually and as a species, is imbricated with a sense of longing to return, of nostos , “the act of homecoming, a safe arrival”. There is an overwhelming sense of a darkening world, of families splintering, of a planet itself besieged by the armies of air and sea. Still, our stories will survive, even if we don’t. They are terribly perishable, and yet aspire to eternity. The writer is a freelance journalist and graphic novelist.  Cloud Cuckoo Land Anthony Doerr Fourth Estate  Rs. 699    While the stories chase each other in this DNA-like strand, Doerr celebrates the very act of storytelling as something magical||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tell-me-a-fable/article37363633.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Why the farmer stands alone despite shiny new schemes||P. Sainath published Everybody Loves a Good Drought over two decades ago, marking a new beginning for development journalism. Such was the power of the reports in the slim volume that it became the go-to manual for anyone interested in understanding rural India. Nagpur-based Jaideep Hardikar, who works with the People’s Archive of Rural India (PARI) founded by Sainath, follows in his footsteps and has been documenting life in Indian villages.  Like his previous work, A Village Awaits Doomsday , Hardiker’s latest, Ramrao: The Story of India’s Farm Crisis, is a hat-tip to Sainath’s work for the sheer honesty and emotional fervour with which it approaches the subject. The book is titled after Ramrao Panchleniwar, a cotton farmer in Vidarbha in Maharashtra, who tried to end his life after struggling with farm debt and despair. But this is not the story of Ramrao alone. Hardiker traces the plight of the hapless farmer to tell the horrifying tale of what has gone wrong with the way India treats agriculture, a sector that still feeds more than half of the country’s 130-plus-crore population. Like John Steinbeck’s disturbingly truthful portrait of Depression-era America in his 1939 classic work of fiction, The Grapes of Wrath, Hardiker’s non-fiction unravels stories of peasant misery. Ramrao is Tom Joad, the forlorn, jobless and vulnerable man who became the poster face of the great financial crisis of his times. The crisis that Hardikar tells you about could be worse than the ones that hit America in the 1930s. For instance, in Vidarbha alone, more than 60,000 farmers committed suicide in 20 years. But it was not given enough press, sparing a few years in recent history when the number of farmers committing suicide in Maharashtra skyrocketed triggering vociferous protests in some parts of civil society, jolting policymakers out of their genetic lethargy to do some ‘planning’ to tackle the crisis. But most of it has turned out to be hot air. As Hardiker says, the story of India’s agrarian crisis is “turning stale”. Dole economy This book is a grim reminder that nothing much has changed on the ground despite the “shiny new schemes” and the doles politicians promised. Farmers in the country continue to fight administrative apathy, and are at the mercy of private money lenders and touts who stand between them and the market. Blind and blanket agrarian reforms do not address the new, dire realities of climate change and corporate tampering of Indian farming. Ramrao documents the helplessness in graphic detail. You come across a crowd of characters in the book. Farmers who write poems before they kill themselves, thick-skinned politicians, farmers who face life and crisis with sarcasm and untamed wit — “The good thing about note-bandi (currency ban), quips cotton farmer Pramod Metkar, is that “it does not hurt those with no money. Like me!” — and more. Together, they tell us that agrarian reforms in India continue to remain an unfinished business and whatever is being done in the name of reinvigorating the sector is not enough. For those who are in the know, that’s stating the obvious. But for others who care, this is a wake-up call. Farmers in India continue to hit the street, begging, shouting, blocking ways to record their protest, to highlight their demands; but to no avail. For obvious reasons, Hardiker, who has been covering India’s agrarian crisis for decades now, does not bother to be seen as objective. His prose is emotional, biased and sharp. Hence, it lacks the indiscreet charms of the scholarly works on poverty that we generally come across and can dull you at times with a heavy dose of data. But the effort is worth your time and energy. Because this is the story of how we bite the hand that feeds us.  The reviewer is founder and editor ofIndia Art Review.  Ramrao: The Story of India’s Farm Crisis Jaideep Hardikar HarperCollins  Rs. 399||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/why-the-farmer-stands-alone-despite-shiny-new-schemes/article37363643.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 Born on November 7, 1867, this lady was the first person ever to win the Nobel Prize twice and for achievements in two distinct scientific fields. She discovered two elements that she carried around in her pocket, even enjoying their glow at night, which ultimately led to her death. Which revolutionary scientist was this, whose lab papers are still radioactive and hence stored in lead-lined boxes? 2 Born on November 7, 1878, Lise Meitner discovered that nuclear fission can produce enormous amounts of energy. She realised that a certain element split in half released some of its tremendous store of nuclear energy by nuclear fission. This helped pioneer research that lead to the use of nuclear reactors to generate electricity. Although element 109 is named after her, which element did she work on that changed history? 3 Mary Kies is believed to be the first woman to receive a U.S. patent when her patent was signed by President James Madison in May 1809. Her technique was a cost-effective way to make a certain item by weaving straw with silk and thread. Her technique led to a huge rise in the industry, earlier reliant on French and English imports. Known as millinery, what was she making? 4 In 1812, Tabitha Babbitt was a weaver in a small community and saw people struggling to cut wood. She realised that she could use her spinning wheel to make it a more efficient process. What did Tabitha invent? 5 Jeanne Villepreux-Power was a French naturalist, who in 1832 was trying to prove that the argonaut (a type of octopus) does not take discarded shells from other organisms, but grows its own shell. She wanted to observe the creature for an extended period of time; so she built a glass enclosure and published her work in 1839 explaining her research. What had she invented that is now found in many households? 6 In 1843, Nancy Johnson lived in Philadelphia and during the hot summers she worked out a way to make a certain treat in a faster and easier way. Her invention contained a hand crank, which spun two boards in a cylinder with holes on the side. This gave a delicious result in half the time as usual, that too without electricity. What item did her invention make, two flavours at the same time? 7 Margaret Knight in 1868 designed and built a machine that cut, folded and glued to form a certain article with a flat bottom. This was in response to the previous versions that were weak and narrow, and could not stand on their bases. Her invention produced a version that was sturdier and more useful. A man working in her office stole her idea and patented it first and then claimed women cannot be inventors. Knight fought back with evidence and won. What environment-friendly item is this that we now see everywhere? 8 Josephine Cochran was a socialite in Ohio in the mid 1800s. Once after a dinner party, she realised that the clearing and cleaning process was very tiring and also inevitably led to breakage of cutlery. In a shed behind the house, she built a copper boiler with separate compartments on a wheel attached to a motor and fed hot soapy water. She received a patent for this in 1886. What had Josephine invented, which was the first that used water pressure rather than scrubbers? 9 Margaret Wilcox was a mechanical engineer in Chicago who invented a combination clothes and dishwashing machine, but at that time it was illegal for women to file patents under their own names. In her 20s she discovered that people who rode in railway cars suffered from icy fingers as the compartments had very poor insulation. She figured she could run a channel to take the hot air from the engine back into the rail car. For this, she received a patent in 1893. What had she invented, which is standard in most cars now? 10 Maria Beasley was an entrepreneur and inventor who at the time of her death in 1904 held 15 different patents in the U.S. and two in Great Britain. Some of the inventions were the steam generator for trains, an anti-derailment device for trains, a bread kneader and foot warmers. Her biggest income was from her device that made barrel production faster. Her most valuable one was the improvement of an earlier design of a life-saving device, making it airtight and fireproof. What design did she invent that saved 706 people in 1912 in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article37363656.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Meetings and their spin-offs||“Meeting-itis” has been around for so long, you could dismiss it as being endemic, and not worth your immediate attention. But the pandemic and its aftermath have given rise to a trickier, more toxic variant — the virtual or online meeting. Whichever strain you contract, the symptoms are the same. “Meeting-itis” makes people feel the urge to meet and talk animatedly about work rather than sit boringly all by themselves and work. Why do people meet? Well, that is like asking why do people fall in love? Human instinct, I guess. Man has always regarded an assembly of five or more with respect. This is based on our deep-seated belief that if two heads are better than one, three should be better than two, and so on. It took our cave-dwelling forefathers a meeting around the fire to decide the next day’s menu as well as take steps to prevent themselves from featuring in the menu of the sabre-toothed tiger. From those formative years, the meeting has grown steadily in importance till we have reached the point when almost nothing you say or do is taken seriously unless you have video-conferenced, “zoomed” or “teamed” up. Modern man knows that there is more to a meeting than meets the eye. Until just over a decade ago, to shirk work you needed to suddenly fall ill, lose a near relative, or think of some other cataclysm to visit your household. Meetings save you from taxing your imagination. On the morning that you feel disinclined to work, you call for a meeting. You will find ready acceptance because a lot of your colleagues in other departments may also be simultaneously experiencing similar disinclination. How can we forget that at the peak of the Work from Home era, the meeting was a godsend. Unless your wife was cued in and knew exactly what was going on, a “very important office meeting” was the alibi that helped you escape sundry errands. Only people of importance attend meetings, and the more of them you attend, the more important you are. So when a young executive is asked to join a meeting of his seniors, he will barely be able to conceal his pride. Conversely, if you find your name missing from the list of invitees sent to your peers, you have been effectively dropped from the ‘A’ team. If you want to know how to overcome such disappointment, ask Ravichandran Ashwin or Ajinkya Rahane — they are veterans in this department. As important as the number of meetings you clock is their size. If there are just two or three of you, all you are doing is having coffee and conversation. If the assembly is very large, the importance of the meeting gets diffused. Once inside, your first task — even before you reach for the cookies — is to turn to the most pliant junior and tell him or her to “take the minutes”. This will show your superiors how seriously you view these discussions and will also keep uppity juniors in their place. American writer Dave Barry once said: “If you had to identify, in one word, the reason why the human race has not achieved, and never will achieve, its full potential, that word would be ‘meetings’.” America’s former Ambassador to India John Kenneth Galbraith was a bit more diplomatic: “Meetings are indispensable when you don’t want to do anything.” But whatever wise men may say, I for one believe that ‘meeting-itis’ will outlive its critics. If you hold a different point of view… well, let’s have a meeting. jairam.menon@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/meetings-and-their-spin-offs/article37363621.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Demons by Fyodor Dostoevsky||The bicentenary of the Russian master Fyodor Dostoevsky (1821-1881) is being celebrated around the world with re-issues of his celebrated novels, renewed critical appreciation of his works, plays and exhibitions. Most of Dostoevsky’s important books were written after 1864 ( Notes from Underground , Crime and Punishment , The Gambler , The Idiot , Demons and The Brothers Karamazov .) After his arrest in 1849 for being part of the Petrashevsky Circle, a utopian socialist group, he was sentenced to death, which was commuted at the last minute. However, he was sent to the prison camps of Omsk in Siberia, where he lived till 1854. Living among thieves, criminals and peasants, Dostoevsky kept a journal, noting down their language and jokes. In his introduction to the Penguin edition of Demons , Robert Maguire says Siberia taught Dostoevsky much that would be fictionalised in this novel, “including criminal speech, the criminal mind and the ways of officialdom”. Dostoevsky thought of writing it after hearing about the sensational murder of a young political worker in 1869. He wrote it in 1871-72. The new Russian man Ivan Ivanov, a student at the Petrov Agricultural Academy in Moscow, was part of a group of nihilists led by Sergei Nechaev. When Ivanov protested against Nechaev’s dictatorial ways and left the group, he was hunted down and killed for fear that he would turn informer. Dostoevsky considered nihilism an “evil spirit, taking over the minds of a rising generation of half-educated Russian youth,” as J.M. Coetzee says in his essay in Stranger Shores. In Demons , Ivanov metamorphoses into Ivan Shatov, “the new Russian man,” who fatally runs into Pyotr Verkhovensky, the nihilist. Dostoevsky weaves this incident into the larger story of man fighting his demon(s) through the life of Nikolai Stavrogin, who, like Verkhovensky, is the leader of a revolutionary cell, and a host of other characters. “Shatov,” says the narrator, “was one of those ideal Russian beings who can suddenly be so struck by some strong idea that it seems to crush them then and there, sometimes even forever.” On the other hand, Stavrogin, the only son of the rich Varvara Petrovna, mingles with high society in St. Petersburg. He is seemingly fearless and leads a somewhat wild life; his mother begins to hear rumours that he is responsible for “some beastly behaviour towards a lady of good society with whom he had a liaison.” With doses of black humour, Dostoevsky tells the story in three parts, acquainting readers with his key characters in Part 1, building on the tension between many disparate voices in Part 2 and the denouement in Part 3. Several leading lights and revolutionaries of the era make an appearance, including the Russian novelist Ivan Turgenev as “the great writer Karmazinov”. Voices and discourses Richard Pevear’s introduction to the Vintage edition includes a letter Dostoevsky wrote to his publisher Mikhail Katkov of a “genuine inspiration” he had about the main character, Stavrogin, who, he says, “is also a dark character, also a villain, but it seems to me that he is a tragic character… I have taken him from my heart.” Several critics have pointed out that in Demons “there is no dominating central authorial consciousness, and therefore no claim to truth or authority, only competing voices and discourses,” about every aspect of life: god, religion, faith, relationships, class, society. Everything in Demons is inverted, points out Pevear: “Freedom ends in despotism, adoration turns to hatred, lucidity increases blindness… the demons parody god’s world and inverts its ends.” Dostoevsky’s biographer Joseph Frank says that “no other Russian writer could equal the range of his familiarity with both the depths and heights of Russian society.” The novel itself went through its own highs and lows with his publisher refusing to accept one chapter — where Stavrogin tells a priest how he seduced a girl and then refused to help her when she killed herself — on “moral grounds.” Dostoevsky furiously rewrote bits and the chapter, ‘At Tikhon’s’, was included later as Appendix. The writer looks back at one classic every month.  Living among thieves, criminals and peasants, Dostoevsky kept a journal, noting down their language and jokes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/demons-by-fyodor-dostoevsky/article37363629.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The braggarts of Bundelkhand||This is a vastly entertaining comic-satirical novel which derives its special appeal from the fact that it is set in the Hindi hinterland of Bundelkhand, the area centring on Jhansi. It is poor economically and backward culturally, but takes great pride in the heroic legends of its forefathers — from the 12th century brothers Alha-Udal who are celebrated in the folk epic Alha-khand, to 20th century dacoits like Sultana Daku. They are all duly evoked in this novel. Gyan Chaturvedi, who was born in the region but left it long ago, depicts its inhabitants with a delightful mix of indulgence and mockery. He portrays them as inheriting a certain attitude and swagger, and going around flexing their muscles, whether existent or non-existent. The men all walk a jaunty walk, talk a macho foul-mouthed talk, and often get down to fisticuffs, with a knife or katta (a country-made pistol) never far out of reach. Feudal mindset These characters lead their lives by certain hallowed maxims. Might is right. Everyone can be bribed. Education is not for them. Regular employment or naukri is infra dig, even if it can be had. Women should neither be seen nor heard. And there is much honour in honour killings. Altogether, though the famed feudal age may have passed, the feudal mindset prevails, finding sustained expression in the running feuds. The plot features a widowed mother, who remains largely invisible, and her four sons and a daughter. The siblings are called throughout by their familiar demotic names: Guchchan, Chhuttan, Lalla, Chandu, and Binnoo. The mild-mannered Guchchan feels so out of step with his surroundings that he eventually renounces home and hearth and just disappears. Chhuttan, the most extravagantly stylish of them all, ends up with his limbs broken by the police for no apparent fault of his. Lalla, a bodybuilder who is full of quixotic money-making schemes that invariably fail, performs a long-deferred honour killing and is awarded a life sentence. Chandu, the studious, bright boy, becomes a doctor, and is only too glad to escape, heartlessly cutting himself off from the continuing travails of his joint family. Binnoo silently slaves in the house with her mother, rejected by one potential groom after another, and is eventually married off to an old widower. But this is not a tragic story of thwarted aspirations, for no one has any aspirations worth the name. It is just a bleak tale of misery piled upon misery somewhat mechanically by the novelist, who seems at a bit of a loss as to how to end the story. When he has done his damnedest by his characters, he turns upon the reader and forbids her from feeling any “compassion” for them. And yet, on the last page, he goes and hides behind the ageing mother’s sentimental hope that all will still, somehow, turn out well. The implausible dead-end ending here reflects perhaps the old dichotomy between satire and the novel. For the narrative until this point had sparkled with hyperbolic wit, outrageous high jinks, and scenes of farcical comedy. Two Alipurians travelling ticketless on a train, as they always do, blackmail a new non-Bundelkhandi ticket-examiner who wants to fine them and end up extorting money from him instead. Binnoo’s wedding too involves shameless last-minute extortion by the groom’s side. A big brawl follows and gun-shots are fired in the air, but soon all ends happily and ceremoniously. Undiminished pleasure Reading Alipura in English (the Hindi original is titled Baramasi or ‘All the Year Round’) offers undiminished pleasure as Salim Yusufji addresses his task with panache and a matching flair for idiomatic colloquialisms. One person is “a dead ringer” for another, no girl will encourage an admirer “to put the moves on her,” and as a charmer loses traction the women around him begin “peeling off”. Never mind that Yusufji seems not to have heard of the blinded king Prithviraj Chauhan, and does not know that a bheegi billi is not just a “drenched kitten” but also a person feigning meekness and submission. Whether discreetly or demurely, he leaves the ubiquitous word chutiya untranslated. Chaturvedi writes with the proprietary air of newly unveiling Bundelkhand, rather as Vasco da Gama had discovered India for Europe, and the English-language reader may well be taken in by this typical Bundelkhandi brag. But Govind Mishra in his novel Lal Pili Zameen ( Red Hot Earth) had covered the same seething ground with greater inwardness and compassion back in 1976. And Maitreyi Pushpa, in her many novels including Idannamam (This is Not Mine, 1994), had depicted three generations of Bundelkhandi women endowed with transgressive agency and a feisty boldness even in sexual matters. But then translated works are often seen as single swallows, and at best constitute a random canon. The reviewer taught English in Delhi University.  Alipura Gyan Chaturvedi, trs Salim Yusufji Juggernaut   Rs. 599       These characters lead their lives by certain hallowed maxims. Might is right. Everyone can be bribed. Education is not for them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-braggarts-of-bundelkhand/article37363631.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A diplomat and a Gandhian||N.S. Vinodh’s A Forgotten Ambassador in Cairo : The Life and Times of Syud Hossain is several books rolled into one. It is the biography of Syud Hossain, an extraordinary but largely forgotten public figure. It is also an engaging work on the international dimensions of the freedom movement led by Gandhi. Running through the book is also the love story of Hossain and Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit, briefly married but forever together. If Vinodh had not chanced upon the tomb of Syud Hossain in Cairo and followed it up with a book on him, most Indians would have continued to remain ignorant of India’s first envoy to Egypt and his significant contributions to India’s freedom struggle. Born into an aristocratic Muslim family of Bengal in early 1888, Hossain died suddenly in Cairo in 1949. He was given a state funeral by Egypt, a rare honour for an ambassador. Belief in unity of India Hossain made lifelong friendships, many prominent in their opposition to British rule in India. Two who remained close to him were Asaf Ali, India’s first envoy to the U.S., and the poet, Sarojini Naidu. Hossain was a member of the Congress Party, participated in the Khilafat Movement, differed with Jinnah’s divisive ways and remained, as Vinodh tells us, “a believer in the civilisational unity of India, an evangelist for religious amity and a devoted follower of Gandhi.” He wrote for journals and newspapers of international repute such as New Statesman , Contemporary Review , Asiatic Quarterly and Foreign Affairs . He edited three newspapers with punch and verve, The Independent , founded by Motilal Nehru in Allahabad, India , the Congress voice in England, and New Orient in America, which through Hossain’s efforts attracted contributions from Albert Einstein, Mahatma Gandhi, Bertrand Russell and Kahlil Gibran among several others. Realising how much America mattered to the British in the aftermath of World War I, a perspicacious Gandhi moved Hossain to the U.S., where he remained for 24 years, spectacularly raising awareness among Americans of the inequities of British rule and the justness of India’s struggle for freedom. Through his writings and popular speaking engagements, Hossain decisively swung American public opinion in favour of India’s independence. A fine part of Vinodh’s exceptional book is his account of the Indians, in Canada and the U.S., fighting for equal rights to citizenship and their contribution to India’s freedom struggle. In this regard, Vinodh’s coverage of the Ghadar Movement mounted by Indians in North America is concise yet comprehensive. Forced break-up The love affair between Hossain and Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit is covered with great sensitivity. Despite the forced breakup of their short marriage by Gandhi in 1921, Hossain and Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit’s love for each other lasted their lifetimes. Hossain never remarried. They spent time together during her year-long tour of North America and later they met at Sarojini Naidu’s house. On her way to taking up her ambassadorship to the USSR, she contrived a halt in Cairo and met Hossain, by then India’s envoy to Egypt. Later she even mourned at his tomb. India’s struggle for freedom was not confined to the sub-continent but was also fought fiercely, and with considerable success, overseas in places where it mattered most, England and even more so in America. We can get it all in one insightful book, written by an engineer who is not a historian.  The reviewer teaches public policy and contemporary history at IISc Bengaluru.  A Forgotten Ambassador in Cairo: The Life and Times of Syud Hossain N.S. Vinodh Simon & Schuster  Rs. 799||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-diplomat-and-a-gandhian/article37363645.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Back and forth||South’s one no trump bid in this auction showed 18-19 points. He would have opened one no trump with 15-17 and would pass at his second turn with less. North’s raise to game is quite reasonable. West did not find the killing diamond lead, so South had a chance after the opening heart lead. South won with his seven and could count six top tricks. The problem was that if South led, say the queen of hearts, at trick two, West would win and surely find the diamond switch, leaving South a trick short. Same thing if he led a spade to the king. East, the spade bidder, would be likely to win with the ace and would also find a diamond shift. What to do? South crossed to dummy with the jack of clubs and led a low spade away from the king. Should East rise with his ace and shift to diamonds, South would have three spade tricks – enough for his contract. East ducked and South’s queen won the trick. South now shifted to the queen of hearts. West saw that South would have nine tricks if he took his ace, so he ducked the queen. Declarer now reverted to spades to build another trick in that suit and finally got his total up to nine. Well done! Thanks for this fun deal goes to Larry Cohen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/back-and-forth/article37363660.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Prayers in peril||Since March this year, certain Hindutva groups have begun to oppose the offering of namaz in public places, claiming that they create public disturbance. On social media, some people also shared photographs of Muslims offering namaz in a corner of a railway station or a footpath, claiming that it disturbs the users of the public space. On November 3, the Gurugram district administration cancelled permission for namaz at eight of 37 sites, citing “objection from local residents and resident welfare associations”. All were places earmarked by the administration as designated prayer sites. Muslims offer prayers or salah five times a day, kneeling on the ground and facing Mecca. Each hour’s prayer has a different name: Fajr is the dawn prayer, Dhuhr after midday, Asr is afternoon, Maghrib after sunset, and Isha is offered at night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/prayers-in-peril/article37363619.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The Garden of Heaven||Madhulika Liddle  Speaking Tiger Rs. 599 A stone frieze links this saga spanning 200 years between two invasions of Delhi — by Muhammed of Ghur in 1192 and Taimur in 1398. The fortunes of commoners entangle with those of emperors. A gentle courtier named Amir Khusro also plays a role in this drama centred on Delhi and its history.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-garden-of-heaven/article37363627.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Matrix||Lauren Groff  William Heinemann Rs. 699 The gawky 17-year-old Marie, too wild for courtly life, is expelled from the royal court to be turned into the prioress of an abbey. At first taken aback by life at the abbey, Marie soon finds purpose and passion among her mercurial sisters, whom she eventually leads and protects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/matrix/article37363635.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Best Intentions||Simran Dhir  HarperCollins Rs. 399 Gayatri Mehra wants to focus on the history journal she edits and leave romance to to her sister and brother-in-law, Nandini and Amar. But when the journal faces pressure from a right-wing group, Gayatri is forced to seek help from Akshay Grewal, Amar’s brother, whom she initially dislikes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/best-intentions/article37363637.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||It Must’ve Been Love, but...||Asha G. Kumar  Booklocker.com Rs. 1,549 Schoolteachers Apeksha and Maya fall in love. Their forbidden affair unfurls in the shadow of Apeksha’s mother’s death, which makes her seek anchorage in Maya. There is, however, a dangerous, concealed streak in Maya that creates a churning in this novel exploring women’s desire and freedom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/it-mustve-been-love-but/article37363639.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The Dark Hour: India Under Lockdowns||Aamir Peerzada, Namita Bhandare   & Others  Rupa Rs. 395 Over a year of tracking how COVID-19 ravaged India’s economy, politics and culture, nine writers make sense of this difficult reality. This volume is a publisher’s anthology of specially commissioned long-form essays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-dark-hour-india-under-lockdowns/article37363641.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The SBI Story: Two Centuries of Banking||Vikrant Pande  Westland Business Rs. 699 This volume narrates the circumstances that led to the founding of the presidency banks, how they fared and why they coalesced to form the Imperial Bank of India in 1921, which became the State Bank of India in 1955.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sbi-story-two-centuries-of-banking/article37363650.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||A Fish in Alien Streams||Herjinder  Hachette India Rs. 350 Even as the British dotted India with their manicured gardens, clock towers and colonial structures, a clutch of anglers felt the absence of one essential fish in Indian rivers – the trout. This book narrates the story of a motley group who introduced the fish to India’s rivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-fish-in-alien-streams/article37363652.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Work Without the Worker: Labour in the Age of Platform Capitalism||Phil Jones  Verso Books Rs. 1,103 Recent years have seen a boom in online crowdworking platforms. This part of the new digital economy is rarely spoken of. Jones looks at this hidden form of labour, and explains what it says about the state of global capitalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/work-without-the-worker-labour-in-the-age-of-platform-capitalism/article37363654.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3175||Across  1 Someone helping Everest’s reconnoitrers planning ascent, primarily? (6) 5 Musical parade (4,4) 9 Arranged toccatas, far from legato (8) 10 Ladies’ man returning, embracing initially everyone – ladies’ man! (6) 11 With no means of escape from latex, I cry: ‘bin pants’ (12) 13 Boyfriend to play fiddle noisily (4) 14 Achievement on field that might involve rabbit (3,5) 17 Wanting more, slice of gâteau with extra piping (8) 18 Step gives way in, we’re told (4) 20 Films a bird that was in country once (7,5) 23 Pair of kings? You could do better (3-3) 24 Orchestral performance: singer Rita’s Brazil-bound? (8) 25 Counterfeit stone that’s worn on March 17th? (8) 26 Ovine detailed by Eliot in parts of book (6)  Down  2 Feel aversion to some châteaux (4) 3 Goodness, die cutter in need of repair (9) 4 Jazzman regularly seen with meadow flower (6) 5 What’s given to yobs? Spirits, lagers, wine (5,5,5) 6 Old fellow, confounded pest if not on-topic (3-5) 7 A little tribal sacrament in wood (5) 8 Each lecturer scratching head, frantic, seething (10) 12 President of Spain in canyon with scrubland (6,4) 15 Set up spy, hiding a ruble, leading to palaver (9) 16 No-good silver-tongued weaselly type written up in book (8) 19 Everyman going north, hostelries providing stops (6) 21 Met up with scripture that’s sacred (5) 22 Frenchman is tense finding water sprayed (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3175/article37363663.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sun lights up aurorae in high-latitude countries||A solar flare that occurred on the Sun triggered a magnetic storm which scientists from Center of Excellence in Space Sciences India (CESSI), in Indian Institutes for Science Education and Research, Kolkata, had predicted will arrive at the Earth in the early hours of November 4, and they said that the magnitude of this storm would be such as to trigger spectacular displays of aurora (the coloured bands of light seen in the North and South poles) in the high-latitude and polar regions, just in time for the Deepavali celebrations in India. This prediction, which was based on models built by them and data from NASA’s observatories, seems to have come true, as people from several countries were tweeting pictures of aurorae. Effect on atmosphere Judging by data from the NASA DSCOVR satellite, the scientists observed a steep jump in transverse magnetic fields, density and speeds of the plasma wind that are tell-tale signatures of the arrival of a coronal mass ejection (CME) shock front, according to Dibyendu Nandi of CESSI Kolkata whose team predicted the event. “This happened at 1.00 AM IST. We will know whether this is the CME flux based on its evolution as it passes through. These observations are taken at Lagrange Point L1,” Prof. Nandi said on November 4, in a message to The Hindu.  Dipankar Banerjee, a solar physicist and Director of Aryabhata Research Institute of Observational Sciences (ARIES) based in Nainital, who was not involved in this work, said about the prediction, “This is quite promising. It appears their predictions are matching the observations.” Sunspots seed storms The solar magnetic cycle that works in the deep interior of the Sun creates regions that rise to the surface and appear like dark spots. These are the sunspots. Solar flares are highly energetic phenomena that happen inside the sunspots. In a solar flare, the energy stored in the Sun’s magnetic structures is converted into light and heat energy. This causes the emission of high energy x-ray radiation and highly accelerated charged particles to leave the Sun’s surface.  Sometimes solar flares also cause hot plasma to be ejected from the Sun, causing a solar storm, and this is called Coronal Mass Ejection (CME). Coronal Mass Ejections can harbour energies exceeding that of a billion atomic bombs. The energy, radiation and high-energy particles emitted by the flares can affect Earth-bound objects and life on Earth – it can affect the electronics within satellites and affect astronauts. Very powerful Earth-directed coronal mass ejections can cause failure of power grids and affect oil pipelines and deep-sea cables. They can also cause spectacular aurorae in the high-latitude and polar countries. The last time a major blackout due to a coronal mass ejection was recorded was in 1989 – a powerful geomagnetic storm that took down the North American power grid, plunging large parts of Canada into darkness and triggering spectacular aurorae beyond the polar regions.   Predicting solar storms The process of prediction takes place in two steps: First the researchers analyse the possibility of a strong solar flare from an active region – that is, clusters of sunspots – using a machine learning algorithm which has been developed in CESSI, IISER Kolkata. “This algorithm needs observations of the sunspot magnetic fields, from which we extract various parameters to train the algorithm. We use data from NASA’s Solar Dynamics Observatory, specifically, the Helioseismic and Magnetic Imager instrument, for this purpose,” says Dibyendu Nandi, who, along with his PhD student Suvadip Sinha, developed the algorithm at CESSI.  The second step is estimating the time of arrival on Earth of coronal mass ejections and forecasting the geomagnetic storm. The group uses the near-Sun evolution of the coronal mass ejections through European Space Agency’s SOHO satellite and NASA's STEREO satellite to extract their speed. There is an associated flare, and its position on the Sun is used to extract the location of origin of the CME. The location of the source of the CME and the velocity are used as inputs by the group in a publicly available model widely called the Drag Based Ensemble Model to calculate the CME arrival times and speed. “This latter step has uncertainties as the physics of CME propagation is quite complex, but this is treated in a simplified manner in this model,” explains prof. Nandi. “When ISRO’s Aditya-L1 satellite is launched, we would be receiving similar data on solar storms from this observatory,” he adds.  Commenting on the work done by Prof Nandi and group, Prof. Banerjee said, “This is their first comprehensive work on this… the basic physics input and the model seems to be robust.”  Some have been tweeting pictures of the aurorae seen in places such as Alberta in Canada, and Alaska, to name just a few. Prompt arrival Prof Nandi further said, “Reports are already coming in which indicate we hit bull’s eye with the prediction. Storm arrived within one hour of our forecast time with similar speeds to what we had estimated.” The group had predicted that the storm would arrive at 2.14 am IST on November 4, with a speed of 768 km/s. The storm actually arrived with speeds between 750 km/s and 800 km/s. Further Prof Nandi said, “Aurorae are being reported from unexpected countries such as Scotland, Ireland and states in the U.S. apart from the high latitude regions. Now NOAA Space Weather Prediction Center [in the U.S.] had upgraded the information on the geomagnetic storm resulting from the CME impact to be hazardous.” While aurorae were observed, we have to await ground reports to determine if the storm had hazardous impacts on technology such as power grids and so on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/the-sun-lights-up-aurorae-in-high-latitude-countries/article37363424.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Pandemic far from over’, even as global toll crosses five million||Nearly 22 months after the first COVID-19 death of a 61-year-old man in Wuhan, China on January 9, 2020, the total number of reported deaths globally has crossed five million on November 1. Each week, more than 50,000 people are continuing to die due to COVID-19. At 0.75 million, the U.S. has reported the greatest number of deaths in the world, followed by Brazil (0.6 million), India (0.45 million), Mexico (0.28 million) and Russia (0.23 million). Effects of vaccination The speed at which the virus killed people has decreased a bit since summer this year — it took nearly four months to add another million deaths after the toll crossed four million on July 7. This was despite the Delta variant still being the dominant strain globally. The reason: vaccines were effective in preventing deaths in many countries. The first million deaths were recorded on September 8, 2020, nearly nine months after the first death, while the two-million mark was breached three and a half months later, on January 15, this year. Three million deaths were registered in just three months as on April 17, while the four-million mark was crossed on July 7. Rising trend Even with large-scale vaccination in many countries, the death rate is witnessing a sudden rise now in Europe and Southeast Asia. In the last week of October, the weekly increase in deaths in European and Southeast Asian regions has been 14% and 13%, respectively, as compared with the previous week; last week, 56 countries from all WHO regions reported an increase in COVID-19 deaths of more than 10%. “The global number of reported cases and deaths from COVID-19 is now increasing for the first time in two months,” the WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on October 28. “It’s another reminder that the COVID-19 pandemic is far from over.” The increase in deaths across the world is due to inequitable distribution of vaccines to many low- and middle-income countries and vaccine hesitancy in those countries where vaccines are available in plenty. According to the WHO chief, 30 times more vaccines have been administered in high-income countries than low-income countries. “Since the first COVID-19 vaccines were authorised for use, more people have died from COVID-19 than before they were available. That’s because Delta is a more formidable foe and because far too many people globally haven't had access to vaccines that could have saved their lives,” former Director of CDC Dr. Tom Frieden said in a tweet. According to a BMJ News, “only 1.3% of people in low income countries have received their jabs. Seventy countries have yet to vaccinate 10% of their populations, and 30 countries — including much of Africa — have vaccinated fewer than 2%. In Latin America, only one in four of the population has received a dose of covid vaccine.” The reason: despite the WHO extending the moratorium on booster doses till the end of the year, to enable every country to vaccinate at least 40% of its population, vaccine inequity continues to persist. Reacting to five million COVID-19 deaths, WHO’s Chief Scientist Dr. Soumya Swaminathan tweeted the gross undercounting of deaths globally: “Grim statistic. WHO estimates the real number of deaths closer to 15 million.” The WHO Chief too mentioned about the undercounting of COVID-19 deaths. “More than five million deaths have now been reported, and we know the real number is higher,” said Dr. Tedros. The actual global toll could be twice the reported figure, Dr. Denis Nash, an epidemiologist at the City University of New York Graduate School of Public Health and Health Policy told The New York Times . Two researchers — Ariel Karlinsky from Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel, and Dmitry Kobak from the University of Tübingen, Germany — have compiled the World Mortality Dataset which contains all-cause mortality data from over 100 countries to specifically track excess mortality during the pandemic. Based on data available in the World Mortality Dataset, a team of researchers calculated the excess deaths in 103 countries during the pandemic period; the results are published in eLife.  Gross underreporting The authors estimate that several of the worst affected countries such as Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia and Mexico have excess deaths more than 50% above the expected annual mortality rate. In the case of Nicaragua, Belarus, Egypt and Uzbekistan, the underreporting of deaths is more than 10 times. In the case of India, the underreporting of COVID-19 deaths is estimated to be huge. Based on the Civil Registration System (CRS) data from eight States, The Hindu has estimated excess deaths during the pandemic to be 8.22 times the recorded COVID-19 deaths toll; in absolute numbers that figure will be 3.78 million excess deaths. All excess deaths may not be due to COVID-19, but during a pandemic, a bulk of them could be due to it. This “figure will rank [India] the highest among nations with the most recorded fatalities due to the virus”. Based on all-cause mortality data from civil registration systems of 12 Indian States comprising around 60% of the national population, Murad Banaji from Middlesex University London and Aashish Gupta from Harvard University have estimated the excess deaths in India to be “around 8-10 times” the officially recorded deaths. The results have been posted on a preprint server medRxiv on October 1. Preprints are yet to be peer-reviewed. Antiviral drugs On November 4, the fight against COVID-19 to reduce the number of deaths got another booster shot with Britain’s drug regulator MHRA recommending the drug, molnupiravir, for use in adults with mild to moderate COVID-19 and at least one risk factor for developing severe illness, such as obesity, older age (over 60 years), diabetes, or heart disease. The oral drug can be taken at home as soon as possible following a positive COVID-19 test and within five days of the onset of symptoms. In addition to entering into agreements with several governments to supply the drug, the company has entered into a licensing agreement with the Medicines Patent Pool to make the drug widely accessible to low- and middle-income countries (LMIC). It has also entered into non-exclusive voluntary licensing agreements with eight Indian generic manufacturers to accelerate availability of molnupiravir in more than 100 LMICs, the release says. Meanwhile, on November 5, Pfizer announced via a press release that its oral antiviral PAXLOVID showed 89% efficacy in reducing the risk of hospitalisation or death in non-hospitalised settings in high-risk adults with COVID-19 when treatment was started within three days of symptom onset. In the phase-2/3 trial, through day 28, no deaths were reported in patients who received the drug while 10 deaths were recorded among patients who got a placebo. Similar results were seen when treatment was started within five days of symptom onset. Due to “overwhelming efficacy demonstrated”, the trial was stopped midway. Pfizer “plans to submit the data as part of its ongoing rolling submission to the FDA for emergency use authorization as soon as possible”, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/pandemic-far-from-over-even-as-global-toll-crosses-five-million/article37363412.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Countries’ pledges improve odds of thwarting global temperature rise by a third||How effective are climate change pledges made by countries in containing global warming? A study published Friday in the journal Science finds that the latest Nationally Determined Contributions by 120 countries, as of September 30, improve the odds of global temperature rise staying below 2°C by 34% and below 1.5°C by 1.5%. By way of comparison, the 2015 pledges made by countries at the Paris Agreement promised only a 8% chance of temperatures staying below 2°C, and zero—or no chance—at 1.5°C. Reaching net zero If countries were to follow a more ambitious path beyond 2030, those probabilities rose to 60% and 11% respectively. The findings while optimistic come amidst the deliberations underway at Glasgow where the greatest global effort is underway to have countries sign on to an agreement to keep temperatures below 1.5°C and, to this end, have most major economies pledge to reach net zero by mid-century. Net zero is when a country's emissions are offset by having an equivalent amount removed from the atmosphere for zero emissions in balance. While countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom and the European Union have committed to a 2050 time line, China—the world's largest polluter—has indicated a 2060 timeline and India—the third largest—a 2070 timeline.  Only 12 countries have enshrined this commitment in law. These are Germany, Sweden, Japan, United Kingdom, France, Canada, South Korea, Spain, Denmark, New Zealand, Hungary, Luxembourg. “We are so much closer to getting to the 2-degree goal than six years ago when the Paris Agreement was first signed,” said corresponding author Haewon McJeon, a research scientist at the U.S. Department of Energy’s Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) in a statement. “The wave of strengthened climate pledges and net-zero targets significantly increased our chance of staying under 2 degrees Celsius. And we practically ruled out the possibility of the worst climate outcomes of 4 degrees or higher.” However, making the 1.5° C limit more likely will take more ambition, cautioned lead author Yang Ou, a postdoctoral researcher at the Joint Global Change Research Institute, a partnership between PNNL and the University of Maryland. The researchers relied on a modelling approach and used the Global Change Analysis Model (GCAM) to simulate a spectrum of emissions scenarios. They then evaluated the likely temperature outcomes for those scenarios.  Several factors influenced near-term emissions trajectories and long-term climate outcomes, the authors noted. These include the global turn away from coal to technological advances that made solar panels and electric vehicles relatively cheaper. Climate change has already caused global temperatures to rise about 1.2°C above pre-industrial levels. Warming speeded up In the past, it has taken thousands of years for temperature to rise by a few degrees, and dramatic changes, from unpredictable swings in India's monsoon to accelerated heating of the oceans, are already occurring as a result of a 1.2°C increase. Scientists are calling for climate change to be limited as much as possible to avoid triggering cascading and compounding “tipping points” that could limit our ability to contain global heating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/countries-pledges-improve-odds-of-thwarting-global-temperature-rise-by-a-third/article37363411.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Friendly, forceful, brisk and bold||Do animals have personalities? Among humans, each individual has a unique personality, but so far, scientists have not ascribed personality traits, defined as consistent behaviour over time, to animals. But a recent study (Animal Behaviour) has been able to document personality in golden-mantled ground squirrels, which are common across the western U.S. and parts of Canada. They found the squirrels show personality in four main personality traits: boldness, aggressiveness, activity level and sociability. The lead author Jaclyn Aliperti observed and recorded squirrel responses to four tests: (1) Novel environment: Squirrels were placed in an enclosed box with gridded lines and holes; (2) Mirror: Squirrels are presented with their mirror image, which they do not recognise as their own; (3) Flight initiative: Squirrels were approached slowly in the wild to see how long they wait before running away, and; (4) Behaviour-in-trap: Squirrels were caught, unharmed, in a simple trap and their behaviour briefly observed. According to a University of California, Davis press release, the study found that bolder squirrels had larger core areas where they concentrated their activity. Bold, active squirrels moved faster. Also, squirrels that were bolder, more aggressive and more active had greater access to perches, such as rocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/friendly-forceful-brisk-and-bold/article37363414.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Dosha and the desert||Deft hands rhythmically work on my back. A forearm pressing down the length of my spine. Thumbs seeking the knots in my middle back. Usually, I would be in heaven. But this time, I’m belching like a Mahanagar Gas faucet. I keep apologising, tears streaming down my face. The masseuse attempts to calm me down; hands me warm water to sip. I do know this is good for me, even though it may not feel so. You see Dr. Jitendra Varshney, or Dr. J as he’s known at the Six Senses Fort Barwara, India’s newest wellness destination, had just diagnosed my dosha . That’s the term Ayurvedic practitioners use to denote an individual’s physical and mental make-up. Mine being a mix of fire ( pitta ) and air ( vata ), he had recommended a deep tissue massage along with a diet plan to help balance the forces at war within. “The air can either fan the fire or douse it,” he said to me. Right now, the air was on fire and I just had to abort the massage I had so been looking forward to. “You need to figure out how to use the air to keep the fire strong,” he’d added. Meaning: eating and drinking food that’s good for you and in the right proportions, which in turn helps balance one’s dosha .  Dine in a turret  At Six Senses Fort Barwara, the chain’s first Indian property that’s housed inside a meticulously restored 14th-century fort, eating right isn’t a hard thing to do. This 48-suite resort, 130 km from Jaipur, has its own gardens where they grow seasonal vegetables, such as “wild” cauliflower and spinach, fruits like guavas and heirloom tangerines, and superfoods, including moringa. Soon a mushroom farm and a free-range poultry zone will be added to this list. What’s not grown is sourced, largely from producers within this region of Sawai Madhopur. All this goes into a mix of India, Asian, Italian and Mediterranean dishes (with plenty of room for both dosha and dietary needs) that are served at the hotel’s all-day dining venue, The Cortile, and a poolside location called Rani Bagh. There are several scenic dining spots as well, such as a turret, Shikar Burj, once used to hunt tigers. The Library Bar within the area, called the Mardana Mahal, uses the in-house produce to create potent cocktails. Since I did do a fair amount of eating — on doctor’s orders, of course — I can honestly say I have fond memories of the pickled beet and heart of palm salad, a wild mushroom risotto done just right, and a Rajasthani thali that I should have fasted for. If you visit, you must try the pineapple and watermelon pickled in vinegar; it’ll boost gut microbes and leave you drooling.  Not just for the   wellness seeker  Beyond the food and drink, Fort Barwara is extremely easy on the eye. Indoors, the generously proportioned rooms (753 sq ft+) feature beds with nets hanging from chains, chairs with rope detailing, and hammered metal stools. All of which draw from the fort’s history as a garrison town. Alongside this there’s tech that makes the nerd heart skip a beat — auto-flush toilets with heated seats, blinds that rise as you enter the room and gear that help you sleep better. On the outside, instead of the usual ornamental flora, they’ve chosen over 370 species of plants endemic to Sawai Madhopur and Ranthambore. Wild grasses such as baruwa and elephant cane. Trees and shrubs like madhu kamini and murraya , which help save water almost as much as the measures to reduce wastage, harvest rainwater and boost the area’s water table. Then there are medicinal plants, such as shatavari , dhak and marwa ( maru in Tamil), which are used in wellness preparations. That said, you needn’t be a serious wellness seeker to check-in. You just might want to chill by the pool, cocktail in hand. Or book yourself a hedonistic ritual involving pearls and 24 carat gold. You could also learn how to be more sustainable in your daily lives by figuring out how to make soaps and lip balms using beeswax from abandoned hives (the kids would love it). Then there are walks in the surrounding Aravallis with the resident horticulturist and forays to local temples and village markets. And, needless to say, the tigers of Ranthambore are just 35 km away. To address the elephant in the room: is this hotel the venue of a Bollywood wedding rumoured to happen later this year? Well, unfortunately, I have no juice on that. What I can tell you though, is that Fort Barwara, with its ballroom (2,045 sq ft) and event spaces, can host a 200-person wedding. So, not quite the spot if you’re looking for that Big Fat Indian wedding. Whatever be your reason, I know I’ll go back for the bio-hacks and sleep improvement routines. And if you’re wondering, I did finally get that massage. It was blissful.  Doubles from Rs. 75,000. Details: sixsenses.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dosha-and-the-desert/article37364094.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s yours is mine||Michael L. Friedman, known around the world for his lectures on fine horology, leaves no stone unturned when he discusses Audemars Piguet’s equal opportunity strategy. Take for instance, the AP Houses in key cities around the world, luxe private lounges for customers and friends of the brand. “What we offer to women at AP Houses, we offer just the same to men,” says Friedman. “Now if you are asking me if we were thinking of an exclusive watch like we did with the Royal Oak Platinum Watch 39 mm with Green Dial, I would say that watch was already created for both men and women!” The head of complications at this highly successful family-owned watch business, goes on to highlight last year’s Royal Oak Concept Frosted Gold Flying Tourbillon with its contemporary 3D dial and optical illusion. “The demographic was as diverse as the entire collector base of Audemars Piguet itself. We had buyers, enthusiasts and collectors from the early 20s all the way into the 60s and 70s who acquire rare watches across collections. Of course, this watch was initially designed keeping women in mind but we had several men who gravitated immediately to this watch as well.” Which brings us to the trend of gender-neutral marketing among watch manufactures today. “I don’t think this is limited to watchmaking. There is gender-neutral marketing in fashion and we are starting to see lines being blurred. There are always going to be watches that are clearly and unapologetically feminine and those that are skewed far more to masculine but I feel strongly that this sharing across collections is going to continue.” The former head of watches at Christie’s, Friedman, now in his mid-40s, has been especially busy during the pandemic. There was the official opening of the independent brand’s Musée Atelier Audemars Piguet last year, showcasing more than two centuries of watchmaking with over 300 iconic pieces on display and access to the Grande Complication workshop. And more recently — last month — the Royal Oak Concept Flying Tourbillon collection for women was launched. Six 38.5mm entries, with the flying tourbillon complication at the 6 o’clock position and a rare view of the coiled mainspring at 11 o’clock, proved the brand was serious about the compact option that is now also being pursued by men. There will be more to come, we suppose, at Dubai Watch Week later this month. Friedman won’t be able to attend as he has “a baby on the way” but says he will be there in spirit for what is going to be a celebration of “atmosphere, storytelling, materials, and a little futurism”. Edited excerpts from the interview:  What were the biggest turning points in AP’s women’s watch history?  Audemars Piguet has had many moments throughout its history when women’s watches specifically can be highlighted. The watches of the 1890s with minute repeaters are of course the centrepieces of the museum today and are very sought after by collectors when they do emerge in the market. So right from the beginning, we were focussing on women’s watches, with and without complications. The first wave of miniaturisation of complications as well as our minute second watches were created specifically for women. What gets very interesting is when we look at the dawn of wrist watches, at the end of the 19th century… just before, during and after World War I, when miniaturisation [seen in] women’s watches became the backbone for men’s wrist watches. Smaller calibres were needed for the foreign language of wrist watches. So the history of women’s watches is central not only to the category but to the category of wrist watches itself.  What are you learning about women and trends in watch sizes?  Today when you look at [collectors of] Audemars Piguet in 39mm, many women are gravitating towards those watches, while men are gravitating to the 37mm, initially designed with women in mind. I was at a client’s dinner in London a few weeks ago and there was a man wearing the new 34mm ceramic watch on his wrist. He happened to be a vintage collector who likes very small sizes so we must keep [this] in mind as well. What have Royal Oak fans requested repeatedly during the pandemic? There had been a great demand to see a Royal Oak Supersonnerie and we were proud to design and introduce that watch very recently. We have introduced this titanium version with a grey smoked dial. Also, there is a lot of speculation around how we will be celebrating the 50th anniversary of the Royal Oak next year. [Let me say] that what we are going to be introducing in 2022 is just the beginning!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/whats-yours-is-mine/article37364025.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Why is Delhi holding an NSA meet on Afghanistan?||The story so far: Nearly three months after the Taliban takeover of Kabul, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval will host a meeting of NSAs in the neighbourhood (including Russia) on November 10 to discuss Afghanistan’s future and how to deal with threats to security emanating from developments there. The exercise is to reaffirm the consensus that after the pull-out of the U.S. and NATO troops from Afghanistan, solutions to the crisis in Afghanistan must come from the region itself. Who all have been invited? Invitations went out to Mr. Doval’s counterparts in China, Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Confirmations have been received from all but China and Pakistan, and while Indian officials are still hopeful of Chinese Minister for State Security Chen Wenqing or another security official attending the conference virtually, Pakistan’s NSA Moeed Yusuf has said he will not attend the conference, a decision that government sources have called “unfortunate”. What is on the agenda? The conference, which is part of a format held in Iran in September 2018 and December 2019, is expected to seek a common understanding of how to approach the Taliban regime, especially on seeking an inclusive government in Afghanistan, with rights for women and minorities. While no country has yet recognised the acting Taliban regime headed by “Prime Minister” Hasan Akhund, all of the nations involved, including India, are engaging Taliban officials at different levels. China, Iran, Pakistan and Russia have even kept their embassies in Kabul open, while Central Asian countries have exchanged delegations for official meetings with the Taliban regime. India also hopes to focus on the triple common threats to neighbours emanating from the Taliban takeover: an uptick in terror groups operating within Afghanistan, an increase in drug-trafficking, and an inflow of refugees due to the humanitarian crisis unfolding there. India has also been involved in projects of connectivity to Afghanistan and Central Asia, including the Chabahar port project in Iran and the Turkmenistan-Afghanistan-Pakistan-India gas pipeline, and the conference will be closely watched for any outcome on taking these projects further with the new regime in Kabul. Finally, New Delhi wants to establish that despite its opposition to the Taliban regime supplanting the democratically elected Ashraf Ghani government, it remains an important figure in Afghanistan’s future as a development, aid and trade partner and a historical builder of connectivity infrastructure. In the past, many discussion formats on Afghanistan have not included India, ostensibly at Pakistan’s behest, like the ‘Troika Plus’ talks of China-Russia-U.S.-Pakistan held over two years, Iran’s Neighbourhood Foreign Ministers’ track on Afghanistan held on October 27 and regional meetings held by Pakistan’s Foreign Minister and NSA in the past few months. The meeting in Delhi will seek to project India as a necessary part of these dialogues. In doing so, New Delhi also re-enforces its claims as a “boundary neighbour”, given that Afghanistan abuts Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). Why was Pakistan invited? Relations between New Delhi and Islamabad have been on a downward spiral for some years now, and formal contacts have broken down after 2019 events, including the Pulwama attack, the Balakot strikes and the government’s restructuring of Jammu and Kashmir. India has long held that it is Pakistan’s “pernicious” influence and support to terror groups that are the real reason for Afghanistan’s instability and violence, and at the UNGA in September accused Pakistan of being an “arsonist disguised as a firefighter” in Afghanistan. However, Mr. Doval has reportedly been involved in back-channel talks with Pakistani security and military officials over the past two years, which led to the Line of Control ceasefire in February 2021. It was perhaps thought that a security conference of neighbours on Afghanistan should see Pakistani participation as well. The Narendra Modi government has attended several conferences on regional security and Afghanistan in particular where Pakistani officials have been present, including at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation meet, Moscow Format, and Central Asia-South Asia dialogue in Tashkent. Earlier this year, India sent a three-member team to the SCO-Regional Anti-Terrorism Structure (RATS) meeting in Pakistan. Rejecting the invitation, Mr. Yusuf accused India of being a “spoiler” in Afghanistan, adding that a “spoiler cannot play peacemaker”. However, it is Pakistan that appears to have played spoiler at the NSA conference, according to Indian officials, by rejecting the invitation and refusing to respond to an Indian request to allow humanitarian aid of wheat and medicines by road from Wagah to Torkham to help Afghans in dire need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/why-is-delhi-holding-an-nsa-meet-on-afghanistan/article37363344.ece
07 November 2021||November 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Reservation on quota||The story so far: On November 1, the Madras High Court declared unconstitutional a Tamil Nadu government law, enacted in February 2021 when the AIADMK was in power, that reserved 10.5% of jobs in public services and seats in educational institutions for the Vanniyars, a most backward community. The demand for an exclusive quota for the community has been spearheaded for long by the Pattali Makkal Katchi. What was the reservation eligibility of Vanniyars prior to being given a separate quota? The Vanniyars were in the backward classes list for many years. The community, constituting a significant percentage in the State’s northern districts, consists predominantly of agricultural labourers. In 1987, the Vanniyar Sangham launched an agitation demanding 20% separate reservation. In 1989, the demand was partially conceded. The BC quota was then at 50%. This was sub-divided and a 20% segment was earmarked for ‘Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities’. The Vanniyars were included in the Most Backward Classes list. The expectation was that they would be the principal beneficiaries in this 20% segment, though 109 other castes were in the MBC/DNC category (The number has risen to 116 now). The Vanniyars have been arguing that they are still not getting enough opportunities in proportion to their population. How was the separate reservation implemented? On February 26, 2021, the Assembly passed a special Act which divided the ‘Most Backward Classes/Denotified Communities’ category into three parts. Of the total, the largest share of 10.5% was specified as exclusive to the Vanniyakula Kshatriya and its various sub-castes. The DNC sub-division was to have 7%, while the remaining 2.5% was meant for the rest of the MBCs. The primary justification for the percentage was that the Second Backward Class Commission had put the Vanniyar population at 65 lakh in 1983, or 13.01% of the then total population. In 2012, the then chairman of the State Backward Class Commission recommended that based on this figure, reservation of 10.5% would be appropriate for the Vanniyars. Therefore, it was decided to make this internal reservation within the MBC quota. However, critics say the Commission chairman’s opinion was not supported by the other members and was, therefore, not acted upon all these years. What were the reasons for the court’s judgment? The exclusive quota for one community was criticised on the ground that it was done with an eye on the Assembly election. It was also contended that the government acted hastily as it had only a couple of months earlier appointed a commission under a retired High Court judge to compile quantifiable data on all castes so that the State could justify its 69% total reservation, but did not wait for its report. The Bench of Justices M. Duraiswamy and K. Murali Shankar ruled that the Act was unconstitutional mainly on the ground that the Assembly had no legislative competence to pass the law on the date of the enactment. This was because the 102nd Amendment to the Constitution (which created the National Backward Class Commission and empowered the President to notify the backward classes list for each State) was in force in February 2021. The Supreme Court had ruled, again in the Maratha reservation case, that the Amendment took away the power of the States to notify or identify OBCs. Later, the 105th Amendment made it explicit that the States could make changes in their lists. The other ground was that the separate reservation for one caste amounted to discrimination against all the other castes in the same MBC category. Further, the State had produced no quantifiable data to back its claim that the Vanniyars were so far behind the other communities in the list that they deserved exclusive treatment. In the absence of such data, it amounted to legislation solely on the ground of caste, and not because members of that caste constituted a separate class. What are the effects of the verdict? Being a politically sensitive matter involving a restive community, the State government is planning to appeal to the Supreme Court. Whether the same quota will be upheld without quantifiable data is a moot question. The judgment also contains a finding that any law making changes to the distribution of quotas under various categories would require an amendment to the State’s 1994 Act protecting the overall reservation level. As that Act contains quotas allotted to the SC, ST, BC and MBC/DNC categories, any change would require an amendment to that law, as well as the President’s assent. This may create some complications to the existing internal quotas given to the Backward Class (Muslims), who have 2.5% reservation, and the Arundhatiyars, who have a 3% sub-quota among the Scheduled Castes. Both these categories were created by stand-alone laws that only got the Governor’s assent. The High Court had mentioned that these two quotas were backed by census data and valid recommendations, but it did not consider the question whether their introduction without an amendment to the 1994 Act or the President’s assent was valid.  The Madras High Court observed that the State had produced no quantifiable data to back its claim that the Vanniyars were so far behind the other communities in the list that they deserved exclusive treatment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/reservation-on-quota/article37363346.ece
