08 November 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Fisherman killed in Pak. firing off Gujarat||A fisherman from Maharashtra was killed in firing by the Pakistan Maritime Security Agency (PMSA) on an Indian fishing boat off the Gujarat coast on Saturday evening. Six other fishermen on the boat have been reportedly abducted. The vessel was from Okha in Gujarat. “A boat sailing from Gujarat State in India illegally transgressed into Pakistan’s territorial waters. Subsequently Pakistan Maritime Security Agency’s ships attempted to interdict the intruding boat, which even after repeated warnings did not respond or change course,” the PMSA said. Devbhumi Dwarka Superintendent of Police Sunil Joshi said, “A fisherman from Thane in Maharashtra, who was on a fishing boat Jalpari was killed after the PMSA personnel opened fire on him and other crew members on Saturday evening.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fisherman-killed-in-pak-firing-off-gujarat/article37375053.ece
08 November 2021||Chennai,||Rain batters Chennai, several areas flooded||Heavy overnight rain led to flooding in several areas of Chennai on Sunday. Nungambakkam recorded 21.5 cm of rainfall, the highest recorded in a 24-hour period since 2015. Tamil Nadu has received a 43% surplus rainfall and Chennai registered a 26% excess since October 1. Following rain in the catchment areas leading to heavy inflows, the State Government gradually began releasing surplus water from reservoirs around Chennai including Poondi and Chembarambakkam. From an initial 500 cusecs, the discharge from Chembarambakkam was increased to 2,000 cusecs in the evening. With more heavy rain forecast for the city over the next 48 hours, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced a two-day holiday for schools in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Chengalpet and Kancheepuram districts. He visited flooded areas in the city and directed officials to ensure food supply for residents displaced and affected by the floods. Four teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) will be deployed in Madurai and Chengalpet, the Chief Minister said, adding that the NDRF, fire and police personnel are also engaged in rescue and relief operations in the city. He also advised those planning to return to the city after the Deepavali break to defer the trip by another two days. While Chennai received over 20 cm of rainfall, 10 districts including Karur, Tiruvallur, Namakkal, Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Tiruchi, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Madurai, Erode also received heavy rain, Mr. Stalin said. Roads in 166 residential areas, including places like Villivakkam, T Nagar, Alwarpet, Pulianthope, Vysarpadi, Velachery, RA Puram, Kolathur, Rajakilpakkam, Avadi, Ambattur, Pallikaranai and Saidapet, reported severe waterlogging. With water logging and fallen trees, traffic was disrupted and diverted in several areas. Subways were closed for vehicle movement during the day as water level rose. Power supply for some areas was cut off due to inundation as a precautionary measure. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the flood monitoring officials have visited the 15 zones to undertake relief measures. “In addition to 570 pumps in the city at various places, 67 pumps have been used to bale out water. We visited areas such as Kolathur, Villivakkam and Egmore. The problem is that the water did not drain into Korattur Channel, Retteri as well as Kodungaiyur channel, which drains into Buckingham canal. With the high tide, Buckingham Canal was full and the flow of water was slow,” he said. The Chief Minister also announced one day’s holiday to all State Government departments in Chennai on Monday except essential departments such as electricity, PWD, municipal administration, health, revenue, transport and Aavin. Mr. Stalin also requested private companies to consider following suit or to provide work from home option for a day. He also directed officials to conduct regular health camps to prevent the spread of diseases during the monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rain-batters-chennai-several-areas-flooded/article37375040.ece
08 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP will win people’s trust, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday exhorted BJP members to become a “bridge of faith” between the party and the common man. He was delivering the valedictory address at the party’s national executive meeting being held for the first time since the COVID-19 pandemic broke out. The pandemic and its effects and what was expected of people in public life occupied much of Mr. Modi’s speech, where he stressed that the BJP runs on the values of “ Sewa, Sanklap aur Samparan (service, resolution and commitment)” and “does not revolve around a family”, party national general secretary and Union Minister Bhupender Yadav said, quoting the PM. On the coming Assembly elections, Mr. Modi expressed confidence that the party would win the people’s trust as it had been moving forward by taking up issues close to the people. The Chief Ministers and BJP presidents of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur gave a presentation on the elections, Mr. Yadav told presspersons. A similar presentation was given by the BJP’s Punjab unit president, he said. “In his address, Prime Minister Modi ji gave a mantra to the party workers that they should become a bridge of faith between the common man and the party, while referring to the party’s history as it has always been associated with the issues close to the common man of the country,” Mr. Yadav said. ‘Not a family-based party’ The BJP is not a family-based party, it isn’t run by a family but by a culture of public welfare, Mr. Yadav said, quoting Mr. Modi. Referring to the work done by BJP workers during the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Modi said the ruling party focused on serving the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-will-win-peoples-trust-says-pm/article37375055.ece
08 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Hold emergency meet on air quality’||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Sunday asked the Central Government to convene an emergency meeting of all Environment Ministers of States neighbouring the Capital to discuss the issue of pollution arising from stubble burning and take urgent steps to secure the life of citizens. Mr. Rai said 21,623 stubble burning incidents have been recorded through NASA imagery in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh between November 1 and November 6, which mixed with pollution arising due to bursting of firecrackers has made the air quality in Delhi lethal. He said, “The Kejriwal Government’s constant appeals for a Joint Action Plan to get rid of stubble burning and air pollution have fallen on deaf ears, with the Centre and neighbouring States showing no concern for human lives.” He said the Delhi Government has started spraying the bio-decomposer solution to stop stubble burning in Delhi and taken steps to curb air pollution generated in the city, but little can be achieved in the long run without the neighbouring States taking steps to stop stubble burning. Delhi’s average score on the Air Quality Index (AQI) remained in the ‘severe’ category for the third consecutive day, with a score of 428 on Sunday. Mr. Rai said, “For the last three days, all the people of Delhi have been forced to breathe heavily polluted and suffocating air. Along with the Delhi Pollution Control Committee scientists, we researched the changes in pollution levels in Delhi since November 1. The data from November 1 to November 6 states the obvious — as and when stubble burning incidents increased, the pollution levels degraded.”  ‘Pleas going unheard’ In a letter to the Union Environment Minister, Mr. Rai said the Delhi Government had spoken about introducing the bio-decomposer solution as a means to stop stubble burning but all appeals had gone unheard due to which the city is turning into a gas chamber again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hold-emergency-meet-on-air-quality/article37375198.ece
08 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||Telangana government not to reduce VAT on petrol and diesel||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ruled out reduction of Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to offset spiralling fuel prices as the TRS government had not increased even a rupee on the State tax since the formation of Telangana seven years ago. Addressing a press conference on Sunday, Mr. Rao demanded that the Centre withdraw cess on petrol and fuel, which will automatically bring down their prices. He blamed the Centre for not increasing tax on fuel and instead imposing cess, so that it can be absolved of the responsibility of sharing revenue from tax with State governments. However, he was not in favour of reversing the step at this stage as he wanted all duties on fuel to be brought down. Mr. Rao said the Centre had spread falsehood that the hike in fuel prices was on account of increase in crude oil. But, the fact was that the crude oil cost US $ 105.52 a barrel in 2014, and now, it was US $ 83. The price had even crashed to US $ 30 at times. Paddy stocks On refusal of Food Corporation of India (FCI) to lift paddy stocks from Telangana, he threatened that his entire Cabinet, including himself, would stage a dharna in New Delhi if the FCI stuck to its guns. If the FCI could procure entire quantity of foodgrains from Punjab, why not Telangana?. The State government will wait for a response from the Centre for a week and then step up its agitation. He was, however, convinced that the Centre will not yield to pressure. Nevertheless, the farmers could still wait for a positive response because the Rabi sowings were possible till December-end. Mr. Rao accused the Centre of going back on its promise to lift paddy from the State in the Rabi last year and giving no commitment at all for the season this year. An understanding was reached for offtake of 50 lakh tonnes of boiled rice last year but the FCI procured only 24 lakh tonnes. This being the scenario, he said the Centre set up further obstacles even in kharif this year by rubbishing the claims of the State that its acreage was 62 lakh acres. The Centre said satellite mapping of area did not show that much of coverage. On this ground, the Centre had not sent any communication on how much it was prepared to procure kharif yield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-government-not-to-reduce-vat-on-petrol-and-diesel/article37375306.ece
08 November 2021||Bhopal,||Honour for Bhopal’s gritty crusader||Abdul Jabbar, a gas victim, waged a lonely and seemingly never-ending battle for the welfare of the survivors of 1984 Bhopal Gas Tragedy. His relentless struggle for over three decades brought medical and economic rehabilitation to the scores of victims. He will be awarded Padma Shri posthumously on Monday at the Darbar Hall of the Rashtrapathi Bhavan. Jabbarbhai, as he was widely referred to in Bhopal, lived in penury. With his wife and three young children, he stayed in a one-room asbestos shed where he and his younger brother’s family shared a toilet till the day of his untimely death on the evening of November 14, 2019. He turned down several offers of help from the governments, politicians and friends from corporate houses preferring to stay with the victims for whom he fought. For over three decades since the deadly gas leak, agitating for medical and economic rehabilitation of the survivors, lodging complaints against corrupt officials and demanding a bed and medicine for a gas victim had become a daily routine for Jabbar. Jabbar and his Bhopal Gas peedit Mahila Udyog Sangathan (BGPMUS) never took funds from corporate donors and foreign agencies, instead they premised on an idealised social reform by providing vocational trainings to gas widows and others from weaker section of the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/honour-for-bhopals-gritty-crusader/article37375049.ece
08 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Anganwadis in Udupi to reopen today||All 1,191 anganwadi centres in Udupi district will reopen on Monday, according to Chief Executive Officer of Udupi Zilla Panchyat Y. Naveen Bhat. Sanitisation of anganwadis has been completed and all anganwadi workers have been completely vaccinated against COVID-19. A festive atmosphere, with the centres covered in decorations, has been created as the anganwadis are being reopened after one-and-a-half years. Nutritious food will be given to children to take home for now, while preparation of food at the centres itself may be started after evaluating the situation, he said and added that the anganwadis will be kept open from 10 a.m. to noon for now. Maintaining hygiene has been given priority through supervision by child development planning officers from Udupi, Brahmavar, Kundapur and Karkala. Anganwadi workers arriving at these centres should have a RT-PCR test negative report not older than 72 hours. Children will be asked to sit at a distance of one metre from each other. If there is a space crunch due to social distancing, a roster for children will be prepared and they will be asked to come on alternative days depending on the situation. A decision to re-open all anganwadi centers in the district was taken as per the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee recommendations, he said.  Maintaining hygiene has been given priority through supervision by child development planning officers from Udupi, Brahmavar, Kundapur and Karkala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anganwadis-in-udupi-to-reopen-today/article37375447.ece
08 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Water supply hit due to increase in pollutants in Yamuna: Delhi Govt.||Due to the increase in ammonia levels in the Yamuna near Wazirabad, water supply in the Capital was hit on Sunday but was restored by evening, the Delhi Government has said. Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairman Raghav Chadha said water production was hit due to heavy sewage and industrial discharge from Haryana and asked people to use water judiciously. Mr. Chadha said, “Heavy sewage and industrial waste was discharged by Haryana during Diwali in the Yamuna, which increased ammonia levels, forcing water treatment plants to reduce operating capacity by 50%. However, by evening, the situation was stabilised and the plants are operating above 90% capacity.” He said the level of ammonia in the Yamuna increased to 3 ppm (parts per million), affecting water production at Sonia Vihar, Bhagirathi, Chadrawal, Okhla and Wazirabad treatment plants. The DJB water quality management team has increased the dosage of coagulants and disinfectants in the raw Yamuna water to control the increase in water pollution and to maintain water quality as per production norms, the Delhi Government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/water-supply-hit-due-to-increase-in-pollutants-in-yamuna-delhi-govt/article37375199.ece
08 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Rs. 66.5 cr. recovered from fraudulent transactions||Two month ago, an Indian armed forces person based out of Bengaluru lost Rs. 7.2 lakh in a cyber fraud scam. A man posing as an executive from the help desk of a nationalised bank asked for his account details claiming that the bank was updating his KYC details. Minutes after he gave the details, he realised that money had been wired out of his account. He immediately called the police control room, following which the staff alerted the bank’s cyber cell team, who responded within 20 minutes. They managed to recover Rs. 6.5 lakh of the total Rs. 7.2 lakh. This is not an isolated case: from December 22, 2020 to October 26, 2021, the cybercrime cell of Bengaluru police has recovered a whopping Rs. 66.5 crore that victims lost. Of this, Rs. 50 crore has been returned to the people who were cheated. During the same period, 4,243 accounts related to fraudulent transactions were frozen, said Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. As per data from the police, 6,850 cybercrime incidents were reported to the control room till October 26, 2021. It comes down to how fast the crime is reported. If the cyber fraud is reported as soon as the money is taken out of the account — as the army man did — there is a higher chance of retrieval. “There is no time limit that we have kept but the sooner they report to us, the better are the chances to save their money,” said a senior police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-665-cr-recovered-from-fraudulent-transactions/article37375097.ece
08 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Earnest inaction’ in sacrilege case: Sidhu||Targeting Punjab’s Advocate-General A.P.S. Deol, State Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday alleged that “earnest inaction” in the cases related to sacrilege and drugs was “subverting justice”. Mr. Sidhu’s statement came a day after Mr. Deol accused him of spreading misinformation for “selfish political gains” ahead of the election in Punjab. ‘Vested interests’ “There is a concerted attempt by vested interests to malign the functioning of the Congress party in view of the coming elections in Punjab for selfish political gain by politicising the constitutional office of the Advocate General of Punjab,” Mr. Deol had said. Through a series of tweets, Mr. Sidhu on Sunday said: “Mr. AG-Punjab, Justice is blind but people of Punjab are not. Our Congress party came to power with a promise to give justice in sacrilege cases, in which you appeared before the High Court for main conspirators/accused persons and made serious allegations against our Govt.” “Further, you specifically prayed for transferring the investigation to CBI as you were afraid of their false implication in sacrilege cases,” said Mr. Sidhu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/earnest-inaction-in-sacrilege-case-sidhu/article37375051.ece
08 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Concern over Haryana law on local hiring||The Haryana Government’s law to reserve 75% jobs for locals, notified on Saturday, could trigger an exodus of large domestic and multinational investors across sectors that rely on highly skilled manpower, the Indian industry has warned. The law that kicks in from January 15 requires firms with 10 or more employees to follow the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-law-on-local-hiring-causes-concern/article37375196.ece
08 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Five grenades found in Ilanthila village||Dakshina Kannada Police recovered five grenades off a road in Ilanthila village of Belthangady taluk on Saturday evening. According to Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane, the grenades were manufactured about 40 years ago. In a complaint to the police, Jayakumar Poojary, a former Special Commissioned Officer in the Indian Army, said that he noticed the grenades near a barbed wire fencing, a few metres away from his house. Someone had placed these explosive substances there. While four grenades were found scattered, one was in a yellow plastic cover. To prevent damage from the explosive substance, he collected them and kept them at a safe place and called the police. Mr. Sonawane said that the explosive substance were hand-held grenades manufactured at Ordnance Factory between 1979 and 1983. The police treated them as live grenades and seized them, after calling the bomb detection and disposal squad. The police will correspond with Army officials to find the source of these explosive substances. The police are trying to find out whey these old grenades had been procured, he said. The Uppinangady Police have registered a case for offences under Sections 25, 1(B) and 7 of the Arms Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/five-grenades-found-in-ilanthila-village/article37375450.ece
08 November 2021||Bengaluru,||3, including 2 minor boys, drown in pond||Three persons, including two boys, drowned in a ‘krishi honda’ (farm pond) while playing at Iggaluru village in Anekal on Saturday evening. The deceased have been identified as Amith Kumar, 31, Rishikesh, 9, and Deemanth, 12. They were residents of Nagenahalli Layout. Amith hailed from Sandur in Ballari district and was working in an IT company at Electronics City. The boys were students of a private school. According to the police, Rishikesh and Deemanth, along with another friend, Surya, were playing cricket around 4.30 p.m. The cricket ball fell into the 20-feet-deep pond. The three of them got in and started to drown while trying to get the ball out. Surya managed to scream for help and Amith, who was passing by, rushed to their rescue. He pulled out Surya. Amith, who then went to the middle of the pond, drowned while trying to rescue the other two boys. Lokesh, a resident, also heard the screams and went to see what happened. He then called the Fire and Emergency Services. The local people pulled out the bodies using a rope before the Fire Services personnel could reach the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/3-including-2-minor-boys-drown-in-pond/article37375093.ece
08 November 2021||CHITTOOR,||One dead as heavy rain lashes Chittoor||Heavy rain lashed several mandals of Chittoor district on Sunday under the impact of a depression in the Bay of Bengal. One person was reportedly killed after his hut caved in in Varadaiahpalem mandal, which received 145.4 mm rainfall, leaving several low-lying areas waterlogged. From midnight till Sunday early hours, it was downpour in about 40 mandals out of 66. While heavy rain was reported from Varadaiahpalem, Satyavedu and BN Kandriga mandal due to their proximity to the sea, several eastern mandals received non-stop rain for several hours, paralysing normal life. The district received 1847.7 mm rainfall. The deceased was identified as Venkata Krishnaiah of Chenchuramisetti Kandriga. He was asleep in the hut when the walls collapsed. Local people rescued him from under the debris, but he died before he could be taken to hospital. The mandal revenue officials inspected the low-lying areas and told the residents to move to rehabilitation centres immediately. As many as 62 families of the ST Colony at Varadaiahpalem were shifted to the rehabilitation centre set up at Govardanapuram village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-dead-as-heavy-rain-lashes-chittoor/article37375041.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Winter flutter||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/winter-flutter/article37375043.ece
08 November 2021||Pune,||Aryan was kidnapped, says Nawab Malik||In a fresh salvo of allegations in the Cordelia cruise drug bust, Nationalist Congress Party leader and Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik on Sunday claimed that the case involving Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, was one of “kidnap and ransom” while accusing Bharatiya Janata Party leader Mohit Kamboj of being the mastermind of the ‘conspiracy’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aryan-was-kidnapped-says-nawab-malik/article37375200.ece
08 November 2021||New Delhi,||Row over celebrating Chhath at Yamuna ghat||The politics over Chhath Puja continued on Sunday with BJP MP Parvesh Verma challenging Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to stop him from celebrating the festival at the Yamuna ghat at ITO. He said in a video statement that it was unacceptable that Mr. Kejriwal had banned Chhath Puja on the banks of the Yamuna this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/row-over-celebrating-chhath-at-yamuna-ghat/article37375201.ece
08 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||Refrain from religious activities on roads: Vij||Amid the growing controversy over the offering of Friday prayers (Jumma Namaz) at public places in Gurugram, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Sunday said that religious activities must be conducted inside religious places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/refrain-from-religious-activities-on-roads-vij/article37375203.ece
08 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Disease-resistant areca palms in the offing||In continued initiative to develop an arecanut plant variety that will be resistant to Yellow Leaf Disease, the CPCRI has now collected inflorescence from such arecanut palms that have withstood the disease, for developing tissue-cultured disease-resistant plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/disease-resistant-areca-palms-in-the-offing/article37375445.ece
08 November 2021||Pune,||Aryan was kidnapped, says Nawab Malik||In a fresh salvo of allegations in the Cordelia cruise drug bust, Nationalist Congress Party leader and Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik on Sunday claimed that the case involving Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, was one of “kidnap and ransom” while accusing Bharatiya Janata Party leader Mohit Kamboj of being the mastermind of the ‘conspiracy’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aryan-was-kidnapped-says-nawab-malik/article37375398.ece
08 November 2021||New Delhi,||SC to hear Lakhimpur Kheri case today||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday the matter related to the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed during a protest. A Bench would hear the matter in which the court had on October 26 directed the U.P. Government to provide protection to witnesses under the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-to-hear-lakhimpur-kheri-case-today/article37375399.ece
08 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||Refrain from religious activities on roads: Vij||Amid the growing controversy over the offering of Friday prayers (Jumma Namaz) at public places in Gurugram, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Sunday said that religious activities must be conducted inside religious places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/refrain-from-religious-activities-on-roads-vij/article37375400.ece
08 November 2021||BELAGAVI,||Legal programmes to be launched tomorrow||The Dharwad District Legal Services Authority will launch several programmes to mark the 25th anniversary of the National Legal Services Authority on Tuesday. Senior Civil Judge and DLSA member-secretary C.M. Pushpalata told journalists in Dharwad on Saturday that the programmes will be aimed at creating awareness about aid and literacy and laws on fundamental rights. A bike rally will be taken out to highlight the importance of legal awareness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/legal-programmes-to-be-launched-tomorrow/article37375287.ece
08 November 2021||HUBBALLI,||Vidyavardhak Sangha is all set for polls||The more-than-a- century-old Karnatak Vidyavardhak Sangha, a representative body of Kannada and Kannadigas, based in Dharwad, is all set to choose a new body with the election process scheduled to begin on November 12. The elections for the new body of 15 members was scheduled take place in May, but was put off following the COVID-19 situation. Polling will be held on November 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vidyavardhak-sangha-is-all-set-for-polls/article37375289.ece
08 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Haryana law on hiring causes concern||The Haryana Government’s law to reserve 75% jobs for locals, notified on Saturday, could trigger an exodus of large domestic and multinational investors across sectors such as auto and information technology that rely on highly skilled manpower, Indian industry has warned. The law that kicks in from January 15, 2022, requires firms with 10 or more employees to reserve 75% of all jobs offering a salary of less than Rs. 30,000 a month for eligible candidates of State domicile. The salary ceiling was earlier proposed to be Rs. 50,000 for the law that stems from an electoral promise by the BJP’s ally the Jannayak Janta Party in the 2019 Assembly election. Influx of talent The move to regulate hiring of those earning less than Rs. 30,000 a month, is aimed at disallowing the influx of talent from other parts of the country even in sectors such as IT and IT-enabled services (ITeS), which the State does not have enough captive supply of, pointed out Amitava Ghosh, co-founder & principal partner at SSA Compliance Services LLP. PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Pradeep Multani said Indian industry needs the most efficient work force to stay competitive in a globalised word. “We believe that any Indian should be allowed to work in any State of India without any restrictions,” he said. “We have already lost out to Sri Lanka and Bangladesh in textiles and MNCs moving out of China have not come to India but shifted to Vietnam, Indonesia, Thailand, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh,” he noted. “The 75% reservation will result in moving out of tech and automotive companies, especially MNCs as these are highly skilled manpower-based companies,” Mr. Multani said, suggesting that instead of compelling firms to hire locals, the State can consider giving a 25% subsidy to firms as an incentive for hiring locals. Tilting the scales Mr. Ghosh said the law is already tilting the scales for large firms, particularly in e-commerce, IT & ITeS and new manufacturing sectors, who had chosen Gurugram as a hub for their businesses. Moreover, imposing the reservations on gig and platform companies could create a crippling talent crunch, he pointed out. “Raising the son of the soil issue and preventing free movement of manpower resources in the State from other regions is sure to have a tremendously adverse effect on the existing industries in the State. This may force those tech giants and other industries to shift their base from Haryana to other States and drain out the State’s monetary resources to that extent,” Mr. Ghosh emphasised. “If other States take Haryana’s cue and follow suit, there would surely be an extreme level of talent crunch across industries and across the country,” he said, stressing that such electoral promises for job reservations will affect the economy at this critical juncture. In April, the PHD Chamber had urged the Haryana government to consider lowering the original salary ceiling of Rs. 50,000 a month to Rs. 15,000 a month on a 'cost to company' basis and raise it in tandem with efforts to improve skill sets in the State. It had also suggested that the reservation, if any, should begin from 20%-25% as technical and specialised skill sets will take time to inculcate among the State's youth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryana-law-on-hiring-causes-concern/article37374852.ece
08 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Best is yet to come for BJP, says Nadda||The BJP’s national executive meeting, being held after a period of two years and the first after a new executive was set up by current party president J.P. Nadda, kept the upcoming Assembly elections front and centre of its agenda. Mr. Nadda set targets to strengthen the party’s organisational reach in poll-bound States and gave a pep talk to leaders on how the “best was yet to come”. Briefing presspersons on Mr. Nadda’s speech, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said new goals were set before the organisation by the national president. “The party will constitute booth-level committees at all 10.4 lakh polling stations by December 25 this year and have ‘ panna committees’, in reference to each page of voters’ list by April 6,” Mr. Pradhan said. The upcoming Assembly elections and the effect of contemporary events on them was very much a part of Mr. Nadda’s speech, with the party president reaching out to the Sikh community. He listed a number of measures the Modi government had taken for the community, including expediting action against the 1984 riots accused, facilitating foreign grants to gurdwaras and keeping langars (community kitchens) outside the purview of the Goods and Services Tax. Sikhs are members of the many farmers organisations currently protesting against the three contentious farm laws. Managing pandemic Mr. Pradhan said the executive hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s effective leadership during the COVID-19 pandemic and the vaccination drive and for providing free foodgrains to 80 crore poor people. Mr. Nadda also lauded the party on its growth in West Bengal, where the party failed to win power in the Assembly election earlier this year. “If one looks at its growth in the State [West Benga] from the political science perspective, then there will be very few parallels of it in Indian political history,” Mr. Nadda said. He added that the party would stand “like a rock” with party workers who were at the receiving end of political violence in West Bengal; “we will fight back democratically, the party has decided,” Mr. Pradhan quoted Mr. Nadda as saying. According to Mr. Pradhan, Mr. Nadda said if one looks at the BJP’s vote share in the 2014 and 2016 Assembly elections in West Bengal, and compared them with the 2019 Lok Sabha and the 2021 Assembly election, it shows substantial growth of the BJP in the State. Citing the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, Mr. Pradhan said the executive lauded Mr. Modi for his foresight of enacting the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which aims at providing citizenship to minorities in some neighbouring countries, including Pakistan and Afghanistan. Following Mr. Nadda’s speech, Chief Minister of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh Yogi Adityanath tabled the BJP’s political resolution, touching various landmark initiatives taken by the Modi Government. Political resolution Sharing the details of the resolution, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the document specifically mentioned that “we shall ensure the party’s victory in the upcoming Assembly elections”. The BJP’s Tamil Nadu president, Annamalai, seconded the political resolution. The resolution condemned the Opposition’s “opportunistic” politics and its attempts to create fear during the pandemic. It also lauded the Modi Government’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, not only in terms of the vaccination drive but also measures such as providing foodgrains to a population of 80 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. The meeting was conducted in a hybrid mode with State leaders and senior leaders like L.K. Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi attending virtually. All members had to register digitally for the conference, and of the 346 members in the national executive, 342 were attending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/best-is-yet-to-come-for-bjp-says-nadda/article37374864.ece
08 November 2021||New Delhi,||Ban on Italian firm linked to Agusta scam lifted||In a major turnaround, the Government has decided to lift its ban on the Italian defence company involved in the AgustaWestland VVIP helicopter deal, just days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with his Italian counterpart Mario Draghi, sources confirmed here. Over the past few years, bilateral relations have been held up over the helicopter case as well as the case of the Italian marines accused of killing Kerala fishermen. Mr. Modi’s first visit to Rome has seen the formal burial of both issues. The ban imposed on Italian defence firm Leonardo SpA has been lifted with certain conditions, a defence official confirmed to The Hindu . When asked, Italian Ambassador to India Vincenzo De Luca said that the matter had been discussed during Mr. Modi’s visit, where he was accompanied by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. According to one Government source, the ban had impacted the Navy in particular, as it is in need of an alternative supplier for “heavyweight torpedoes”. “We have still not received confirmation of the decision [to lift the ban] by the Indian Government,” Mr. Luca said in response to a question from The Hindu . “However it is a signal of the relaunch of the partnership of the two countries, one that is based on reinforced multilateralism, cooperation against the pandemic, energy transition, and defence ties,” the Ambassador added. The Prime Minister’s meeting in Rome also followed a few months after India formally dropped all charges against Italian marines Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, and the Supreme Court agreed to close criminal proceedings on the basis of a decision by the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea. Italy also paid Rs. 10 crore in compensation for the fishermen mistakenly shot dead by the marines aboard the Enrica Lexie ship in 2012, and most of the money has been disbursed to their families in Kerala. In an interview to The Hindu , Mr. Luca said that with all “pending issues resolved”, the two countries would intensify work on the “action plan” that had been agreed to during the India-Italy virtual summit in November 2020 between Mr. Modi and the then Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conti that had clean energy transitions “at the centre of the conversation”. “The leaders called for growing investments in the two countries. Italy and India enjoy a robust economic relation that has remained strong,” the Ambassador said, adding that Italian companies had agreed to at least 14 new investment projects in India during the period of the COVID-19 pandemic alone. “The two leaders also agreed on the possibility to strengthen the cooperation in the defence sector and on the need to continue high-level visits between the two countries by planning to meet again soon,” he added, indicating that a visit by Mr. Draghi could be expected either in 2022 or in 2023, when India will host the G-20 summit. When asked about the outcomes of the G-20 summit in Rome, concluded last week, the Italian envoy said that the economic outcomes, including the plan to achieve 40% vaccinations of the global population by the end of 2021 were significant and the agreement on a global minimum tax on corporations was “historic”. “Among other results, [the G-20] recognised the final political agreement to address the tax challenges arising from digitalisation of the economy as a historic achievement to establish a more stable and fair international tax system. India contributed significantly to this particular aspect,” Mr. Luca added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ban-on-italian-firm-linked-to-agusta-scam-lifted/article37374991.ece
08 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||Trinamool sets eyes on Tripura||The ambitions of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) beyond West Bengal appears to have taken off in Tripura. Language is a factor; Tripura, like West Bengal, is dominated by Bengali speakers. But the alleged misrule of the Biplab Kumar Deb-headed coalition Government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party is said to be the main reason. The Trinamool hopes that the “undercurrent of resentment” against the BJP would help it make a mark in the Agartala Municipal Corporation election scheduled for November 25. This is the first attempt of the Trinamool to contest civic polls outside West Bengal. “They prevented us from holding rallies, they attacked our people, hounded us, tried to make life difficult for us, but we still fielded candidates for the civic polls,” Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha member Sushmita Dev said. She is a former Congress MP from southern Assam’s Bengali-speaking Barak Valley adjoining Tripura. Her father, former Union Minister Santosh Mohan Dev, was a two-time MP from Tripura and had helped install a Congress Government in the State in 1988. “The BJP cannot win the next Assembly election in Tripura. The party that can replace it has to give the people a realistic, believable vision. Trinamool was never focused on Tripura in the past but is now,” Ms. Dev told The Hindu . According to Ashish Das, who quit as a BJP lawmaker to join the Trinamool on October 31, the ground for Mamata Banerjee’s party in Tripura was “very fertile”. “People are scared to speak out because of the reign of terror let loose by a dictatorial Chief Minister. They are desperate for an alternative. The civic polls can give us some indication of the people’s pulse and sentiment,” he said. “After coming to power in 2018, the BJP had passed a law making an MLA eligible for pension and perks even if he or she has served for a day. Soon after I joined the Trinamool, they decided to scrap this provision and make it mandatory for an MLA to complete a five-year term to enjoy the benefits,” he said. This was aimed at stopping other MLAs from quitting the BJP, Mr. Das said. He was among five MLAs who had organised an allegedly rebellious meeting in Agartala in August. A BJP spokesperson in the State said the Trinamool was daydreaming about ruling Tripura. “This dream will come crashing after the civic polls,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-sets-eyes-on-tripura/article37374857.ece
08 November 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. failed to win votes of Ahoms, tea tribes||The Congress’s washout in Assam in the recent bypolls indicates that the party has not only failed to impress voters despite changes in the State leadership but, most importantly, reflects the failure to woo back major communities such as Ahoms and tea garden tribes that play a decisive role in upper Assam. And with 56 out of 126 Assembly seats coming from upper Assam, the region is key to the Congress’s revival in the State. But the Congress’s failure to hold onto Mariani and Thowra, the two seats in upper Assam it had won during the April Assembly election, is a worrying sign. The results are even more significant as the party contested the recent bypolls after breaking its alliance with Badruddin Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), that was largely blamed for a polarised election earlier. The two Assembly seats not only saw Congress defectors comfortably win on BJP ticket but the candidates represented the two major communities, Ahoms and tea tribes. Four-time MLA from Mariani, Rupjyoti Kurmi, is a popular leader from the tea garden community that used to be once a strong Congress vote bank. But since 2014, the party has seen a massive erosion of support from the community. Similarly, a large section of the Ahom community, that has given stalwarts and former Chief Ministers like Tarun Gogoi and Hiteshwar Saikia to the Congress, has also moved to the BJP since 2014. For example, the BJP that had 13% vote share in the 2011 Assembly elections, went up to 46% in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. The Congress, on the other hand, saw its vote share go down from 46% in the 2011 Assembly polls to 36% in the 2016 State elections. Faced with another setback, Congress leaders offer various reasons why the party fared poorly. Some argued that the tea garden community voted for the BJP because of benefits such as free rice, direct benefit transfers among others. Former Union Minister and a prominent tea garden community leader, Paban Singh Ghatowar, said, “The candidates in Mariani and Thowra have been our MLAs for many terms and shared personal relationship with the voters”. “We couldn’t match the BJP’s organisation and resource mobilisation. But I do believe that the Congress will turn around after strengthening the organisation,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-failed-to-win-votes-of-ahoms-tea-tribes/article37374859.ece
08 November 2021||New Delhi,||SC set to hear Lakhimpur Kheri case today||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday the matter related to the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed during a protest. A Bench comprising Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli would hear the matter in which the top court had on October 26 directed the Uttar Pradesh Government to provide protection to witnesses under the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018. The top court had also asked the Uttar Pradesh Government to record the statements of other witnesses before the Judicial Magistrate under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and expedite the examination of digital evidence by experts. Status report The Bench had sought a status report from the State government on the alleged lynching of a journalist and another person by the mob, after a vehicle mowed down four protesting farmers. The top court is hearing the Lakhimpur Kheri matter after two lawyers had written to the CJI seeking a high-level judicial inquiry, also involving the CBI, into the incident. Counsel appearing for the State government had told the top court on October 26 that out of 68 witnesses, the statements of 30 witnesses have been recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC and some more testimonies will be recorded. The police have so far arrested several of those accused, including Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, in connection with the case. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV in Lakhimpur Kheri when a group agitating against the Centre’s three farm laws was holding a demonstration against the visit of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on October 3. Two BJP workers and a driver were beaten to death allegedly by the angry protesters, while a local journalist was also killed. Farmer leaders have claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the cars that allegedly knocked down the protesters but the Minister has denied the allegations. Several farmer organisations are protesting against the three laws — The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 — since last November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-set-to-hear-lakhimpur-kheri-case-today/article37374870.ece
08 November 2021||Bhopal/Raipur,||M.P., Chhattisgarh CMs focus on polls||In the run-up to the 2023 Assembly elections in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, the Chief Ministers of the two States present varying moods. If the Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan took part in a spoon race with children, his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel had himself whipped by a bunch of grass in an ancient ritual observed by the tribal and farming communities of his State. Two days after celebrating Deepavali with children orphaned by COVID-19, Mr. Chouhan inaugurated the Khilaunakari toy festival at Budhni, the Assembly constituency he represents. Made of wood and bamboo, Khilaunakari products have a huge demand across the State, especially among children in rural areas. At this event, apart from participating gamely in the spoon race, Mr. Chouhan sang “ Nadiya chale chale re dhara ”, originally rendered by Manna Dey and filmed on matinee idols Rajesh Khanna and Shramila Tagore for the Hindi movie Safar at Budhni, from where Mr. Chouhan entered the State Assembly for the first time in 1990. In the 2018 Assembly elections, he secured 60.25% votes but his vote share in his home turf had fallen to a new low of nearly 9%. In the 2013 Assembly elections, he secured 69.99% votes. With 72% of Madhya Pradesh being rural, the lion’s share of the State’s constituencies are rural and semi-rural. In the 2018 Assembly elections, the BJP lost its grip on the rural seats, with the Congress winning nearly 52% of the seats and the BJP taking 44% of the seats. Amid a flare-up in the tension between Mr. Baghel, the Chhattisgarh CM, and the State’s Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo over issues related to “rotational chief ministership”, Mr. Baghel offered his right hand to be “whipped” by a villager. Baghel’s outreach In a video shared on Twitter, Mr. Baghel is seen holding his hand out, fist clenched, as villager Birendra Thakur, a resident of Janjgiri village in Durg district, lashes him hard, eight times. Mr. Baghel had himself whipped with a sota made of kush , a species of grass used for religious purposes, on Govardhan Puja, following a rural tradition. The video shows Mr. Baghel withdrawing his hand only after Mr. Thakur stops, following which he offers a pranam and hugs the villager. The Chhattisgarh CM is said to observe the ‘Sota-Prahar’ ritual every year in Durg’s Janjgiri village, but this time he shared a video of the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-chhattisgarh-cms-focus-on-polls/article37375206.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,||The Hindu Lit For Life on Nov. 12, 13||After a two-year hiatus, thanks to the pandemic, The Hindu Lit For Life festival, which began as a celebration of 20 years of The Hindu ’s literary supplement, Literary Review , now returns. The event will be held online on November 12 and 13 and here is the link to the schedule of the much-sought after festival: https://www.thehindulfl.in/ schedule-2021/. Day one of the festival will start at 5 p.m. with an inaugural address and have four sessions. Day two will begin by 10.30 a.m. and have eight sessions. The festival now returns “in a digital format with a carefully curated programme that reflects our much-changed world with sessions on the virus and its impact with leading scientists and medical practitioners, conversations between thinkers and writers on a variety of topics such as films, art and literature, as well as an important conversation on how to navigate these complex times,” says Dr. Nirmala Lakshman, Festival Director and Curator and Director, The Hindu Group. In ‘Lessons of the Pandemic’, moderated by Kamini Mahadevan, Gagandeep Kang, Srinath Reddy and Arun Kumar take stock of the impact on healthcare, society and the economy. ‘Mind Matters: An exploration of lifespan mental health in COVID-19 times’ will have Pratima Murthy, Shekhar Seshadri, Soumitra Pathare and Ennapadam S. Krishnamoorthy discuss what the past two years have meant for our mental well-being. ‘In the Wild: Conversations about Conservation’ has Neha Sinha, Sanjay Gubbi and Mahesh Rangarajan talking about the imperatives of co-existence. The festival is about people and the world around them. This is what comes to the fore in ‘Shashi and Sashi’, as Shashi Tharoor and Sashi Kumar have a candid chat about life, literature, politics and more. Art is one of the aspects that light up life. In ‘Reclaiming Gandhi’, artist Subodh Kerkar revisits his lifelong engagement with the Mahatma and examines how art can help spread his ideas. In ‘Sense Smell Touch: Collaborating in Theatre Making’, Anuradha Kapur and Deepan Sivaraman suggest that the process of production is collaborative and individual. The festival concludes with ‘Running Towards Mystery’ in which Tenzin Priyadarshi talks to N. Ravi, Chairman of Kasturi & Sons Ltd and publisher of The Hindu Group of Newspapers, about transforming ourselves and the world in a positive manner using ethics and values as tools for now and later. To register for Lit For Life’s first virtual event, visit https://bit.ly/THLFL21 or scan the QR code. The festival sponsors are Rajasthan Tourism (associate sponsor), Casagrand (realty partner), State Bank of India (banking partner), Life Insurance Corporation of India (insurance partner) and Higginbothams (bookstore partner).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-hindu-lit-for-life-on-nov-12-13/article37375031.ece
08 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||Akhilesh calls for ‘revolution of the Backwards’ in 2022||Exuding confidence about a “revolution of the Backwards” in the 2022 Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday called for a change in power in the State. “This time, there will be an inquilab (revolt) of the Backward [classes] during election. And there will be change in 2022,” Mr. Yadav said at a public meeting in Amebdkar Nagar in eastern Uttar Pradesh. The rally, organised by two former senior BSP leaders, Lalji Verma and Ram Achal Rajbhar, both from the OBC community, was part of the SP chief’s outreach among the non-Yadav OBCs whom the BJP successfully managed to pit against the Yadavs in the past few elections. The OBCs are estimated to be form 40% to 45% of the State’s population, of which Yadavs, the core support base of the SP, make up a fifth. The two leaders, both five-time MLAs and senior leaders of their respective Kurmi and Rajbhar communities, were inducted into the SP at the Janadesh Maha Rally in their home district. In an appeal to Dalits and OBCs to rally behind him, Mr. Yadav said only the ideologies of Ram Manohar Lohia and B.R. Ambedkar can fulfil the dream of India and “our ancestors.” Referring to his failed alliance with BSP chief Mayawati in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, Mr. Yadav said he had attempted to “bring together the ideologies” of Ambedkar and Lohia. Marriage of ideologies “Both leaders wanted Parivartan, to do something for the honour of those people who were kept despondent for thousands of years. those who lived under discrimination. We did not succeed in that attempt,” Mr. Yadav said in Ambedkar Nagar, which has been a BSP stronghold. While expressing happiness at the long list of former BSP leaders who have joined the SP in recent months, widening his caste canvas, Mr. Yadav promised to honour these leaders and fulfil their dreams. Mr. Yadav said that while the BJP had promised to double the income of farmers, what the people got was inflation and joblessness. Questioning how the farmers could forgive the BJP for the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and the saffron party’s subsequent defeats in the October 30 bypolls, the SP chief said it had caused prices to come down. “If they lose in U.P., the prices will come further down,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-calls-for-revolution-of-the-backwards-in-2022/article37374866.ece
08 November 2021||Srinagar,||J&K parties object to CRPF’s takeover of community halls||Jammu & Kashmir’s regional parties, including the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), on Sunday said the takeover of marriage halls by security forces and the installation of new bunkers belies the Central Government’s claims of normalcy in the Union Territory. In south Kashmir, militants hurled a grenade at Central Reserve Police Force personnel on Sunday. “Taking over of even marriage halls by the CRPF in Srinagar and the coming of new security bunkers across the valley has punctured the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) Government’s normalcy claims in Jammu and Kashmir after the unconstitutional abrogation of the erstwhile State’s special status under Article 370,” CPI(M) leader M.Y. Tarigami said. NC vice-president and former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah said his Government had built community and marriage halls, and demolished bunkers, in Srinagar. “It’s disappointing to see the security situation in the city has now regressed so far that new bunkers are being constructed and marriage halls are being used as barracks for security forces,” Mr. Abdullah said. PDP president and former CM Mehbooba Mufti said that after placing security bunkers in all parts of Srinagar, CRPF personnel had been pushed into marriage halls, the only private space left for people here. “Every day, more draconian laws are brought in with the sole purpose of suffocating people into silence,” she said. Officials said suspected militants hurled a grenade at CRPF personnel manning Nehama Chowk in south Kashmir’s Kulgam on Sunday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-parties-object-to-crpfs-takeover-of-community-halls/article37374880.ece
08 November 2021||New Delhi,||Google asked to probe diversion of web traffic||The Delhi High Court has questioned tech giant Google over lack of parity in its policy for India, against the European Union countries, on investigating cases of usage of trademark as a keyword on its search engine by third party entities, resulting in diversion of traffic from the website of the trademark owner to webpage of the third party entities. “In a way the [third party] advertiser through oblique motives is cashing upon the goodwill of the trademark owner for his own benefit and through which process Google is earning revenue and as such is equally liable for the omissions and commissions of the advertiser,” Justice V. Kameswar Rao said. The court’s observation came while adjudicating a case filed by DRS Logistics (P) Ltd, owners of Agarwal Packers and Movers, seeking direction to Google to restrain third party entities from using its registered trademarks as their keyword or as a ‘meta tag’. DRS Logistics contended that several third party entities use the services of Google for inserting their infringing advertisements when a user on the Internet looks for it by typing ‘Agarwal Packers & Movers’. The court highlighted that as per Google’s policy it investigated use of the trademark as a keyword but that was only confined for the EU. “It is unclear that on what basis has a distinction been drawn by Google between certain countries with regard to the trademark policies so formulated and followed,” it said. “It is clear from Google’s EU and EFTA [European Free Trade Association] policy that Google provides a higher duty of care in a jurisdiction where large portions of the population are Internet literate. This further fortifies as to why such a policy should be followed in India,” Justice Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/google-asked-to-probe-diversion-of-web-traffic/article37374839.ece
08 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cruise drugs case: SIT to summon accused soon||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which has taken over the cruise drugs case allegedly involving Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, may soon summon the accused persons for recording their statements. The team is scrutinising the evidence collected during the probe to gather leads for further investigation. The five other cases transferred to the team are also being examined. The SIT, comprising officers from the Operation Branch, is supervised by Sanjay Kumar Singh, Deputy Director-General of NCB headquarters in Delhi. The decision to transfer six cases from the NCB’s Mumbai Zone was taken weeks after several charges were levelled against Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cruise-drugs-case-sit-to-summon-accused-soon/article37374845.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Rain batters Chennai, several areas flooded||Roads in 166 residential areas including places like Villivakkam, T. Nagar, Alwarpet, Pulianthope, Vysarpadi, Velachery, RA Puram, Kolathur, Rajakilpakkam, Avadi, Ambattur, Pallikaranai and Saidapet reported severe waterlogging. With water logging and fallen trees, traffic was disrupted and diverted in several areas. Subways were closed for vehicle movement during the day as water level rose. Power supply for some areas was cut off due to inundation as a precautionary measure. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the flood monitoring officials have visited the 15 zones to undertake relief measures. The Chief Minister also announced one day’s holiday to all State government departments in Chennai on Monday except essential departments such as electricity, PWD, municipal administration, health, revenue, transport and Aavin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rain-batters-chennai-several-areas-flooded/article37374840.ece
08 November 2021||Pune,||HC sends Deshmukh to ED custody till Nov. 12||The Bombay High Court on Sunday sent former Maharashtra Home Minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh to the Enforcement Directorate's (ED) custody till November 12 in a money laundering case. The High Court set aside a special court’s order which had previously remanded Anil Deshmukh to judicial custody. A Vacation Bench of Justice Madhav Jamdar was hearing an application filed by the agency challenging the special court’s order of November 6 which had remanded Mr. Deshmukh to a 14-day judicial custody. The ED sought Mr. Deshmukh’s custody on the ground that it was bad in law and against the principles of natural justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-sends-deshmukh-to-ed-custody-till-nov-12/article37374841.ece
08 November 2021||Mumbai,||Aryan Khan skips NCB SIT’s summons||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, was summoned by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Sunday in connection with the cruise drugs case, but he failed to appear before it citing fever, an official said. The anti-drug agency’s SIT on Sunday asked Aryan to appear before it the same day, the NCB official said. On Friday, Aryan had visited the NCB office here to mark his weekly presence according to the bail conditions set by the Bombay High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aryan-khan-skips-ncb-sits-summons/article37375032.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Honour for Bhopal’s gritty crusader||Instead, they premised on an idealised social reform by providing vocational trainings to gas widows and others from weaker section of the society. This emphasis on self-employment through skill development was among the toughest decisions Jabbarbhai ever made. Once the beneficiaries became self-reliant, he ensured them orders for tailoring, bag making, and the traditional unique Bhopali batau (string purses with Zardozi work) from big shop owners. Despite his meagre means, Jabbar and his organisation filed frequent judicial petitions through public-spirited lawyers, seeking relief for the victims, cleaning of toxic waste dumped in the premises of Union Carbide factory since the intervening night of December 2-3, 1984, street agitations, joining similar people’s movements, helping riot victims, opposing demolition drives, planting samplings, protesting against the construction of buildings, hotels close to the lakes. “The Padma Shri Award to Jabbar is recognition of the fact that he was in the forefront of the struggle for justice for the Bhopal gas victims,” N. D. Jayaprakash, co-convener of the BGPSSS said. “I hope Bhopal, its people and others will always remember his work and contribution in rebuilding the life of gas victims,” Saira Bano, wife of Jabbar told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/honour-for-bhopals-gritty-crusader/article37374844.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Fisherman killed in Pak. firing off Gujarat||The body of the deceased fisherman, Sridhar Ramesh Chamre, 32, was brought to Okha port on Sunday and an FIR has been registered by the Porbandar Navi Bandar police, which has jurisdiction across Gujarat over any incident that occurs beyond 12 nautical miles in the Arabian Sea. Chamre and six other crew — five from Gujarat and one from Maharashtra — had set off from Okha on October 25. The Gujarat coast has seen several incidents of fishermen caught by the PMSA for transgressing the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL). There are more than 350 fishermen from Gujarat currently in Pakistani jails after having been intercepted by the agency along the IMBL. Earlier in April 2020, Pakistani Marines had opened firing on two boats near the IMBL in the Arabian Sea off Gujarat in which one person was hurt. In 2019 the PMSA had sunk an Indian boat with seven fishers onboard. Six of them were rescued but one person was reported missing. The Ministry of External Affairs has reacted on the incident, saying: “In an incident that took place on November 6, Pakistani Maritime Security Agency, in an unprovoked firing incident, fired upon at an Indian fishing boat resulting in death of one Indian fisherman and another injured. The injured fisherman is being treated at hospital in Okha, Gujarat. Reacting to the incident, sources in the Ministry of External affairs said: “We have taken serious note of this incident. We are going to take up this issue diplomatically with Pakistan. The matter is under investigation and further details will be shared in due course.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fisherman-killed-in-pak-firing-off-gujarat/article37374847.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||BJP will win people’s trust, says Prime Minister||The Chief Ministers and BJP presidents of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur gave a presentation on the elections, Mr. Yadav told presspersons. A similar presentation was given by the BJP’s Punjab unit president, he said. “In his address, Prime Minister Modi ji gave a mantra to the party workers that they should become a bridge of faith between the common man and the party, while referring to the party’s history as it has always been associated with the issues close to the common man of the country,” Mr. Yadav said. Not a family party The BJP is not a family-based party, it isn’t run by a family but by a culture of public welfare, Mr. Yadav said, quoting Mr. Modi. Referring to the welfare work done by BJP workers during the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Modi said the ruling party focused on serving the people. He pointed out that the public outreach and identifying issues close to the common man was the key to winning the trust of the people, and the “ sewa hi sanghathan ” (service is organisation) run as a campaign during the COVID-19 pandemic had underlined the direction that the party needed to keep to. Senior leaders who had attended the national executive meet also said Mr. Modi had emphasised not only making common cause with the people on their issues but also carrying them through not just at the time of elections but also later. “Sometimes we are not so ardent in pursuing issues after the polls are over, Prime Minister Modi said we needed to stick to issues that were important to the people even after the polls were over,” said the senior leader. Mr. Modi also spoke about a new initiative of Kamal Pushp launched on the Namo App for paying tributes to all party workers who devoted their entire life to the party. “Even if they have left us, we should mention the work they have done for the growth of this party when they were in the party,” Because they were there to build the party and take it where we are now,” said a senior leader quoting Prime Minister Modi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-will-win-peoples-trust-says-prime-minister/article37374848.ece
08 November 2021||Srinagar,||Srinagar court asks for report on seizures||A court in Srinagar has directed the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) to submit a report on the mass confiscation of two-wheelers in the city, at a time when Union Home Minister Amit Shah was scheduled to visit the Union Territory in October. “The SSP is directed to call the report from all police stations within Srinagar regarding the issue within 10 days,” a Mobile Magistrate, Traffic, said in an order. Violation of MV Act The court order came after Naveed Bukhtiyar, a social activist, pleaded before the court that in the past one month the Jammu and Kashmir police have been “detaining two-wheelers illegally in violation of the provisions of the Motor Vehicle Act and releasing the vehicles by exercising the power of a traffic judge”. “The illegal action has not only caused humiliation, mental agony but also took away fundamental rights of the people,” the petition said. Locals have claimed that in a major crackdown in the last week of October against motorcyclists in Srinagar, the police seized two-wheelers “in spite of possessing valid documents” and “shifting them to police stations for prolonged detention”. The crackdown came days after militants carried out targeted killings in the city, which left seven civilians dead. The police claimed that the militants were using two-wheelers to flee from the spot after carrying out the attacks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/srinagar-court-asks-for-report-on-seizures/article37374850.ece
08 November 2021||Pune,||Aryan was kidnapped, alleges Nawab Malik||In a fresh salvo of allegations in the Cordelia cruise drug bust, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Sunday claimed that the case involving Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan, was one of “kidnap and ransom” while accusing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mohit Kamboj of being the mastermind of the ‘conspiracy’. Speaking in Mumbai, Mr. Malik alleged that the “plan to trap” Mr. Aryan Khan was laid through Mr. Kamboj, a former BJP youth wing president and general secretary of the party’s Mumbai unit, while accusing the BJP leader of being Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede’s “partner-in-crime” in an extortion racket. The NCP leader further alleged that another ‘partner’ of Mr. Wankhede, Kashiff Khan, who was present at the party, had apparently been “forcing” Maharashtra Minister Aslam Shaikh to attend the cruise party. “Aryan Khan didn’t purchase the ticket for the [Cordelia] cruise party. He was brought there by Pratik Gaba and Amir Furniturewala. The trap was laid through Mohit Kamboj. Aryan was ‘kidnapped’ and ransomed and after the initial demand of Rs. 25 crores, the deal was settled at Rs. 18 crores,” claimed Mr. Malik, who is the State’s Minority Development Minister. According to Mr. Malik, Mr. Wankhede ran ‘a private army’ who were active participants in this extortion business. Clarifying that his fight was neither against the NCB nor the BJP nor a tussle between the Centre and the Maharashtra governments, but merely against disreputable elements, Mr. Malik urged the BJP to stop shielding ‘dubious’ characters like Mr. Kamboj while exhorting the NCP to weed out their batch of ‘rotten apples’. They are ruining the NCB’s reputation,” said Mr. Malik stressing that there was “no mid-sea drug bust operation” as claimed by the NCB and that the entire episode was one of “sordid extortion”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aryan-was-kidnapped-says-malik/article37374854.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Earnest inaction’ in sacrilege case: Sidhu||“Today, you are representing the same Government of same political party in power and accusing me of spreading misinformation,” said Mr. Sidhu. “Are you acting at the behest of those who appointed you in this constitutional office? Did you advise the Government to challenge the blanket bail order procured by you or any other adverse order in sacrilege cases in the Supreme Court? Leave the politics to the politicians and focus on your personal conscience, integrity and professional ethics, which your job requires,” he tweeted. The State Congress chief also raised questions on the stand taken in a drugs related case. “In the hearing of drugs case in the High Court on October 5, 2021, upon being asked that what is stopping Govt. for taking action on the basis of Special Task Force report filed in High Court, you replied that ‘it would be ethically wrong to proceed in the matter without the court’s nod’,” Mr. Sidhu said. “May I know what is unethical in proceeding against the accused persons on the basis of STF Report who are responsible for narcotics-terrorism in Punjab and has put India’s most prosperous State in danger of losing an entire generation to drug abuse?” Mr. Sidhu tweeted. He said the High Court had itself given a copy of the STF report to the State Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/earnest-inaction-in-sacrilege-case-sidhu/article37374855.ece
08 November 2021||Kolkata,||ISF activists clash with police in West Bengal||Activists of the Indian Secular Front (ISF), founded by Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui, engaged in a pitched battle with the police at Bhangar in South 24 Parganas after being stopped from holding a public meeting in the area. The outfit, formed ahead of the Assembly polls in Bengal, claimed that some of its members suffered injuries during the clash. A senior police officer said over 100 ISF workers hurled stones at him and his colleagues on Basanti Highway in Bhangar when they attempted to stop them from blocking the thoroughfare for the programme. One of the officers was injured in the melee, following which other police personnel chased away the agitators, he said. ISF MLA from Bhangar, Naushad Siddiqui, however, told reporters that the police brutally lathicharged his outfit’s members. According to the police officer, the ISF was denied permission, citing the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/isf-activists-clash-with-police-in-west-bengal/article37374868.ece
08 November 2021||New Delhi,||AY.4.2 variant not of concern: INSACOG||The frequency of the new AY.4.2 variant of COVID-19 is less than 0.1% of all Variants of Interest (VOI)/ Variants of Concern (VOC), and is too low to be of concern at this time, the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) has said. The INSACOG’s weekly bulletin said that vaccine effectiveness does not seem to be different for AY.4.2 when compared with other Delta variants. “There is currently no biological basis for increased transmissibility of AY.4.2, as judged epidemiologically, and assays are in progress,” it said. The INSACOG noted that Delta (B.1.617.2 and AY.x) continues to be the main VOC in India and no new variant VOI or VOC have been noted in India. The Delta variant, which was first found in India in October 2020, led to the devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in the country, which peaked in April and May 2021. INSACOG, a consortium of 28 national laboratories, was set up in December 2020 to monitor the genomic variations of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ay42-variant-not-of-concern-insacog/article37374872.ece
08 November 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab cuts petrol price by Rs. 10, diesel by Rs. 5||The Congress-led Government in Punjab on Sunday announced a reduction in value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel, making them cheaper by Rs. 10 and Rs. 5 per litre, respectively. The new rates will be effective from midnight. Currently, petrol and diesel rates in Punjab are Rs. 106.20 and Rs. 89.83 per litre respectively. The move, which will cost the State nearly Rs. 6,000 crore, comes days after the BJP-led Central Government reduced excise duty on petrol and diesel, and several other States, including Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, slashed VAT rates on the fuel to give relief to consumers. The decision to reduce VAT on fuel was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Mr. Channi claimed that such a big rate cut was unheard of in the last 70 years. “People of Punjab may consider it a Deepavali gift. We will be giving them more such gifts [major public welfare announcements] in the future,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-cuts-petrol-price-by-rs-10-diesel-by-rs-5/article37374990.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Lord Rama’s qualities||Conversations in the Valmiki Ramayana highlight Lord Rama’s auspicious qualities, said Navalpakkam Vasudevachariar in a discourse. One such conversation is that between Dasaratha, his ministers and his subjects, when Dasaratha decides to crown Rama as his successor to the throne. Having made the decision, Dasaratha gathers together other kings, his advisers and the people of Ayodhya to take their suggestions. He tells the gathering that in view of his age, he has decided to entrust the kingdom to Rama. Dasaratha, while talking of Rama’s suitability for the position of king, says that He is the brother of Lakshmana. He is Lakshmivaan, for He is wedded to Sita, the avatara of Lakshmi. If Rama becomes the king, then the three worlds will prosper, for they cannot ask for a better ruler. Dasaratha then asks those assembled for their opinion. Their opinion is that Rama is the ideal choice to be the king of Ayodhya. They tell Dasaratha why they think Rama is most suited to be king, by listing His auspicious qualities. Rama is greater than any of the kings of the Ikshavaku clan, who had ruled Ayodhya till then. Rama is a sat purushah — a person with innate goodness. He is satyadharmaparaayanah — always an adherent of truth and dharma. He is like the moon in His pleasing quality. He has the quality of kshama — a forgiving nature, like the Earth which bears so many burdens. In His wisdom, Rama equals Brihaspati. He is like Indra, the Lord of the celestials, in His valour. Rama is satyasandah — He is honest. He is without asooya (envy). He speaks pleasing words. He has control over His senses, and has the quality of gratitude too. He has mastered the skill of using all kinds of weapons used by demons, devas and humans. He has mastered the Vedas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lord-ramas-qualities/article37374879.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Spice trail||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/spice-trail/article37374843.ece
08 November 2021||Ahmedabad,||Coast Guard rescues 7 fishermen||An Indian Coast Guard (ICG) ship on Sunday rescued seven fishermen whose boat Kalash Raj caught fire due to fuel leakage from its engine exhaust and was sinking near the international maritime boundary in the Arabian sea off the Gujarat coast. The boat sank due to the rapid spread of fire, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coast-guard-rescues-7-fishermen/article37374846.ece
08 November 2021||Srinagar,||Policeman shot dead in Srinagar||Suspected militants shot dead a policeman outside his house in Srinagar on Sunday evening. A city official said that police constable Touseef Ahmad, 29, was fired in the head from a close range at S.D. Colony in Batamaloo in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/policeman-shot-dead-in-srinagar/article37374849.ece
08 November 2021||New Delhi,||DGPs’ meeting to be held in Lucknow||The internal security scenario in the country, situation prevailing in Jammu and Kashmir, and a key role played by the police during COVID-19 pandemic are some of the issues to be discussed at the annual DGPs and IGPs conference to be held in Lucknow on November 20-21, officials said. New-age crimes like cyber terrorism, radicalisation of youth and violence perpetrated by Maoists will also be discussed at the top police officers’ conference to be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. About 250 officers in the rank of DGP and IGP from all States, Union Territories and central government will take part in the meeting, organised by the Intelligence Bureau (IB). An overview of the internal security situation in the country will be presented to the Prime Minister and the Home Minister and discussions will be held on how to improve the overall security scenario in the country with more people-friendly initiatives, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dgps-meeting-to-be-held-in-lucknow/article37374860.ece
08 November 2021||Lucknow,||‘BSP turncoats will only weaken SP’||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati on Sunday said taking BSP “turncoats” into its fold will not help the Samajwadi Party (SP) increase its mass base and will only weaken it. Ms. Mayawati’s statement came barely hours after SP chief Akhilesh Yadav inducted Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar in his party at his ‘ Janadesh Maharally ’ in Ambedkarnagar district on Sunday. The two leaders were earlier expelled by the BSP for “anti-party” activities. In a series of Hindi tweets, Ms. Mayawati said their inclusion in SP is only going to weaken the SP and disaffect its party workers. She also offered a word of advice to her own party workers and said they must refrain from getting ticket to the disaffected members from other parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsp-turncoats-will-only-weaken-sp/article37374867.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article37374874.ece
08 November 2021||New Delhi,||UAPA misused in Tripura: Editors Guild||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) on Sunday expressed shock over the Tripura police’s action of booking 102 people, including journalists, under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). “The Editors Guild of India is deeply shocked by the Tripura police’s action of booking 102 people, including journalists, under the coercive Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, for reporting and writing on the recent communal violence in the State,” the EGI said in a statement. “This move comes a few days after the police had filed UAPA charges against some Delhi-based lawyers who had visited Tripura as part of an independent fact-finding enquiry commission into the communal violence,” it said. The EGI said one of the journalists, Shyam Meera Singh, alleged that he was booked under UAPA for merely tweeting “Tripura is burning”. “This is an extremely disturbing trend where such a harsh law, wherein the processes of investigation and bail applications are extremely rigorous and overbearing, is being used for merely reporting on and protesting against communal violence,” said the EGI. It said: “The Guild is of the opinion that this is an attempt by the State government to deflect attention away from its own failure to control majoritarian violence.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uapa-misused-in-tripura-editors-guild/article37374878.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai may get heavy rain for 2 more days||After receiving a record rainfall in 24 hours till Sunday, Chennai will experience thunderstorms and heavy rain in the next 48 hours. Thunderstorms with lightning may occur in many other parts of Tamil Nadu, too, for two more days. From October 1 to November 7, Chennai received 26% surplus rain and the State got 43% more than the usual amount, said S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Regional Meteorological Centre. In this period, Chennai recorded 48 cm as against the normal 38 cm. Tamil Nadu got 33 cm as against 23 cm. “Chennai received very heavy rain in a very short span of time. Till 10 p.m. [Saturday], the city received only 3 cm of rain, but from 1 a.m. to 1.45 a.m., there was 6 cm and from 5 a.m. to 6 a.m., another 7 cm. This is called mesoscale phenomena, which are difficult to predict,” he said. The sudden rain occurred because of a cyclonic circulation over the south-east Bay of Bengal and the adjoining equatorial Indian Ocean extending up to 4.5 km above the mean sea level. A low-pressure area may form over the south-east Bay of Bengal and surrounding areas by November 9, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). This could become more pronounced and move in the direction of north Tamil Nadu coast in the next 48 hours. On November 10 and 11, districts in north coastal Tamil Nadu may receive scattered heavy to very heavy rainfall. A few areas are also expected to get extremely heavy rainfall. Interior parts of the State may get heavy rain. “Heavy to very heavy rain is likely to occur at isolated places over the Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Erode and Krishnagiri districts of Tamil Nadu, and Kerala. Heavy rain is also likely to occur at isolated places over Madurai, Virudhunagar and the Cauvery delta districts of Tamil Nadu and south interior Karnataka,” the IMD said. The weather station at the DGP office received 23 cm for a 24-hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on Sunday. This was followed by Nungambakkam and Ambattur, each getting 21 cm. While Ayanavaram got 18 cm, MGR Nagar received 17 cm. There was 16 cm and 15 cm of rainfall at Anna University and Puzhal respectively. Sirugamani in Tiruchi district received 12 cm of rain. Tiruvadanai in Ramanathapuram district; Cholavaram in Tiruvallur district; Viralimalai in Pudukottai district; Valinokkam in Ramanathapuram district; Mohanur in Namakkal district; Musiri in Tiruchi district; Gummidipoondi in Tiruvallur district; Peravurani in Thanjavur district; and Madurai South received 9 cm each. 2-day holiday for schools Meanwhile, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced a two-day holiday for schools in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts because of the severe rain and the forecast of more rain for the next two days. He requested people to postpone their trips to Chennai for a couple of days. The CM said he had asked officials to provide relief materials to the affected people and drain water out of residential localities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-may-get-heavy-rain-for-2-more-days/article37375129.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai wakes up to a deluge of problems||The heavy rain that lashed the city this weekend left 166 residential localities flooded with some of them witnessing up to waist-level water. Many families had to wade through waist-high water in many places to seek safe shelters. Power supply too was cut and arterial roads, including Anna Salai, Poonamallee High Road and Jawaharlal Nehru Salai, got flooded. Relief shelters have been set up at 168 locations to help flood-affected residents. Civic officials expect thousands to be sheltered in these relief centres as many areas across the city were flooded. Pulianthope, Otteri, Egmore, T. Nagar, Pallikaranai, Mugalivakkam, parts of Anna Nagar, Purasawalkam, Mogappair, and Ambattur were badly hit. Even Ripon Building, the Corporation headquarters, was flooded. In the city’s northern areas like Kolathur, Pulianthope and Otteri, the flood water entered hundreds of houses. In Mugalivakkam, residents complained that huge amount of sewage got mixed with water. A large number of cars were towed from the flooded areas. In Velachery, residents parked the cars on the flyover to keep them safe from inundation. Owing to a rise in water levels in major canals and incomplete infrastructure projects, civic officials were unable to pump out water in areas such as T. Nagar, Pulianthope and Otteri. Traffic disrupted Traffic was thrown out of gear on Sunday morning with several points on arterial roads, including Arumbakkam, Vepery, Vadapalani and Chromepet, getting flooded. “It took me an hour to reach Ashok Nagar from Vadapalani on Jawaharlal Nehru Salai. There was water everywhere but no police or civic body official to help regulate traffic. Autorickshaw drivers and local residents were seen helping people,” said V. Sundar, a resident of Ashok Nagar. Saravanan Vaidyanthan of Kolathur Thillai Nagar said the government agencies should build a new canal to connect Korattur Lake with Retteri Lake. “Water could be drained out through Buckingham Canal. This is expected to resolve water scarcity in the entire area,” he said. The Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services Department had deployed 1,000 personnel on the job and would deploy 300 more from the neighbouring districts on Monday to manage the situation. In about 10 places, fallen trees were removed. Narrow culverts Highways Minister E. V. Velu, who visited all the points of inundation on roads maintained by the agency, told The Hindu that at least five points, including three on GST Road, were flooded because culverts beneath railway tracks were too narrow and could not take the volume of water. “We have already deposited Rs. 2 crore with the railways for widening the facilities and will follow it up with them to speed up the work,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-wakes-up-to-a-deluge-of-problems/article37375142.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM rushes to flood-hit areas, provides relief||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday inspected flood-hit areas in various parts of the city and distributed relief material to residents. Mr. Stalin began his tour of the affected regions by visiting northern areas such as Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar in a jeep and then got down at flooded locations to interact with residents. The Chief Minister distributed rice, blankets and essential commodities at several locations. Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru, HR and CE Minister P.K. Sekarbabu, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi accompanied the Chief Minister. Mr. Stalin inspected Doveton, MGR Nagar in Kolathur, Villivakkam, Perambur Barracks Road, Ayanavaram, Padi bridge, Perambur subway, Senthil Nagar Third Main Road, Baba Nagar, 200 Feet Road, Paper Mills Road, SBI Colony and Medavakkam Tank Road. In Kolathur, the Chief Minister visited MGR Nagar and distributed relief material to residents. Many residents were on the roof of the buildings to get a glimpse of the Chief Minister. After inspecting the Otteri Nullah, Mr. Stalin asked officials to ensure quick flow of water in such canals in various parts of the city. In the afternoon, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian accompanied the Chief Minister during his visit to southern parts of the city. Both of them distributed relief material to people along the banks of the Adyar in Saidapet. A group of residents expressed happiness about the welfare measures of the State government. Mr. Stalin visited Kalki Nagar, Velachery Lake, Veerangal Odai, Kaiveli junction and T. Nagar before reaching Ripon Buildings to hold a review meeting. Action taken report Following the instructions of the Chief Minister, the Corporation will review the action taken by officials on the complaints made on helpline 1913, said Mr. Bedi. A total of 322 complaints pertaining to flooding have been received from residents, the officials said. As a number of residents shared on social media about a delay in resolving civic issues, the Commissioner will review each of the complaints to resolve persistent civic issues associated with the complaints by residents. The civic body is expected to introduce changes in the helpline. Many residents had shared information on social media about the challenges in reaching helpline 1913 of the Corporation on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-rushes-to-flood-hit-areas-provides-relief/article37375144.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Many areas go without power for hours||Heavy rain that lashed the city disrupted power supply in northern and central parts of Chennai on Sunday. With many streets getting flooded, Tangedco was forced to turn off power supply as a precautionary measure. Tondiarpet, Pulianthope, Brickiln Road, Kodungaiyur, Kolathur, Nungambakkam, Mambalam, T. Nagar, and West Mambalam went without power ranging from one hour to six hours. A senior official of Tangedco said supply was disrupted in several parts of northern areas and T. Nagar in the morning hours. The power supply was stopped to prevent electrocution in the flood-affected areas. There was shutdown in the substations of Usman Road, DMS, Mambalam, and Pulianthope. Ambattur division, covering Korattur, Padi, Menambedu and Anna Nagar, was also affected. R. Amudha, a resident of Lake View Road, said electricity supply was stopped in their locality around 7 a.m. and was restored only by 3 p.m. causing hardship to people doing household chores. Restored in phases In north Chennai, power went off in Jawahar Nagar, Cooks Road, Otteri, parts of Demellows Road, Purasawalkam, K.K.D. Nagar, Tondiarpet, B.V. Colony, and Pudupet around 5 a.m. The supply was restored in phases. Heavy rain caused major disruption in parts of Nungambakkam, T.T.K. Road, Thirumalai Pillai Road, Habibullah Road, Giri Road, and Nungambakkam High Road. However, in south Chennai except in parts of Velachery, and Madipakkam, power supply was not shut even amid heavy rain. S. Raghavan, a resident of Ram Nagar in Velachery, said power supply was stopped after the Velachery canal overflowed and rainwater flooded the streets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-areas-go-without-power-for-hours/article37375145.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Surplus water released||The incessant rain in the city resulted in reservoirs filling up fast and surplus water had to be released causing anxiety among residents in the city, with the memories of the 2015 Chennai floods still fresh. However, this time, the release of water was gradual and planned, the officials pointed out. Water Resources Department increased the release of excess water in Poondi reservoir to 974 cubic feet per second (cusecs) on Sunday morning initially after it got huge inflow of the Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh and then by the evening, the discharge had to be increased to 4,873 cusecs; this reservoir’s storage is 2,864 million cubic feet. Those residing near the Kosasthalaiyar river through which the excess water from Poondi will flow were advised to shift to safe places in the city. Many people living in places such as Nandambakkam, Krishnapuram, Seemavaram and Pandikavanoor could be affected by the release of surplus water. At 1 p.m., the flood gates of Chembarambakkam were opened with 500 cusecs of surplus water released and as the day progressed with the catchment areas receiving inflow, the discharge into the Adyar river had to be increased to 2,000 cusecs by 6 p.m. While the storage of Chembarambakkam is 2,934 mcft on Sunday, the inflow touched 2,095 cusecs and the discharge was 2,000 cusecs in the evening. In Puzhal lake, whose storage is 2,872 mcft. as the inflow went up, 2,000 cusecs of water was released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surplus-water-released/article37375148.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||850 more test positive for COVID-19 in T.N.||A total of 850 persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of cases in the State to 27,09,080. As many as 10,474 patients are under treatment. Of the 1,01,506 persons who underwent the RT-PCR test, 129 persons tested positive in Chennai and 96 in Coimbatore. Chengalpattu reported 76 cases. Erode, 69, Tiruppur, 62, and Salem, 52, were among the districts that reported a high number of cases, according to the daily bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health. Seventeen districts reported fresh infections in a single digit. As many as 958 persons were discharged after treatment, and the total number of recovered patients went up to 26,62,386. Six persons — four octogenarians, a 50-year-old woman and a 62-year-old man — succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 36,220. Four of the dead were under treatment at private hospitals and two at government hospitals. All of them had pre-existing health conditions. The Health Department recently approved a private laboratory in Madurai for COVID-19 testing. The State now has 308 laboratories (69 government and 239 private facilities). Eight healthcare workers; 44 frontline workers; 23,363 persons aged 18-44; 8,129 persons aged 45-59; and 3,947 senior citizens were inoculated at 2,179 sessions. So far, 5,70,82,637 persons have been vaccinated in the State. Since May 1, 26,78,943 persons have been vaccinated at private centres.  Eight healthcare workers; 44 frontline workers; 23,363 persons aged 18-44; 8,129 persons aged 45-59; and 3,947 senior citizens were inoculated at 2,179 sessions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/850-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tn/article37375132.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2-day holiday for schools in 4 districts||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced a two-day holiday for schools in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts because of the severe rain and the forecast of more rain for the next two days. He requested people to postpone their trips to Chennai for a couple of days. He was speaking to reporters after visiting the disaster management control room and inspecting rescue and relief operations in the affected areas. The Chief Minister said he had asked officials to provide relief materials to the affected people and drain water out of residential localities. He said National Disaster Response Force teams, police and fire and rescue workers worked in coordination to carry out rescue and relief operations round the clock. Officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation were also working round the clock. Mr. Stalin said Chennai received an extremely heavy rainfall, of 20 cm, in the past 24 hours. Karur, Tiruvallur, Namakkal, Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Tiruchi, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Madurai and Erode districts, too, recorded over 20 cm of rain. Four NDRF teams had been deployed to Madurai and Chengalpattu districts. He said the authorities were using high-power pumps to drain water from over 500 areas. “People are being moved to safe locations; 160 relief camps are ready in Chennai and 44 of them are operating.” He said more than 50,000 food packets had so far been distributed in Chennai. He had asked officials to fix the fallen electric poles and fill potholes immediately. “It is my request to people to avoid the water-logged areas,” he said. On the AIADMK’s charge that the DMK government was unprepared for the monsoon, Mr. Stalin said some were making accusations for political gain. “Everyone knows what had happened at Chembarambakkam during their [the AIADMK’s] government. I don’t want to go into it now. When we got information about the rain, we advised the Collectors to take precautionary measures on Saturday itself,” he said. Mr. Stalin attributed the waterlogging in Chennai and surrounding districts to the severe rainfall in a very short period of time. “After we came to power, we immediately started clearing the stormwater drains and worked on the canals in the Cauvery delta region. In the last 10 years, they [the AIADMK government] did not do anything. We are 50% satisfied with our work; we will complete the rest soon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-day-holiday-for-schools-in-4-districts/article37375136.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI:,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Police’s support centre for women draws praise||The ‘Specialised Counselling and Support Centre for Women’, launched by the Chennai City Police at the Police Commissionerate in Vepery in July, has many success stories. The police, in association with the Social Welfare Department, launched the centre to provide counselling and rehabilitative services to women and children who are victims of domestic violence, abuse, and dowry harassment, and to render psychological and legal counselling, and facilitate quick medical assistance to needy victims. It has been established under the Safe City Project to enable women’s safety in public places under the Centre’s Nirbhaya Fund. Among those who came here is a woman in her thirties and her alcoholic husband, of a middle income group, facing unending quarrels. Violence led the woman to approach a local police station to book a case against her husband, opting for separation. The couple were brought by police personnel in plain clothes to the centre. Counsellors here had two sittings with them. As a result, the couple were reunited. While leaving the centre, the woman said, “My husband assured me that he would not drink hereafter. The counselling was useful for us to be able to lead life without any further issue in our relationship.” Another woman, a victim of domestic violence, wrote to thank the staff at the centre, saying, “At first, I came here gripped with fear and anxiety. However, the counsellors here guided me and treated me so cordially. I got happiness and clarity in life. I have a rejuvenating life after counselling.” Victims reach the centre through the Child Welfare Committee, Women’s Helpline, All Women Police Stations, and the Social Welfare Department. They can also reach the centre directly. Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal, who has been monitoring the performance of the centre on a regular basis, said, “Our first analysis revealed that the support and counselling centre is useful for women and children in distress. Most of the persons availing the centre’s services have given positive feedback. We have four feeder lines — All Women Police Stations (AWPS), NGOs, Child Welfare Committees, and people on their own. There are eligible cases coming from AWPSs, referred here for counselling. For that, we are holding training sessions for the staff of AWPSs to equip themselves.” Mr. Jiwal said that since the counsellors are performing well, he would request the Social Welfare Department to depute more counsellors, so that the services could be extended to more women and children in distress. He added that he would review the performance of the centre within a month and explore the possibility of extending counselling services to the homes of those affected. The counselling centre has successfully assisted in 75 cases of matrimonial disputes, 42 cases of domestic violence, and also counselled victims in cases lodged under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Joint Commissioner of Police B. Shamoondeswari said, “The objective of establishing the centre is to provide professional services like crisis intervention, independent inquiry in dowry death cases, and counselling in family maladjustment, and to make efforts for reconciliation in cases of separation. Most of the cases referred for counselling ended in success.” People in distress can approach the centre via 044-23452436.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-polices-support-centre-for-women-draws-praise/article37375517.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Better equipment could have helped: weather bloggers||Many felt the city was caught off-guard with no indication of such very heavy spells of rain, resulting in flooding everywhere. Weather bloggers, who have been continuously monitoring the changes, said while the northeast monsoon could spring a surprise with heavy rain over a short period like a localised phenomena, it was still possible to have at least better indications if the city had better equipment. K Srikanth, a weather blogger, said weather models do not always pick up events like what was witnessed on Sunday. “But there is a possibility to have some indications of such events at least a little in advance if we have a mesoscale weather model which could predict in smaller detail. Even then, it will be difficult to predict the exact quantum of rainfall which could be expected,” he said. Sai Prasath Janardhanan, another weather blogger, said: “There is a chance of knowing about such events at least 4-6 hours in advance if we had high performing radars.” But S. Balachandran, the Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, said from Sunday morning the radars had started functioning. “Weather systems vary in sizes and their lifetime too changes. This event where heavy short spells occurring in a small area are very difficult to predict much in advance,” he said. “When we talk of weather systems and rain, we have to take into consideration the spatial temporal variability. They come in different sizes and their lifetime also varies from hours to days. We could not pick up any signature from our satellite and radars,”he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/better-equipment-could-have-helped-weather-bloggers/article37375159.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Petroleum dealers demand reimbursement of excise duty||Petroleum dealers in the State have demanded that excise duty paid upfront, just before the rollback, to the oil marketing companies (OMCs) be reimbursed to them. “There is a provision for such reimbursement in the Act if it is not collected from consumers. In this case, we, the dealers, have already paid the amount to the OMCs but due to the rollback in excise by the Centre stand to lose heavily,” said a dealer, who did not want to be named. K.P. Murali, president, Tamil Nadu Petroleum Dealers’ Association (TNPDA), said the estimated loss in the State alone was over Rs. 160 crore. “The loss suffered by dealers ranges from between Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 14 lakh, which we cannot bear. Around 80% of the 4,000 dealers in the State deal with very small volumes and in many cases have been affected due to reduction in sales volume,” he said. The estimated loss for the country was about Rs. 3,000 crore. The TNPDA has urged that the five-day credit provided by OMCs to dealers who tank up in the month end be increased to 15 days. A city-based dealer said a few years ago when the crude prices were down, the Centre had increased excise duty and other cess and had said that it would reduce those when crude prices go down. But this was not done, the public was hurt badly with fuel prices even touching Rs. 108 a litre in some places such as Cuddalore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petroleum-dealers-demand-reimbursement-of-excise-duty/article37375172.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS seeks explanation from Duraimurugan||Former Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Sunday said it was amusing that PWD Minister Duraimurugan had not spoken anything about the release of water to Kerala from the Mullaperiyar dam and should give a proper explanation on the issue. Charge rebutted Rebutting Mr. Duraimurugan’s statement that he had not visited the Mullaperiyar dam during the AIADMK regime, Mr. Panneerselvam said he had in fact visited the dam 14 times during the 10-year rule of the AIADMK. The DMK should use its influence with the Left parties and get Kerala’s permission to carry out repair works on the dam and increase the height of the dam to 152 feet as per the Supreme Court order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-seeks-explanation-from-duraimurugan/article37375154.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Public transport hauls Chennai safely||Despite the heavy rain, public transport in the city functioned without any major disruption on Sunday. Most of the public transport services were minimally operated. The Southern Railway continued to operate the suburban train services on all four sections despite the heavy overnight downpour. While the train service between Tambaram and Chennai Beach was terminated at Egmore station for three hours due to safety reasons. Normal services were in the evening. The heavy waterlogging near Egmore railway station resulted in delay of several long distance trains. However, no trains have been cancelled, a senior official said. MTC buses The city’s primary public bus transport, MTC, was operated with minimum numbers on Sunday morning with full services resuming in the evening expecting huge crowds which were supposed to reach the city from various parts of the State. A senior official said normally 1,200 buses are operated in the morning shift but due to heavy rains and flooding of roads in several parts of the city only around 800 buses were operated and that too not on the long routes. No disruption The Metro Rail services ran as per schedule with a train available every 10 minutes. Trains are monitored by a team from the Operation Control Centre throughout the day. Sources said although many areas were flooded, precautionary measures had been taken in both elevated and underground stations to ensure that services were not hit. Staff had been deployed to keep on eye on rainwater at underground stations. Sources said they had kept pumps in standby in all underground stations to clear water from the tracks and tunnels. The authorities are planning to have flood gates at the entry/exit of underground stations to ensure water did not enter the station. In four locations—Wimco Nagar, Alandur, Koyambedu and Toll Gate, the wind speed was continuously monitored. In the past, Chennai Metro Rail has said, if the wind speed was about 70 kmph, then the train speed would be brought down. If it crossed 90 kmph, then services would be suspended. Flights delayed Although nearly 15 flights were delayed, arrivals and departures at Chennai airport continued on Sunday despite incessant rain. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said although there was some water-logging in the airside (where flights are parked and departures and arrivals happen), there was no disruption. “We have a team deployed in the airside to monitor the water level. We are coordinating with Public Works Department officials,” said the AAI officials. Though water from Chembarambakkam lake was being released, for now, it had not touched the danger mark. “Since a part of the secondary runway has been constructed over the Adyar river on a bridge, we have been constantly checking. There are CCTV cameras placed at strategic locations to check the level. Everything is under control,” an official said. The main runway had been handling all the flights without any issues so far and six pumps had been put to use to clear water from the runway, officials said. “All essential equipment in the airport like navigational aids, instrument landing system antenna and radar have not been affected so far,” he said. The terminals were crowded in the morning between 10 a.m. and noon and flights were delayed because many passengers reached the airport late and there were long queues. “These delays too were not beyond 30 to 45 minutes and occurred only in the morning,” a source said. In 2015, Chennai airport was inundated like the rest of the city with 1,500 passengers stranded inside and 22 aircraft submerged. And at 17 locations, the airport’s boundary wall was damaged. Following this, the AAI had asked IIT Madras to do a study to prevent flooding in future and carried out measures like desilting of the Adyar river near the runway and the stormwater drains in the neighbouring areas of the airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-transport-hauls-the-citys-residents-safely/article37375151.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur receives widespread rain||There was widespread rain in Tiruvallur district and water stagnation occurred in urban and semi-urban areas. Collector Alby John Varghese said that till 6 a.m. on Sunday, the district received 688 mm of rain, and till afternoon, another 300 mm was recorded. “There was not much flooding in rural areas since the water ran off to open spaces,” he said. The district administration took 40 persons to a shelter at Perandhur. Since the district is home to major waterbodies, including Poondi, Puzhal and Sholavaram, and has rivers, including the Arani and the Kosasthalai, running through it, opening of the floodgates of the reservoirs and issuing a warning to those living alongside the waterbodies was a major exercise. Places very close to Chennai in Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts received good rain. Till 6 a.m., Kancheepuram recorded 120.60 mm, Chembarambakkam, 52 mm, Kundrathur, 47.20 mm, Sriperumbudur, 14.60 mm, Kancheepuram, 5.00 mm, and Walajabad, 1.80 mm. However, not many places in Chengalpattu district, which recorded 90.5 mm till 6 a.m., received rain. With the exception of Tambaram, which recorded 54 mm, Mamallapuram, 4.3 mm, and Chengalpattu town, 5 mm, other places did not receive any rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruvallur-receives-widespread-rain/article37375158.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health Secretary puts district officials on alert||Government health facilities and health officials have been instructed to conduct health camps, along with the local bodies, in the rain-affected localities. For preventive screening camps, 416 mobile medical units and 770 jeep-borne units have been deployed, Health secretary J. Radhakrishnan said in a letter to the Collectors. Areas mapped out He said public health officials had mapped out all areas in the Chennai Corporation and other districts that received incessant rain, and the situation was being monitored round the clock. He said the government continued COVID-19 screening and advised the health officials and the Collectors to remain vigilant in the next month as the rain-affected areas were bound to feel the impact in the next four days and the recovery in the next three weeks. Fever camps Dr. Radhakrishnan said the Health Department was monitoring cases of fever, diarrhoea and itching. Government hospitals were fully equipped to tackle any health emergency. The State had adequate stocks of medicines, intravenous fluids, antibiotics, tetanus toxoid and anti-snake venom, he said, urging the officials to drive home the importance of drinking boiled water and hand-washing among members of the public and encourage them to go to health camps in case of infection. Health officials were asked to ensure that private hospitals maintained sufficient oxygen supplies and kept generators in good order so that services were not interrupted in case of inundation or waterlogging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-secretary-puts-district-officials-on-alert/article37375137.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EPS slams DMK for removing Shanmugam’s security cover||Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday said the DMK government was engaging in political vendetta by removing the security cover provided to former Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said Mr. Shanmugam was provided security after he was attacked in his house in 2006. Muruganandam, a party cadre, was killed in the attack. The CBI was still investigating the case and Mr. Shanmugam’s security cover had continued till the last six months under the DMK government too. But now it had been withdrawn. Mr. Palaniswami said that in the recently concluded rural local body polls, Mr. Shanmugam had questioned the DMK’s high handedness. He further said the hearing in the case relating to Muruganandam’s murder was coming up on November 19. The act of withdrawing security cover for Mr. Shanmugam showed DMK’s vindictive attitude. In case anything unfortunate happened to Mr. Shanmugam, the DMK government should to take full responsibility for it, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eps-slams-dmk-for-removing-shanmugams-security-cover/article37375155.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal asks cadres to help flood-hit||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder and president Kamal Haasan on Sunday interacted virtually with his party cadres and office-bearers on his 67th birthday. During his interaction, he told them to help the poor people affected by Chennai floods. In a Twitter post, he said, “Helping out poor people could be the best birthday gift you can give me.” Mr. Haasan also launched an atmospheric water generator plant in Coimbatore South and one in Kovur for benefit of the Scheduled Sastes and Scheduled Tribes people living there, said a release. Cadres distributed food packets and held blood donation camps to mark the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-asks-cadres-to-help-the-flood-hit/article37375173.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ISRO to set up space museum in Kanniyakumari||Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) will set up a Space Museum and Space Centre in Kanniyakumari at a cost of Rs. 100 crore. Information Technology Minister Mano Thangaraj, who met ISRO Chairman K. Sivan, said the State government had already allotted 10 acres of land for the purpose. “The project was delayed because of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I met him (Mr. Sivan) on Saturday, I requested him to speed up the project and he agreed,” Mr. Mano Thangaraj told The Hindu . The Minister said besides giving a fillip to tourism, the Space Museum and Space Centre would kindle interest and awareness among students about space science.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/space-museum-to-be-set-up-in-kanniyakumari/article37375230.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CCB files case against retired IPS officer||The Central Crime Branch of the city police has filed a case against a retired IPS officer for his involvement in cheating an industrialist of Rs. 1.50 crore. A senior official of the Greater Chennai City Police said a case against retired IPS officer Sivanandi and Ganapathy Ramasubramaniam had been filed based on a complaint filed by V.R. Krishnaswamy. According to the complaint, Mr. Sivanandi sought a loan of Rs. 1 crore from Mr. Krishnaswamy promising to return the money within three months with an interest of 24% in 2015. The money was handed over to Mr. Ramasubramaniam in the presence of the retired police officer, Dr. Kondammal, wife of the complainant and a head constable, who is now deceased. In addition, Mr. Krishnaswamy had given Mr. Sivanandi Rs. 50 lakh in 2002 for arranging a business dealing which was also not returned, the complainant alleged. Based on the complaint, the CCB has filed a cheating case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ccb-files-case-against-retired-ips-officer/article37375180.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flood warning video for the disabled||To make important announcements during monsoon accessible to the differently abled, the State Commissionerate for Welfare of the Differently Abled in Tamil Nadu put out a flood warning video on Sunday. Important reminders The video, in sign language, was for people living in the low-lying areas along the banks of the Adyar River. A sign language interpreter reminded them to take their important documents, assistive devices and medicines while evacuating. “We had shared similar important announcements through videos with a sign language interpreter during the pandemic as well, so that important information is accessible to persons with speech and hearing disabilities. Going forward, throughout this monsoon, we are planning on making such videos on important announcements from the government,” an official said. The video was shared on social media. The Commissionerate also has an active information channel on WhatsApp, through which they had shared announcements in accessible formats during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flood-warning-video-for-the-differently-abled/article37375146.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ISRO to set up space museum and space centre||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) will set up a Space Museum and Space Centre in Kanniyakumari at a cost of Rs. 100 crore. Information Technology Minister Mano Thangaraj, who met ISRO chairman K. Sivan, said the State Government had already allotted 10 acres of land for the purpose. Fillip to tourism “The project was delayed because of the COVID-19 pandemic. When I met him [Mr. Sivan] on Saturday, I requested him to speed up the project, and he agreed to do so,” Mr. Thangaraj told The Hindu.  The Minister said besides giving a fillip to tourism, the Museum and Space Centre would kindle interest and awareness about space science among students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isro-to-set-up-space-museum/article37375156.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. should have taken precautions: AIADMK||Had the DMK government taken precautionary measures ahead of the monsoon, Chennai and its surrounding regions would not have suffered so much from the rain since Saturday night, the AIADMK said on Sunday. AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami said in a statement that the government must implement the measures initiated by the AIADMK government during the rains. It should have acted at least after looking at the rain damage in the neighbouring States. They said the government must understand the gravity of the situation and work to mitigate the problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-should-have-taken-precautions-aiadmk/article37375138.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Rain claims three lives||Three persons died and a search was launched for two persons who were washed away in a river in Tamil Nadu, as heavy rain lashed many parts of the State since Saturday. A 55-year-old man was killed at Royapuram in Chennai after a portion of the roof of his house, where he had been living alone, collapsed on Saturday night. M. Rajaram was asleep when the incident occurred. A police officer of the Royapuram station said Rajaram’s son moved to a rented house at Broadway. The police, with the help of Fire and Rescue Services personnel, retrieved the body and sent it to the Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem. In Madurai district, a search was under way on Sunday for two youths who were washed away in the Vaigai near Paravai on Saturday. K. Viswanathan, 21, and S. Arulvasanth, 17, from Tiruppur were visiting their relatives in the city. The incident occurred when they were bathing in the river near the Paravai bridge, said D. Anandhi, Inspector of Police, Samayanallur. The police said A. Mustafa of Virudhunagar, who was bathing in a wild stream near Saptur, was washed away on Saturday. V. Rajasekar, 29, of Anaikaraipatti, was returning from his farm when he slipped into a stream at Keni. After a long search, Fire and Rescue Services personnel from T. Kallupatti and Usilampatti found their bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-claims-three-lives/article37375153.ece
08 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pothole-riddled roads cause traffic snarls||With flyover works going on at Kavundampalayam, GN Mills and Periyanaikenpalayam areas, vehicle movement on Mettupalayam Road has been affected. Rain and the damaged service roads are only adding to the risks that the motorists face. The service roads are so badly damaged that they look more like a mancala (Pallanguli) game board, says M. Devendran, secretary of Coimbatore District Road Protection Committee. On Saturday and Sunday, the traffic was relatively less as companies and educational institutions were closed for festival holidays. The traffic snarls are expected to be worse on Monday when these will reopen. The committee had made several representations to the Highways Department but there is no action yet, he said. The police should at least post more personnel and divert the vehicles to different roads so that the congestion eases. The encroachments should be removed at the earliest to make the service roads wider. M. Abdul Hakkim, secretary of Jammat e Islami Hind, Coimbatore, said he had also represented the issue to the District Collector and Corporation Commissioner. The recent rain has only made the roads worse and it is risky for motorists. It is common to see women on two-wheelers falling down not only on the main road but also on the diversion routes. With more rains expected in the coming days, driving on Mettupalayam road is a problem, he said. Road users have urged the district administration, the civic body, and the Highways Department to take necessary steps to ensure that Mettupalayam road, especially at Kavundampalayam, GN Mills and Periyanaikenpalayam, is safer for motorists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pothole-riddled-roads-cause-traffic-snarls/article37375185.ece
08 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Minister felicitates tribal boy who scored 406 in NEET||Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise V. Senthil Balaji on Sunday made a surprise visit to the house of T. Radhakrishnan, a tribal boy from Athupollachi, near Coimbatore, who scored 406 marks in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) this year. The Minister, who was accompanied by Coimbatore Collector G.S. Sameeran and DMK MP from Pollachi K. Shanmuga Sundaram, presented Radhakrishnan with a mobile phone. They interacted with him, his mother and younger brother. Working mother Radhakrishnan, who belongs to the Mudugar tribe, scored 406 marks in his second attempt. His mother Mahalakshmi goes to work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme to run the family and support the education of her sons. The Minister assured Radhakrishnan of all support from the government to pursue his dreams. Radhakrishnan told journalists that he was hopeful of getting a seat in one of the government medical colleges.  I am hopeful of getting an MBBS seat in a government medical college Radhakrishnan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-felicitates-tribal-boy-who-scored-406-in-neet/article37375134.ece
08 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Seven held for robbing jewellery dealer||Coimbatore District (Rural) Police on Sunday arrested seven persons in connection with the robbery of 1.89 kg of gold ornaments and Rs. 7.5 lakh from a jewellery dealer near Vadavalli on the night of October 30. The accused were identified as Abdul Hakeem, Ashraf Ali, Dinesh Rawal, Ranjith Singh, Pawan Singh, Bhavani Singh and Venkatachalam, said officials involved in the investigation. They said that the special teams of the police were on the lookout for a few more persons who were part of the planned robbery. A. Shanmugam (68), a native of Gandhi Nagar from Sathyamangalam, was robbed of the gold and cash on Vadavalli - Thondamuthur road. Mr. Shanmugam has been supplying gold ornaments to jewellery showrooms in Erode and Coimbatore districts. Two men, who came on a two-wheeler robbed him of the money and jewellery when he was heading to his son’s house on a motorcycle. They assaulted Mr. Shanmugam with a knife and took away the bag containing the jewellery and cash. The police questioned the staff of jewellery showrooms Mr. Shanmugam had visited on the day of the crime. The police also identified the two-wheeler the robbers used which led to the arrests. They were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-held-for-robbing-jewellery-dealer/article37375188.ece
08 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Southern Rly. to operate special trains||The Southern Railway will operate special unreserved passenger train between Coimbatore and Palani from November 10. According to a press release, with a composition of 12 general second class and two luggage-cum-brake vans (with accommodation for physically challenged) train no. 06463 Coimbatore – Palani Unreserved Express Special will run from November 10 and train no. 06462 Palani – Coimbatore Express Special will run from November 11. The train will leave Coimbatore station at 2.10 p.m. and reach Palani at 4.40 p.m. It will pass through Podanur, Kinathukadavu, Pollachi, Gomangalam, Udumalpet, Maivadi Road, and Pushpattu. It will leave Palani at 11.15 a.m. and reach Coimbatore at 2 p.m. The press release added that with a composition of eight general second class and two luggage-cum-brake vans (with accommodation for physically challenged) train no. 06419 Coimbatore – Pollachi Express Special will run from November 13 on all days of the week, except Sundays. Train no. 06420 Pollachi – Coimbatore Express Special will run from November 14 on all days, except Saturdays. The train will leave Coimbatore at 6.15 p.m. and reach Pollachi at 7.45 p.m. It will leave Pollachi at 7.25 a.m. and reach Coimbatore at 8.40 p.m., via Podanur and Kinathukadavu. A special train (06731/06732) between Palakkad and Pollachi will be operated six days a week. Train no. 06731 will leave Palakkad at 4.55 a.m. and reach Pollachi at 6.30 a.m. on all days, except Saturdays, from November 14. Train no. 06732 will leave Pollachi at 8.50 p.m. and reach Palakkad at 10.30 p.m. on all days, except Sundays, from November 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-rly-to-operate-special-trains/article37375166.ece
08 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Plantation workers seek wage revision||The Tamil Nadu Plantation Workers Union affiliated to AITUC and former Valparai MLA M. Arumugam have appealed to the Chief Minister to revise the minimum wages for plantation workers and fix it at Rs. 240 a day. In a memorandum to Minister V. Senthil Balaji, the union said the wage agreement for the plantation workers in the State was concluded in June this year. The government had said in August that basic minimum wages will be notified. However, the government order for this is yet to be issued. The basic per day wages for plantation workers should be fixed at Rs. 240, the union said. Similarly, the plantations in Valparai employ nearly 25,000 workers. They do not own houses and come to Valparai from different parts of the State. The government should give each worker three cents and free house, the union said. Mr. Arumugam said the Minister had assured them that he would do the needful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plantation-workers-seek-wage-revision/article37375167.ece
08 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Kadar tribe families thank govt. for expediting pattas||The 21 families of Kadar tribe who got pattas for homestead inside the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) on Sunday thanked the DMK government for expediting procedures in granting the document. Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise V. Senthil Balaji gave the pattas to the families at an event held at Valparai. According to the officials, each family was given patta for 1.5 cents at Theppakulamedu in the core area of the tiger reserve. The families thanked the Minister for disposing of their plea for patta which was delayed for over two years and upholding their right to live in the forest. They also extended gratitude to former Collectors K. Rajamani, S. Nagarajan and present Collector G.S. Sameeran, and officials. Pollachi MP K. Shanmuga Sundaram, District Revenue Officer P.S. Leela Alex, ATR Deputy Field Director M.G. Ganesan, Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Officer Ramkumar were present. Temporary shelters A total of 23 Kadar families were evicted by the Forest Department from ATR in August 2019 after they erected temporary shelters close to their traditional settlement Kallarkudi which was hit by a landslide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kadar-tribe-families-thank-govt-for-expediting-pattas/article37375187.ece
08 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Flights to Tirupati, Goa from December||IndiGO will operate daily non-stop flights from Coimbatore to Tirupati and Goa from December. As per the schedule released by the operator, it will operate a direct flight, an ATR aircraft, between Coimbatore and Tirupati from December 16. The flight from Tirupati to Coimbatore will depart at 17:00 hours and land here at 18:20 hours. The flight will depart Coimbatore at 18:40 hours and reach the temple city at 20:00 hours. IndiGo will operate an Airbus flight on the Coimbatore – Goa sector from December 1. The airline planned to start from the service from the first week of November which was postponed for a month. The flight from Coimbatore will leave the city at 1:45 hours and reach Goa at 3:05 hours. The return flight is scheduled to leave Goa at 3:35 hours and reach Coimbatore at 5:05 hours. IndiGo is mainly targeting pilgrims from Coimbatore and neighbouring districts to Tirumala temple by starting the new non-stop flight to Tirupathi. The operator eyes to get bookings mainly from tourists on the Coimbatore – Goa sector. IndiGo's non-stop service between Coimbatore and Kolkota on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday is operational from November 2. Go First airline is currently operating on Coimbatore – Mumbai sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flights-to-tirupati-goa-from-december/article37375168.ece
08 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police detain suspects in man’s murder||The Saravanampatti police on Sunday detained a few suspects in connection with the murder of a 26-year-old man at Gandhima Nagar late on Friday. The police were questioning them as part of the investigation. K. Ashok Kumar (26), a resident of Hudco Colony at Gandhima Nagar, was hacked to death by four men. Kumar, according to the police, was associated with a local gang from Peelamedu which has rivalry with another gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-detain-suspects-in-mans-murder/article37375181.ece
08 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Clear water bodies of encroachments’||Pollachi MP K. Shanmuga Sundaram has urged the Collectors of Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts to ensure that water bodies in the two districts are cleared of encroachments and are able to receive excess water from the reservoirs in the two districts. In a letter to the Collectors, the MP said that Aliyar dam in Coimbatore district and Thirumoorthi and Amaravathi dams in Tiruppur districts have reached full reservoir levels because of heavy rain in the catchment areas. With good rain from the south west monsoon and now from north east monsoon, farmers in the two districts are receiving adequate water supply. With rain expected till December, the reservoirs will continue to receive more water. However, water bodies in the two districts are not getting water supply because of encroachments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clear-water-bodies-of-encroachments/article37375169.ece
08 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Brief reports||The Water Resources Department has asked people living in the downstream of the Bhavani to be cautious as excess water from the LBP dam will be released through the river. A press release from the department said with heavy inflow in the catchment area of the dam, the water level at the reservoir will be maintained at 103 feet and the surplus flood water over 103 feet will be released from the dam through the river.   Patteeswarar temple at Perur and Subramanya Swamy temple at Marudhamalai will remain closed for devotees on November 9 for Sura Samharam festival. A release said that the temple at Marudhamalai will remain closed for devotees on November 10, too, for the Thirukalyanam festival. Since a large number of devotees are expected to visit the temples on these two days and as COVID-19 restrictions are in place, devotees will not be permitted entry at the two temples, it said.   The Superintending Engineer of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco), Coimbatore north, will conduct a grievance redress meeting on November 10 at 11 a.m. at the office of the Executive Engineer, Seeranaikenpalayam, for electricity consumers, according to a press release.   Chandrans Yuva Foundation and Karpagam University hosted a cricket tournament recently for the visually challenged. A press release said the match, held at Karpagam University, had 12 teams and 15 matches were played on the first day. The semi-finals were held on the second day and the final match on the third day.   Hash 6 Hotel organised a cake mixing event recently. Fruits, including raisins, glazed red cherries, orange peel, tutti-frutti, black currants, dates, figs, dried apricots, figs, and prunes, and nuts - walnuts, cashew, almond flakes and pistachio were mixed together along with ground cardamom, cinnamon and cloves. The total mix weighed about 200 kg. After the traditional cake mixing ceremony, the mixture was put into air tight bags and left to mature until around Christmas, when it will be blended with the cake batter and baked, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/brief-reports/article37375182.ece
08 November 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps for livestock from today||A three-week camp for vaccination against foot-and-mouth disease under the National Animal Disease Control Programme will commence on November 8 and continue till November 26 in the district. Livestock that missed out on the vaccination will be covered in the camp from November 29 to December 8. A consultative meeting on the conduct of the camp was held by Collector S. Dhivyadarshini at the Collectorate here. According to the administration, foot-and-mouth disease as an infectious viral disease can also be fatal at times derailing animal farming. Animals over four months of age are protected by the vaccination. There are about 3,84,871 livestock population in the district. Over 3,46,000 doses of vaccine are available in the district. The Collector directed the Animal Husbandry Department officials to create adequate awareness about the camps among people to ensure cent percent coverage of the vaccination. People can contact the veterinary hospital and branch hospitals in the district for details. Livestock owners may also contact the administration’s toll free number 1077, or officials on 9445001113, 94445032563, 9047042773, 9080536620.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-for-livestock-from-today/article37375276.ece
08 November 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident||Two youth from Perungudi in Madurai died when a speeding car collided against their two-wheeler at Silukkuvarpatti near Nilakottai in Dindigul district on Sunday. Kamaraj, 20, and Ajit Kannan, 20, were returning from Kodaikanal after a holiday. A few others were travelling with them on two-wheelers. When they approached Silukkuvarpatti, the car hit their two-wheeler. In the impact, Ajit Kannan was thrown in the air and his body fell atop an electric wire while Kamaraj was killed near the vehicle. Shocked to see the body hanging on the electric wire, villagers alerted Fire and Rescue Services personnel and police. Nilakottai police sent the two bodies for post-mortem. Further investigation is on.    Arjunan, 35, of Melur, Madurai district, was brutally murdered near the bus stand here on Sunday. Police said that Francis Anbarasan (20) of Arasaradi in Madurai city limits was reportedly roaming near the bus stand since morning. He was suspected to be in an inebriated condition and is said to be under the influence of ganja. Arjunan, who was working as a cook in Tirupur district, planned to go to Madurai. He was waiting to board a bus when Arjunan came in contact with Francis. Whether they knew each other or strangers is not known, police said. Francis assaulted Arjunan with a knife and escaped from the spot. However, a few people caught him with the weapon and handed him over to the police. He was taken to the Dindigul Town North police station. Inspector Ulaganathan has registered a case and investigation was on.    A huge peepal tree fell on an autorickshaw on New Jail Road here on Sunday. However, no one was injured as the driver abandoned the vehicle and ran to safety. Traffic was blocked on the stretch for sometime. Later, Fire and Rescue Services personnel removed the tree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-accident/article37375228.ece
08 November 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Cook killed||Arjunan, 35, of Melur, Madurai district, was murdered near the bus stand here on Sunday. Police said Francis Anbarasan (20) of Arasaradi in Madurai was roaming near the bus stand since morning. He was suspected to be in an inebriated condition and under the influence of ganja. Arjunan, who worked as a cook in Tirupur, planned to go to Madurai. He was waiting to board a bus when Arjunan came across Francis. Francis assaulted Arjunan with a knife and escaped from the spot. But he was caught and handed over to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-employed-in-tiruppur-murdered/article37375175.ece
08 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Tribal assn. opposes amendment to FCA||Members of Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association will stage protests in front of the 11 forest range offices in the district on Monday against the proposal to amend the Forest Conservation Act (FCA). A release from the association said the members would stage protests in front of the range offices at Jerahalli, Talavadi, Talamalai, Hasanur, Germalam, Kadambur, Bhavanisagar, Sathyamangalam, T.N. Palayam, Thamaraikarai and Anthiyur. The release said the Central government had released a consultation paper on the proposed amendments in the Act that paved the way for handing over the forest land to the corporates. “Instead of protecting the rights of tribal people, the proposal helps corporates take over forest land,” the release said. The release said the proposal paved the way for handing over forest land at low price to companies if they wanted to execute infrastructure projects, which was nothing but privatisation. The release also said the proposal would dilute the Forest Rights Act, 2006, that gave rights to people living in the forest and also to earn their livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-assn-opposes-amendment-to-fca/article37375284.ece
08 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 69 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Sunday reported 69 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,04,760. While 52 persons were discharged, 738 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 691. Salem district reported 52 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 1,00,292. While 58 persons were discharged, 603 continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 37 new cases, taking the tally to 52,546. While 37 persons were discharged, 450 continue to be under treatment. In Coimbatore district, a total of 96 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. The Health Department said that 112 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,162 active cases. Two more persons died of the disease on Saturday, taking the toll to 2,430. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 1.2 % on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 62 new cases. The district had 702 active cases of the disease and 74 persons recovered on Sunday. The TPR of the district stood at 1.4 % on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-69-new-covid-19-cases/article37375279.ece
08 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Bhavanisagar dam nearing full capacity||With an inflow at over 2,000 cusecs, the water level at the Bhavanisagar Dam is inching closer to the Full Reservoir Level (FRL) of 105 feet. At 4 p.m. on Sunday, the inflow into the reservoir was 5,025 cusecs while the water level stood at 103.86 feet. The storage was 31.84 tmc ft against the capacity of 32.800 tmc ft. The discharge was 3,500 cusecs into River Bhavani and 1,500 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project canal. The discharge into Kalingarayan Canal and Arakankottai-Thadapalli canals was stopped due to rain. A Public Works Department official said the water level was expected to touch 105 feet by Monday afternoon, after which surplus water would be discharged through the spillways into River Bhavani. Due to heavy rain in the catchment areas of the Nilgiris, the reservoir had been receiving copious water in the past month, the official added. Since the construction of the dam in 1955, water level touched 105 feet on November 16, 1960, December 29, 1978, January 1, 1979 and on November 8, 2019. “The water level attained FRL only four times in the dam’s 66-year history,” added the official. The reservoir, also called the Lower Bhavani Dam, helps in irrigating 2.07 lakh acre through the LBP canal, 17,654 acre through the Thadapalli Canal, 15,743 acre through the Kalingarayan Canal and 6,850 acre through the Arakankottai Canal. Mettur Dam Water level at Stanley Reservoir in Mettur Dam is nearing 117 feet against the FRL of 120 feet on Sunday. Officials of the Public Works Department said, at 7 a.m., the inflow stood at 29,380 cusecs and the discharge at 400 cusecs into the canal and 100 cusecs into River Cauvery. The water level stood at 116.10 feet while the storage was 89.38 tmc ft against the capacity of 93.50 tmc ft. During the corresponding period last year, water level stood at 95.25 feet while the inflow was 7,924 cusecs and the discharge was 13,121 cusecs. The storage was 58.85 tmc ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhavanisagar-dam-nearing-full-capacity/article37375278.ece
08 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TAMIL NADU||Liabilities, borrowings by Telangana almost Rs. 30,000 cr.||The State’s borrowings and other liabilities during the current financial year are inching closer to Rs. 30,000 crore mark. The State has raised Rs. 2,000 crore as open market borrowing (OMB) in the form of State Development Loan from the Reserve Bank of India on November 1. It was preceded by another Rs. 1,500 crore in the first week of October, taking the borrowings in the third quarter (October to December) to Rs. 3,500 crore. Other liabilities The State government borrowings and other liabilities crossed Rs. 25,000 crore mark, reaching Rs. 25,573 crore by the end of the first half of the current financial year between April and September, according to the key indicators in the Comptroller and Auditor General of India’s website. The latest borrowings in the form of State development loans take the total to Rs. 29,073 crore.  The tentative calendar of borrowings released by the RBI in consultation with the States projected the OMBs of the State for the current quarter at Rs. 6,295 crore. The State had raised Rs. 3,500 crore within a span of one month (October 5 and November 1). It was projected that the State would obtain OMBs of Rs. 1,000 crore each on October 26 and November 1. It had, however, opted for raising the amount in a single tranche on November 1. The financial situation of the State, according to senior officials, is yet to reach normalcy although it improved significantly over the past three months since the complete lifting of restrictions imposed due to COVID-19 pandemic. The government’s decision to fulfil its commitment of revision of pay scales to government employees costed it almost Rs. 1,000 crore additionally every month. Coupled with this was the burden imposed by Dalit Bandhu, the scheme for providing financial assistance of Rs. 10 lakh each to dalit families as a measure of their empowerment, were said to have imposed additional burden on the State exchequer. Capital receipts Keeping in view the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on the finances, the government had estimated borrowings and liabilities could be of the order of Rs. 45,509 crore for the current fiscal year and the same was placed in the budget under capital receipts. There is still a long way to go to reach the figure projected in the budget.  The financial situation of the State is yet to reach normalcy although it improved significantly over the past three months. Senior officials, Revenue Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liabilities-borrowings-by-telangana-almost-rs-30000-cr/article37375000.ece
08 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway announces more special express trains||The Southern Railway will run the following unreserved express specials: T.No 06426/06427 Nagercoil – Thiruvananthapuram (Daily) Un-reserved Express Specials: The rakes will have one AC 2-Tier Coach, one AC 3-Tier coach, 11 sleeper class coaches, five general second class coaches and two luggage-cum-brake vans (with accommodation for physically challenged), Train No. 06426 Nagercoil – Thiruvananthapuram Daily Unreserved Express Specials will leave Nagercoil at 6.30 a.m. and reach Thiruvananthapuram at 8.20 a.m. In the return direction, Train No. 06427 Thiruvanthapuram-Nagercoil special will leave Thiruvananthapuram at 5.15 p.m. and reach Nagercoil Junction at 7.15 p.m. Both the trains would stop at Nagercoil Town, Eranial, Kulithurai, Parassala, Neyyanttinkara, Balaramapuram and Nemam. They would run on and from today until further advice. T.No 06463/06462 Coimbatore – Palani – Coimbatore (Daily) unreserved Express Specials: The trains will have a composition of 12 general second class and 2 Luggage cum Brake vans (with accommodation for physically challenged). Train No.06463 Coimbatore – Palani Unreserved Express Special will run on and from November 10 and Train No.06462 Palani – Coimbatore Express Special will run on and from November 11. Train No. 06463 Coimbatore – Palani Express Specials will leave Coimbatore at 2.10 p.m. and reach Palani at 4.40 p.m. T.No 06462 Palani – Coimbatore specials will leave at 11.15 a.m. and reach Coimbatore at 2 p.m. The trains will stop at Podanur, Kinattukkadavu, Pollachi, Gomangalam, Udumalaipettai, Maivadi Road, Pushpattur. Train No. 06480/06479 Madurai – Palani – Madurai (Daily) unreserved Express Specials The train will have a composition of 12 general second class and 2 luggage-cum-brake vans (with accommodation for physically challenged) Train No.06480 Madurai – Palani Unreserved Express Special will run on and from November 11 and Train No.06479 Palani – Madurai Express Special will run on and from November 10. The trains will stop at Koodal Nagar, Samayanallur, Sholavandan, Vadipatti, Kodai Road, Ambaturai, Dindigul, Akkaraipatti, Oddanchathram and Chatrappatti. Train No. 06419/06420 Coimbatore – Pollachi – Coimbatore (6 days a week) unreserved Express Specials The train will have 8 general second class and 2 luggage-cum-brake vans (with accommodation for physically challenged). Train No.06419 Coimbatore – Pollachi Express Special will run on and from November 13 on all days except Sunday, and Train No.06420 Pollachi – Coimbatore Express Special will run on and from November 14 on all days except Saturdays. The train will leave Coimbatore at 6.15 p.m. and and reach Pollachi at 7.45 p.m. In the return direction, it would leave Pollachi at 7.25 a.m. and reach Coimbatore at 8.40 a.m. T.No 06885/06886 Karaikkudi – Virudunagar – Karaikkudi (6 Days a Week) DEMU un-reserved Express Specials: The trains will have 6 DEMU coaches. Train No.06885 Karaikkudi – Virudunagar Express Special will run on and from November 10 on all days except Saturday until further advice. Train No.06886 Virudunagar – Karaikkudi Express Special will run on and from November 10 on all days except Sunday. The train will leave Karaikkudi at 6 p.m. and reach Virudhunagar at 9.10 p.m. In the return direction, it would leave Virudhunagar at 6.20 a.m. and reach Karaikkudi at 9.35 a.m. The trains will stop at Karaikudi, Devakottai Road, Kallal, Panangudi, Sivaganga, Melakkonnakulam, Manamadurai, Narikudi, Tiruchuli and Aruppukottai. With a composition of 5 general second class and 2 luggage-cum-brake vans (with accommodation for physically challenged), Train No.06668/06667 Tirunelveli–Tuticorin – Tirunelveli (Daily) Unreserved Express Specials will run on and from November 8. The train will leave Tirunelveli at 7.35 a.m. and reach Thoothukudi at 9.25 a.m. In the return direction, it will leave at Thoothukudi at 6 p.m. and reach Tirunelveli at 8.15 p.m. The train would stop at Thalaiyuthu, Gangaikondan, Vanchi Maniyachchi, Kailsapuram, Thattaparai and Milavittan. With a composition of 8 general second class and 2 luggage-cum-brake vans (with accommodation for physically challenged), Train No.06685/06686 Tirunelveli–Sengottai – Tirunelveli (Daily) Unreserved Express Specials will run on and from November 10 until further advice. The train will leave Tirunelveli at 7 a.m. and reach Sengottai at 9.15 a.m. In the return direction, the train will leave Sengottai at 5.50 p.m. and reach Tirunelveli at 8.10 p.m. The trains will stop at Tirunelveli Town, Pettai, Cheranmahadevi, Kallidaikurichi, Ambasamudram, Ravanasambudram, Kilakadaiyam, Mettur, Pavoorchatram, Kizhapuliyur and Tenkasi. With a composition of 8 general second class and 2 luggage-cum-brake vans (with accommodation for physically challenged), Train No.06678/06673 Tiruchendur– Tirunelveli– Tiruchendur Unreserved Express Specials will run on and from November 10. The train will leave Tiruchendur at 6.05 p.m. and reach Tirunelveli at 7.40 a.m. In the return direction, it will leave Tirunelveli at 7.20 a.m. and reach Tiruchendur at 9.05 a.m. The trains will stop at Kayalpattinam, Arumuganeri, Kurumbur, Kachchanvilai, Nazareth, Alwartiruagari, Srivaikuntdam, Thathankulam, Seydunganallur and Palayamkottai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-railway-announces-more-special-express-trains/article37375273.ece
08 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two drown in waterbodies near Madurai||A search was under way on Sunday for two youths who were swept away in the Vaigai near Paravai on Saturday. Meanwhile, two bodies were recovered from waterbodies near Peraiyur in Madurai district. The police said A. Mustafa of Virudhunagar, who was bathing in a wild stream near Saptur, was washed away around 2.30 p.m. on Saturday. V. Rajasekar, 29, of Anaikaraipatti, was returning from his farm when he slipped into a stream at Keni under Saptur police station. After a long search in the stream, Fire and Rescue Services personnel from T. Kallupatti and Usilampatti found the bodies. Firemen from Tallakulam in Madurai have launched a search for two youths who were washed away in the Vaigai near Paravai. K. Viswanathan, 21, and S. Arulvasanth, 17, from Tiruppur were visiting their relatives in the city. Around 4.30 p.m., they were swept away when they were bathing in the river near the Paravai bridge, said D. Anandhi, Inspector of Police, Samayanallur. A drone was also used to track them. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar has appealed to people to stay away from the river that carries a huge quantum of water and not to graze their cattle along the riverbanks.  People should stay away from the river that is carrying a huge quantum of water and they should not graze their cattle along the riverbank S. Aneesh Sekhar Madurai Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-drown-in-waterbodies-near-madurai/article37375177.ece
08 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway announces unreserved special express trains||Southern Railway will run the following unreserved express specials: With a composition of 5 general second class and 2 luggage-cum-brake vans (with accommodation for physically challenged), Train No.06668/06667 Tirunelveli–Tuticorin – Tirunelveli (Daily) Unreserved Express Specials will run on and from November 8. It will leave Tirunelveli at 7.35 a.m. and reach Thoothukudi at 9.25 a.m. In the return direction, it will leave at Thoothukudi at 6 p.m. and reach Tirunelveli at 8.15 p.m. The train would stop at Thalaiyuthu, Gangaikondan, Vanchi Maniyachchi, Kailsapuram, Thattaparai and Milavittan. With a composition of 8 general second class and 2 luggage-cum-brake vans (with accommodation for physically challenged), Train No.06685/06686 Tirunelveli–Sengottai – Tirunelveli (Daily) Unreserved Express Specials will run on and from November 10 until further advice. The train will leave Tirunelveli at 7 a.m. and reach Sengottai at 9.15 a.m. In the return direction, the train will leave Sengottai at 5.50 p.m. and reach Tirunelveli at 8.10 p.m. The trains will stop at Tirunelveli Town, Pettai, Cheranmahadevi, Kallidaikurichi, Ambasamudram, Ravanasambudram, Kilakadaiyam, Mettur, Pavoorchatram, Kizhapuliyur and Tenkasi. With a composition of 8 general second class and 2 luggage-cum-brake vans (with accommodation for physically challenged), Train No.06678/06673 Tiruchendur– Tirunelveli– Tiruchendur Unreserved Express Specials will run on and from November 10. The train will leave Tiruchendur at 6.05 p.m. and reach Tirunelveli at 7.40 a.m. In the return direction, it will leave Tirunelveli at 7.20 a.m. and reach Tiruchendur at 9.05 a.m. The trains will stop at Kayalpattinam, Arumuganeri, Kurumbur, Kachchanvilai, Nazareth, Alwartiruagari, Srivaikuntdam, Thathankulam, Seydunganallur and Palayamkottai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-railway-announces-unreserved-special-express-trains/article37375586.ece
08 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai Corporation has 13.25 lakh voters||Madurai Corporation Commissioner K. P. Karthikeyan has released the draft electoral roll for the 100 wards in Madurai city on Sunday. The four zones in the city have 1,304 polling stations with 319 stations each in zone 1 and 2, 385 stations in zone 3 and 284 polling stations in zone 4. The total number of voters in all the 100 wards are 13,25,109 which include 6,51,523 men, 6,73,457 women and 129 others. Public can view the draft electoral rolls at the zone offices and other designated locations. In the event of any complaints or objections, they can contact the assistant commissioners in the respective zones and submit the same in writing before 4 p.m. on November 8, a press note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-corporation-has-1325-lakh-voters/article37375262.ece
08 November 2021||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Boy drowns in pond||A 14-year-old boy drowned in a pond at Chinnanvenmani village under Kunnam police station limits in the district on Saturday afternoon. Police identified the deceased as B. Bharathiraja of Chinnavenmani village. The boy was a class VIII student. Police said the boy went to take bath while grazing cattle and entered the waterbody and drowned. Kunnam police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-drowns-in-pond/article37375235.ece
08 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Kanakan lake in a shambles again||Months of efforts to spruce up the Kanakan lake has gone waste as the waterbody is again in a shambles with garbage getting accumulated due to lack of timely maintenance by the authorities. Under the initiative of former Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi and environmental activists, the lake was cleaned up by removing the accumulated hyacinths and waste two years ago. After rejuvenating the waterbody, a proper walkway was built around the tank spread over 12 acres. In fact, even boating facility was provided for some time. Now, the lake is back into its original state with waste getting accumulated. According to Ramu Purushothaman, president of Kanaganeri Welfare Association, the lake has fallen back on its bad days. “With a lot of efforts, we brought life to the lake. It was emerging as a recreation place for kids and family. It remained clean till November last year. The lake’s deterioration again started from the beginning of this year,” he said. After a long wait, the PWD took up desilting of the lake at an estimated cost of Rs. 47 lakh. The work was scheduled to be completed by August. But it was half completed and the removed sand was lying in the lake itself, said a resident near the lake. “We don’t know why the authorities waited for so long to desilt the lake,” said Mr. Purushothaman. Probir Banerjee of PondyCan said all the efforts put in to rejuvenate the lake went waste because of the callousness of the Public Works Department. “This happens when Puducherry is passing through a crisis of getting potable water. The situation in Pondy is precarious as the surface water system has been completely destroyed due to mismanagement. The PWD is planning to drill 80 more borewells forgetting the fact that there is a government order banning drilling of borewells,” he said. Outlet shutters open If the lake was desilted in a timely and proper manner the water holding capacity of the waterbody would have considerably increased, he noted. “The tank is now full of garbage. What is more criminal is that though the tank is only half full, the authorities have kept the outlet shutters open and that is allowing the water to drain,” Mr. Banerjee said. According to a senior official in government, the desilting work got delayed because of the pandemic. “The Indira Gandhi Medical College which was the designated COVID-19 hospital is situated on the banks of the lake. We were unable to get people to desilt the lake due to fear of getting infected,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanakan-lake-in-a-shambles-again/article37375528.ece
08 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Overseas French nationals exercise their franchise to elect councilor||Overseas French nationals in Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and Kerala cast their ballots in the election to the post of Councilors for the French living abroad, who liaison between the expatriate community and the French authorities. There are 4,618 voters registered on the consular registry of the French Consulate in Puducherry, with a majority of them, in the Union Territory of Puducherry. In India, there are two constituencies, the north and the south. Three seats are to be filled for the southern constituency. The final polling figures were not immediately available. The results were expected late into the night once the counting was completed, a spokesperson said. The Consulate organised the elections amid strict COVID-19 safety protocols across six polling stations — four in Puducherry, one in Chennai and one in Karaikal. Voting was held from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Puducherry registered a voter turnout between 32% and 39.2% and Karaikal 47.56%, according to figures from the Consulate. Heavy rain took a toll on the polling in Chennai which saw the lowest participation rate of 8.57%. These elections were originally scheduled for 2020 but got postponed twice because of the pandemic. According to the French Consulate, these ‘councilors for the French living abroad’, or advisers represent the French nationals in their constituency, but do not represent the State or the Government of France, a role assumed by the Ambassadors and Consuls General. The role of these councilors is to assist French citizens on day-to-day issues (education, health, security, retirement, etc.) and to represent them before the Consulate General of France and the French authorities. They are members of the consular council and are responsible for issuing opinions on issues relating to the daily life of French citizens abroad. The councilors, who are elected for a six-year tenure, are the link between French communities of South India and the Consul General. Worldwide, there are 442 councilors for French living abroad. In turn, these councilors form part of an electoral college that votes for the representation of French citizens at the Assembly of French Citizens Abroad and for members of the Senate, the French Parliament’s upper house. The five candidates in the fray head six-member ‘lists’ of nominees and each make their case with distinct manifestos. Lise Talbot Barre, French Consul General in Puducherry-Chennai, said: “This is a special day for French people living in India. Elections are an important part of the Republic and French citizens of South India are very attached to that duty. My constituency has always had the highest participation rate in consular elections.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/overseas-french-nationals-exercise-their-franchise-to-elect-councilor/article37375533.ece
08 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Lt. Governor visits low vaccination zones||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Sunday led the Health Department’s drive to promote vaccination against COVID-19 in areas where inoculation coverage is low. The Lt. Governor visited vaccination camps organised by the Health Department at Muthialpet and Karuvadikkuppam and personally appealed to residents, who, for various reasons, were excusing themselves from taking the jab, to get vaccinated. Some residents who were avoiding vaccination fearing contraindications, and those who feared side effects as they had co-morbidities such as hypertension and diabetes, were won over through persuasion and vaccinated on the spot by health workers. It was pointed out that no serious side effect had been reported even after the country had administered over 1 billion doses. There were quite a few sceptics who sought to know whether there was any guarantee that vaccination would protect them from getting infected. They agreed to take the jab after being educated on the evidence that showed that vaccinated people escaped the severe consequences of COVID-19. The Lt. Governor also reiterated the evidence from hospital data that showed that about 97% of ICU admissions were unvaccinated COVID-19 patients. According to a press note from the Raj Nivas, in one street alone, 30 residents who had been resisting vaccination in spite of appeals by health teams on door-to-door campaigns, eventually took the first dose. The Lt. Governor’s visit followed door-to-door surveys of those who have not been vaccinated. As part of efforts to attain 100% coverage of the population with at least one dose of vaccine, the Health Department has been conducting various special drives such as 24-hour, 48-hour camp, rural camp and street corner camps. “Yet one and a half lakh people have not yet been vaccinated,” she noted. Ms. Soundararajan reiterated the importance of vaccination as the pandemic was resurfacing in many places, including China and the U.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lt-governor-visits-low-vaccination-zones/article37375531.ece
08 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Active cases fall below 300 in UT||The number of active COVID-19 cases fell below the 300 mark in the Union Territory as it reported 35 fresh cases and 44 recoveries on Sunday. In the last 24 hours, no death was reported. Of the new cases, Puducherry logged 14, which were confirmed from 2,534 tests. Karaikal recorded 12, Yanam 4 and Mahe 5. The cumulative toll in the Union Territory stood at 1,862, with Puducherry recording 1,456, Karaikal 250, Yanam 108 and Mahe 48. The number of active cases stood at 295. The test positivity rate was 1.38%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.32%. The Union Territory has so far recorded a total of 1,28,200 cases against 1,26,043 recoveries. Meanwhile, 3,906 persons took the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-cases-fall-below-300-in-ut/article37375529.ece
08 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Clear stagnant water in Ward 44: residents||Urging the Salem Corporation to take steps on a war footing to clear the stagnant water in their area, residents of Raja Pillai Kadu in Ward 44 staged a protest on Sunday. The residents said the area with over 100 families did not have basic amenities. Rainwater continued to stagnate in their area for over a week, causing inconvenience to them. The stagnant water turned out to be a breeding source for mosquitoes and they feared an outbreak of water borne diseases. Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj asked officials to ensure that all precautionary measures were taken in all the 60 wards in the Corporation limits. He asked officials to keep earthmovers, tippers, lorries, tractors and other vehicles needed to carry out repair works in areas that were affected due to rain. The residents could take up rain-related issues with the control rooms functioning at the Corporation’s Central Office and the four Zonal offices round the clock. They could contact Central office at 0427-2212844, Suramangalam zone 0427-2387514, Hasthampatti zone 0427-2314646, Ammapettai zone 0427-2263161 and Kondalampatti zone at 0427-2216616.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clear-stagnant-water-in-ward-44-residents/article37375281.ece
08 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Crowds throng New Bus Stand to return to work place||Thousands thronged the New Bus Stand to catch buses to return to their work place after Deepavali on Sunday. At the New Bus Stand, most of the special buses operated by TNSTC Salem Division and other divisions towards Kallakurichi, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram and Namakkal, Erode were fully occupied. Buses operating to these destinations were fully occupied right from noon. Rush in buses were more in the evening and during night hours as the premises were filled with people. However, buses proceeding to Chennai were not fully occupied throughout the day due to heavy rain in the State capital. Officials said that many had to cancel their travel plan and subsequent declaration of holidays for schools in Chennai and its neighbouring district. Since special buses would be operated on Monday also, we can expect rush, officials added. In Erode, most of the buses were crowded in the evening as workers, students and others started returning after the festival. TNSTC officials said that adequate buses are available till Monday for the convenience of the commuters and hence buses are not crowded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crowds-throng-new-bus-stand-to-return-to-work-place/article37375283.ece
08 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem- Karur train service from Nov. 15||The railways have announced that DEMU unreserved express special trains between Salem and Karur junctions would be operated six days a week from November 15. A release from the Salem Railway Division said that Train No. 06831 Salem Junction – Karur six days a week DEMU unreserved express special train will leave Salem Junction at 6.40 a.m. and reach Karur at 8.20 a.m. Likewise, Train No. 06838 Karur – Salem Junction six days a week DEMU unreserved express special train will leave Karur at 7.55 p.m. and reach Salem Junction at 9.35 p.m. Composition of trains were three DEMU coaches and the service is not available on Sundays, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-karur-train-service-from-nov-15/article37375234.ece
08 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Road repair works under way in Thoothukudi||Thoothukudi district and Corporation officials began road patch work in wards and arterial intersections, including State highways, on Sunday. Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi, Social Welfare Minister Minister P. Geetha Jeevan, Collector K. Senthil Raj, Corporation Commissioner Charusree and other officials inspected the repair works under way near St. Thomas School and Thoothukudi-Palayamkottai Road near Kamaraj College. The officials said the week-long torrential rain in various parts of Thoothukudi city and district had damaged the roads. With the north-east monsoon having set in actively, they planned to do the repair works as a temporary measure. As the potholes were huge and posed hardships to vehicle users, it was decided to fill them with concrete mix on a war footing. “Once the rain stops, we will go ahead with laying new roads,” a Corporation official said. At a recent review meeting, the officials identified 57 roads within the Corporation limits and eight stretches on the State Highways as bad and requiring repairs. The Corporation officials also said the public were welcome to lodge complaints about water stagnation and water-logging in their wards/streets with the zonal offices concerned. Ms. Kanimozhi told reporters that public places, including bus stand and markets in the district, would also get attention when the rain stopped. She appealed to residents to stay indoors as the Meteorological Department had predicted rain for the next two to three days across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-repair-works-under-way-in-thoothukudi/article37375264.ece
08 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Rainwater draining from paddy fields in Tiruvarur district’||The decrease in the intensity of rain over the past couple of days has helped farmers drain stagnant rainwater from paddy fields in various parts of Tiruvarur district, according to the Agriculture Department. The spell of rain over the past week had left samba and thaladi paddy crops submerged on about 16,500 hectares a couple of days ago. “As of Sunday, about 7,500 hectares of paddy crop in different parts of the district is still inundated. However, the rain has subsided over the past few days and in the absence of flow in the rivers and canals, the stagnant water from the paddy fields is draining now. But we have to watch and wait,” a senior official of the Agriculture Department told The Hindu . While the inundated samba paddy crop was about 40 days old, the thaladi crop was very young. The samba crop at this stage may survive the inundation for four or five days, but the 10-15 day old thaladi crop can manage only for two or three days. However, the extent of damage could be assessed properly only after the water drained, the official said. Samba/thaladi crop had been raised on about 1.23 lakh hectares in the district so far against the anticipated coverage of 1.47 lakh hectares. The department has currently undertaken an enumeration of the damage to the kuruvai crop. The crop on about 2,500 hectares, which were ready for harvest, had suffered damages due to the earlier spell of rain in the district. The rain in the district was moderate on Saturday night. During the 24-hour period till Sunday morning, Muthupettai (22.7mm) Tiruvarur (18.6), Kudavasal (18.2), Nannilam (13.2) and Thiruthuraipoondi (7.4) received moderate rainfall, helping the cause of the farmers. The Public Works Department has launched a drive to clear the drainage channels of weeds so as to facilitate drainage of water from the fields. On Sunday, weed growth on drains in and around Thiruthuraipoondi was cleared using men and machines. The Valavanar channel, which serves as a drain for Thiruthuraipoondi, Singalanthi, Kattimedu, Pandi, Ekkal Kunnalur, Idumbavanam, Thottiyakadu and Karpaganatharkulam and other villages was being cleared of weeds, said Murugavel, Executive Engineer, Public Works Department, Vennar Basin Division, in a statement. An official release from the district administration cautioned people against taking bath in rivers and other water courses. “Most of the water courses in the district have filled to 90% of their capacities,” Collector B.Gayatri Krishnan said in a statement. She urged people living on the banks of the rivers and water courses to move to safer locations at times of floods and advised the public to stock up essential supplies required at least for a week. Nagapattinam Collector A.Arun Thamburaj citing the weather forecast told fishermen not to venture into the sea and those who have already gone for fishing to return before October 9. Meanwhile, several parts of Tiruchi, Pudukottai and Karur districts received heavy to moderate overnight rainfall. Viralimalai in Pudukottai received 92 mm of rainfall during the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 a.m. on Sunday. The chief amount of the rainfall recorded in other parts of the central region during the same period (in mm): Pudukottai district - Alangudi 74, Kudimiyanmalai 63.80, Illupur 56.20, Meemisal 51.40, Manamelkudi 51, Ponnamaravathi 47.20, Adhanakottai 41,Keeranur 40.20, Gandharavakottai 39, Aranthangi 32 and Thirumayam 30.80; Tiruchi district – Musiri 87, Navalurkottapattu 72, Manapparai 68.60, Kovilpatti 62.20, Vathalai Anicut 60, Samayapuram 57.60, Marungapuri 50.40, Tiruchi Town 38, Ponnaniyar Dam 33.80 and Lalgudi 30; Karur district – Panchapatti 72, Krishnarayapuram, Kulithalai and Thogamalai 70 each; Mylampatti 66, Palaviduthi 57.4, Mayanur 54, and Karur 51.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rainwater-draining-from-paddy-fields-in-tiruvarur-district/article37375251.ece
08 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rush at bus stands as people go back to work after Deepavali||People who had travelled to the city to celebrate Deepavali with their near and dear ones boarded buses to return to Chennai and other places of work on Sunday. The Central Bus Stand, omni bus stand and the three temporary bus stands set up by the city police saw a large footfall of travellers throughout the day. Despite the announcement made by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin requesting travellers to postpone their travel to Chennai by a few days due to heavy rains, several buses leaving the Central Bus Stand to the capital city were at full capacity. Many travellers said that they had to report for work on Monday morning as the leave they had taken for the festival had come to an end. "We will lose salary if we extend the leave. The rain cannot be a reason for us to extend it," Rajashekar, who works at a private company in Chennai, said. Many college students too boarded buses to travel to their education institutions in Madurai, Thanjavur and Chennai after celebrating Deepavali at their homes in Tiruchi. "We reached the city on Monday, celebrated the festival at our homes and are ready to go back now," S. Manoj, a student, said enthusiastically. The students had semester examinations coming up, and had to prepare for them, he said. The city police had made special arrangements at the Chathram Bus Stand, Central Bus Stand and the three temporary bus stands — on Mannarpuram service road; Illupur Salai near Mannarpuram and opposite to the Sona Mina theatre — to ease traffic congestion. Police personnel were deployed to regulate the crowds. The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation was operating specials to various destinations from Tiruchi and other centres in the region depending on the need.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rush-at-bus-stands-as-people-go-back-to-work-after-deepavali/article37375240.ece
08 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi-Karaikudi broad gauge line electrification to be over soon||Overhead electrification works on the Tiruchi-Pudukottai-Karaikudi broad gauge section have reached the advanced stage of completion. The nearly 90-km section will become yet another stretch in this part of the region to go electric soon which would pave the way for operation of electric loco hauled express and freight trains from Karaikudi to Chennai via Pudukottai and Tiruchi. The overhead electrification project is being executed by the Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE) which is carrying out electrification projects all over the State and in the country. A senior railway official said wiring works as part of the electrification project had been completed up to Karaikudi station outer from Tiruchi via Pudukottai. Works connected with modifying the signal circuits for electric traction were currently under way, besides some fine-tuning.  Joint electrical inspection along the stretch was being conducted by officials of the CORE and the Traction Distribution of the Madurai Division since the railway stretch falls under the jurisdiction of that division. Simultaneously, electrification works in Karaikudi Yard were also under way as part of the project. Poles had been erected and wiring works were expected to commence this week. But for the monsoon rains over the last few days, the electrification project was proceeding swiftly, the officials said. The traction sub-station at Karaikudi as part of the project was also in the advanced stage of completion. Transmission lines to extend power supply to the traction sub station had been taken up by the Tangedco. The overhead electrification project had reached the advanced stage of completion. The plan was to complete the entire works at one go from Tiruchi to Karaikudi by this month-end, says the official. Upon completion, the Commissioner of Railway Safety, Southern Circle, Bengaluru, would be invited for carrying out mandatory inspection of the electrified stretch .A major benefit on completion of the project was that there would be no change over of locomotive from diesel to electric for express trains such as the Karaikudi - Chennai - Karaikudi Pallavan Pallavan superfast expresses in both directions, he said. Presently, the loco changeover from diesel to electric for the Karaikudi - Chennai Pallavan express takes place at Tiruchi Junction upon arrival. Similar loco changeover takes place at Tiruchi Junction in the return direction towards Karaikudi. Electric locos have better acceleration and are environmental friendly, the official said adding that freight trains from Karaikudi to other destinations via Pudukottai and Tiruchi could also be hauled by an electric locomotive once electrified.  Electrification works in Karaikudi Yard are also under way as part of the project Railway officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-karaikudi-bg-line-electrification-to-be-over-soon/article37375247.ece
08 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Upgrading of facilities for maintenance of freight wagons at goods yard under way||The Tiruchi Railway Division has taken up the work of upgrading and improving infrastructure for maintenance of broad gauge freight wagons at the sprawling Tiruchi goods yard. zUnder the infrastructure improvement works, a covered shed is to be constructed for railway technical personnel to examine the sick freight wagons that required necessary repairs and attend to them at the facility. In addition to this, machinery required for carrying out repairs in sick wagons are to be put in place as part of the improvement works. Facilities for improving infrastructure are to be created at a cost of nearly Rs. 4 crore with civil works having commenced already, railway officials here told The Hindu . As part of the project, a storeroom and a few rooms meant for supervisors and staff who would examine the sick wagons and undertake repair works in them have been constructed. The proposed covered shed would be constructed to a length of about 37 metres which will enable the railway technical personnel to undertake repair works even during monsoon season without any hassle, the officials further said . The covered shed would have two railway lines where four sick wagons requiring attention could be stationed at a time to carry out necessary repairs in them, said the sources. The markings for the construction of covered shed had been done and the works were expected to be taken up soon by laying pillars. The Tiruchi Railway Division had already received a portion of the funds required for upgrading and improving facilities for maintenance of goods wagons on the Tiruchi Goods Yard premises, the officials said. Freight wagons which develop technical snags would be detached from the formation and moved to the covered shed on the goods yard premises where a team of railway personnel would attend to them to set right the problems before they are sent back for operation. The shed would have a crane, compressor and welding facilities inside in respect of machinery required for attending the sick wagons, the officials said adding that the construction of the covered shed is expected to be completed by the next financial year. Tiruchi Goods Yard is the only one in the Division where maintenance of freight wagons is being done. The need for the construction of a covered shed was felt as this would enable the railway technical personnel to undertake the necessary repairs in all-weather conditions, the officials said. Tiruchi also has a separate Broad Gauge Coaching complex situated close to the railway junction where primary maintenance of some express and passenger trains is being carried out regularly before the coaches are sent back for operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/upgrading-of-facilities-for-maintenance-of-freight-wagons-under-way/article37375179.ece
08 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bad roads haunt residents at Anbil Nagar||Roads of Anbil Nagar on Wireless Road near Tiruchi airport are in bad shape. The various streets in the locality were dug up to lay underground sewer lines, which ruined the state of the roads. After the recent rains, the roads have turned unmotorable. The people struggle to travel to and from their homes as the streets dug up by the civic body to relay underground drainage system lines eight months ago are yet to be completed or closed properly. In some streets, residents park their vehicles away from their houses, as they cannot navigate the streets. "It has become a huge problem. We have raised complaints to several authorities but nobody has paid any heed," a resident said. Large houses and even some complexes are coming up in the area, and vehicles carrying construction equipment often get stuck in the potholes and slush on the road and retrieving them becomes a great difficulty. Speaking to The Hindu , another resident said that his two children study at a school in the locality. However, due to the state of the roads, they are unable to attend school. "The children usually walk to school, but now it is not possible as one cannot walk, or ride their vehicle on these paths," he said. Officials of the civic body said that the work can resume only after the monsoon season. "It is not possible to resume the work now as work cannot be done in the rain. We will finish it by summer," they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bad-roads-haunt-residents-at-anbil-nagar/article37375254.ece
08 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Civic body steps up dengue surveillance||Tiruchi Corporation has stepped up dengue fever control measures. According to informed sources, at least four persons tested positive for dengue in the city on Saturday. The patients were under treatment and being closely monitored. The city had recorded at least six cases of dengue fever in the first week of October, necessitating the health officials to launch a special drive to check the mosquito breeding in vulnerable areas. The report of reappearance of dengue cases has once again got the attention of the officials. P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman, Tiruchi Corporation Commissioner, told The Hindu that the city had employed 600 persons to check for mosquito breeding in households. They had been asked to step up dengue surveillance measures. All houses would be checked in vulnerable areas. ‘Slightly on higher side’ He said that the city had reported 30 cases of dengue more than the last year during the same corresponding period. It was slightly on a higher side. However, the situation was well under control. Similar to the steps taken in October effective steps had been taken to control the cases. Mr. Rahuman said that the ongoing rain had played a crucial role in destroying the larvae in different parts of the city. The impact of the rain would be known after about two weeks. The health workers would step up vigilance. A sum of Rs. 15,000had been collected as fine from those failed to destroy dengue breeding grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-steps-up-dengue-surveillance/article37375243.ece
08 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for stealing jewellery||A special police team recovered 36 sovereigns of gold jewellery stolen from the house of a retired state transport corporation official at Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district and arrested two persons, including a woman Those arrested were Thamaraiselvi (40) and her relative Balaji (18). The crime occurred when the retired official Veerasamy (74) went to hospital recently due to poor health. A complaint in this regard was lodged to the Kumbakonam Taluk police station. A special team was constituted to probe the crime. The police enquired Thamaraiselvi who had stayed as a tenant in Veerasamy's house about three years ago. Police recovered the jewels from Thamaraiselvi and Balaji who were arrested and emanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-stealing-jewels/article37375244.ece
08 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dip in fresh COVID-19 cases||The central region reported 115 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, maintaining a declining trend prevalent in several parts of the State. There was also a significant dip in the number of deaths due to the viral infection. One patient hailing from Thanjavur district died of COVID-19. All nine districts in the central region reported less than 30 cases. Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts reported 28 cases each. The other seven districts in central Tamil Nadu reported less than 20 COVID-19 cases. In Karur, 19 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Tiruvarur, meanwhile, registered 14 fresh cases. In Mayiladuthurai district, eight patients tested positive, and in neighbouring Nagapattinam, six. Pudukottai district registered five cases. In Ariyalur, four fresh cases were reported, and in Perambalur, three, the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dip-in-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37375255.ece
08 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||APWs felicitated for role in operation to capture tiger||Three anti-poaching watchers (APWs) from the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) were felicitated by the Forest Department recently for their commendable work during the operation to successfully tranquilise and capture MDT23, a tiger that is believed to have killed four people in the fringes of MTR and Gudalur. The three APWs, Kaalan, Maathan and Bomman, three expert trackers in the division had played an instrumental role in helping to track down the tiger and helping to capture it safely, officials said. All of them belong to Adivasi communities, and have a great reputation for tracking down wildlife during multiple operations. The tiger, MDT23, was captured after a massive 22-day-long operation which involved over a 100 forest staff. “All the forest staff involved in the operation had done extremely important tasks, including managing crowds, preventing people from straying into the operation area and also collecting intelligence to narrow down the search area,” said a top forest official. The APWs, who are temporary staff employed by the department were given certificates for their exemplary work during the operation. They were nominated for the recognition by the Principal Secretary (Environment, Climate Change and Forests) for Tamil Nadu, Supriya Sahu. The certificates were handed over to them by Bhosale Sachin Thukkaram, Deputy Director of MTR (Core Area), who appreciated the work done by the APWs and all the forest staff during the entire operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apws-felicitated-for-role-in-operation-to-capture-tiger/article37375192.ece
08 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||20 low-lying villages in Vellore get flood alert||Vellore Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian issued a flood alert to 20 low-lying villages along the Mordhana river at Gudiyatham taluk in Vellore on Sunday as excess rainwater was discharged from the reservoir built across the river. A round-the-clock special desk with helpline numbers – 1077; 0416-2258016, WhatsApp: 9384056214 – to complain about rain-related problems and emergencies has been set up at the Collector Office in Vellore. Due to continuous rain in the neighbouring Chittoor district (Andhra Pradesh) and catchment areas since the past few days, the reservoir across the Mordhana river, a tributary of Palar river, reached its full capacity of 261.36 mcft, causing the district administration to issue the flood alert. "We have banned bathing, washing clothes, playing and taking selfies along the river and check dams. Based on the rainfall report, a decision on holiday for schools and colleges will be taken on Monday," Mr. Pandian told The Hindu . Residents of Mordhana, Kottaramuduvu, Jittapalli, Renuka Puram, Akkavaram, Perumpalli, Meenur, Upparapalli, Sempalli, Iykalapalli, Thattaparai, Andakannpatti, Rangasamuthiram, Mukkapati, Seivur, Gudiyatham town, Indira Nagar, Oolakasi, Sittathur and Hyderpuram villages, along the river were asked to move to higher places immediately as their areas can get inundated anytime. Police check points were set up along the river to prevent visitors, especially children. PWD officials are continuously monitoring the situation at the dam. On the other hand, farmers along the river were hopeful of a good harvest as the water would help them irrigate 8,000 hectares of farmland by filling up 19 irrigation tanks. Paddy, sugarcane, banana, corn, brinjal, green chillies and groundnuts are the major crops cultivated here.. In Ranipet, Collector D. Bhaskarapandian visited low-lying areas along the Palar river, including Nemili, Sirunamalli, Oocherri, Govindavadi, Keel Kaalthur, Putheri, Kaveripakkam, Marudhar Pakkam and Narasinghapuram on Sunday. Many low level bridges between Vanniyambadi (Tirupattur) and Gudiyatham were breached. Together, these three districts have 519 PWD tanks (lakes), of which more than 250 have filled up due to the heavy rain. Tiruvannamalai Collector B. Murugesh, on Sunday, extended the lockdown till November 21. The closure of parks, swimming pools and dams in the district, and the neighbouring Kattam Poondi will continue. All shops, including hotels, bakeries and tea shops, can function between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on all days. Parcels can be offered up to 10 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-low-lying-villages-in-vellore-get-flood-alert/article37375519.ece
08 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Hit by a speeding car, biker falls from flyover, dies||A 34-year-old man died on the spot after he was knocked down from a flyover near the Collectorate in Sathuvachari when a car hit his bike from behind, on Sunday. The police said around 3 p.m. S. Kumaran, a resident of Vallalar Nagar near Sathuvachari, was returning home after visiting his friend. On the highway between the Collector’s Office and the new pedestrian subway, a row of plastic barricades have been placed for more than a year to prevent overspeeding. The police said that Kumaran tried to enter the allowed carriageway space without noticing the car behind him. The car, which was coming from Bengaluru, hit him, throwing him off the flayover. The occupants in the car, including its driver, are absconding. A case has been filed by the north police station in Vellore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hit-by-a-speeding-car-bike-rider-falls-from-flyover-dies/article37375258.ece
08 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 11 fresh cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district touched 49,965 with 11 new cases reported on November 7. With a total 48,650 having been discharged, the active cases stands at 182. The district's toll is 1133. In Ranipet district, two cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,479. In Tirupattur district, four new cases were reported on Sunday and the total number of cases stood at 29,336. In Tiruvannamalai district, seven new cases were reported, which took the total number of cases to 55,058. Of this, 54,251 have been discharged. The number of active cases stands at 139.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-records-11-fresh-cases/article37375524.ece
08 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Drinking water project launched in Virudhunagar||Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran and Industries Ministers Thangam Thennarasu participated in a bhoomi puja for the ongoing combined drinking water scheme to benefit three municipalities of Virudhunagar, Aruppukottai and Sattur on Sunday. The Rs. 44.77-crore project will bring 28.28 million litres of water a day with source from the Tamirabharani at Seevalaperi where the river confluences with the Chittar. With an intake well near the Seevalaperi check dam water would be pumped through three wayside pumping stations at Sillankulam, Vannimadai and Sennalkudi. The ministers said that three separate ground-level tanks would be constructed for the three municipalities and water would be distributed through the existing overhead tanks and new tanks to be constructed under the project. Stating that 41% of the project has been completed, the ministers said that the work is scheduled to be completed by November 2022. On commissioning the project, Virudhunagar Municipality will get a maximum of additional 89.5 lakh litres of water based on the 2050 population projection. A new ground-level tank with a capacity of 6.2 lakh litre, a 4.8 lakh litre over head tank would be constructed in Virudhunagar and water would be supplied through the existing nine OHTs also. New distribution pipelines will be laid for 103.81 km and new 30,927 domestic connections would be provided, they said. Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy, Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board Executive Engineer, Jayaprakash, Virudhunagar Municipal Commissioner, Syed Mustafa Kamal, Virudhunagar Tahsildar, Senthilvel, were present. Transport Minister S.R. Rajakannappan, in the presence of the two Ministers, inaugurated the new buildings constructed a cost of Rs. 5.24 crore at Srivilliputtur on Sunday. Among them were the building for Regional Transport Office at Vizhuppanoor, additional classrooms and laboratory at Thailapuram Government Higher Secondary School and dispensary by Animal Husbandry Department. Tenkasi MP, Dhanush M. Kumar, MLAs, S. Thangapandian, A.R.R. Srinivasan, G. Ashokan, A.R.R. Raghuraman, District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Sivakasi Sub Collector, Birathiviraj, Deputy Transport Commissioner, M.S. Elangovan, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drinking-water-project-launched/article37375272.ece
08 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||List of draft polling stations released||Five Returning Officers for as many municipalities in Virudhunagar district and 19 Assistant Returning Officers have been appointed for the urban local body election to be held shortly. In a press release, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said that the Commissioners of the respective municipality are the Returning Officers for the urban local bodies. Similarly, the Executive Officers of nine town panchayats have been appointed as the Returning Officers and 18 Assistant Returning Officers too have been appointed. Meanwhile, the list of draft polling stations for all the urban local bodies, except for Sivakasi Corporation (formerly Sivakasi and Tiruthangal municipalities) -- Aruppukottai, Rajapalayam, Sattur, Srivilliputtur and Virudhunagar -- have been released. The district has got 171 wards in all the five municipalities with at total of 398 polling stations, including 167 male polling station, 167 female polling station and 64 all voters polling station. Town panchayats: The town panchayats of Chettiyarpatti, Kariapatti, Mallankinaru, Mamsapuram, S. Kodikulam, Seithur, Sundarapandiam, V. Pudupatti and Watrap have got 315 wards. Those town panchayats have got a total of 550 polling stations, including 172 male and 172 female polling stations and 206 all voters polling stations. Voters can give their opinion on the draft polling stations to the respective Returning Officers, said the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/list-of-draft-polling-stations-for-urban-local-bodies-released/article37375270.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||96 persons test positive in Coimbatore district||A total of 96 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday. The Health Department said that 112 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,162 active cases. Two more persons died of the disease from the district on Saturday, taking the toll to 2,430. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 1.2 % on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 62 new cases . The district had 702 active cases of the disease and 74 persons recovered on Sunday. The TPR of the district stood at 1.4 % on Saturday. In the Nilgiris, 14 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 33,700. The number of deaths in the district stood at 213 while 218 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/96-persons-test-positive-in-coimbatore-district/article37375190.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nature’s bounty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/natures-bounty/article37375195.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water woes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-woes/article37375286.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Drawing crowds again||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drawing-crowds-again/article37375261.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Back to work||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/back-to-work/article37375436.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Monsoon woes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monsoon-woes/article37375443.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Monsoon merriment||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monsoon-merriment/article37375582.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||PUDUKOTTAI  Kings College of Engineering: Inauguration of first year classes, Sharmila Rajaa, Chairperson, presides, Punalkulam, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37375237.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements. Coimbatore||Dr. N.G.P. Institute of Technology: Freshers Meet, 9.15 a.m.  Nehru Institute of Technology: Freshers Day programme, 10 a.m.  Coimbatore Management Association: Virtual meeting on the “Art of Appreciation”, 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-coimbatore/article37375183.ece
08 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Several legal programmes to be launched tomorrow||The Dharwad District Legal Services Authority will launch several programmes to mark the 25th anniversary of the National Legal Services Authority on Tuesday. Senior Civil Judge and DLSA member-secretary C.M. Pushpalata told journalists in Dharwad on Saturday that the programmes will be aimed at creating awareness about aid and literacy and various laws concerning protection and fundamental rights. A bike rally will be taken out to highlight the importance of legal awareness. This will be followed by a free health check-up and a programme to distribute health cards on the court premises for family members of advocates and judiciary staff. A voluntary blood donation camp will be held. The Foundation Day programme will be held at the Bar Association and senior judges from the High Court in Dharwad will take part, she said. “DLSA will conduct several legal awareness programmes as part of Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav. We are focusing on rural areas and underprivileged people in villages in the district,” the judge said. The authority has identified 67 pre-university colleges in the district to conduct several programmes. Already, around 500 programmes have been conducted in these colleges. The judge said that anyone who has an annual income of less than Rs. 3 lakh can use the services of DSLA and ensure that his legal rights are protected. In a bid to deliver speedy justice and to avoid litigation and related expenses, the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority has directed all district authorities to hold a National Lok Adalat across the State on December 18 this year. She said that the adalat will look into several types of cases that could be settled through alternative dispute resolution mechanism, including conciliation. They include most cases except those pertaining cheque bounce cases, motor vehicles accidents, loan recovery, pre-legal litigation, and divorce. Even labour disputes and claims of industrial workers can be brought before the adalat and settled amicably, she said. If both the parties accept the solution, then an order will be passed which will be binding. If the parties concerned do not come to an amicable solution, the case will be referred back to the trial court, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/several-legal-programmes-to-be-launched-tomorrow/article37375298.ece
08 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||NGO promoting agro forestry among farmers in Belagavi||Green Saviours, a Belagavi-based NGO, is creating awareness about afforestation and is promoting the practice of agro forestry among farmers in some villages in the district. As part of Project OMG-(One Millions Greens), it aims at planting 10 lakh trees by December 2025. As part of the project, small farmers are being provided fruit trees to set up agro forestry plots. Nearly 10 acres of land is now being converted from traditional farming to Syntropic Agro Forestry System. Every Sunday, NGO members take up afforestation or agro forestry activities. “We began in April 2016 and we have planted and maintained trees in and around Belagavi for over 270 Sundays. The team has planted and maintained over 45,000 trees,” a spokesperson of the team Raksha Upadhye said. “On Sunday, we visited the farm of Sanjay Hanjagol at Sutgatti village. The farmer had planted nearly 300 trees which had been provided free to him. Grass and cover plants growing in spaces in between the trees were removed and soil building operations were commenced. Top soil will now be built using cover crop, grass and other select plants,” she said. “From February next, these spaces will be used to cultivate vegetables and tubers. The system does not use any synthetic fertilizers, pesticides and other chemicals. Green Saviours will also be supporting farmers in selling these produces directly to consumers to support farmer income. The plan is to work with 500 small farmers in and around Belagavi,” Ms. Upadhye said. Interested people are requested to contact Sameer Majli of Green Saviours on Ph: 9731151919 for more details  ‘We began in April 2016 and we have planted and maintained trees in and around Belagavi for over 270 Sundays now and the team has planted and maintained over 45,000 trees’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ngo-promoting-agro-forestry-among-farmers-in-belagavi/article37375291.ece
08 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Book on saints and their message released||Guruling Kapse, veteran writer, released a book, Mahatma Charitamruta, written by Sri Prabhuchannabasava Swami, seer of Motagi Mutt in Athani, at a ceremony in Dharwad on Sunday. Dr. Kapse praised the anthology of biographies of saints, for its impressive content, simple writing style and the research of the author. Out of his busy schedule, the seer has set out time for research. The book is like a torch-bearer for the common man that can motivate everyone. I don’t think there are any parallels to this book in other Indian languages, he said. He gave a message to young writers “to listen to their internal monologues’’ before taking up creative pursuits. Creativity holds the key to bringing thoughts into practice, Dr. Kapse said at the event organised by Karnataka Vidyavardhak Sangha. Veeranna Rajur, critic, said that this book is full of deeds of noble persons. “It speaks of the need for enlightenment, devotion, knowledge and experience in everyone,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-on-saints-and-their-message-released/article37375292.ece
08 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two children die in stone quarry||Two children died and one was injured when they went to swim in an abandoned stone quarry in Byahatti village in Dharwad district on Sunday. Seven-year-old Harish Shivalligoudar and nine-year-old Gautam Shivalligoudar went for a swim in the quarry that was filled with rainwater. They were drowned. Another young boy, Rajkumar, has been admitted to the hospital. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-children-die-in-stone-quarry/article37375293.ece
08 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP yet to arrive at the number of structures built sans sanctioned plan||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is still groping in the dark over the number of buildings that have been constructed without a sanctioned plan, though there is some estimate of the buildings that have deviations. The civic body is the authority to grant approval to building plans in the city and has been pulled up several times by the High Court of Karnataka over the increase in the number of illegal constructions. But it has failed to ensure that buildings constructed in the burgeoning city adhere to the building bylaws and the approved plan. While the survey of the buildings with deviations is still on, a parallel survey of buildings constructed without any approved plan from the BBMP is also under way. Survey The civic body recently submitted to the High Court that of around 6,000 buildings identified, 4,279 had deviated from the sanctioned plan or had been constructed in violation of the building bylaws. This was the survey of buildings constructed between January 1, 2020 and May 31, 2021. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, in his affidavit to the High Court, had stated that a survey of all buildings for which building plans had been approved since January 16, 2007 would be completed by June 4, 2023. B-khata sites According to the civic body’s estimate, there were more than 5.7 lakh B-khata properties, of which at least 1.4 lakh are vacant sites. In the light of delay in regularisation of B-khata properties due to legal wrangles, owners of such properties cannot avail of building plan approvals or occupancy/completion certificates from the BBMP or bank loans. Civic officials said buildings that had come up on B-khata sites would also be included in the survey of illegal constructions. The ward engineers are being roped in for the survey of not just buildings with deviations, but also those that have been constructed without any sanctioned plan. Mr. Gupta told The Hindu that the BBMP had also submitted its report on buildings with deviations constructed between January 1, 2020 and May 31, 2021, to the High Court. “The survey is ongoing. We will issue notices to the buildings identified to have deviations or no sanctioned plan and demolish them,” he said. Incidentally, the High Court has given the civic body time till December 9 to submit an action-taken report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-yet-to-arrive-at-the-number-of-structures-built-sans-sanctioned-plan/article37375105.ece
08 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many parents demand that preschools function till evening||As preschools reopen, there is demand from parents, many of whom have resumed work from office, to extend the functioning hours. While the Department of Primary and Secondary Education has allowed preschools to function for stipulated hours, managements of these centres say they are likely to remain open till evening as there is demand from working parents. Preethi S., a private company employee, said she had decided to enrol her daughter to a preschool only if it offered day-care facility. “I have started working from office and I drop my daughter at my parents’ place. Dropping and picking her up would not be possible. I would have skipped sending her this academic year to a preschool if they didn’t have a day-care facility. But luckily, my daughter’s preschool has decided to open their day care as many working parents demanded,” she said. One of the trustees of a preschool at Jayanagar said parents choose to sign up with preschools only if they offer day-care facilities till evening. Pruthvi Banwasi, secretary, Karnataka Council of Preschools, said, “We have decided to run the preschool for a few hours from 10 a.m. and then parents can opt for day-care facilities till evening if they are interested.” Many other preschools have opted to do the same as they feel that there is lack of monitoring mechanism and that they would not be penalised for not following the regulations. “In fact, we have been running day-care centres for the last one month. We do not advertise or publicise about this. So we have not landed in any trouble so far,” said a preschool owner. While pre-schools come under the purview of the Department of Primary and Secondary Education, there is no clarity as to under whose purview day-care centres come under. No monitoring A senior official of the department said preschool managements could impart education for a few hours a day and later offer day-care facilities, if needed. “It does not come under our purview to monitor day-care centres. As long as they are not teaching students after the specified time, we will not penalise them,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-parents-demand-that-preschools-function-till-evening/article37375115.ece
08 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress to take out padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru next month||In a bid to bring pressure on the BJP-led State and Union Governments to begin the work on the Mekedatu drinking water project across the Cauvery, the Principal Opposition Congress on Sunday announced a padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru in December. “It will probably be held in the first or second week of December. Modalities are being worked out and it will be shared soon. Anyone can join the padayatra,” KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar told presspersons on Sunday. The announcement came after long deliberations involving senior Congress leaders, including Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, during which the current political atmosphere was discussed. Mr. Shivakumar said: “During the Congress regime, we had completed all procedures and submitted them to the central government, which had accepted it. No other permission is required except environmental clearance. Though the Chief Minister is saying that the project will be implemented, it looks like he does not have the political will to do it.” Stating that Mekedatu was the State’s right, he said the padayatra is to bring pressure on both governments to start the project as early as possible. Refuting allegations that the Congress was politicising the Mekedatu issue, Mr. Siddaramaiah said: “There is no politics in Mekedatu as far as we are concerned. The padayatra is not being announced for elections.” He said Karnataka is free to start the project, and there is no legal or other hindrance. “The central government should give clearance first.” The meeting, according to sources, also deliberated on the ensuing poll to 25 seats in the Legislative Council from local bodies and BBMP elections. The party also announced a membership drive involving state leaders in the BBMP limits from November 14. This is being done ahead of the anticipated polls to the BBMP in the next few months. Mr. Shivakumar said the AICC had also announced the election schedule for its organisation for which membership drive has been taken up both online and offline. The party will also launch ‘Jana Jagruthi Abhiyan’ from panchayat level to create awareness among the people and highlight the failure of governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-to-take-out-padayatra-from-mekedatu-to-bengaluru-next-month/article37375121.ece
08 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Student dies in accident||An engineering student was killed and seven others injured when the car they were travelling in spun out of control and collided with an electric pole on the outskirts of the city on Sunday morning. The deceased has been identified as Akanksha Gupta, from Udhampur in Jammu and a student of an engineering college here. Her friends, Ashishraj, Divyansh, Ashutosh, Darshan, Yashovardha Singh, Bhavya and Williams, sustained multiple injuries and were admitted to a private hospital. The incident occurred near Jodukatte Gate in Magadi when their SUV collided with an electric pole. The victims were heading to Savanadurga in two cars and the car Akanksha was in along with seven others tried to overtake a vehicle and lost control, leading to the mishap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/student-dies-in-accident/article37375106.ece
08 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police crackdown on habitual offenders||In a bid to crack down on anti-social elements and habitual offenders, West division police on Sunday raided the houses of 180 such persons and conducted searches. As many as 121 suspects were detained for questioning. As many as 600 police personnel divided into several teams, led by Sanjeev Patil, DCP, West division, conducted the drive across the six police station limits, including Chamarajpet, Cottonpet, J.J. Nagar, K.P. Agrahara, and Magadi Road. They searched the houses for contraband and weapons. The police did not find anything illegal, but a few habitual offenders were missing from their house during the search. The police have summoned them for questioning to ascertain their whereabouts, an officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-crackdown-on-habitual-offenders/article37375110.ece
08 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bommai: Improve traffic management in core areas||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who reviewed ‘Bengaluru Mission 2022’ progress on Sunday evening, issued a series of instructions to officials to hasten the implementation of various works in the city. According to a note issued from the Chief Minister’s Office, Mr. Bommai directed the officials to improve traffic management in the core areas of the city and asked BMRCL officials to complete the works one year ahead of schedule. He asked officials to be ready with all preparations to achieve the target. He also asked KIADB officials to hasten the process of acquiring 15.4 acres of land needed to implement the suburban railway project. On water projects, the Chief Minister, while directing the officials to stop letting sewage into lakes, asked them to draw a green fence around 25 lakes that were being developed at a cost of Rs. 125 crore. The development of these lakes is scheduled to be completed by February 2022. He also directed officials to ensure that sewage is not let into the 11-km stretch of ‘rajakaluve’ that is being developed under K-100 Water Way as a place of tourist attraction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-improve-traffic-management-in-core-areas/article37375113.ece
08 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2nd phase of ‘Janata Sangama’ begins today||The JD(S) on Monday will have ‘Janata Sangama’, the second phase of exercise in preparation to face the 2023 Assembly polls. It will be held till November 15 during which extensive consultations will be held on choosing candidates in various Assembly constituencies. A note said that the focus of the ‘Janata Sangama’ is to bring coordination between the probable candidates and leaders in the Assembly segments. Meanwhile, Janata Patrike, the party's newspaper, will be launched on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/2nd-phase-of-janata-sangama-begins-today/article37375123.ece
08 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cryptocurrency scam: 3 held||CCB officials on Sunday unearthed a cryptocurrency scam through chain link and arrested the three persons running the racket. The accused, Raghavendra, Nagaraju and Shivamurthy, floated FOMOEX, a company offering investment in cryptocurrency with huge returns on every investment made. The accused also held conferences in hotels to explain the business models and claimed to have branches in the U.S.A., Singapore and China. They have been taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cryptocurrency-scam-3-held/article37375107.ece
08 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police continue to question Srikrishna||The East Division police have continued to question Srikrishna, a techie-turned-hacker and prime accused in the bitcoin scandal unearthed by the Central Crime Branchof the city police last year, and his associate, who were detained following a brawl at a star hotel on HAL Airport Road on Saturday. The police said Vishnu Bhat, one of the accused held for allegedly assaulting the hotel staff, was said to be intoxicated. The police have subjected the duo to medical tests to ascertain whether they were under the influence of drugs. Meanwhile, the police are also verifying the laptop and electronic gadgets recovered from the room of Srikrishna to ascertain his illegal activities. He was staying in the hotel from the past two months after being released on bail, a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-continue-to-question-srikrishna/article37375111.ece
08 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||239 new COVID-19 cases||As many as 239 new cases of COVID-19 and five deaths were reported in Karnataka, according to the Department of Health and Family Welfare bulletin on Sunday. There are 8,002 active cases in the State. The positivity rate was 0.21% and the case fatality rate 2.09%. With 322 people being discharged, the total number of recoveries stood at 29.43 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/239-new-covid-19-cases/article37375112.ece
08 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Intelligent people can’t keep quiet about farm laws’||Farm laws of the Union Government are against the federal structure of the country and go against the interests of farmers, said Harnek Singh, a coordinator of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, appealing to the farmers of Karnataka to come under their banner and fight for a common cause by mobilising support from all the southern States. “Those who are not opposing the farm laws are ignorant. Intelligent people cannot keep quiet about these farm laws,” he said during a talk on ‘Historical farmers’ movement, lessons learnt, road ahead’ organised by Karnataka Janashakti here on Sunday. Activist Kavitha Kuruganti said, “Farmers are demanding scrapping of the laws and asking for a law to implement minimum support price. Farmers’ groups are well informed about all the ill-effects of the laws, whereas the Government has no evidence to prove how these laws are going to benefit farmers.” She said the morcha was functioning democratically with the support of 80 associations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/intelligent-people-cant-keep-quiet-about-farm-laws/article37375114.ece
08 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP forms four teams for State tour||The Bharatiya Janata Party has announced four teams led by different leaders to tour across the State as part of the ‘Jana Swaraj’ conclaves ahead of the election to 25 seats in the Legislative Council. The teams, announced by BJP state general secretary N. Ravikumar on Sunday, will be led by former Chief Ministers B.S. Yediyurappa and Jagadish Shettar, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa. Each team will start its work after having breakfast in the residence of a gram panchayat president. BSY announcement The division of election-related work comes on the heels of Mr. Yediyurappa unilaterally announcing that he would undertake a statewide tour to strengthen the party following the Hangal bypoll debacle. Sources said the teams have been formed to broadbase the leadership in the party instead of allowing Mr. Yediyurappa to hog the limelight. Meanwhile, BJP national general secretary and Karnataka incharge Arun Singh will arrive in Bengaluru on Monday to hold consultations with leaders as part of efforts to incorporate the lessons learnt from the bypolls in the party’s strategy for the 2023 Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-forms-four-teams-for-state-tour/article37375124.ece
08 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Puneeth Rajkumar’s wife thanks Home Minister||Ashwini, wife of the late Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar, penned a personal note thanking Home Minister Araga Jnanendra for standing by the family in their hour of grief. In the letter, she said: “Not only did you enable lakhs of fans to have a final glimpse of the star, but you stood by us till the final rites were completed giving us confidence. Because of adequate precautionary measures that were put in place, it was possible to provide an appropriate final farewell to the star. I thank you on behalf of the family and fans.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/puneeth-rajkumars-wife-thanks-home-minister/article37375300.ece
08 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Villagers trip shopkeepers up on their business||Fed up with the unabated liquor sale in the village, residents of Malali in Holenarasipur taluk, on Sunday, barged into shops and hotels and destroyed the stock. Women of the village took the lead in confiscating the liquor sachets and set them ablaze. Around 20 persons, who were running shops and hotels, were into the illegal sale of liquor in the village which has around 1,000 houses. Even after repeated complaints to the police, the illegal sale continued. The village is situated some 20 km from the jurisdictional police station at Holenarasipur. The villagers alleged that whenever complaints made, the shopkeepers would throw the stock and mislead the police when they reached the place. It was then that the villagers resolved to put an end to the illegal sale of liquor. As per the tradition in the village, people hold a meeting every year two days after Deepavali to settle issues concerning them. During one such meeting on Sunday, women complained about the rampant illegal sale of alcohol in the village. Following a long discussion, it was resolved to put an end to the illegal sale of liquor there. People went around the village raising slogans against the liquor sale. They seized the stock and set fire to it in the presence of a large gathering. They also warned those into the illegal sale of liquor that hefty penalties would be imposed if they resumed business. Tirtha Prasad of Malali said that about 25 years ago youths had stopped liquor sales in the village. “But it had resumed recently. Some 20 people had begun selling liquor in their shops, meant for groceries, and in hotels. Women played a major role in stopping it,” he said. It is said that the villagers resolved to impose a penalty of Rs. 50,000 on those who violated the rule in the village and of that Rs. 25,000 would be given to informants.  Villagers alleged that whenever complaints were made, the shopkeepers would throw the stock and mislead the police when they reached the place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/villagers-trip-shopkeepers-up-on-their-business/article37375095.ece
08 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Pillion rider dies after tree falls on him||The pillion rider of a bike died after a tree fell on him at Charmadi Ghat in Mudigere taluk on Sunday. The police have identified the deceased as Jeevan, 24, a native of Malur in Ramanagaram district. Mr. Jeevan and his friend were going to Dharmasthala, The ridwe, who was wearing a helmet, suffered minor injuries. Mr. Jeevan suffered head injuries and died on the way to a hospital. It has been raining in Charmadi Ghat for the past few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pillion-rider-dies-after-tree-falls-on-him/article37375488.ece
08 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two held on charge of transporting cattle illegally||The Sakleshpur Town police arrested two people on the charge of transporting cattle without clearances and seized a vehicle and five head of cattle from them. The arrested have been identified as Santhosh, 24, of Madabalu village in Alur taluk, and Gidde Gowda, 40, of Thimmanahalli in Alur taluk. They were transporting cattle in a goods carrier from Hanabalu in Sakleshpur taluk when the police received information. PSI Basavaraj Chincholi and his team stopped the vehicle. The police have booked a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-held-on-charge-of-transporting-cattle-illegally/article37375487.ece
08 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Vidyavardhak Sangha is all set for polls||The more-than-a-century-old Karnatak Vidyavardhak Sangha, a representative body of Kannada and Kannadigas, based in Dharwad, is all set to choose a new body with the election process scheduled to begin on November 12. In the last five decades, this is for the first time in the history of the organisation that the elections will be held in the absence of veteran journalist-activist Patil Puttappa, who held the sangha president’s post for 48 years. Nonagenarian Puttappa was re-elected to the post during the previous election and the post fell vacant after his demise in March 2020. The elections for the new body of 15 members was scheduled take place in May, but was put off following the COVID-19 situation. The calendar of events for the election has been announced now. The election process will begin on November 12 and polling will be held on November 28. The sangha has 7,598 members who are eligible to vote and they have to elect 15 members, including candidates for the posts of the sangha president, working president, vice-president, general secretary, treasurer and joint secretary. The executive committee comprises nine members. All these years, the sangha used to witness direct fight between two groups, one led by Patil Puttappa and the other of his opponents and critics. Now, with the passing away of Patil Puttappa, a new group has taken birth in the sangha and now, these three groups have prepared ground for the battle. The group that was associated with Patil Puttappa has decided to field former MLA Chandrakanth Bellad for the sangha president’s post, while the other two factions are unlikely to field their candidates for this post. Shankar Halgatthi, who leads the Saman Manaskara Tanda (like minded people’s team) and held the post of general secretary earlier, is contesting for the same post again. General secretary and senior advocate Prakash Udakeri, who leads the Patil Puttappa faction, is seeking re-election. The third faction led by actor-turned politician Subhash Shinde is not contesting for the post of general secretary either and is yet to come up with a list of candidates for various posts. It has to be seen whether, this group will retain the enthusiasm to contest by the time the nomination process begins on November 12. As per the calendar of events, the last date for filing nomination papers is November 16. Scrutiny of papers will be on November 17 and candidates will have time till November 19 to withdraw nomination papers. The final list of candidates in the fray will be declared on November 20 and polling will take place on November 28, from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m., at the sangha. Counting of votes will be on November 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vidyavardhak-sangha-is-all-set-for-polls/article37375290.ece
08 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sentenced||Third Judicial Magistrate First Class Judge Basavaraj Nesargi sentenced a man to five months imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 after finding him guilty for illegally stocking foodgrains that were meant for distribution through PDS. A case was filed against Shrishail Veeranna Rodgi of Shah Bazaar in November 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sentenced/article37375295.ece
08 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||24 kg ganja seized||The Kalaburagi Police unearthed illegal cultivation of ganja in an agriculture field at Antavaram village in Chincholi taluk of Kalaburagi district and seized 24 kilograms of the contraband on Sunday. The police seized the ganja worth Rs. 52,000 and arrested Raju Anjanna. A case has been registered at the Konchavaram Police Station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/24-kg-ganja-seized/article37375294.ece
08 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||My Stamp released||Members of the All India Postal Employees Union in Kalaburagi, led by union president D.G. Hongunti, released My Stamp consisting the picture of Doddappa Appa, ninth Peetadhipathi of Sharanabasaveshwar Samsthan and son of the Mahadasoha Peetadhipathi of the Sharanabasaveshwar Samsthan Dr. Sharnbaswappa Appa, here recently. The stamp was presented to Dr. Appa and Dakshayini S.Appa at a simple function in the Sharanabasaveshwar Shrine Complex. According to Assistant Secretary of the All India Postal Employees Union Raghavendra Reddy, the initiative to release and present My Stamp consisting the picture of Doddappa Appa and the Mysuru Palace was taken by the employees as a token of appreciation of the contribution made by the Sharanabasaveshwar Samsthan and Dr. Appa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/my-stamp-released/article37375297.ece
08 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Initiative to develop disease-resistant areca palms leaps forward||In continued initiative to develop an arecanut plant variety that will be resistant to Yellow Leaf Disease, the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI) has now collected inflorescence from such arecanut palms that have withstood the disease, for developing tissue-cultured disease-resistant plants. According to general secretary of Puttur-based All India Areca Growers Association Mahesh Puchchappady a team of scientists from the institute collected inflorescence from identified palms in areas affected by the disease in Sampaje and Chembu villages. Inflorescence was collected from three palms in the arecanut plantations of Lainkaje Prabhakara and Madhava Nadubetta on Friday. CPCRI in Kasaragod of Kerala is planning to multiply these palms by inter-crossing between two disease-free palms and by tissue-culture techniques. It is the first stage of the project. Senior Technical Assistant Muralikrishna and his team that collected the inflorescence took them to the CPCRI laboratory in Kasaragod, he said. Last month, CPCRI scientist Bhavishya identified disease-resistant palms in Sampaje and Chembu areas for taking samples. Later, the samples from five such palms were sent to the institute’s Kayamkulam laboratory for ensuring that the palms did not have disease. Inflorescence was taken from three of five such palms, the general secretary said. According to CPCRI, caused by the bacteria phytoplasma, arecanut leaves turn yellow when afflicted with this disease. Kernel of the nuts of affected palms become soft, showing blackish discolouration and leading to a spongy texture. The disease is transmitted by the plant-hopper insect Proutista moesta . Since the disease is not possible to control by conventional methods, farmers remove affected plants from their plantations. The disease affects areca palms of all age groups leading to a decline in the plant’s productivity. Yellow Leaf Disease in arecanut plantations was first noticed in Kerala in 1914. It was predominantly seen in Sullia region of Dakshina Kannada district and Koppa and Sringeri regions of Chikkamagaluru district in the State all these years. According to Mr. Puchhappady, the disease is now spreading from traditional to non-traditional areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/initiative-to-develop-disease-resistant-areca-palms-leaps-forward/article37375455.ece
08 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man arrested after he drugs minor girl and assaults her sexually||The women police here on Sunday arrested Naveen Sequeira, an accused in several criminal cases, on the charge of drugging a minor girl and sexually assaulting her. The police said that the victim girl is the sister of Sequeira’s friend. A few days ago he came to the victim’s house when she was alone. He made her drink juice in which he had mixed sedatives. After she lost consciousness, Sequeira raped her. The girl’s parents got to know of the incident and filed a complaint with the women police against him on Saturday. The police arrested Sequeira for offences punishable under Sections 4, 8 and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Sections 376 and 506 of Indian Penal Code. PoCSO case The Puttur Women Police on Sunday arrested Jubair, a resident of Kasaragod district of Kerala, on the charge of sexually assaulting a minor girl from Puttur taluk. In a complaint, the girl has said that Jubair had proposed to marry her when she had been to her relative’s house, next to Jubair’s house, in Kasaragod. Later, the victim’s parents had told him that marriage will be held only after she turns 18. Meanwhile, he took her mobile number and was interacting with her. Recently, Jubair came to her house in Puttur taluk at around midnight. He forcefully entered her room and raped her, the complaint said. Jubair threatened her against revealing the incident to the world. When Jubair told her that he plans to pay her such visits every night, the victim did not accept it and he quarrelled with her. The girl’s parents got to know of the incident and they took the victim to the police station to file the complaint. Jubair has been arrested for offences punishable under Section 376 of IPC and Section 4 of the PoCSO Act, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-after-he-drugs-minor-girl-and-assaults-her-sexually/article37375460.ece
08 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘BJP pushing forward hidden agenda’||State president of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) Muneer Katipalla said here on Sunday that the BJP is pushing forward its hidden agenda by its move, through the Mangaluru City Corporation, to name Surathkal Junction after Vinayak Damodar Savarkar. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating Mangaluru City South level conference of the Communist Party of India (Marxists), he said that the BJP’s agenda is to divide voters on the basis of religion and bury the political history of Tulu Nadu. Mr. Katipalla, who is a member of the Dakshina Kannada unit of the CPI(M), said that the BJP glorifies Veer Savarkar from Surathkal to Delhi. But it is intentionally sidelining U. Srinivas Mallya who, as a Member of Parliament, played a key role in the development of undivided Dakshina Kannada, Subbaiah Shetty who had worked for the Land Reforms Bill in the late D. Devaraj Urs Cabinet, Nagappa Alva, an ideal politician, social reformer Kudmul Ranga Rao and others. It may be mentioned here that Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharat Shetty had recently written to the corporation requesting it to name Surathkal Junction after Veer Savarkar. The council of the corporation in its meeting last month referred the matter to the Standing Committee on Town Planning and Improvement to take a decision in the matter. The council is yet to take any decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-pushing-forward-hidden-agenda/article37375459.ece
08 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three held for rape||The Bantwal Rural Police have arrested three men accused of sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl. The victim on Thursday last filed a complaint accusing autorickshaw driver Rizwan of raping her. This complaint was registered and Rizwan was arrested and produced before the local magistrate, who remanded him to prison. On Friday, the girl filed another complaint stating that five months ago Mohammed Qasim and Azmal Hussain had together raped her after calling her to their place. The two had allegedly threatened her against revealing the incident to the world. Qasim and Hussain were arrested and were remanded to prison by the jurisdictional magistrate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-held-for-rape/article37375452.ece
08 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CISF staff dies||Wilson Naveen Kumar (50), a staff of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) in Jharkhand, hailing from Kalathur village, Kaup taluk, Udupi district, died reportedly due to cardiac arrest on Saturday. He is survived by his wife and two sons. His mortal remains were brought by flight at about 1.30 p.m. on Sunday. Later, the last rites were performed at Padur Church at about 4.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cisf-staff-dies/article37375458.ece
08 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Hospitality sector hails rebate on property tax||The State Government’s notification announcing a waiver of 50% on property tax, to be paid by hotels, restaurants, and amusement parks for 2021-22, has been welcomed by local stakeholders in the hospitality sector. However, they have sought clarity on whether there will be a reimbursement if the owners have already paid the tax. Though the Government’s intent on the waiver was announced in June, it was notified only on Saturday. “Over 50% of the property owners have already paid the tax and the association has been flooded with calls on the subject of refund,” said Narayana Gowda, president, Mysuru Hotel Owners’ Association. He said a rebate in property tax was one of their key demands to help tide over the financial distress caused by the pandemic. Though the Government conceded to the demand, it was notified only on Saturday by when a majority of the stakeholders have already paid the tax. In the absence of a notification, local bodies, responsible for tax collection, had gone on a drive to shore up their revenue and had forced commercial establishments to pay the tax. “For those yet to pay the property tax, the waiver will definitely be beneficial. But for those who have already paid, there is no clarity on whether it will be refunded or whether it will be adjusted for next year, and hence we will approach the Government again for a clarification,” said Mr. Narayana Gowda. He pointed out that establishments registered under the Karnataka Tourism Trade (Facilitation and Regulation) Act, are eligible for the rebate and there are at least 300 of them in Mysuru alone. The demand for rebate was made to help revive the faltering tourism and hospitality sector when the pandemic brought it to a halt resulting in massive job losses. Meanwhile, the sector is beginning to look up again and the long weekend saw rise in footfall in and around Mysuru. Stakeholders say the peak tourism season before the pandemic used to commence around October and last through January. “There are indications that the traffic is picking up and people are traveling again as evident in the room bookings and demand for taxis,” said Mr. Narayana Gowda. The stakeholders aver if the present trend continues and there was no surge in COVID-19 cases, the sector could regain the pre-pandemic level of traffic and business turnover by March 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospitality-sector-hails-rebate-on-property-tax/article37375482.ece
08 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Stage set for GTD to share dais with Siddaramaiah in Chamundeshwari||The stage has been set for G.T. Deve Gowda, former Minister and JD(S) MLA, to share the dais with former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah in Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency on November 9. The coming together of Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Gowda on the same platform, even before the latter’s formal entry into the Congress fold, assumes political significance in the region and provides a throwback to the pre-2006 days of the JD(S) when both the leaders were in the same party. In a fierce face-off between the JD(S) and Congress during the 2018 Assembly elections in Chamundeshwari, Mr. Gowda had famously trounced Mr. Siddaramaiah. Mr. Gowda, who has been maintaining a distance from the JD(S) leadership ever since the collapse of the Congress-JD(S) coalition more than two years ago, has confirmed his participation in the inauguration of the Dr B.R. Ambedkar Bhavan in Hinkal as well as the inauguration of Kenchappa Community Hall in Kergalli, both in Chamundeshwari constituency, to be attended by Mr. Siddaramaiah on November 9. Mr .Gowda told reporters that he had been invited by the organisers of the two programmes in Chamundeshwari constituency and he had consented to participate. Though Mr. Gowda said he and Mr. Siddaramaiah had shared the dais in programmes in the constituency when the latter was the Chief Minister and he was an MLA, the two foe-turned-friends will be seen together on the same stage for the first time since the 2018 Assembly elections. Mr. Gowda has already made public his plans to join the Congress, but the JD(S) has been making overtures to the Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency MLA to stay put in the party. JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy’s son Nikhil Kumaraswamy’s meeting with Mr. Gowda’s son Harish Gowda at Chamundeshwari Temple atop Chamundi Hills has been interpreted as part of the efforts of the JD(S) to retain Mr. Gowda in the party. Mr. Gowda did not find it hard to justify his absence from the programmes in Chamundeshwari constituency attended by Mr. Kumaraswamy in the recent past even though he is technically in the JD(S). He claimed that he had no invitation to the programmes attended by Mr. Kumaraswamy whereas he had been invited to the events where Mr. Siddaramaiah, who is the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader, is participating in on November 9. Meanwhile, political observers recall the pre-2006 days of the JD(S) when Mr. Gowda and Mr. Siddaramaiah were in the same party along with leaders like former Minister H.C. Mahadevappa and former MLA representing Periyapatna K. Venkatesh. Even though many leaders had followed Mr. Siddaramaiah into the Congress, Mr. Gowda had remained steadfast in his support to the JD(S). The entry of Mr. Gowda also into the Congress fold is expected to give the party a major shot in the arm in Mysuru region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stage-set-for-gtd-to-share-dais-with-siddaramaiah-in-chamundeshwari/article37375485.ece
08 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Economic policies flayed’||Trade union leader H.V. Ananth Subba Rao flayed the policies of the BJP Government in the State and at the Centre and said that it was hastening the collapse of the public sector units. Speaking at the Joint Conference of KSRTC workers of Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar here on Sunday, Mr. Subbarao said the pandemic had created upheavals across all the sectors in the country resulting in loss of jobs and employment. Yet, the policies did not address the issue and were skewed in favour of the elite and the rich, he said. Lashing out at the failure of the government over the spiralling prices of essential commodities and fuel, Mr. Subba Rao said a direct bearing on the increase in prices of fuel was on the transportation sector that was incurring losses. The fares cannot be hiked as the middle class and people from the economically weaker sections cannot afford it and those who can afford the higher fares were travelling in private vehicles, he added. There were nearly 11 lakh workers including drivers, conductors, etc., employed in the public transport companies across the country and there future was at stake, he said. Instead of a policy for a strong public transportation system, the government was encouraging the private mode of transportation, he added. Mr. Subba Rao said public sector units were being privatized and this put a question mark on the future of the workers. He pointed out that the entry of private entities into banking and insurance sectors was also a pointer to the new policies of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/economic-policies-flayed/article37375480.ece
08 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Withdrawal of night curfew welcomed||Welcoming the recent decision to lift the night curfew consequent to the declining trend in new COVID-19 cases, stakeholders in the tourism sector have said this will boost hospitality. C. Narayana Gowda, president, Mysuru Hotel Owners’ Association, said that it will have a cascading impact and benefit travel and tourism, apart from restaurants and hotels. “The night curfew created uncertainty over travel and people were hesitant to venture out at night. But the decision to lift night curfew will boost tourism and help the sector to recoup faster,” he said. There was a perceptible rise in the number of tourists visiting Mysuru and the stakeholders want more events on the lines of Dasara to be conducted to give a thrust to the tourism sector. Mysuru used to conduct a winter festival. There are demands to reintroduce it during December when the Christmas and year-end crowd is expected to descend on the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/withdrawal-of-night-curfew-welcomed/article37375478.ece
08 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Srinivas at 11th day ceremony of DKS’ kin||JD(S) MLA from Gubbi S.R. Srinivas attended the 11th day ceremony of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar’s father-in-law. Congress sources said Mr. Srinivas was at the ceremony in Mysuru on Saturday. Mr. Srinivas, counted among the disgruntled JD(S) MLAs, has already been in touch with Congress leaders including former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah. His presence at the KPCC chief’s father-in-law’s ceremony in Mysuru was also found to be politically significant in view of the JD(S) MLA’s plans to join the Congress. Mr. Gowda has also publicly stated that he had spoken to Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Shivakumar on his plans to join the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/srinivas-at-11th-day-ceremony-of-dks-kin/article37375486.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Fraud: Rs. 66.5 crore recovered||Since cybercrimes are committed online within seconds, the police initiate a response akin to the ‘golden hour’ concept. A 24/7 cybercrime cell was set up for quick response, which complainants can access by dialling ‘100’ or ‘112’. In November 2020, the city police convened a meeting with RBI officials and representatives of various banks and financial institutions with the aim of seeking quick cooperation to contain fraudulent transactions. “With the cooperation of the RBI and banks and payment gateways, the police have been able to register and tackle more than 6,000 cases which is probably the first of its kind in the country, under a victim-friendly initiative,” Mr. Pant said. It was through this system that the police were able to block financial transactions totalling Rs. 66.5 crore in about 10 months. Superintendent of Police of Kalaburagi district Isha Pant, who used to head the initiative as DCP Command Centre until recently, said the system needs to be upgraded more for effective investigations. “The police team will have one more round of talks with the RBI and bank officials to improve the system and make it more effective,” she said. According to police officials, while nationalised banks are proactive and cooperative, private banks lag behind and do not respond to the police in time. The police hope that this system will help stem the tide of cybercrime that the IT capital of India is notorious for. Bengaluru consistently tops the country with the highest number of cybercrimes registered. According to data from the National Crime Records Bureau, in 2020 the city accounted for nearly 47% of the 18,657 cybercrime cases registered across India. What’s worse is that not a single conviction was recorded during the same period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fraud-rs-665-crore-recovered/article37375109.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||3, including 2 minor boys, drown in pond||The Surya City police were informed about the incident. The police said Surya ran away from the spot before villagers reached the spot. The bodies were then shifted for postmortem. Based on a complaint by Deemanth’s parents, the police have filed a case of negligence against Chandrashekar Reddy, who owns the farmland. There was no safety fencing around the pond. However, Chandrashekar claimed that there was a compound wall and it had collapsed recently following heavy rain, according to the police. He also claimed that the wall was partially damaged by people constructing houses in the layout, the police added. Preliminary investigation revealed that Chandrashekar had availed of government grant to construct the pond. He, however, had not taken the required precautionary steps such as fencing the area to prevent untoward incidents, making him liable to be booked under section 304a of IPC, which is death due to negligence, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-including-2-minor-boys-drown-in-pond/article37375108.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Back to normal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/back-to-normal/article37375462.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Remembering Puneeth||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remembering-puneeth/article37375103.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Exclusive’ to all||Considering how television channels endlessly reported every word uttered by leaders big and small during the bypoll campaign, one expected a detailed coverage and analysis on the day of results. But surprisingly, that was not to be. A little past noon, once it was clear that the BJP and the Congress had tied 1-1, all channels, simultaneously and quite miraculously, got “exclusive” video footage of the late actor Puneeth Rajkumar’s last moments before he travelled to the hospital. Bypoll results fell by the wayside, as TV anchors across channels held forth on how fit as a fiddle he looked just minutes before his death. Which mysterious “source” had supplied the footage just in time so that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s acute embarrassment of losing a constituency in his home district was camouflaged and viewers’ attention diverted? No prizes for guessing. Temple for VIPs Devotees visiting the annual Hasanamba festival in Hassan pay different prices to have a darshan of the deity. While the poor stand in long queues for hours, elected representatives, senior members of bureaucracy, judicial officers, and media people get special passes to visit the temple. Some rich devotees, who do not want to stand in queues, purchase passes paying Rs. 300 and Rs. 1,000. Besides the VIPs themselves, those who enjoy the influence of elected representatives and officers get special entry during the 10-day festival. This year too, every time a contingent with VIP and his supporters arrived, the police allowed them inside the temple forcing other devotees to wait. During one such occasion, a few devotees raised their voice against the district administration’s handling of the festival and arrangements made. One particularly angry devotee told a hapless policeman manning the queue that the administration would do well to hand over the temple to the VIPs.   BJP leader and Forest Minister Umesh Katti (in picture) , who has been advocating the creation of a separate North Karnataka State for some years now, has hardly spoken about it ever since he became part of the State Cabinet. Mr. Katti faces accusation from some quarters of talking about the separate state issue when not in power. The Minister, who in the past claimed that he would be the unanimous candidate for the post of Chief Minister if a separate state was formed, recently threatened to raise the demand again if the State Government did not release enough money for the next phase of the Upper Krishna Project. He made it a point to underline it for the benefit of the scribes. Reminding scribes about the issue, he said: “Please note, I am raising this issue despite being a Minister. You people keep saying that I don’t raise the demand for a separate state when I am in power.” Bageshree S. Sathish G.T. Rishikesh Bahadur Desai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exclusive-to-all/article37375118.ece
08 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Sudhakaran’s influence waning in Alappuzha||A day after the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] initiated disciplinary action against senior leader G. Sudhakaran over alleged lapses in the Left Democratic Front’s electioneering in the Ambalappuzha Assembly constituency, the reverberation of the decision was largely confined to social media platforms. The CPI(M) State committee on Saturday publicly censured Mr. Sudhakaran noting that he behaved in a manner unbecoming of a party State committee member during candidate selection and election campaign. Mr. Sudhakaran has not yet publicly responded to the party’s decision. While the CPI(M) leaders maintained silence, many cadres took to social media expressing their opinions for and against the party decision. Vellappally’s reaction Although most decided not to publicly respond, Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan on Sunday said Mr. Sudhakaran was a mass leader in Alappuzha. Mr. Natesan said evil forces within the party had conspired against Mr. Sudhakaran. He, however, observed that discipline was of paramount importance in the CPI(M). “ Mr. Sudhakaran was not the first senior leader in the CPI(M) to face action. Even V.S. Achuthanandan was reprimanded in the party,” Mr. Natesan said. The public censure comes at a time when the CPI(M) unit meetings are on. As party conferences are on, those even close to him are not ready to question the party’s decision or lend their support to the beleaguered leader in open as it will invite the wrath of the leadership. It also shows the waning influence of Mr. Sudhakaran in the CPI(M) Alappuzha unit. In an interview with The Hindu in September this year, Mr. Sudhakaran said he was the victim of an incessant witch-hunt by the “political criminals” who colluded with a section of the media. “Whatever be the party’s decision, I will accept it,” he had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sudhakarans-influence-waning-in-alappuzha/article37375392.ece
08 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Briefly||Lions Clubs International District 318 C observed the United Nations (UN) Day. As part of Lions day with the United Nations, a torch rally was conducted for permanent membership for India in the UN security council. A cycle rally and mass run were also held. It was inaugurated by Ambalappuzha Dy.SP S.T. Suresh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/briefly/article37375421.ece
08 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||briefly 2||The 47th NTPC raising day was celebrated at NTPC-Kayamkulam on Sunday. The programme started with rally from Cheppad Township Gate to Guest House. Employees, family members and associates participated in the walk. S.K. Ram, general manager, NTPC-Kayamkulam said the floating solar project at NTPC Kayamkulam would be commissioned soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/briefly-2/article37375422.ece
08 November 2021||Belagavi,KERALA||Right-wing activists storm into hall to stop ‘conversion’||The police had to rush to a community hall after members of right wing organisations stormed into it complaining that a Christian pastor was trying to convert a group of Hindus in Belagavi on Sunday. A team of police officers went to the community hall in Maratha Colony where a Christian pastor was conducting Sunday prayers, after a dozen members of the Sri Ram Sena disrupted the meeting. The Sri Ram Sena activists said that Pastor Lema Cherian was trying to convert Hindus of the area, by calling them to the hall in the name of Sunday prayers. The activists stopped the prayers and locked up the hall till the police arrived. The police opened the doors and asked the group members to go home. Sri Ram Sena leader Ravikumar Kokitkar said that a group of pastors from outside the State is touring villages and towns in Belagavi district and is actively involved in converting gullible Hindus. He said that the church is luring poor Hindus by giving them money, sewing machines and bags full of rice and sugar. “The government has failed in curbing such illegal activities,’’ he told journalists. Pastor Cherian, however, maintained that he is not engaged in conversion. “I was only leading a prayer meeting of interested persons and not attempting conversions. Such meetings are regularly held on Sundays. We have informed the local police about this meeting. We have not forced anyone to come here. People have come here on their own. We are not doing anything against the law. We are only practising the rituals of our religion, which is our fundamental right,’’ he said. A police van is stationed near the hall. The situation is under control, the police said. Also, the police registered a case against the pastor. Meanwhile, Assistant Commissioner of Police D. Chandrappa said that the prayer meeting was illegal and was held without any prior permits. He also said that the meeting was held in the house of a private person and not in a public place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/right-wing-activists-storm-into-hall-to-stop-conversion/article37375035.ece
08 November 2021||Bengaluru,KERALA||Parties gear up for polls to 25 Council seats in Karnataka||Even before the dust of the bitterly fought byelections to Hangal and Sindgi has settled, political parties are gearing up for election to 25 seats in the Legislative Council in December. In the current seat matrix, none of the parties have a majority, but this election is being seen as an opportunity for the BJP to get majority in the House while the JD(S) will be fighting to retain its seats - numbers that have been declining in the recent years. On January 5, 2022, the tenure of some of the senior members across the three parties, who have been elected to the Legislative Council from local bodies will come to an end. Currently, in the 75-member House, BJP is the largest party with 32 seats, Congress has 29, and JD(S) has 12 members. Besides the Chairman, there is one Independent. Of the 25 members set to retire, Congress member Srinivas Mane has been elected to the Legislative Assembly from the recently held byelections from Hangal. Though the Election Commission is yet to announce the dates for the election, the parties have started preparations. On Sunday, senior Congress leaders were in a huddle to discuss strategies to retain the seats and to thwart BJP’s effort to get a majority in the House. The BJP on the other hand has announced ‘Jana Swaraj’ conclaves from November 19, involving gram panchayat members, Legislative Assembly and Council members and MPs. “The conclaves are being held to win the maximum number of seats and we are starting poll preparations early. The list of candidates will be shortlisted here but finalised by the Central leadership,” BJP state general secretary N. Ravikumar said on Sunday. “We will focus on gram panchayat members.” The election is being held in the absence of formation of zilla panchayats and taluk panchayats for which elections have been postponed. Voting in the Council polls will be affected due to this change while the newly elected gram panchayat members will be key in the polls. The JD(S) is expecting desertion with three of its members Sandesh Nagaraj, Kantharaj (BML), and C.R. Manohar believed to be leaving the party. Mr. Nagaraj and Mr. Manohar have approached the BJP for ticket, it is learnt. Acknowledging the development, Mr. Ravikumar said: “The party’s core committee will decide on these issues.” Meanwhile, JD(S) spokesperson T.A. Sharavana said the preparation has already started, and some possible candidates have come forward seeking ticket. “Candidates will be finalised by senior leaders in the party forum after the dates are announced by the Election Commission.” Riding on a morale boosting victory in Hangal, the Congress is strategising to retain its seats, and increase its presence in the House. Currently, despite being the largest Opposition party in the House, it has been unable to block some crucial Bills as the JD(S) has either supported or abstained when the Bills are being passed, helping the BJP Government, Congress sources said. Though the discussion has begun, the list of probable candidates will be announced later, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parties-gear-up-for-polls-to-25-council-seats-in-karnataka/article37374999.ece
08 November 2021||Hassan,KERALA||Risking his life underwater in service of the dead||When he was a little boy, T.S. Bhaskar’s mother told him that the bodies of those who die underwater should be retrieved, given a proper burial or cremation, and never be allowed to decay. With this firmly etched in his mind, the 45-year-old has retrieved 81 bodies so far. An expert swimmer herself, it was his mother Susheela who taught him swimming and diving at Thotadur near Kalasa in Chikkamagaluru district, Karnataka. The police in Chikkamagaluru, Udupi, Mangaluru and other neighbouring districts call Mr. Bhaskar first when a body has to be traced in water. He has been doing this since he was in his early 20s. Mr. Bhaskar recalls that his mother had learnt swimming from her father, who was an expert diver and helped the police recover bodies from water those days. “My mother taught us how to swim in still water as well as in rivers with strong currents,” said Mr. Bhaskar. But unlike professional scuba divers, who use gadgets and safety tools before getting into the water, Mr. Bhaskar has nothing except his skills to bank on. Before leaving for a site, he prays to his family deity and makes a vow to the deity of the place where he is required to dive. With a towel tied to his waist and a knife, he gets into the water. “Often, I have to spend hours in the water to take out a body. On one occasion, I was stuck in water for more than seven hours,” Mr. Bhaskar said. He was one of the expert divers involved in the operation to trace the late V.G. Siddhartha of Café Coffee Day in the Netravathi river in July 2019. Mr. Bhaskar is an agricultural worker, who earns a living by working in coffee estates. He does not own land and lives with his wife, Saroja, and their three daughters, in a house built with wooden poles and plastic sheets. After every expedition in deep waters, he requires at least two days to resume his routine work. “I cannot swallow hard food for a couple of days. It takes time to return to the estate,” he said. Whenever he retrieves a body, people contribute a few hundred rupees, appreciating his efforts. Many organisations have felicitated him and presented him with mementoes, garlands and shawls. But there is not enough room inside his house to keep them all. Remaining amount Recently, the gram panchayat sanctioned him a house under a scheme. So far, only the basement has been constructed. He is waiting to receive the remaining amount to complete the construction. When asked if he wants help from the Government, he says all needs was encouragement to teach his skills to more people. “I will do this work as long as I have strength. I wish more people learn the skill. As my mother said, bodies should never be left in the water to decay,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/risking-his-life-underwater-in-service-of-the-dead/article37374996.ece
08 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Water level in dam steady||The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam was almost steady at 138.50 feet on Sunday. The average inflow to the dam declined to 1,867 cusecs and Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 1,867 cusecs. The upper rule curve level till November 10 is 138.50 feet. Tamil Nadu on Saturday closed all spillway shutters after a decline in water inflow. The water level in Idukki dam, which approached red alert level on Saturday, fell on Sunday. It was 2,398.62 feet at 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-level-in-dam-steady/article37375385.ece
08 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Greens slam beautification plan for Madayipara hillock||The Madayipara Protection Committee has come out strongly against the decision of the local panchayat to beautify the Madayipara hillock and to put up street lamps along the road passing through the area. K.V. Chandramgadan, secretary of the committee, said that Madayipara was an ecological niche and the move to beautify the area and put up street lamps would destroy the natural character of the place. The large laterite hillock, its biodiversity, and the silent environment in the night enhanced the beauty of the place, he said. It needed no beautification and any changes would only destroy the hillock, he said. Mr. Chandramgadan said that the hillock attracted migratory birds, which flew in from far-off places and bred here. The rich ecology and biodiversity supported rare butterflies, insects, and plants. This made the place unique, he said. At night, there were only very few pedestrians who walked through the pitch dark roads passing through the hillock. Street lights would encourage more people to visit the place during the night and they may pollute the place by leaving back food waste and garbage. He said that instead of setting up street lights that would cost a huge amount to the panchayat, it should spend the funds to set up CCTVs to monitor antisocial activities and to check pollution of the place. Mr. Chandramgadan said that the Madayipara hillock was facing threats from encroachers, private institutions, and pollution caused by visitors. The committee was constantly campaigning and raising awareness against these, he said. When contacted, Madayi panchayat president Saheed Kayikaran said that the local body had decided to set up only low beam lights in the area. However, some were trying to misguide the people by stating that the panchayat was planning to erect high beam lights and street lights. He said that no government authority had declared Madayipara as a biodiversity hub or a protected area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greens-slam-beautification-plan-for-madayipara-hillock/article37375346.ece
08 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Kathayude Page, magazine on short stories, launched||From the land of Vengayil Kunhiraman Nayanar, who is considered as the first short story writer in Malayalam, a literary magazine is coming out to herald a new phase in Malayalam fiction. Titled Kathayude Page , the trimonthly magazine exclusively focuses on short stories and flash fiction. Writer M. Mukundan released the first issue of the magazine recently by handing over a copy to Abin Joseph, a young short story writer who won the Kendra Sahitya Akademi’s Yuva Puraskar for short story this year. “Short stories are the most pivotal genre in Malayalam literary circle today. Though we have a lot of publications which give space for short stories, none of them discusses the context in which a story sprouts, and Kathayude Page addresses that,” said Mr. Mukundan. V.H. Nishad, honorary literary editor of Kathayude Page , said the magazine accommodated new sensibilities in Malayalam short story genre by giving space to writers sans generations. Kathayude Page is published from Perinchellor (another name for Taliparamba, the birthplace of Vengayil Kunhiraman Nayanar) by young activists of Creative Cycle, a Taliparamba-based cultural and literary organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kathayude-page-magazine-on-short-stories-launched/article37375353.ece
08 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||NIA arrests ‘Maoist leader’ in Kannur||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested a 32-year-old alleged Maoist leader at Pappinisseri in Kannur, Kerala. The Kerala police took into custody Ragavendran, son of Rajan, a resident of Vellore in Tamil Nadu, on Saturday evening and handed him over to the NIA officials who registered his arrest on Sunday morning. According to Kannur District Police Chief R. Ilango, based on specific intelligence inputs, they carried out checkings and intercepted a vehicle, which tried to speed away. “When taken into custody, he raised Maoist slogans. Two Aadhaar cards were found with him,” said Mr. Ilango. He was not willing to share any details. During inquiry, the police found that he had multiple cases against him. Among the Maoists, he is known as Ravi Murukesh and Gautam. A case was registered in 2017 against him at the Edakara police station. The case was later taken over by the NIA. Ragavendran was arrested on charges of observing Maoist Day and conducting weapons training in Nilambur forest in 2016. Earlier, footage of him giving weapons training was released and a case was registered at the Edakara police station. There are 19 accused in the case, including Kuppu Devaraj, Velmurugan and Ajitha, who were killed in a clash with Thunderbolt commandos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nia-arrests-maoist-leader-in-kannur/article37375009.ece
08 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Demand for mobile pothole repair machine gets louder||With potholed roads and broken drains playing havoc with the life of Kochiites, demand is rife that the Kochi Corporation procure a mobile pothole repair machine and a robot-assisted sewage cleaning machine. It will help repair potholes as soon as they develop and ensure that clogged or damaged drains do not contribute to roads giving away, said K.S. Dileep Kumar, president of Ernakulam Vikasana Samiti, an NGO that has been spearheading a campaign to bring about a well-maintained network of roads and drains in the city. “Roads laid as per BMBC standards have a five-year maintenance warranty. Even other roads—those paved using 20-mm chipping carpet—can last five years or longer if they are laid as per specifications and the drainage network is proper. Potholes or undulations caused by trenching must be restored fast as per specifications, since agencies or individuals who trench roads ought to remit the resurfacing cost in advance,” he added. On its part, the Kochi Corporation ought to ready a professional mechanical wing which should be vested with the upkeep of mobile pothole repair machine and robot-assisted sewage-cleaning machine, apart from its current fleet of garbage trucks. Vast number of garbage trucks, including compactors, which the civic agency procured at huge expense, are now rusting for want of upkeep. The situation can be improved if manufacturers are tasked with their annual maintenance contract. Pothole and drain declogging robot could even be procured on wet lease, Mr. Dileep Kumar said. On the demand to procure such machinery, Mayor M. Anilkumar said Cochin Shipyard Limited had evinced interest in extending its corporate social responsibility funds to procure a robot-assisted drain declogging unit. “Potholes can be repaired faster even sans a mobile repair machine. For this, steps are being taken to ensure better coordination with agencies, including those who trench roads to lay pipelines,” he informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-for-mobile-pothole-repair-machine-gets-louder/article37375362.ece
08 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Draft bylaw suggests formation of Haritha Karma Sena||Volunteers of the soon-to-be-formed Haritha Karma Sena (Green Action Force) will collect and segregate refuse from city households to transport it to the solid waste treatment facility of the Kochi Corporation. The proposal for constituting the action force has been included in the draft bylaw for streamlining the municipal solid waste management system in the city. The Corporation went for framing the draft legislation invoking Section 33 of the Kerala Municipalities Act. The draft proposal, which was discussed by the health standing committee of the Corporation last week, will soon be placed before the Corporation council for approval. The State Government’s clearance is required for the bylaw to come into force. A policy framework is needed for the civic body to handle plastic, solid and liquid, and electronic and other waste and to manage hazardous waste churned out by industrial units in, according to the civic authorities. A legal framework is also required for keeping the city clean and to prevent dumping of waste on roads and other public places. The bylaw covers all sections of society, including individual households, traders, and industrial units, according to the draft document. The Green Action Force will be formed in all divisions of the civic body, and each unit will cover at least 200 houses in the division, said T.K. Ashraf, chairman, health standing committee of the Corporation. Ideally, residents of each division should be members of the action force. If enough members cannot be identified from a division, those living within the Corporation limits can be made members of the unit, says the draft legislation. On all days, except Sundays, members of the units should collect refuse from the doorstep of residents. They shall also separately collect non-biodegradable, degradable and sanitary waste on pre-designated dates from the doorstep and transport them to vehicles engaged by the civic body. The action force will also keep an eye on illegal dumping of waste in public places and waterbodies, according to the draft legislation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/draft-bylaw-suggests-formation-of-haritha-karma-sena/article37375371.ece
08 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Variety the buzzword in Kottuvally||Farmers who have brought around 100 hectares under natural farming in Kottuvally panchayat near Kochi have come out with an impressive array of value-added products that include squash and jelly from water hyacinth flowers. Squash made of a combination of nutmeg fruits and hibiscus flowers, jam produced from nutmeg fruits and robusta bananas, and marigold extract are the other products that catch the attention of ordinary farmers, who are struggling to make both ends meet at a time of immense difficulties stemming from inclement weather and crop losses. The programme for natural farming and value-added products is being taken up under the Subhiksham, Surakshitham Bharatiya Krishi project, which is financially backed by the Union and State Governments, said sources in the Department of Agriculture. Farmers from Kottuvally displayed their products as a team of officials, including P.K. Swain, Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture, Director of Agriculture T.V. Subhash, and District Collector Jaffar Malik, visited the panchayat on Saturday. The officials also visited the farm run by members of Koonammavu St. Joseph’s Boys’ Hostel. Agriculture Department sources said Kottuvally had taken up the programme to ensure safe food under natural farming. The salt-resistant, traditional rice variety (Pokkali) was among the products presented before the officials. The initiative at Kottuvally, which uses only natural pesticides and fertilizers, has seen the preservation and extension of cultivation of 65 types of leafy vegetables, including amaranthus, as well as cultivation of traditional varieties of rice, including Raktasali, Daboursala, Karuvachi from Wayanad, Mullikkurva from Wayanad, Njavara, and Kunjan Thondi from Palakkad. The sources said the natural farming initiative had taken up sugarcane cultivation while popularising the cultivation of traditional vegetables and tubers in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottuvally-farmers-come-out-with-impressive-array-of-products/article37375377.ece
08 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court ruling brings cheer to pet owners||The recent Kerala High Court verdict rendering clauses in bylaws of residents associations banning owners or occupiers of residential apartments from keeping pets of their choice and accessing elevators and common facilities in apartment buildings as void and unenforceable in law seems to have divided opinion. While flat owners associations are disappointed about the ruling, it has brought cheers to enthusiastic pet owners and animal welfare organisations. “We haven’t yet broached the subject. However, it seems like associations will have to create awareness about the practical difficulties of having pets in flats and appeal to tenants to desist from it voluntarily. We will have to meet and issue guidelines on the basis of majority opinion,” said V.S. Somanathan, general secretary, All Kerala Flat Owners Association. He added that while pets were definitely loveable, they could pose problems in apartment complexes. “Even cleaning staff would not clean up dog poop, and there is the danger of unleashed pets endangering the safety of children,” Mr. Somanathan said. Jayadeep Narasimhan, a tenant at a prominent apartment complex in the city, fumed that Kerala was one of the rare States where an unwritten rule against pets persisted. “As we are increasingly shifting towards a flat culture, are we here talking about a world without pets. The elitist apartment association members unilaterally pass diktats against pets. As long as pets can be groomed without causing trouble to others, they should be allowed,” he said. People moving into apartments are either forced to abandon their pets or keep them at pet lodges at considerable cost. “The emotional trauma it causes to children in the family is enormous. My two young children are still reduced to tears whenever they see a dog on television ever since we had to separate them from our pet dog and lodge it in a pet hostel since we moved into the apartment a couple of months ago,” said Mr. Narasimhan. Ambili Purackal, coordinator of Daya Animal Welfare Organisation, said pet owners already had the right to keep their pets in apartments even before the recent court ruling. “Unless the beneficiaries are courageous enough to claim their due rights, no rule will be of any use,” she said. Sonika Satheesh, a veterinary surgeon, recalled an incident in which a resident of an apartment used to smuggle out and in her cat for treatment fearing backlash from the association. “For many apartment residents, the mere knowledge about the existence of a pet in any apartment is ground enough to complain,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-ruling-brings-cheer-to-pet-owners/article37375373.ece
08 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bishops told to submit report on Mass||The Congregation for the Oriental Churches, a part of the Roman curia looking after the Eastern Catholic Churches, has requested bishops in-charge of the Syro-Malabar dioceses to submit a report on the ground situation regarding the celebration of the Mass in their jurisdiction in the background of a recent decision by the Syro-Malabar synod of bishops to unify the way the Mass is celebrated across the Syro-Malabar church. The dispute There is now a dispute over the synodal decision because a vast majority of the Syro-Malabar Church dioceses are in favour of celebrating the Mass with the celebrant (priest) facing the congregation (those attending the Mass). By November 15 The recent synodal decision was that the priest would face the congregation for one half of the celebrations while he would face away from the people during the other half. The decision to implement the uniform method, as per the synodal decision, will come into effect on November 28. The heads of all the dioceses in the Syro-Malabar church were expected to submit their replies by November 15, sources added. The Congregation for the Oriental Churches also sought the opinion of the bishops on the problems facing the implementation of the synodal decision on the uniform way of celebrating the Mass. Meeting with Nuncio Sources in the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese, who are in favour of celebrating the Mass with the celebrant facing the congregation (faithful or participants) throughout the Mass expressed the hope that the survey of opinion would lead to a reconciliation. In the meanwhile, four members of the permanent synod of bishops of the Syro-Malabar Church-Thrissur Archbishop Andrews Thazhath, Thalassery bishop George Njaralangatt, Kottayam bishop Mathew Moolakkatt, and Palakkad bishop Jacob Manamthodath, have met Leopoldo Girelli, the Apostolic Nuncio in Delhi. Church sources did not confirm whether the bishops were summoned by the Nuncio or they went as a delegation on their own to submit their views on the issue of the way the Mass is celebrated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bishops-told-to-submit-report-on-mass/article37375381.ece
08 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NIA court to decide on framing charges||The Pantheerankavu Maoist case will be taken up shortly by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) Special Court, Kochi, to ascertain whether there are sufficient grounds to frame charges against the accused. After spending nearly nine months in jail, Alan Shuhaib and Thwaha Fasal, the two youths against whom the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act was invoked by the investigation agency, had secured bail from the Supreme Court last week. Bail from SC The apex court granted them bail after finding that the charges against them did not stand prima facie. Restoring the order of the NIA Special Judge Anil Bhaskar granting bail to the duo, the apex court also held that the bail conditions imposed by the trial court would hold good.  It was on November 1, 2019 that the Pantheerankavu police arrested the two youths, who were found under ‘suspicious circumstances’ in front of Medicare Laboratory in Kozhikode. Usman, the third accused, who fled on seeing the police, was arrested from Malappuram on September 14 this year. The Special Court is likely to consider the cases, which had triggered a political debate in the State, of all the three accused together. CM’s stand While a section of senior CPI(M) leaders were compassionate towards the arrested, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan adopted a tough stance against them on the floor of the State Assembly. The NIA court will look into the statements and materials collected by the prosecution in the case to ascertain whether there exists grounds for ‘grave suspicion’ that the accused had the intention to commit the offence. The intention of the accused would be the deciding factor in establishing their culpability, judicial sources said. Facing trial The accused would be discharged if no valid grounds are established against them. However, if the prosecution succeeds in generating a reasonable case for trial, the courts normally will frame charges and the accused will be asked to face the trial. The accused also have the option of moving a discharge petition in the case even before the court evaluates the ‘grave suspicion’ aspect, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nia-court-to-decide-on-framing-charges/article37375379.ece
08 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Common biomedical waste treatment facility proposed||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has proposed at least one common biomedical waste treatment facility (CBWTF) in the southern and northern region of the State to comply with the guideline that biomedical waste must be disposed of within 48 hours of its generation. The board stated its position before the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal in the case related to the non-compliance of Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016 in the State. Presently, Kerala has two such facilities in Palakkad and Ernakulam. The facility in Palakkad is managed by the Indian Medical Association Goes Eco-friendly (IMAGE). Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Ltd (KEIL) is operating the facility in Ernakulam. IMAGE had opposed the board’s decision to permit KEIL to collect and process biomedical waste generated in government and private healthcare institutions within 75 km from its Ambalamedu facility in five districts that include Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki. The board has informed the tribunal that the time frame of 48 hours cannot be achieved easily, if the waste generated across the State is processed at the Palakkad facility of IMAGE alone. It had cited the traffic system in the State and urbanisation of rural areas as impediments in sticking to the 48-hour deadline. The board had earlier proposed two such facilities in Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram, but the projects did not take off as expected. The report pointed out that the IMAGE had opposed the 75-km criterion while stating that it was not proper to implement it until adequate facilities are established in all parts of the State. The Indian Medical Association, Kerala had also said that both IMAGE and KEIL are allowed open competition till adequate treatment facilities are set up covering the entire State. The board mentioned that waste collection and processing is not an industry and unhealthy competition in this service sector may adversely affect waste minimisation. The Central Pollution Control Board has categorised CBWTFs as a non-industrial sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/common-biomedical-waste-treatment-facility-proposed/article37375367.ece
08 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Shifting of India Tourism office gains pace||The long-awaited shifting of India Tourism office from Willingdon Island to Fort Kochi, which was till recently considered amongst the most happening heritage and beach tourism hubs in Kerala, is set to gain momentum after getting caught in red tape for over two years. India Tourism decided to shift its office from near BTP Berth on the island, to the ground floor of the Folklore Cultural Theatre, located next to the bus stand and ro-ro ferry terminal in Fort Kochi, soon after Cochin Port Trust requested it to relocate. This followed a decision to let out the port’s spaces for long-term lease. Soon after, it approached the Central PWD (CPWD), seeking fair-rent certificate for the office space it proposed to take on rent in Fort Kochi. This is mandatory in order to zero in on the rent that ought to be paid to the Kochi Corporation, after assessing the age of the building, its present condition and the value of the extent of space available, among other parameters, sources said. The tourism office on Willingdon Island augured well for tourists who arrived at the BTP Berth in cruise liners and for those who boarded ships to Lakshadweep. Cruise ships would henceforth call at the new international cruise terminal a little away from the office. As for Kochi city, offices of Kerala Tourism, KTDC and Ernakulam DTPC are located on the same road. In contrast, Fort Kochi is always a happening place and such offices must be easily accessible for tourists, they added. It is expected that shifting office to Fort Kochi will help India Tourism play a proactive role in tidying the heritage streets and the beachfront.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shifting-of-india-tourism-office-gains-pace/article37375369.ece
08 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cyclothons organised||Aimed at spreading awareness on physical and mental fitness and commemorate the Fit India Safe India campaign, cyclothons were organised by INS Garuda on Sunday. The 75-km cyclothon, in which 31 cyclists participated, was flagged off by Commodore V.B. Bellary, Commanding Officer, INS Garuda, and the 8-km Cycling for Fun, which witnessed the participation of over 200 cyclists, was flagged off by Rear Admiral Antony George, Chief of Staff, Southern Naval Command.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cyclothons-organised/article37375360.ece
08 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,061 fresh COVID cases in Ernakulam||A total of 1,061 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Sunday. The test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 11.62%. While 1,041 infections were through local contact, the source of infection in 19 cases could not be identified. One health worker is among the newly infected. The places that reported more than 25 cases included Thripunithura (27), Thrikkakara(28), Sreemoolanagaram (29), Karukutty (30), Njarackal (32), and Pallippuram(34). As many as 1,036 people recovered and 1,581 were brought under home surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1061-fresh-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article37375363.ece
08 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Quack arrested at Perumbavoor||The Ernakulam Rural police arrested a quack hailing from West Bengal who ran a ‘clinic’ at Perumbavoor. Murshidabad native Sabeer Islam, 34, was arrested, based on a tip-off, from Bhai Colony, Marambally. He even used to administer injections and IV drips, the police said. The police received information on a woman from Assam turning unconscious recently, after he ‘treated’ her and took Rs. 1,000 as fee. She had been administered an IV drip and given tablets. Following the information, District Police Chief K. Karthik ordered an inspection of his premises, and he was arrested. They seized a stethoscope, syringes, tablets, and blood pressure apparatus from him. Arrested for theft The Ernakulam Rural police arrested a man on Sunday on the charge of attacking a shop owner at Thottakkattukara and escaping with goods worth Rs. 6,000 without paying. Jomon Sebastian, 26, of Njarakkal was arrested after over a month of continuous surveillance, since he used to changed his hideouts at frequent intervals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quack-arrested-at-perumbavoor/article37375368.ece
08 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Plaque of Malabar martyrs||A plaque with the names of 387 martyrs of the Malabar rebellion was installed at the Edavanakkad Mahal Juma Masjid on Sunday. T.A. Ahamad Kabeer, president of the district Jamath Council, unveiled the plaque. Hibi Eden, MP, inaugurated a public meeting that followed. K.K. Jamaludheen, president of Vypeen Regional Jamath Council, presided over the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plaque-of-malabar-martyrs/article37375375.ece
08 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Survey on organic farming and marketing begins in district||Department of Economics and Statistics has started a survey on organic farming and marketing in the district. The data for the survey will be collected from 20% of farmers from a list prepared by the principal agricultural office with the help of information collected through 78 Krishi Bhavans. Aims The main objective of the survey is to find the different methods of organic farming, the area used for farming, the cost of cultivation, production, marketing possibilities, procurement, and income. It will also study the difficulties faced by farmers, and the survey is expected to be completed by December 31. Dept. of Statistics The survey will be conducted by investigators in the Department of Statistics.  Aim to find different methods of organic farming||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/survey-on-organic-farming-and-marketing-begins-in-district/article37375425.ece
08 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Financial aid for youngsters to start business||Technically qualified youngsters in the district now have an opportunity to start business ventures with the support of Youth Tech Startup, a project launched by Kollam district panchayat. A subsidy up to Rs. 3 lakh will be provided for starting each unit and the financial aid will be made available for self-financed ventures or those started with bank loans. Persons below the age of 40 with B.Tech, ITI, and Polytechnic degrees, will be provided financial assistant and groups with three to five members can apply. Workforce “Our technically qualified workforce has been facing a crisis with the pandemic affecting their prospects. While some lost their jobs, many fresh graduates are finding it difficult to find employment. We are offering them a chance to turn entrepreneurs and we want maximum number of youngsters to start micro enterprises,” said district panchayat president Sam K. Daniel. Currently, three groups have started enterprises that are under the project and the first unit in Pathanapuram offers installation of solar plants. The two other units started in Kottankara and Neduvathur manufactures parts of electric cycle and organic cattle feed respectively. The unit at Neduvathur was started by three women, all of them B.Tech graduates. Design The machine in the unit was designed by the unit members and they produce chemical-free feed at very reasonable rates. “This venture will also help the dairy farmers in the district and in future they also plan to produce value-added dairy products. Such innovative ideas will be promoted,” said Mr. Daniel. While two units have B.Tech graduates, the third one also includes a member polytechnic degree. District Industry Centre (DIC) is the implementing agency of the project and all proposals received will be screened by a committee that includes a technical expert, bank representative, and panchayat member. Technical expertise According to DIC manager R. Dinesh, production-oriented ventures that also require technical expertise will be selected. “Constitutions including private limited company, LLP or partnership with minimum three members who are residing in areas that come under district panchayat can apply. We are looking forward to more innovative ideas,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-for-youngsters-to-start-business/article37375424.ece
08 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Harvesting of paddy inaugurated||Poet and folk artist Kadambanad Jayachandran inaugurated the harvesting of paddy cultivated by Nature Kottarakkara and Edakkidam Suresh Kumar Foundation here on Sunday. Foundation chairman A. Sunilkumar presided over the function at Edakkidam polder while general secretary S. Shailendran presented the project. Vice chairman Ezhukone Santosh led the poetry festival and grama panchayat standing committee chairpersons S. Udayakumar and S.S. Suvidha were also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/harvesting-of-paddy-inaugurated/article37375426.ece
08 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Corpn. to resume COVID-19 vaccination||Kollam Corporation will resume COVID-19 vaccination from Monday, says Mayor Prasanna Earnest. Primary Health Centre, Mundakkal, Corporation stadium and T.M. Varghese Memorial Hall will be the vaccination centres. A total of 500 persons, including online and spot registrations, will be vaccinated at each centre. The vaccine administration starts at 9 a.m. and only Covishield will be available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-resume-covid-19-vaccination/article37375427.ece
08 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU teacher to challenge his removal||The imbroglio over the alleged abuse of a Dalit PhD student at Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, appears to be intensifying with the accused teacher contemplating legal action against the university for its decision to replace him as director of the International and Inter University Centre for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (IIUCNN). “The action initiated against me by the university Syndicate is based on a set of charges already dismissed by the Kerala High Court and is without even a preliminary inquiry. In this context, I have decided to defend my case legally,” said Nandakumar Kalarikkal, the accused teacher, who is now in France as part of an international project at the Jean Lamour Institute, University of Lorraine. The university had on Saturday removed Mr. Kalarikkal as director in charge of the centre where the Dalit woman has been pursuing her research. ‘To prove innocence’ According to Mr. Kalarikkal, a case of caste atrocity based on a complaint raised by the student was quashed by the High Court in March 2017. Despite this, a politically motivated campaign is being run against him in association with a section of employees of the varsity, he said. “As a dedicated researcher, I am not very keen on retaining my post as the director of the IIUCNN. But I have decided to challenge this action to prove my innocence,” he added. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu had requested the protesting student to withdraw the hunger strike, citing that the MGU Vice Chancellor had taken over the charge of the university centre. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who had held a meeting with the Vice Chancellor late Saturday, also sought an amicable solution to the issue. CPI(M) criticised The student, however, said she would not end the strike till Mr. Kalarikkal was dismissed from the university. She launched a scathing attack on the CPI(M) for ‘protecting the accused teacher.’ Though there was a university investigation report against Mr. Kalarikkal, he was retained in the Left Syndicate, the IIUCNN, and the Left Teachers’ Association, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-teacher-to-challenge-his-removal/article37375386.ece
08 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Man killed in accident||A 28-year-old man was killed when the autorickshaw he was riding rammed a KSRTC bus on the Neelimangalam bridge, near Kottayam, on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Ranjin Sebastian, a native of Manjoor. The accident took place around 5.45 a.m. when the autorickshaw lost control while negotiating a pit in the bridge and hit the bus proceeding from the opposite direction. Locals, who rushed to spot, took the victim out of the vehicle by cutting open its mangled remains. He was rushed to a hospital though to no avail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-killed-in-accident/article37375420.ece
08 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Traders’ protest hits NH widening||The disgruntlement among a section of traders is posing a challenge to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI|) in continuing with the ongoing highway widening plan on some of the key stretches in Kozhikode district. Many of them, backed by the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti (KVVES), are in protest mode, preventing contractors from taking over their property citing disputes over the State government’s rehabilitation package. The resistance is now mostly visible among a section of traders in Payyoli who claim that they will not be able to survive with the already declared rehabilitation package alone. They seek a better package for traders who are senior citizens considering their difficulties in resuming the business in a new setting. They also called upon the district administration to study the real issues of traders being displaced. “Though the government is keen to address the financial concerns of building owners, those who occupied rented buildings for a living are still clueless about any supportive measure on the part of the government. Such traders are now part of the campaign against the highway development plan,” said a senior merchant association leader. Traders’ action committee leaders said nearly 150 shops would have to be demolished in Payyoli town area alone for the proposed six-lane highway widening project. “Though all the building owners are likely to get their compensation amount, the future of those who will be dislocated in the name of development is uncertain,” they said. “In the earlier package announced by the government, there was clear mention about the compensation to be given to evacuated traders as well. However, there is no confirmation yet about it though the authorities are forcibly trying to evacuate shops,” said a 65-year-old merchant from Payyoli. Some of the traders from Payyoli have resisted forcible evacuation attempts saying that they were not intimated on time. Their plan is to continue with the protest by preventing all such forcible measures to raze down buildings ahead of finalising an acceptable relief package.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-protest-hits-nh-widening/article37375352.ece
08 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Poor condition of coastal road mars tourism potential of Kappad||Even after the beautification of the Kappad beach, which has won the prestigious Blue Flag certification, the poor condition of the nearby coastal road connecting to the National Highway remains the same, spoiling the ambitious tourism undertaking. The route commonly used by tourists and local people to take a drive along the seashore till the Koyilandy harbour is now in a rundown condition with damaged retaining walls and potholes. Attempts by tourists to make use of the damaged road for pleasure rides have led to a number of accidents during the holiday rush. Apart from this, parts of the stretch create bottlenecks on the already narrow road between Kappad and Koyilandy where vehicles are likely to fall into the eroded side during attempts to overtake other vehicles. “There are many small-scale home-stays along this road to cash in on the tourism potential of the area. Sadly, the bumpy ride is dousing the spirit of many visitors,” says a local chef associated with some of the local food-based ventures. He claims that the tidal fluctuations create a scary scene in the absence of strong protective walls in many locations. According to some of the local fishermen, the coastal area has been facing severe sea erosion which is yet to be addressed by the government departments concerned. For more than a year, there has been no considerable intervention to keep this 8-km-long road in good condition despite its proximity to an internationally acclaimed tourism spot, they point out. Koyilandy Municipal Chairperson Sudha Kizhakkeppatt says the Public Works Department is responsible for carrying out the long-pending repairs. “The previous episodes of flood and sea erosion have damaged many stretches, making it inaccessible for larger vehicles. Despite our frequent demands, we are yet to receive any assurance from the PWD about the time-bound completion of the work,” she adds. Some of the former local body representatives from Chemanchery also complain that the poor sea wall construction and the absence of breakwaters in the suggested locations increase the risk of sea erosion in the area. They also point out that any delay in completing the pending work at the dangerous spots will gradually affect the popularity of the beach destination, which is now projected as the safest and cleanest beach in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poor-condition-of-coastal-road-mars-tourism-potential-of-kappad/article37375358.ece
08 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Surveillance to be held in ecotourism spots||The Forest Department and the police have collectively decided to tackle miscreants in some of the popular ecotourism spots in Kozhikode district. The move is in the wake of a sexual abuse case in which a minor girl was exploited by a gang of four at the Janakikkad ecotourism spot. Safety improvement measures include installation of closed-circuit television cameras, deployment of more security guards in interior areas and the improvement of existing surveillance measures at entrances. There is also a proposal to carry out more flash inspections by the local police and occasional inspections in abandoned and unoccupied houses around ecotourism spots which are frequented by drug addicts and miscreants. According to Police and Forest Department sources, there are many proposals under their consideration to closely watch the movement of suspected persons to popular trekking spots, view points and forest areas. The main plan is to shut all the illegal entrances to such locations for improving tourists’ safety, they add. Along with uniformed squads, the support of various local destination management committees will also be sought to increase safety measures in the wake of confidential complaints citing the entry of drug peddlers and substance addicts to distant rural tourism spots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surveillance-in-ecotourism-spots-to-be-stepped-up/article37375348.ece
08 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Neuro rehabilitation programme launched||Humanities Charitable Trust, a Kozhikode-based charitable organisation, launched a neuro rehabilitation programme under its Care Home near the Government Medical College in Kozhikode on Sunday. The rehabilitation programme was inaugurated by Abdulla Katukandi, Rafeez Hidaya, Sangeetha Hari and Basheer Mamburam, four paraplegics who have been an inspiration to many because of their efforts to overcome the disability. Noted businessmen of Kozhikode M.P. Ahamed, P.K. Ahamed and N.K. Muhammadali launched the rehabilitation centre, Kerala Institute of Neuro Rehab programme and website of the programme respectively on the occasion. The Neuro Rehabilitation Programme envisages complete and free rehabilitation of those who have been rendered partially or completely motionless due to disease or mishaps. The programme offers scientific treatment and physiotherapy for such individuals thus enabling them to regain their normal life. The Humanity Charitable Trust, which has been working in Kozhikode for more than two decades, had set up a Care Home near the Kozhikode Medical College campus a few years ago for kidney and cancer patients. One floor of the Care Home has been dedicated to the neuro rehabilitation centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/neuro-rehabilitation-programme-launched/article37375351.ece
08 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Form river protection authorities’||The two-day study camp organised by the All Kerala River Protection Committee at Thusharagiri on Sunday demanded immediate formation of river protection authorities with semi-judicial powers. The camp also demanded the upgradation of the Centre for Water Resources Development and Management to a college to offer courses on subjects like river protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/form-river-protection-authorities/article37375359.ece
08 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Linto Joseph, MLA, gets married||Thiruvambady MLA Linto Joseph got married at a simple function at Mambatta near Mukkom here on Sunday. The bride is Anusha from Mukkom. CPI(M) district secretariat member George M. Thomas, district committee office-bearer Ramesh Babu, and area secretary T. Viswanathan were present. MLAs K. Shanthakumari, O.R. Kelu, Thottathil Raveendran, K.V. Sumesh, and K.M. Sachin Dev, and Thiruvananthapuram Mayor Arya Rajendran were the other prominent persons who attended the wedding, which was held in line with the COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/linto-joseph-mla-gets-married/article37375350.ece
08 November 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Tribal students in Nilambur yet to reach schools||A large number of tribal students from hamlets in the Nilambur forests are yet to reach their schools even a week after the campuses reopened on November 1. The vehicles that carried tribal students to schools and back under the Scheduled Tribes Development Department’s Gothra Sarathi scheme are not running any more. The department has stopped funds for the Gothra Sarathi scheme and asked local self-government bodies to meet the expenses for the transportation of tribal children. But the panchayats seem to have ignored the matter. When this reporter visited the Vennakkode hamlet of Kattunayakan tribes on November 1, the children there had been waiting. “I thought the jeep would come, and I waited till afternoon,” said Rahul, a Standard 6 student at Government LP School, Edivanna Estate, Chaliyar grama panchayat. So were Ammu, a Standard 9 student at Government Higher Secondary School, Eranhimangad, and Ganga, a Standard 7 student. Ganga said she did not want to continue her education. Like them, dozens of tribal children in remote hamlets in Karulai, Pothukal, Vazhikkadavu, Moothedam and Chaliyar panchayats in the Nilambur area are continuing their wait for the jeep. “If the panchayats or the Government does not act now, it is going to severely affect the education of tribal children,” said Aju Koloth, chairman of Mithra Jyothi Tribal Development Foundation. The Scheduled Tribes Development Department had introduced the Gothra Sarathi scheme a few years ago for arranging transportation facilities to students living in the interior forests and inaccessible areas in association with the Education Department, local bodies and parent-teacher associations. Now that the ST Development Department has stopped giving funds for the scheme, the onus is on panchayats. Chaliyar panchayat officials said the governing council would have to meet and take a decision on sanctioning funds for the scheme. According to Mr. Koloth, shifting the affected students to tribal hostels will be the best option. “Instead of waiting for the vehicles and continuing the same old style of education, shifting them to hostels in different places will go a long way in ensuring better education for tribal children,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tribal-students-in-nilambur-yet-to-reach-schools/article37375354.ece
08 November 2021||MYSURU,KERALA||Circular on dress code withdrawn||A circular on dress code for staff of pre-university colleges was withdrawn within hours after it was issued by the Deputy Director of Pre-University (DDPU) here. The circular had sought to bar the principal, the teaching and non-teaching staff in pre-university colleges from attending official duty in jeans and T-shirts with a view to instilling discipline among them. The heads of institutions were even asked to submit an action taken report to the DDPU by November 10, it is learnt. Circular draws flak However the circular, issued on Saturday, drew flak from various sections of the teaching staff, who objected to the dress code. Though Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham is learnt to have asked Srinivas Murthy, DDPU, Mysuru, to withdraw the circular, the DDPU said he had voluntarily withdrawn it within hours of issuing it on Saturday after realising that it would spark off a controversy. ‘Informal clothes’ Mr. Murthy told The Hindu that he was wary of principals attending meetings convened by the Deputy Commissioner in informal clothes such as jeans and T-shirts. However, he said he realised that issuing such a circular was not appropriate and withdrew it within hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karnataka-pu-official-revokes-dress-code-order/article37375036.ece
08 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||‘Cong. unit committees a revolutionary step’||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran has said that the selection of new office-bearers for the party had startled other political parties in the State. Speaking after inaugurating the national children’s week celebrations under the banner of the Jawahar Bal Manch here on Sunday, Mr. Sudhakaran said that the formation of Congress unit committees (CUCs) was a revolutionary move. He said it was meant to bring the silent Congress workers to the fore. Bal Manch national chairman G.V. Hari presided. District Congress Committee president A. Thankappan delivered the keynote address. Ramya Haridas, MP, KPCC general secretaries C. Chandran and K.A. Thulasi, KPCC working committee member C.V. Balachandran, former MP V.S. Vijayaraghavan, Bal Manch State vice-president T.M. Jayaprakash and district chairman S. Sreenath spoke. Residents’ stir Addressing an indefinite satyagraha by the residents of Govindapuram Ambedkar Colony in front of the Muthalamada panchayat office, Mr. Sudhakaran said that the KPCC would intervene and take leadership of the agitation. The agitation by the Ambedkar Colony residents seeking houses for eligible members entered its 27th day on Sunday. Mr. Sudhakaran said that the KPCC meeting to be held on November 19 would take a final decision on it. He said Government officials would have to explain what prevented them from giving land and houses to those sitting in satyagraha. He warned that the officials would regret if they acted on behalf of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]. Mr. Thankappan, vice president Sumesh Achuthan, secretary P. Madhavan, and agitation council leader S. Sivarajan spoke.  Cong. will take leadership of satyagraha by Govindapuram Ambedkar Colony residents in Muthalamada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-unit-committees-a-revolutionary-step/article37375510.ece
08 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Man held on charge of raping minor daughter||The Konni police on Sunday arrested the father of a 13-year-old girl for allegedly raping and impregnating her. According to the police, the case came to light after the victim’s parents reportedly approached one of their relatives seeking to abort the pregnancy. Preliminary investigations revealed that the accused had begun abusing the girl since March 2021. The accused was produced before a magistrate and remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-raping-minor-daughter/article37375419.ece
08 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Registry of paediatric COVID cases the need of the hour||Paediatricians have proposed the setting up of a Statewide registry for paediatric COVID-19 cases reported in the State, as better documentation, clinical studies and experience sharing among doctors are important to manage paediatric COVID-19 and post-COVID-19 issues. With 60% of the children in the State remaining vulnerable to SARS-Co-V2, it is anticipated that there could be more paediatric COVID-19 cases in the near future. At a recent discussion on paediatric COVID-19 cases, doctors pointed out how vital it was to bring all data on paediatric cases to the table so that the State can develop its own treatment protocol. It has been mooted that the Kerala University of Health Sciences, which has jurisdiction over all medical colleges, take the lead in setting up the registry. KUHS Vice Chancellor K. Mohanan said the idea was “worth pursuing” and that the logistics had to be worked out. 8,55,675 cases According to official data, paediatric cases (0-19 years) accounted for 17.8% of the total COVID-19 cases in the State till October 12, 2021. Kerala reported 8,55,675 COVID-19 cases in the 0-19 age group and 71 deaths. Of this, maximum cases (6.2% of the total case burden) were in the 15-19 age group, with 2,95,932 cases and 31 deaths. Cases in those less than five years constituted 3% of the State’s total burden, with 1,46,317 cases and 23 deaths. “The government medical college hospitals (MCH) treated a chunk of the serious paediatric COVID-19 cases. Even though there are ICMR guidelines, there is no uniformity in treatment across State, especially when or how to start steroids or monoclonal antibodies. There is no clear death audit in many cases. We wasted our opportunities for detailed clinical studies in adult COVID-19 cases. At least in the case of children, we should explore our opportunities for improved clinical management,” a senior paediatrician in the State said. Co-morbidities “About 20% of our Category B patients and 40% of our Category C patients had serious co-morbidities which made COVID-19 management quite challenging. Round-the-clock lab and cardiology support is vital in managing multisystem inflammatory disease in children (MISC),” Priya Srinivasan, Associate Professor in Paediatrics, SAT Hospital, said. “This is a new disease and new knowledge has many implications for clinical care. A paediatric COVID-19 registry of at least cases managed by the medical colleges would bring together the experience of all tertiary care institutions,” P.K. Jameela, paediatrician and member, State Planning Board, said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/registry-of-paediatric-covid-cases-the-need-of-the-hour/article37375396.ece
08 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poor living conditions at migrant worker camps||A squad of the health wing of the city Corporation, which carried out surprise checks at camps in which migrant workers are residing in, found that many of the facilities were overcrowded and maintained in an unhygienic manner by the owners. The checks, which began at 7 a.m and went on till noon, were carried out in camps in Medical College, Ulloor, Akkulam, Kumarapuram and Kannammoola, as part of steps to ensure that migrant workers are being provided satisfactory living conditions. The health wing had received complaints that some of the camps are being run in unhygienic conditions. In some of the camps, around 30-40 migrant workers were found to be living packed inside rooms, even though there was space only for around 10 people. Only one toilet In many of the camps, only one toilet was provided, with poor sanitary conditions. Waste water was seen collected in pits near the dwelling areas. At one of the camps, the workers told the Corporation officials that the owner collects Rs. 1,000 from each of the 30 people residing there. At a camp in the Uloor-Akkulam road, drainage waste was seen collected near the dwelling area with the officials also noticing foul smell and breeding of insects in the place. Though Rathan, one of the Assam-natives living here had complained to the owner regarding the waste water, no action was taken. A plastic sheet was used to prevent leakages during rains through the broken tiled roof of the camp. The officials called Somasekharan Nair, the owner of the building, to the spot and asked him to shift the workers to another building within 24 hours, and carry out maintenance work and cleaning in the premises, failing which the Corporation would shift the workers to another facility and take action against him under the Kerala Municipality Act. A report will be submitted for follow-up action regarding the facilities which were found to be maintained in unsatisfactory conditions, said Health Inspector S.S.Minu. Awareness campaign Junior Health Inspector Mohammed Navas carried out awareness campaign among the workers to segregate plastic waste and hand it over to the Corporation's collectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poor-living-conditions-at-migrant-worker-camps/article37375572.ece
08 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Reform judiciary to protect its independence: Bhushan||Civil rights lawyer and activist Prasanth Bhushan has called for reforms to protect the independence of the country’s judiciary which ‘faces the threat of collapse.’ He also advocated the need to critique the actions of the judiciary to enhance accountability. He was speaking after receiving the first P. Govinda Pillai National Award, instituted by the P.G. Samskruthi Kendram, from former Supreme Court judge Kurian Joseph here on Sunday. Mr. Bhushan, held guilty of contempt by the Supreme Court for tweets against the Chief Justice of India last year, said citizens should not be deterred by the threat of contempt. “It is our duty as citizens and as masters of a sovereign democratic republic to point out the mistakes of the judiciary,” he said. ‘More courts needed’ He also suggested various judicial reforms, including implementing the Gram Nyayalaya Act of 2008 to establish courts at the grassroots level to provide justice to the citizens at their doorsteps. Public campaign is also necessary to increase the strength of the judiciary and to establish more courts. Mr. Bhushan also demanded a ‘better system’ of selecting judges to prevent the ‘selection of incompetent people’. Instead of assigning the task to the Supreme Court collegium, an independent full-time judicial appointments commission must be given the responsibility. Another commission must be set up to hold judges accountable for their actions since the existing system of impeachment lacked teeth. He said the Master of Roster system in courts should be abolished to enable judges to function independently. “The government has subverted the independence of the judiciary through the lure of post-retirement jobs. The possibility of the misuse of practices such as the Master of Roster must be weeded out,” Mr. Bhushan said. Mr. Joseph said the judiciary must introspect whether it has remained steadfast to the Constitution. The time has come to revisit the ‘Restatement of Values of Judicial Life,’ a charter of judicial ethics adopted by the Supreme Court in 1997, which serves as a guide to an independent and fair judiciary, he said. Mr. Joseph said a person was not fit to remain a judge if he or she cannot independently and impartially discharge duties in adherence to the Constitution unmindful of their personal opinion. P.G. Samskruthi Kendram vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal presided over the function. Jury committee chairman M.A. Baby, P.G. Samskruthi Kendram vice chairman B. Ekbal and executive director Anavoor Nagappan also spoke on the occasion. A message by Kendram chairman K.N. Panikkar was read out during the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reform-judiciary-to-protect-its-independence-bhushan/article37375344.ece
08 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rain likely till Wednesday||The district is on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall from Monday to Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Thiruvananthapuram district administration has asked people residing in hilly areas that had received heavy rainfall in recent weeks to remain extremely alert as thunderstorms are likely in the regions. Residents of low-lying regions, riverine locations and coastal areas also should be on their guard, the administration said. The public should cooperate with the authorities if the need for evacuation arises. Fishers have been asked to properly secure their fishing equipment, including boats. Caution People residing in unsound structures or houses with faulty roofs should be prepared to move to safer locations given the alerts issued for the days ahead, the administration said. The administration has advised people living in vulnerable areas to keep their emergency kits at hand. In general, the public have been advised to avoid night-time travel to hilly regions in the days ahead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-likely-till-wednesday/article37375575.ece
08 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||EPF pensioners join nationwide protests||A protest held here as part of a nationwide agitation to address the problems of Employees’ Pension Scheme (EPS) pensioners was inaugurated by Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) national vice president A.K. Padmanabhan. In his inaugural speech, Mr. Padmanabhan said the EPS started in 1995 as a replacement for the Family Pension Scheme that had come into being in 1971 as part of the Employees’ Provident Fund Scheme. This was the result of widespread worker protests across the country and the international labour treaties that India was a signatory to. However, the Union government stepped back from such responsibilities by bringing in amendments to the Employees’ provident and pension schemes in 2014. The convention decided to strengthen the agitation seeking rollback of the 2014 changes to the EPS The meeting decided to hold a dharna in association with service organisations in front of the PF office here on November 16 in connection with EPF pension day. At the national level, seminars and conventions will be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/epf-pensioners-join-nationwide-protests/article37375364.ece
08 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vietnam Ambassador arrives in State for three-day visit||A six-member delegation from Vietnam led by Pham Sanh Chau, Vietnamese Ambassador to India, has arrived in Kerala for a three day visit. The group will be visiting various areas in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts. After arriving here on Sunday, the group visited the College of Agriculture in Vellayani, University College, Napier Museum and other places. At both the colleges, they interacted with the faculty and enquired about the possibilities for Vietnamese students to do higher studies in Kerala. On Monday, they will have a meeting with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Minister for Cultural Affairs Saji Cherian and Industries Minister P.Rajeeve at the Mascot Hotel. More trade relations between Vietnam and Kerala will be one of the agendas of the meeting. They will also visit the Vellar Craft Village and later head to Kollam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vietnam-ambassador-arrives-in-state-for-three-day-visit/article37375574.ece
08 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree auxiliary units in all wards||Thiruvananthapuram has become the first district in the State to have formed Kudumbashree auxiliary groups in all its wards. Auxiliary groups have been formed in all 1,546 wards in the district, and 25,802 young women have been included in the groups so far. One additional group each has been formed in Poovar and Venganoor grama panchayats, and two in Parassala, taking the total number of auxiliary groups to 1,550. The Kudumbashree auxiliary groups aim at empowerment of educated women between the ages of 18 and 40, primarily through achievement of financial independence. The groups will bring more women into the Kudumbashree network, and, in turn, into the mainstream of society. Thrust The thrust will be on utilising the skills of the women so that they can find self-employment, rather than join the ranks of the unemployed despite being educated. This will help in improving the financial condition of their families, thereby strengthening social development. The groups can not only engage in cultural activities, but also become a platform to raise voice against anti-social issues and make effective interventions at the grassroot level. The groups, with a maximum of 50 members, will help find livelihood opportunities for the women. More than one person from each household can be a member of the auxiliary groups. The groups can form sub-groups or consortiums according to their needs. Now, that the groups have been formed, steps are on for setting up activity groups. Says Kudumbashree district mission coordinator K.R. Shaiju, “We are focussing on setting up activity groups of the auxiliary groups women in order to launch bigger ventures. For instance, an activity group could comprise women who have BTech. degrees across the wards in a panchayat. These women could try and launch a small computer start-up or a hardware or mobile repairs and assembling venture. The three-tier panchayat system can be used to provide funding to the new businesses. Skill training can be provided by the Kudumbashree. Existing Kudumbashree members who are educated can also be roped into these activity groups.”. Mr. Shaiju says that being educated, women will have a lot of fresh ideas. “We are waiting to see what suggestions the young women put forward once a couple of meetings of the groups are through,” he says. MLAs in the district too have come forward with proposals to provide employment to women in their constituencies. D.K. Murali, Vamanapuram MLA, has proposed an apparel park for the women. The Vamanapuram block has undertaken to provide a building to the Kudumbashree for the apprarel park, and a stitching unit, with 30 machines, will come up there in the first phase. Thinking bigger Mr. Shaiju says Kudumbashree is thinking bigger and planning to get women who have studied fashion designing to expand to more lucrative enterprises. In Kattakada, the grama panchayat under the leadership of I.B. Satheesh, MLA, is planning to start projects for auxiliary group women. Discussions for the project preparation are in the second phase. In Aruvikkara, G. Stephen, MLA, is targeting employment opportunities for 500 women by starting various units in eight panchayats. Mr. Shaiju says the if the auxiliary groups want to intervene in social issues such as gender, domestic violence, and the like, the services of Snethita, gender resource centre or community counsellors can be utilised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-auxiliary-units-set-up-in-all-wards-in-thiruvananthapuram/article37375347.ece
08 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Role of scientists in freedom struggle recalled||The country must acknowledge the role of scientists who worked against the odds imposed during the two centuries of English rule that focused on de-nationalising India more than colonising it,national organising secretary of Vijnana Bharati, Jayant Sahasrabudhe said here on Sunday. History has largely neglected the contributions of scientists towards the freedom struggle since the 1757 Battle of Plassey that gave the British East India Company a decisive victory in the subcontinent, till 1947 when the country earned Independence, he said, while delivering the ‘Sir C V Raman lecture’ at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB). Birthday of C.V. Raman “Those scientists strived to regain the identity of India from the hands of the invaders,” Mr. Sahasrabudhe noted in his speech on ‘Freedom Struggle and Science’ organised on the occasion of the 133rd birthday of physicist Dr C.V. Raman. “We stand on their shoulders in our continuing efforts towards progress,” he said. At the function coinciding with the 75th year of the country’s Independence, Mr. Sahasrabudhe noted how the patriotic fervour exhibited by several scientists in imperial India added to the spirit of the nationalist movement. Scientific studies “The British implemented scientific studies in India primarily as a tool to consolidate their rule. They belittled our culture, reiterated that Sanskrit was a dead language that promoted superstitions through its literature centred around mythology,” he said. Language and science He, however, said western thinkers such as Werner von Braun and Noam Chomsky had reiterated the richness of India’s contribution to global heritage, including language and science. RGCB Director Chandrabhas Narayana presided over the function.  Western thinkers like Werner von Braun and Noam Chomsky have reiterated the richness of India’s contribution to global heritage. Jayant Sahasrabudhe National organising secretary Vijnana Bharati||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lauding-scientists-role-in-freedom-struggle/article37375433.ece
08 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Wounds still remain unhealed for Chacko’s family||Jithin Chacko was not yet born when Chacko, his father who used to work as a film representative, was murdered by Sukumara Kurup and his accomplices in 1984. Though he had seen mediapersons coming into the household annually on the day of his father's death, it was not until he was 12 or 13 years old that he became acquainted with the facts of the case, Jithin tells The Hindu . Apprehensions When he and his mother Santhamma heard about the film Kurup being made, with the absconding murderer Sukumara Kurup in the titular role, they wondered whether the man who changed the family’s fate forever would be glorified as a hero. “When we heard that a big star like Dulquer Salman was playing the hero, we were apprehensive. So, we sent a legal notice to the producers. They screened the movie for us. Only I went. Unlike the impression conveyed by the trailer, we don’t think the film would make people think positively of what he did. The film has added many things about him that we did not know,” says Jithin.  Kurup is the third Malayalam movie to be made based on the crime, after NH 47 directed by Baby in 1984 and Pinneyum directed by Adoor Gopalakrishnan in 2016. Jithin says the makers of all three films had not contacted the family prior to making their films. “I was too young when NH 47 was released. Some people have told me that it shows the murder as it is. We heard about Pinneyum only recently. It seems Kurup and his family were treated sympathetically in it. We do not understand how such films can be made without considering our family,” he says. Sukumara Kurup, who had a well-paying job in Abu Dhabi, was inspired to stage his own death after hearing about an insurance fraud case in Germany. He thought his family could claim a Rs. 50-lakh insurance policy if they could prove he was dead. On January 22, 1984, Sukumara Kurup and his accomplices were going around in a car looking for a victim with a similar physique, when Chacko hitched a ride from Karuvatta. Later that night, his charred body with a disfigured face was found in a burnt Ambassador car in a farm near the Kollakadavu bridge in Kunnam, near Mavelikara. ‘Too painful’ “On hearing the news, my mother’s father died in shock, while my father’s mother was paralysed. My mother could not even see my father’s body. I have not spoken much to my mother regarding his death. I remember my mother saying that officers like DSP Haridas used to come for investigation in those days. The investigation stopped, though Kurup is still absconding. We don’t discuss these things much. It is too painful. But when the film was being made, we had to speak,” says Jithin. After Chacko’s death, Santhamma used to work as a housekeeper at the W and C Hospital in Alappuzha, which helped her in bringing up Jithin, who, now aged 37, works at a car showroom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wounds-still-remain-unhealed-for-chackos-family/article37375384.ece
08 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||7,124 new cases in State||Kerala logged 7,124 new cases of COVID-19 when 65,306 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden now stands at 50,15,505 cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 33,716 with the State adding 201 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Sunday. These include 21 recent deaths, 153 undeclared deaths of the period before June 2021 and 27 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families The State’s active case pool had 72,310 patients on Sunday, with 7,488 persons recovering from the disease on the day. Only 7.2% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals like COVID first line/second line treatment centres Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 1,061 cases, Thiruvananthapuram 1,052, Thrissur 726, Kozhikode 722, Kollam 622, Kottayam 517, Kannur 388, Idukki 384, Wayanad 322, Pathanamthitta 318, Malappuram 314, Alappuzha 303, Palakkad 278 and Kasaragod 117 cases||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7124-new-cases-in-state/article37375393.ece
08 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Equipping children to face the struggles of life||Kanal Innovations, a charitable organisation that works for the empowerment of children, has launched Resilience, a campaign that takes a holistic approach to equipping children to face the struggles of life through right attitude and perception. Paradigm shift The Resilience campaign assumes significance against the backdrop of COVID-19 that has created new challenges and led to a paradigm shift in educational system, digital involvement, and social life. As part of Resilience, Kanal intends to give a new thrust to its ‘Vayanaidam’ initiative that is an amalgam of library and social space whose administration is fully in the hands of children. This increases the self-confidence of children, helps develop leadership qualities, and empowers them to fight social injustice, child marriage, sexual exploitation, drug abuse, and dropping out of school. The most recent ‘Vayanaidam’ will be started at Karimba in Palakkad in association with the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) of the Women and Child Development Department by the end of the month. Karimba has been chosen as the location for Vayanaidam in order to reach out to the community to address various problems there, including the growing menace of substance abuse, says Kanal Innovations director Anson P.D. Alexander. The main hurdle is the absence of a child-friendly reporting mechanism in the area, says Anson. Children need a safe space to report a problem, be it related to drug abuse, child abuse, or any other issue. Conducting awareness classes and expecting children to report problems during these without any assurance of privacy has not been yielding the desired results. While more outreach programmes are needed, instead of public fora, a mechanism that gives children the confidence to report problems in private is needed, says Anson. Awareness programme A Kanal volunteer there says there are not enough awareness programmes targeted at children and adolescents or their sustained follow-up in the panchayat. Children’s general awareness and that of sex education is also poor despite good education levels. Drug abuse continues to be a problem, with students involved in it often dropping out of school. Better outreach programmes targeted at children are needed to increase their confidence and equip them to make social interventions, especially in areas that concern them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/equipping-children-to-face-the-struggles-of-life/article37375579.ece
08 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Congress to stage protest today||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran will inaugurate the statewide ‘Chakra Sthambhana Samaram’ (motor stoppage protest) being held for 15 minutes from 11 a.m. in the city on Monday. In a press statement issued here on Saturday, District Congress Committee president Palode Ravi said the protest being organised to demand the reduction of petroleum prices will be held from the Secretariat to Raj Bhavan. The Congress has appealed to the public to participate in the demonstration by halting their vehicles along the route for 15 minutes. Ambulances He added that arrangements will be made to facilitate passage of ambulances and the public along the route during the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-to-stage-protest-today/article37375568.ece
08 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rainfall likely to strengthen this week||Rainfall is likely to strengthen over Kerala this week under the influence of a cyclonic circulation which persists over the south-east Bay of Bengal, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Seven districts are on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall from Monday to Wednesday: Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Idukki, Palakkad, and Malappuram. The rainfall received by Kerala in October this year was the highest for the month recorded since 1901 in the State. It was also higher than the quantum of rainfall the State normally expects during the entire northeast (NE) monsoon season from October 1 to December 31. This year, the State recorded 589.9 mm in October against a long-period average of 303.4 mm for the month. During the NE monsoon, 491.6 mm is the long-period average.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rainfall-likely-to-strengthen-this-week/article37375388.ece
08 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bipin Rawat to open cOcOn||Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat will inaugurate cOcOn 2021, the annual cyber security and hacking conference organised by the Kerala Police, on November 12. The conference, which is being organised on the theme ‘Improvise, Adapt and Overcome’, will feature two days of pre-conference workshops on November 10 and 11, followed by the main conference on the next two days. Mohamed Al-Kuwaiti, Head of Cyber Security, UAE; Tomasz Zaleski, Chairman of the Royal Office of Sheikh Ahmed Bin Faisal Al Qassimi, UAE; K. Sivan, Chairman, ISRO; and C.P. Gurnani, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Tech Mahindra, are among the keynote speakers who will participate in the event that will be held virtually. Further details can be obtained from the websitehttps://india. c0c0n.org/ 2021/home||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bipin-rawat-to-open-cocon-meet/article37375365.ece
08 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,052 new COVID cases in capital||The district recorded 1,052 COVID-19 cases and 1,989 recoveries as the active caseload stood at 10,179 on Sunday. A test positivity rate of 11.8% was also recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1052-new-covid-cases-in-capital/article37375566.ece
08 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Admission to PhD course in KTU||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has invited applications from SC/ST/EWS candidates for full-time PhD in Engineering/Technology under AICTE Doctoral Fellowship scheme for 2020-21. Three seats, one each for each category, are vacant in the Government Engineering College, Thrissur. Candidates have been asked to register and apply atwww.app.ktu.edu.in. The deadline for submitting application is November 15. The detailed notification and guidelines of the AICTE are available on the university website. Queries regarding the PhD application can be sent tophdadf@ktu.edu.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/admission-to-phd-course-in-ktu/article37375366.ece
08 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One held for murder attempt||The Kazhakuttom police on Sunday recorded the arrest of a 36-year-old man in connection with the alleged attempt made by a gang to murder an autorickshaw driver a few days ago. Sreejith, 36, of Adappukoottanpara in Peroorkada, was arrested for the alleged attack on Sabu of Arattuvazhy near the Arattuvazhy bridge near Kazhakuttom around 10.30 p.m. on November 2. Two others, Deepu and Prasanth, had been arrested some days ago. As many as eight people are suspected to have assaulted the victim when he was passing by the area in his vehicle in connection with a previous enmity, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-held-for-murder-attempt/article37375569.ece
08 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three held with MDMA||The Kadakkavoor police arrested three people with alleged possession of 10 grams of synthetic drug MDMA on Sunday. Those apprehended by the Thiruvananthapuram rural police’s District Anti-Narcotic Special Action Force (DANSAF) were identified as Leon Johnson, 29, of Thumba, Vijeeth alias Saathi Santhosh, 34, of Kazhakuttom, and Vishnu, 21, of Parassala. They were caught near the Kadakkavoor railway station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-held-with-mdma/article37375570.ece
08 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Post-COVID, it’s a pet boom in State||The COVID-19 lockdown and the subsequent isolation felt by people has led to a boom in pet trade. Pet animals and birds are in high demand so much so that people sometimes find it difficult to get their desired ones. Families staying even in apartments are rearing dogs and cats. Parents see pets as a means to engage children who have been stuck at home and deprived of friends and companionship for almost two years. Adults also take refuge in furry friends to ward off lockdown blues. Studies have proved that pets help reduce blood pressure and provide relief from anxiety and depression. “It has been almost two years since I met my friends. School closed in February, 2020, even before our final examination in Class V. Now I am in Class VII,” says Aaron Jojo, a student of Blooming Buds Bethania School, Kunnamkulam. “I have a variety of ornamental fish in three tanks, a pair of love birds and a few cats. They are my play pals now,” says Aaron. Almost all my friends have pets such as dogs, tortoises or rabbits, he adds. It has been reported that the pet industry in the country will have a 13.5% growth in five years from the current annual turnover of $ 450 million. Among pet animals, dogs, especially exotic breeds, are the first choice. Small- and medium-sized breeds such as pugs, beagles, golden retrievers, spitz, Pomeranian and dachshund are in high demand as they can be handled easily by children. Big dogs such as Labrador, German Shepherd, Dobermann, Great Dane and Rottweiler too are on demand. Lots of exotic cats too are being reared in the State. Prices go up Prices have soared as demand increased. Price of puppies has increased three to four times from pre-COVID days. “I have been looking for a beagle puppy for my son for many months. They are in high demand. People are asking around Rs. 40,000 for a puppy,” says Shravan Paul of Thoyakavu. Fostering and adoptions of dogs too have increased. But people are still going for exotic breeds. There are few takers for abandoned pups of local breeds, say animal organisations. Ornamental birds, including parrots, cockatiel, budgerigar, cockatoos, love birds, finches, columbidae, canary, parakeets, domestic fowls and ducks too have many takers. Ornamental fish rearing is also acquiring momentum in the State. The State is witnessing a rapid growth in pet industry and peripherals, including pet foods, accessories, toys, aquarium, plants, pet cages, medicines, nutraceuticals, cosmetics, soaps, shampoos, pet cloths and vaccines. During the post-COVID-19 phase, more than a dozen super-specialty pet clinics and advanced laboratories were established in the State. Lot of entrepreneurs, including veterinary graduates, are involved in establishing these facilities, says T.P. Sethumadhavan, former director, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University. “The State is facing a shortage of veterinarians, laboratory technicians and pet parlour technicians to meet the unprecedented growth in the sector,” he says. Job opportunities Veterinary nursing is emerging as a potential sector that can create a lot of employment potential. Several State Governments are in the process of establishing veterinary nursing schools similar to those in developed countries. Pet analytics, pet mobile apps, publications, online portals, insurance, cosmetic surgeries, ophthalmology and dentistry are also emerging as potential areas in the sector, says Dr. Sethumadhavan. Also, the number of students pursuing veterinary medicine programmes in the country and abroad are on the rise. Several students opt for veterinary science over medical or dental programmes, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/post-covid-a-pet-boom-in-state/article37375416.ece
08 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Call for shift in development concepts||Despite frequent natural calamities and climate change, we are not ready to change development plans that destabilise the environmental balance, says T.V. Sajeev, scientist, Kerala Forest Research Institute. Mr. Sajeev was delivering the keynote address at the Green Kerala Summit organised by the Kerala State Sunni Students Federation (SSF ) State committee at the Thrissur Press Club Hall on Sunday.  “Worse scenarios and consequences are waiting us unless we make a paradigm shift in the traditional development concepts. Singapore, a richer country than India, turned down high-speed rail because it was not economically viable. We need to rethink on the [SilverLine] project. Kerala needs steps for environment conservation to reduce impact of natural disasters,” he said. Environmental activist K. Sahadevan, River Research Center director S.P. Ravi and Keraleeyam Magazine editor S. Sarath spoke on Environmental Activism, Environmental Rejuvenation, Environmental Issues and Inconsistencies in Media Approaches. SSF State secretary K.B. Basheer presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-shift-in-development-concepts/article37375512.ece
08 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU student found dead||Mahesh, 20, a second year student of the Kerala Agricultural University, Mannuthy, was found dead in the hostel on Sunday. He hailed from Chittur. Though he was rushed to the Thrissur General Hospital, doctors declared him brought dead, the police said. The SFI has sought a probe into the death. The forum alleged that he killed himself after being ragged. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA — 1056, 0471-2552056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kau-student-found-dead/article37375387.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rain fallout||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-fallout/article37375429.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Trial run||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trial-run/article37375431.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Centre of attraction||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-of-attraction/article37375390.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Unending woes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/unending-woes/article37375514.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Watch out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/watch-out/article37375577.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Remembering a veteran||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remembering-a-veteran/article37375418.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Buzz is back||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/buzz-is-back/article37375356.ece
08 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die as van carrying 24 labourers overturns||Two labourers were killed and eight others were grievously injured when a goods van carrying 24 agricultural labourers from Akkannapalli in Tadipatri mandal to a cotton field overturned at Chukkaluru on Sunday morning. Tadipatri Rural Circle Inspector V. Chinna Peddaiah said that the accident occurred when the driver reportedly lost control over the vehicle. The deceased have been identified as Kasindi(35) and Lakshmi Devi(32). While Kasindi died on the spot, Lakhsmi succumbed to her injuries while being treated at the Government General Hospital in Anantapur. Two women, who suffered serious injuries, are being treated at Anantapur and Kurnool GGHs and their condition is said to be serious. Five others being treated at Anantapur GGH are out of danger, while fifteen received minor injuries, doctors said. Anantapur Revenue Divisional Officer Madhusudhan met all the passengers and made arrangements to shift the grievously injured to Kurnool for better medical care. Special drive launched Meanwhile, when asked about the overloading of autorickshaws and non-passenger vehicles, Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli said that the police on Sunday launched a special drive to check the spate of accidents in the district. In the hurriedly-launched initiative, the police stopped several autorickshaws and vans and made the passengers alight. Deputy Transport Commissioner N. Sivaram Prasad said that travelling in such Light Goods Vehicles was not allowed, a farmer had hired the vehicle for transporting farm labourers. A case will be booked against the vehicle owner, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-die-as-van-carrying-24-labourers-overturns/article37374997.ece
08 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmer dies of electric shock in farm||A tenant farmer, Bala Gangulappa(51), was electrocuted when he tried to change the fuse wire of the motor power connection in his farm on Saturday night at Dommipalli, near Puttaparthi. When Gangulappa did not return home till late in the night, his family members went to the field to look for him and found him dead near the fuse box. Gangulappa had taken one acre on tenancy and was cultivating leafy vegetables. Telugu Desam Party leader and former Puttaparthi MLA Palle Raghunatha Reddy consoled the family members and demanded that the State government provide a compensation of Rs. 20 lakh to the farmer’s family and a job to a dependent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmer-dies-of-electric-shock-in-farm/article37375059.ece
08 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Actor Suman bats for BC caste census||Actor Suman on Sunday urged the Centre not to delay the caste-wise census that would benefit the BCs in the country. Mr. Suman launched a 11-km padayatra to the Varasidhi Vinayaka Swamy temple at Kanipakam after garlanding the statue of Jyotirao Phule here. Activists of various BC associations participated. Addressing the media, Mr. Suman said though the BCs had been seeking caste-wise census for several years, the Centre ignored it. “The associations have so far remained peaceful in their protests. If the apathy continues, they will not hesitate to take up violent methods,” he said, and added that a protest to storm the Parliament was on the cards. Later, Mr. Suman worshipped at the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actor-suman-bats-for-bc-caste-census/article37375497.ece
08 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Declaration of 40 tribal habitations as Scheduled Area hangs in balance||On November 4, Boosani Balaraju, a youth hailing from the Konda Reddy tribe, was perplexed to know about the cancellation of the grama sabha scheduled to be organised the following day on the proposal to declare 40 tribal habitations as Scheduled Area. Like Mr. Balaraju, thousands of tribal people had a reason to be vexed with the officials, who postponed the grama sabha four times since August. Meanwhile, the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Rampachodavaram Project Officer C.V. Praveen Adhithya had issued a fresh notification on November 5 calling for the conduct of the grama sabha on November 19. In 2019, the government had proposed to declare 554 tribal habitations located in the non-Scheduled Area as Scheduled Area in the five districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari. In East Godavari district alone, as many as 56 habitations spread over 10 grama panchayats in Shankavaram, Prathipadu, and Rowthulapudi mandals are proposed to be conferred Scheduled Area status, which brings them under the purview of the ITDA. The 10 grama panchayats have a population of nearly 25,000 belonging to four tribes – Konda Reddy (PVTG), Konda Kammara, Manne Dora, and Konda Dora. Since the late 1970s, there has been a demand to declare the area as ‘Scheduled Area’. Unless the grama panchayats are declared so, the tribal people are not entitled to claim any benefits from the ITDA. “The ITDA has directed us to conduct the grama sabha for the 40 habitations within four days of issuing notice. We could not conduct it on November 5 as no stakeholder could prepare for it at such short notice,” said East Godavari District Panchayat Officer S.V. Nageswar Naik. As per the letter dated November 1 (a copy of which is with The Hindu ), Mr. Praveen Adhithya had directed the DPO and the revenue officials to conduct the grama sabha for the 40 tribal habitations within four days (November 5). It is alleged that non-cooperation between the ITDA and district officials is leading to inordinate delay in the conduct of the grama sabha. As a result, there is no clarity on the proposal till date. The proposal, it is said, will have to be discussed in the State-level meeting of the Tribal Welfare Department on November 9 in Vijayawada. “Last week, a grama sabha was held in Velangi panchayat. It was to lease out the hill, Nagulakonda, for laterite mining. None bothered about us for decades, but the officials performed their duty when it came to leasing out the hill,” said Mr. Balaraju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/declaration-of-40-tribal-habitations-as-scheduled-area-hangs-in-balance/article37375499.ece
08 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Record rice loading at port||An export company has claimed record loading of 5,431 metric tonnes of rice within 24 hours at the Kakinada deep seaport on Sunday. Earlier, the same company, Sarala Foods Private Limited (SFPL) created a record by loading 5,200 metric tonnes of rice in a day. Mr. Vinod Agarwal of the company said the rice was loaded to MV ILIA, which arrived at the deep seaport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/record-rice-loading-at-port/article37375537.ece
08 November 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Order to T.N. to fell trees frozen: Kerala||The State Government has frozen the order granting permission to Tamil Nadu to fell trees for strengthening the baby dam at Mullaperiyar. The order goes against the declared stand of the State Government that a new dam should be constructed in place of the ageing one. The new order freezing the permission should be sent to all those who were given the copy of the earlier order allowing axing of trees, Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran said here on Sunday. The order allowing Tamil Nadu to cut the trees had caught the State Government off guard. It was reportedly after Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin expressed his gratitude to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for allowing one of the long-standing demands of Tamil Nadu that the Kerala Government came to know about the permission. “I understand that the Kerala Chief Minister came to know about the issue when he received a thanksgiving note from Mr. Stalin,” Mr. Saseendran told media persons in Kochi. “To the best of my knowledge, neither the Chief Minister nor his office was in the know of things. The Chief Minister suggested that the issue should be handled carefully,” Mr. Saseendran said. The controversy over the order is likely to resonate in the Assembly on Monday. The Opposition parties will up the ante against the Government. Earlier in the day, Mr. Saseendran sought an explanation from the Chief Wildlife Warden, Kerala, who had issued the permission for tree felling. The official stated that he had only implemented the decision taken at a meeting convened by Additional Chief Secretary T.K. Jose following an earlier direction from the Supreme Court. “Even if the decision was taken following the court order, the matter should have been discussed with the State Government, given the nature of the issue involved. As a first step, the Government has frozen the permission. The other steps, including a probe or action against the erring officials, will be taken later,” Mr. Saseendran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/order-to-tn-to-fell-trees-frozen-kerala/article37375002.ece
08 November 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constable, driver held for ‘smuggling liquor’||The Kurnool Special Enforcement Bureau Panchalingala Check-Post sleuths headed by circle inspector Manjula nabbed a constable of the 2nd Battalion of the AP Special Police, Kurnool, along with the driver of a police vehicle in which they were smuggling liquor from Hyderabad. The SEB officials said that the constable M. Srinivas Rao and the driver Sivaramudu were arrested and and sent in remand. The vehicle was bringing medicines for the unit hospital from Hyderabad, but the accompanying constable and driver bought 70 bottles of liquor in two cases and hid them under the drugs. The police initiated the action following a tip-off by the Telangana police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/constable-driver-held-for-smuggling-liquor/article37375060.ece
08 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rejection of papers sparks tension in Nellore||Tension gripped Ramesh Reddy Nagar in the city on Sunday as activists of the ruling YSR Congress Party and the Opposition Telugu Desam party came near to blows following the rejection of the nomination papers of some opposition party candidates filed for the Nellore Municipal Corporation polls during scrutiny by the authorities. Amid incessant rain, the supporters of Nellore Rural MLA Kotamreddy Sridhar Reddy and TDP leaders Beeda Ravichandra and Abdul Azeez, former Mayor, had a wordy duel after the nomination papers of some TDP candidates were not found in order. Police intervened and restored order. Municipal Commissioner K. Dinesh Kumar said 38 candidates withdrew their nominations, including 22 dummy candidates of the YSRCP, six from the TDP and two each from the Jana Sena Party and the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rejection-of-papers-sparks-tension-in-nellore/article37375064.ece
08 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ryots’ maha padayatra draws crowds||Amid beefed up security, the ‘court to temple’ Maha Padayatra by farmers from Amaravati meandered through the dusty lanes of villages in the Krishna western delta up to Inkollu in Prakasam district on Sunday even as the police have imposed curbs to ensure that the conditions laid out by the High Court are followed. Thousands of farmers as also the activists of opposition parties, including the TDP and the CPI and CPI (M), joined the farmers who set out from Thullur in Guntur district on November 1 on a 45-day walkathon to Tirumala with the demand that the government should not shift the capital to Visakhapatnam as part of its ‘three capitals’ proposal. Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti leaders A. Siva Reddy and G. Tirupati Rao led the farmers who along with hundreds of local farmers from Martur, Karamchedu, Nuthalapadu and other villages broke coconuts in front of the Venkateswara Swamy ratham (chariot) which formed part of the yatra and performed ‘harati’ seeking divine intervention. The local farmers showered flower petals on the 150-plus farmers from Amaravati and wished that their sacrifices would not go waste. Protest Meanwhile, a group of farmers staged a protest at Nuthalapadu for some time as police put barricades on roads connecting Parchur and Inkollu to maintain law and order as crowds swelled through the day. Amaravati farmer leaders including P. Sudhakara Rao, Rayapati Sailaja and K. Sirisha denied any violation of the High Court directions and disowned responsibility for the local farmers joining the padayatra. Walking along with farmers, TDP MLA from Parchur Yeluri Sambasiva Rao alleged that the YSR Congress Party government was in jitters following the tremendous response to the farmers’ walkathon in the district and was creating hurdles through the police. Plea against yatra On the other hand, YSRCP MLA from Santhanuthalapadu T.J.R. Sudhakar Babu urged Prakasam Collector Pravin Kumar and SP Malika Garg not to allow the padayatra which was scheduled to enter the Assembly segment on November 9, in view of the local body elections in Chadalavada. SP Malika Garg exhorted farmers to strictly adhere to the conditions put by the High Court and the Director General of Police while participating in the padayatra, and said the police did not have the intention to create obstacles for them as had been alleged in some sections of the media. “The Police Department is taking all measures to ensure that the yatra is conducted as per the High Court’s guidelines, while ensuring the maintenance of law and order,” she explained, adding that the large number of people and vehicles led to a chaotic situation leading to severe disruption in traffic and two cases were registered and notices served to organisers after a police constable was assaulted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-padayatra-draws-crowds-in-prakasam/article37375057.ece
08 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Raghunadha Babu allays fears over move to scrap Tobacco Board||Tobacco Board Chairman Y. Raghunadha Babu has allayed the fears of the farmers over the reported move of the Union government to scrap the board. Taking a representation from the growers from Nellore and Prakasam districts here on Sunday, Mr. Raghunadha Babu said, “There is no need for such an apprehension. The Tobacco Board will continue to take care of the farmers’ interests.” He also assured the farmers of taking to the notice of the Centre their anguish on the proposal to introduce contract farming in the tobacco sector. ‘Ensure quality’ Expressing concern over the steady decline in the export of FCV tobacco, Mr. Raghunadha Babu exhorted the farmers to produce quality crop at a reduced cost to realise better price in the global market. “The farmers are lagging behind their counterparts in other countries,” he said, and urged them to imbibe latest agronomic practices, including farm mechanisation, on a par with international standards to produce better quality crop with higher weight and, in turn, get a good price for the produce. The Tobacco Board, in collaboration with the Central Tobacco Research Institute (CTRI), would come up with an action plan to make tobacco cultivation profitable on the one hand and step up tobacco exports in a big way, he said. Declining demand He also underscored the need for the farmers to move out to alternative crops in view of the decreasing demand for tobacco in the global market. Earlier, farmer leaders from 11 Southern Light Soil (SLS) and Southern Black Soil (SBS) auction platforms urged Mr. Raghunadha Babu to use his good offices with the Centre to drop the move to introduce contract farming. They pointed that the farmers had a very bad experience before the constitution of the commodity board when private players ruled the roost. Farmers then had suffered because of underweighment and delay in payments. There were instances of traders fleeing without making payments to the farmers in the wake of adverse global market conditions, the farmers said. Experiences of their counterparts in African countries, where contract farming was introduced, were not at all positive, the growers asserted. There were instances of farmers caught in a debt trap and turning into labourers after losing their land holdings there, they added. The reported move to introduce contract farming had come in the wake of the enactment of the farm laws, which included the one to facilitate contract farming, and with a view to stepping up export of tobacco and tobacco products that had declined from $661.59 in 2015-16 to $ 519.71 during last fiscal, the growers said. At present, India is viewed as an opportunity market by the international players, and the move could facilitate FDI in the sector in a big way and turn India into a definite market. IPS to improve yield Meanwhile, Tobacco Board sources said the Centre mulled Integrated Production System (IPS) with a view to improving yield and quality. “Contract farming is part of the IPS,” the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/raghunadha-babu-allays-fears-over-move-to-scrap-tobacco-board/article37375501.ece
08 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to Acharya N.G. Ranga||Glowing tributes were paid to the founder of the Kisan movement Acharya N.G. Ranga on his 121st birth anniversary here on Sunday. Tobacco Board Chairman Y. Raghunath Babu led the admirers in paying floral tributes to Prof. Ranga who had dedicated his life to the farmers’ cause after his education in England, at Ranga Bhavan here. He had set up a political school for the first time in the country to train upcoming politicians cutting across party lines and former Chief Minister Marri Chenna Reddy was one of the notable products of the political school. He had created a record of sorts with his long innings in Parliament and entered the Guinness book of records, recalled N.G. Ranga Kisan Samastha secretary Ch. Seshaiah. Progressive woman farmer Gullapalli Sujata was felicitated on the occasion for promoting organic farming in and around Peddarikatla, near Podili in Prakasam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/glowing-tributes-paid-to-acharya-ng-ranga/article37375063.ece
08 November 2021||PALAKKAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||U.P. man kills kin, hurts another||A man from Uttar Pradesh was killed and another injured in an alleged attack over a family property dispute at Mundur in Palakkad, Kerala, on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Wasim, 25, from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh. His friend Sarfaz, 24, was injured in the attack. The police said they were attacked by Wajid, a relative of Wasim. Their family had clashed in Uttar Pradesh a few days ago over a property dispute, the police added. After the attack, Wajid tried to end his life..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/up-man-kills-kin-hurts-another/article37374992.ece
08 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sabarimala roads to be restored by November 12||With the annual pilgrimage season at Sabarimala on its door steps, the State will complete restoration and repair of all roads within the pilgrimage circuit by November 12, Public Works Minister P.A. Mohammad Riyas has said. Addressing a meeting to review the damages assessed to the Sabarimala roads during the monsoon, Minister said a working calendar for restoration of the roads would be prepared, based on which the works from January 15 to May 15 next year would be evaluated. Progressing fast Regarding the Punalur-Muvattupuzha road, works on the Konni-Placheri reach as well as the Punalur-Konni reach were progressing fast. Instructions have been issued to speed up the works so as to facilitate the movement of pilgrims. The Mannarkulanji-Chalakkayam route, which is the biggest pilgrimage route, and the Ranni-Cherukolpuzha Thiruvabharana road too will be upgraded. Works on the NH Roads will be completed in five days. According to Mr. Riyas, the heavy rainfall activity in Pathanamathitta, which received 169% more rainfall this year, has hampered the works including tarring. He attributed the damaged condition of the roads in Sabarimala circuit primarily to heavy rains and flash floods. Report Based on a report submitted by the special team led by Deputy Secretary Shriram Samba Siva Rao, which evaluated the works on the Sabarimala roads, inspections were also carried out. The team had evaluated the works by classifying the road works into three different categories namely the works completed, under completion, and those experiencing problems over time. Examinations will be held as to whether the activities including digging of roads are being carried out in compliance with the directions. Strict action will be taken in case of violation of norms. Health Minister Veena George, District Collectors from the Idukky, Kottayam and Pathanamathitta districts, and elected representatives were also present. Attending a review meeting here the other day, the Health Minister had directed all departments to complete the preparations for Sabarimala season by November 10. In view of a higher number of pilgrims slated to visit the temple this season, plans are afoot to install water kiosks along the trekking route. The Minister also advised the pilgrims to consider bringing steel tumblers on their own for drinking water. An RT lamp and antigen test lab will be set up at Nilackal. RT-PCR kiosks will be set up at Chengannur, Kottayam and Thiruvalla railway stations and at important stations in the district. Accommodation to the Travancore Devaswom Board will be provided from November 8 onwards. Manufacturing of the temple offerings will begin three days later.  The number of pilgrims slated to visit the temple this season is expected to be more than last year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sabarimala-roads-to-be-restored-by-november-12/article37375003.ece
08 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY/Vellore,ANDHRA PRADESH||Holiday for schools in Puducherry on Nov. 8, 9||The government has declared Monday and Tuesday holidays for all schools in Puducherry and Karaikal. An order issued by V.G. Sivagami, Joint Director of the Education Department, said, “Due to inclement weather and incessant rain, holiday has been declared for Class 9 to 12 on Monday and Tuesday in the Puducherry and Karaikal regions.” Date later The order stated that the reopening of schools for Classes 1-8 on Monday had been postponed. A fresh date would be announced later. Flood alert was issued for 20 low-level villages along the Mordhana river in Gudiyatham taluk of Vellore district on Sunday as excess rainwater was discharged from the reservoir after it reached its capacity. A round-the-clock special desk with helpline numbers (1077 and 0416-2258016; and WhatsApp 9384056214) to complain about rain-related problems and emergencies has been opened at the Collectorate in Vellore. At the same time, farmers are hopeful of a good harvest.  The order stated that the reopening of schools for Classes 1-8 on Monday had been postponed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/holiday-for-schools-in-puducherry-on-nov-8-9/article37375165.ece
08 November 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pitchuka Lanka to get Rs. 250 cr. tourism resort under PPP mode||The Andhra Pradesh Tourism Department is set to construct a resort at Pitchuka Lanka, an island in the Godavari river, and home of the blackbuck, in East Godavari district. The Indian antelope, or the blackbuck, or the antilope cervicapra ) thrives on the island near the Sir Arthur Cotton barrage and is facing a threat due to poaching. In 2017, three blackbucks have been found killed on the island.Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said the Tourism Department was all set to construct a resort at a cost of Rs. 250 crore in a public-private partnership (PPP) mode on the islandas part of the State Government’s new investor-friendly policy. On the tourism projects in Visakhapatnam, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said a new jetty was being constructed for tourism purposes in the port city. Floating restaurant Mr. Srinivasa Rao made the announcements on Sunday morning while inaugurating a floating restaurant on the Godavari at the Padmavathi ghat here. The 95-seat capacity restaurant has been developed at a cost of Rs. 70 lakh. “We are exploring the possibility of running floating restaurants in other places too. The proposals for renovation and beautification of the Havelock bridge are being examined,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao. Local MP Margani Bharat appealed to the Minister to speed up the tourism projects in the city. Boats flagged off Earlier, the Tourism Minister flagged off the AP Tourism Development Corporation’s boats at Gandi Posamma point in Rampa agency. “The one-day boat trip begins at Gandi Posamma, covers Papikonda hill range and Perantalapalli and concludes by evening. Now, the boat services are under the watch of the new safety monitoring system,” said Mr. Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pitchuka-lanka-to-get-resort/article37375008.ece
08 November 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe sought into Dalit girl’s suicide||Andhra Pradesh Dalit Mahasabha State president Bokarana Narayana Rao and Srikakulam district secretary Majji Ganapati on Sunday sought a high-level inquiry into the suicide of Dalit girl Rokoti Pagadalamma, who was reportedly harassed by her boyfriend Dabbada Hareesh. Leaders of the Dalit Maha Sabha visited the house of Pagadalamma in Kottacheliganivalasa village of Regidi Amadalavalasa mandal and enquired about the incidents that made her to take the extreme step. Father of the victim R. Ramarao alleged that his daughter had committed suicide on October 30 after the accused Hareesh harassed her by sending obscene pictures which were reportedly taken while moving with her closely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-sought-into-dalit-girls-suicide/article37375541.ece
08 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fresh infighting breaks out within Congress in Kerala||The Congress attempt to crack the whip on leaders savaging each other in public seemed to have suffered a setback on Sunday with party veteran V.M. Sudheeran launching a stunning broadside against Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran. In an interview to a private television news channel, the former KPCC president accused the incumbent of fascist and authoritarian tendencies. K.S. Brigade Mr. Sudheeran, the quarry of vicious attacks by Mr. Sudhakaran supporters on social media, targeted the so-called ‘K.S. Brigade.’ He said the group had routinely disparaged those who criticised the KPCC leadership. Moreover, the fellowship had a pronounced fascist character alien to the Congress culture. He said Congress activists were motivated by principles of equality and social justice. Authoritarian personality cults had no place in the organisation. In Kannur, another former KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran launched a veiled attack against the KPCC leadership. He lamented the lack of consultations and consensus in the party. Revenge attack Persons close to Mr. Sudhakaran said the KPCC viewed Mr. Sudheeran’s averments as that of an embittered outlier out for revenge against the current disposition for not having considered the latter’s nominee for KPCC presidentship. Nevertheless, the current outburst in the party comes as it is preparing for organisational elections. The Congress has commenced a membership drive, which will end in February 2022. The AICC will announce a returning officer for Kerala, signalling the start of the organisational elections right from booth president to KPCC president. Mr. Sudhakaran is a likely candidate for the president’s post. Mr. Ramachandran had pointedly questioned the need to reorganise the KPCC ahead of organisational elections. Such a move lacked political propriety, he said. Mr. Ramachandran appeared to echo the apprehension among a set of leaders that a reorganisation on the eve of KPCC elections would not augur well for a free and fair membership drive and poll process. The KPCC has said such fears were misplaced. 14 DCC presidents had demanded organisational elections. The AICC controlled the process. There was no question of the organisation stacking the decks favouring one KPCC presidential candidate or another.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fresh-infighting-breaks-out-within-congress-in-kerala/article37375006.ece
08 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong., BJP attack Govt. on tree felling order||The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) appeared poised to put the Left Democratic Front (LDF) Government in the dock on the charge of not protecting the State’s interests concerning the safety of the 135-year-old Mullaperiyar dam. Both parties saw no truth in the Government’s statement that a forest official, without the consent or knowledge of the political executive, had allowed Tamil Nadu to fell trees near the baby dam to fortify the ageing barrier. They said such a move would help Tamil Nadu raise the water level in Mullaperiyar to a ‘perilous’ 152 feet, thus endangering 30 lakh people in five districts downstream from the dam. Protests planned Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had sacrificed the safety of the Mullaperiyar dam on the altar of political expediency. Mr. Vijayan had bowed to Tamil Nadu’s interests in Mullaperiyar, with the DMK being an ally of the CPI(M). The political leadership could not pass the buck to the bureaucracy. The Congress planned to raise the issue in the Assembly and outside. The BJP is also planning protests on the latest turn in the issue. BJP State president K. Surendran said the LDF Government was unprepared, as always, in protecting the State’s interests. Forest Minister A.K. Saseedran and the Chief Minister’s Office were feigning surprise about the order. Their excuses sounded hollow. Both Mr. Sudhakaran and Mr. Surendran demanded a judicial inquiry into the incident. The order also caused ripples inside the LDF. Top leaders tried devise a floor strategy to ‘save face’ in the Assembly and blunt the Opposition’s campaign outside. CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran said Mullaperiyar was primarily a political issue involving two States. No bureaucrat could act independently in the matter. MP’s stance Dean Kuriakose, Idukki MP, said Tamil Nadu Ministers, on a visit to the dam, had sought permission for cutting the trees, and the Kerala Government readily gave it. Mr. Kuriakose said the Government was hiding facts regarding an important issue affecting the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-bjp-attack-govt-on-tree-felling-order/article37375004.ece
08 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SZC meeting a historic event: Minister||The 29th Southern Zonal Council (SZC) meeting slated to be held here on November 14 will not only become a historic event but also a major milestone for the government, Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development P. Ramachandra Reddy has said. Accompanied by Secretary to Government L. Premchandra Reddy, Inter-State Zonal Council Joint Secretary Vikrant Patil, Collector M. Hari Narayanan and others, the Minister inspected the convention hall at The Taj, the venue chosen for the event, and gave suggestions to ensure coordination. “Since Andhra Pradesh is hosting the event, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has taken it as a prestigious assignment,” he said, and directed the officials to stick to protocol in view of the visit of the Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, Puducherry and the Lieutenant Governors of Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep for the meeting. Mr. Premchandra Reddy and Mr. Hari Narayanan explained with the help of a presentation the drafting of officers on special duties for specific tasks at the airport, guest houses, security and control rooms. Satyavedu MLA K. Adimoolam, Protocol Director Balasubramanyam Reddy, Superintendent of Police Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu, MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha, Joint Collectors Raja Babu (Revenue), S. Venkateswar (Housing) and S. Rajasekhar (Welfare) were among others who were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/szc-meeting-a-historic-event-minister/article37375504.ece
08 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seema zonal committee of APCCIF takes charge||The Rayalaseema zonal committee of Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation (APCCIF) was formally sworn in at a function here on Sunday, with Vijayakumar Reddy (Kurnool) as zonal Chairman, Ranga Reddy (Anantapur) as Vice-Chairman and K. Raghurami Reddy (Tirupati) as Director among other office-bearers. The event was held in the presence of State president Pyda Krishna Prasad, president-elect Potluri Bhaskar Rao, vice-president K.V. Choudary, secretary B. Rajasekhar, Tirupati Chamber of Commerce president A. Manjunath and a galaxy of traders and industrialists. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Manjunath expressed concern at the dwindling industrial development in the backward region. Though the SEZ in Chittoor district is abuzz with activity, it is neither helpful to the region by way of employment nor in terms of tax collection, he lamented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seema-zonal-committee-of-apccif-takes-charge/article37375065.ece
08 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||State will purchase 7,000 MW solar power from SECI: Energy Secretary||Energy Secretary N. Srikant announced the government’s decision to buy 7,000 MW solar power in three phases from the Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) from the year 2024 at Rs. 2.49 per unit upon considering it as a better, cost-effective option when compared to various factors, mainly including the investment entailed by the projects planned to be set up by the A.P. Green Energy Corporation Limited (APGECL) within the State. Supply to farmers Accordingly, the APGECL has been instructed not to go ahead with the first phase of infrastructure augmentation required for 10,000 MW capacity addition, for which a sum of nearly Rs. 2,261 crore was sanctioned last year, and to utilise the land in its possession for any other purposes required by the government. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Mr. Srikant said the government conceived the 10,000-MW solar power capacity addition to supply to 18.37 lakh agricultural consumers for nine hours during daytime for a period of 25 years, and it had two options on hand: generating power within Andhra Pradesh or purchasing it from States such as Rajasthan, where solar irradiation was the highest, through the SECI’s manufacturing-linked tendering system, which had many advantages than the first one. The State government was at present procuring power, predominantly thermal, from the Discoms at Rs. 4.36 per unit (and supplying it to the farmers free of cost) against the low price being realised on solar power through the SECI, he said. The objective of the 10,000 MW solar power generation was to bring down the average power purchase cost from the above rate. ‘Major incentive’ A major incentive for the State to go for power purchase through the SECI was the waiver of inter-State charges on transmission of power from projects outside the State commissioned before June 30, 2023, which amounts to about Rs. 1,000 crore per annum. Mr. Srikant further said since the power was being purchased from the SECI, there was no need to go for reverse tendering, or judicial preview, and that the proposals were being duly submitted to the A.P. Electricity Regulatory Commission. The government and the SECI would sign the PPA only after the project gets the APERC nod, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-will-purchase-7000-mw-solar-power-from-seci-energy-secretary/article37375494.ece
08 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why can’t State cut VAT on petro products, asks BJP||BJP State president Somu Veerraju said on Sunday that the government’s financial position was in shambles. Instead of taking the necessary course corrections, it resorted to mud-slinging on the Centre, which was evident from the “false claims” made by it with regard to VAT on petrol and diesel, among other things, Mr. Veerraju said while addressing the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) State office- bearers meeting here. He insisted that the State government had the scope to reduce the local tax on petrol and diesel in the wake of the Centre effecting a cut in the excise duty, but it cited various excuses for not doing a thing that was in its domain. Mr. Veerraju questioned what prevented the Andhra Pradesh government from bringing down the VAT on petrol and diesel when several States did so, and took objection to the “spreading of lies” by the State on the matter. He asserted that the Centre had come to the rescue of A.P. during the COVID-19 crisis and at other times, but the State had been on the job of tarnishing the Central government’s image right from the day it had come to power. The YSRCP had cheated the people by promising at the time of elections that it would strive to secure Special Category Status (SCS) and to carry the capital project forward, and completely ignoring them later, he alleged. He said the National Highway network in Andhra Pradesh was strengthened by the Centre, which had given Rs. 2,500 crore for the development of Amaravati and facilitated the sanction of loans amounting to Rs. 4,700 crore. The State government owed an explanation for all its failures, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-cant-state-cut-vat-on-petro-products-asks-bjp/article37375496.ece
08 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Citing COVID-19 an alibi: Lokesh||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh has criticised the State government for not reducing the prices of petrol and diesel though several States have done so taking a cue from the Centre’s decision to cut excise duties on fuels. In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Lokesh said Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy might be the only Chief Minister in the country to have given multi-crore advertisements on the issue without reducing the much-needed financial burden on the people. “It is an attempt to make people believe that the government is right. The false advertisements have backfired. Instead of issuing fake advertisements, the Chief Minister should cut the fuel rates immediately,” Mr. Lokesh demanded. He demanded that the Chief Minister explain why there was a huge difference in the fuel rates prevailing in A.P. and other States. “Petrol costs Rs. 110.35 per litre in Andhra Pradesh against Rs. 100.58 in Karnataka, Rs. 104 in Odisha, Rs. 105 in Tamil Nadu and Rs. 106 in Kerala. The diesel price in Andhra Pradesh is Rs. 96.44 against Rs. 85.01 in Karnataka,” Mr. Lokesh said, and lashed out at the Chief Minister for citing COVID-19 as an alibi for not reducing the fuel prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citing-covid-19-an-alibi-lokesh/article37375506.ece
08 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||9,266 kg ganja seized in a week in State||The police, in association with the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), the Government Railway Police (GRP) and the Railway Protection Force (RPF) conducted raids at bus and railway stations across the State and seized 9,266 kg of ganja valued at about Rs. 10 crore. The raids were conducted last week as part of ‘Operation Parivarthana’. In all, 283 cases were registered and 763 ‘smugglers’ were arrested, the SEB officials said. The searches were conducted in many moving trains and buses, goods transport vehicles at toll gates and other public transport vehicles which led to the seizure of 179 vehicles, a release said on Sunday. At Machilipatnam, a team led by SP Siddharth Kaushal conducted searches on the Machilipatnam-Secunderabad train with the help of sniffer dog squads. Mr. Siddharth said that 16 cases had been registered against ganja smugglers in the last three days and 28 persons were arrested. In West Godavari district, police and SEB officials seized 70 kg of ganja from one Akshay Thai Varambil, at Kalaparru toll plaza. The accused was smuggling the contraband from Visakhapatnam to Kerala in a car with a fake number plate, said SP Rahul Dev Sharma. He was taken into custody and a case registered, said SEB ASP C. Jayarama Raju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9266-kg-ganja-seized-in-a-week-in-state/article37375591.ece
08 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Creativity on display at LIT FLEA-2021||LIT FLEA-2021 exhibition, aimed at bringing home-grown businesses into limelight, attracted many visitors on Sunday. Many students and entrepreneurs, who launched start-up companies and were running businesses on social media platforms, have set up stalls in the exhibition, said event organiser Pridhvi. About 50 stalls displayed the home-made products such as interior decoration material, clothes, embroidery material, paintings, jewelry, baked items and desserts, skin care products, hair accessories et al. Theme “The theme of the two-day expo is to create a platform for the young entrepreneurs and connect them to various companies across the globe. During the pandemic, thousands of budding entrepreneurs and artisans were marketing their products online,” said event coordinator Bhavani. A pet show organised at the exhibition enthralled the visitors. More than 50 dogs of different breeds participated in the show.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/creativity-on-display-at-lit-flea-2021/article37375593.ece
08 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gentle exercise in nature to fight cancer||A diverse crowd comprising physicians, cancer survivors, runners, swimmers, civil servants, police personnel and school students with their parents in tow, participated in ‘Cancer 5K Walk/Run in Nature’, organised by members of the Amaravati Walkers and Runners’ Association (AWARA) on the Krishna river bank, in the early hours of Sunday. The association has been organising nature camp activities for children and their parents every Sunday for the last five years. This year, it was a walk to highlight the value and effectiveness of gentle exercise in nature, particularly for victims of cancer pain. In the precincts of the ‘edible park’ created by the association members opposite Kondaveeti Vaagu flood diversion project on the river bank, during the COVID-19-induced lockdowns, surgeon Dr. Devendra Singh flagged off the programme that consisted of a walk, a talk, a swim and a hum of songs sung by schoolchildren. Students from Aravinda High School and Delhi Public School participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gentle-exercise-in-nature-to-fight-cancer/article37375595.ece
08 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bhavani Deeksha from November 15||Sri Durga Malleswaraswamyvarla Devasthanam on Sunday released a calendar and has made elaborate arrangements for Bhavani Deeksha Mahotsavams beginning on November 15. Arrangements for shower baths at Sitammavari paadalu, laddu counters at Kanaka Durga Nagar, free prasadam counters were being made. Addressing a press conference on Sunday, the devasthanam Trust chairman Pyla Somi Naidu, executive officer Bramaramba and others said that the ‘Bhavani mala dharana’ would commence on November 15 and end on November 19 for mandala deeksha. Similarly, for artha mandala deeksha, the mala dharana would be from December 5 to 9. The deeksha viramana (relinquishment of deeksha) would be from December 25 to 29, they said. The EO said that giri pradakshina and chandi homam would be held from December 25 to 29. Maha poornahuti would be performed on December 29 at 10.30 a.m. while kalasa jyothi mahotsavam would be organised from Sivarama Kshetram at Satyanarayanapuram to the temple on December 18 at 6.30 p.m. Online tickets The devotees would have to follow the COVID guidelines and purchase tickets online by visiting the website https://aptemples.ap.gov.in. Both free darshan and Rs. 100 tickets would be issued online. Those without tickets would not be allowed for darshan. The Devasthanam has been arranging queue lines from Vinayaka temple on Canal Road to the Kanaka Durga temple at Indrakeeladri. The temple would be thrown open for darshan from 4 a.m. to 10 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bhavani-deeksha-from-nov-15/article37375066.ece
08 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police to take violations to notice of High Court||Police reportedly observed certain violations of the conditions laid down by the High Court by the Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti members during their ‘Maha Padayatra’ and are likely to file a petition in the court soon. The High Court has stipulated that the number of participants in the padayatra should not exceed 157 and directed them not to use DJ and obstruct traffic on roads, and to follow the prescribed timings, adhere to COVID-19 protocols norms and to not allow outsiders to join them. Police reportedly observed that many outsiders participated in the padayatra and disrupted traffic and caused inconvenience to the general public during their walk in Guntur and Prakasam districts. “There are many violations, including the number of participants in the padayatra exceeding 157, burning of fire crackers, organising the walk after 6 p.m., participation of more than permissible number of vehicles and cultural performances forming part of the padayatra. We will submit a report on the violations to the court with evidence,” a senior police officer told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-to-take-violations-to-hc-notice/article37375589.ece
08 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||State misleading people: GVL||BJP Rajya Sabha member G.V.L. Narasimha Rao tweeted on Sunday that the State government was misleading the people on the local taxes levied by it on petrol and diesel. Mr. Rao said the total revenue for the State governments from the petroleum sector was Rs. 2,21,056 crore as per the reply given by the Union Minister concerned in the Rajya Sabha on July 28, 2021, and not Rs. 19,475 crore as claimed by Andhra Pradesh in an advertisement published in the print media on Sunday. No merit in State’s claims: IYR Former Chief Secretary I.Y.R. Krishna Rao said on Twitter that the State government’s claims lacked merit, and it should better reduce the VAT on petrol and diesel instead of insisting that its stand was correct and spending huge sums on advertisements that gloss over the facts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-misleading-people-gvl/article37375492.ece
08 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. creating hurdles for farmers’ padayatra’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has accused the YSRCP leaders of creating hurdles for the ongoing ‘maha padayatra’ of the Amaravati farmers. In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Naidu said the farmers were continuing the padayatra in a peaceful manner and in conforming with the directions of the State High Court. “The YSRCP leaders are unable to digest the fact that the padayatra has been receiving rousing reception all along the route,” Mr. Naidu said. “The farmers, on the one hand are seeking justice in ‘Nyayasthanam’ and on the other hand embarked on a walkathon to the ‘Devasthanam (Tirumala) seeking divine blessings. Their demand is justified and in accordance with the principles of natural justice,” Mr. Naidu said. Regretting that the government was using the police to clamp down on the padayatra, he said stalling the walkathon despite permission from the court was condemnable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-creating-hurdles-for-farmers-padayatra/article37375507.ece
08 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan posts news reports of stir seeking VSP on Twitter||Continuing his campaign against privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan posted on Twitter news reports of the police crackdown on those who were demanding the establishment of a steel plant in Andhra Pradesh in 1966. He made a mention of the slogan, ‘Visakha Ukku - Andhrula Hakku’, that struck a chord with the people across the State in those days, when the demand for setting up a steel plant in A.P. was at its peak and ultimately took a violent turn leading to the death of 32 persons. Ganja trade In a separate tweet, Mr. Kalyan said he had received complaints against ganja traders in the tribal areas along the Andhra-Odisha border during his ‘Jana Sena Porata Yatra’ in 2018, which was meant to get a grasp of the socio-economic issues in A.P. He said issues related to health, unemployment, illegal mining and ganja trade were brought to his notice then, suggesting that most of them remained unresolved to the present day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-posts-news-reports-of-stir-seeking-vsp-on-twitter/article37375301.ece
08 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Night Food Bazaar stall owners seek permission to start business||Stall organisers of the Night Food Bazaar demanded that the civic body allow them to open their food trucks. The association members say that even after five months after COVID-19 second wave, they are not being allowed to open the food stalls, citing night curfew and the pandemic. The Night Food Bazaar was started by the Urban Community Development (UCD) Wing of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) in February 2020 near Old Jail Road or Central Park area. While the Food truck businessmen were all smiles and dreaming of expanding their business through the bazaar, which was introduced for the first time in the city, the pandemic had hit their business from the next month. Though the stalls were reopened by the end of 2020, yet again, they were closed since April 2021. As of now, there are around 120 food trucks running at the bazaar. According to the food truck businessmen, many of them are reeling under severe financial crisis and are depending on loans to run their families. Many of them have taken loans from banks to run the food trucks. After failing to pay the loan instalments the banks have already seized a number of trucks. Several vendors are facing health issues due to the COVID-19 apart from financial problems. “There are no restrictions on functioning of colleges, sports activities, cinema theatres and tourism activities. But we are not being given permission citing curfew and possible spread of virus. If a truck is set up somewhere in some street, either the local vendors or traffic police will oppose us and ask us to leave,” said a food truck owner from the bazaar. According to the association members, a ‘dosa’ food truck can make a business of Rs. 10,000 on weekends while a food truck selling kebabs can make business up to Rs. 5,000. Soda trucks can make Rs. 1,000, at the bazaar. Many of workers have also left for their native places, they say. Central Park Food Truckers Welfare Association president K. Srikanth said that they had submitted representation to Collector, GVMC Commissioner, Ministers, Mayor, Deputy Mayor, YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy, but permission was not given. He said that they had urged the officials to allow them even from 4 p.m. to 10.30 p.m., since the curfew starts from 12 a.m. “Since educational institutions, offices, commercial establishments are running well, we are asking the officials to allow us to start bazaar from 4 p.m. till 10.30 p.m. The officials said that they would allow us to run stalls soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/night-food-bazaar-stall-owners-seek-permission-to-start-business/article37375557.ece
08 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||These tribal people still live in the dark||The residents of four tribal villages in the Visakha Agency are said to be finding it increasingly difficult to get suitable marriage alliances for their sons. The aversion of the prospective brides to marry the men from these villages is lack of electricity. “The prospective brides are unable to think of their life without a mobile phone and a television set. Even those married to the residents of theses villages are staying for a month or two in the house of their in-laws and leaving for their parents’ homes. They may not disclose the reason for it. But, it is obvious—lack of electricity,” says a tribal leader. Almost all the tribal villages, which have electricity connection, invariably have dish antennas and mobile phones have become an addiction for all age groups. However, at Neredubandha and Guddipa Gadabapalem of Ravikamatham mandal and Ramachandrapuram and Jajulabandha of Koyyuru mandal, power is a luxury, he says. Novel protest The people, who have been living in the darkness for years, staged a protest on the Deepavali day. They took out torch rallies in their villages, appealing to the government that power connection be given to their villages. The protests were led by K. Venkata Rao at Jajulabandha, PTG Sangam leader Killo Pottudora at Neredubandha, Sridhari Nagesh at Ramachandrapuram and Tinni Appa Rao at Guddipa Gadabpalem. “We have been living without electricity for the past several years. We used to use kerosene lamps in the past, but its supply has also been stopped. Now, we depend on rechargeable torches. In the absence of electricity, we have to travel 9 km to charge our mobile phones,” says Girijana Sangam leader K. Govinda Rao. “Guddipaa Gadabapalem was sanctioned a housing colony under the NTR housing scheme in 2016-17 financial year. The houses have been constructed, but there is no power. A grant was said to have been sanctioned for Nerdubandha under the World Bank scheme in 2018, but the work has not been taken up so far,” he laments. Migrant tribals settled in Ramachandrapuram 15 years ago and have been living in the dark ever since. Jajulabandha had electricity connection, but all the thatched houses were gutted in a major fire in 2018, and the transformers and electrical equipment were destroyed, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/these-tribal-people-still-live-in-the-dark/article37375543.ece
08 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held in Padmanabham murder case||The city police have cracked the murder case of 45-year-old M. Bangarraju whose body was found in Padmanabham mandal on November 3 and arrested a 30-year-old man in this connection. According to police, it was a pre-planned murder and the accused allegedly killed Bangarraju over a financial dispute. Two other persons have also been taken into custody on the charge of withholding information about the case. The accused has been identified as Korada Govindu (30), a native of Venkatapuram village in Anandapuram mandal. The persons who were taken into custody are Pydiraju and Santosh. Addressing the media on Sunday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law & Order – I), S. Gowthami said that the family members of Bangarraju, a resident of Nammivanipeta Colony, lodged a complaint with the Bheemili Police stating that he had been missing from October 31. On November 3, the body of Bangarraju, who worked as a lineman with the APEPDCL in Anandapuram, was found near a private guest house at Yenugulapalem area under Padmanabham police station limits. The police registered a case. As per the complaint lodged by the family members, facts ascertained during primary investigation and confession of the accused, the police found that Bangarraju and Korada Govindu had a financial dispute. Modus operandi “Believing the words of Govindu, who claimed that he knew many politicians, Bangarraju had collected about Rs. 30 lakh from many persons by promising them shift operator jobs in the Electricity Department. He had given the amount to Govindu, which he spent. Neither did Govindu provide jobs nor return the money to Bangarraju. Meanwhile, Bangarraju started pestering Govindu to return the money. Then, Govindu decided to kill Bangarraju,” said the DCP. At around 12.54 p.m. on October 31, Govindu allegedly called Bangarraju to the guest house belonging to one K. Lakshmana Rao and ensured that the CCTVs were switched off. Govindu allegedly beat up Bangarraju with an iron rod repeatedly, causing the latter’s death, the police said. The accused concealed the body under sheets of asbestos on the guest house premises and offered Pydiraju and Santosh Rs. 1 lakh for disposing off the body. However, the duo failed to do it. “We found that Govindu was present at the scene of crime. However, there was no presence of K. Lakshmana Rao, Venkatesh or others. They were present at other places at the time of offence. Further investigation is on to ascertain whether they are involved in the case,” Ms. Gowthami said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-in-padmanabham-murder-case/article37375549.ece
08 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal youth participate in ‘Run against Ganja’||A large number of students took part in a 2K run titled ‘Run against Ganja’ organised by the District Police as part of the anti-naroctics campaign ‘Parivartana’ at Paderu in Visakhapatnam Agency on Sunday. The run was flagged off at Ambedkar Junction by Paderu Additional SP P. Jagadish. Mr. Jagadish said that as part of ‘Parivartana’, a number of campaigns were being organised against ganja cultivation and its smuggling in the district. The run was conducted on the instructions of the Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao. He said that the District Police were creating awareness among youth not to get involved either in cultivation or trade of ganja. Both the police and the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) were providing employment opportunities to the tribal youth. The ASP appealed to the people to shift to alternate crops of ganja, adding that the campaigns against ganja would continue. Meanwhile, the District Police destroyed around ganja plantations in 50 acres in the villages of Damanapalle and Rinthada under the G.K Veedhi police station limits on Sunday. The officials from the SEB, revenue and forest departments took part in the drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-youth-participate-in-run-against-ganja/article37375553.ece
08 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aided school teachers urge govt. to speed up merger process||Teachers and non-teaching staff of aided high schools in the district have appealed to the State government to speed up the process of merging the institutions with the State-run schools. At a meeting organised by the Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Guild (APTG), Visakhapatnam District Unit, at the VBV Aided High School, on Sunday, the teachers poured out their woes including delay in the payment of salaries and approaching the managements for leave. The teachers, however, said that they had nothing against the managements, which had provided them jobs. Several teachers, who are on the verge of retirement, oppose the merger. They feared that the government would transfer them to the schools in far-flung areas. Some of them said that they had submitted consent letters to the DEO’s office as their managements were against it. APTG State president D. Suresh Kumar said that it was a cherished dream of all teachers and non-teaching staff of aided schools to merge their institutions with the government for better prospects. He called for unity among teachers and non-teaching staff, while recalling the role of the APTG in fighting for the pay revision for teachers in 1983, following which a Cabinet Sub-Committee was appointed by the State government but its recommendations were not implemented. APTG Visakhapatnam District president D. Bhaskara Rao presided over the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aided-school-teachers-urge-govt-to-speed-up-merger-process/article37375599.ece
08 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Clear pending wages of MGNREGS workers’||The Human Rights Forum (HRF) and ‘Samalochana’ on Saturday urged the State government to clear pending wages of the beneficiaries of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) immediately. Describing the scheme as the lifeline for millions of rural households amid the economic downturn triggered by the coronavirus pandemic, they said a substantial portion of the household expenditure was being met with the MGNREGS wages. “Andhra Pradesh has witnessed a 30% rise in the jobs provided under the scheme in 2020-21 fiscal year when compared to that of 2019-20. However, the actual demand and need for work has increased on the ground. The programme has run out of funds,” said ‘Samalochana’ convenor B. Chakradhar. V.S. Krishna of the HRF pointed out that more than 90% of the Central allocation for the scheme had been exhausted . “As on November 4, 2021, A.P. has wages worth Rs. 450 crore pending from the Centre for this financial year. The State is showing negative balance of Rs. 3,000 crore,” he said. “We urge the government to ensure adequate availability of employment and timely payment of wages,” said Mr. Chakradhar. “We demand provision of at least 150 days of work for each household of beneficiaries this financial year,” said Mr. Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/clear-pending-wages-of-mgnregs-workers/article37375600.ece
08 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Number of people who got one dose of vaccine nears 50-lakh mark||The number of people who have received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine in Visakhapatnam District is nearing the 50 lakh-mark. According to the CoWIN Dashboard, as many as 49,43,615 persons have received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine in the district by 5 p.m. on Sunday. Among them, 19,20,217 people have taken both the doses. The vaccination drive is being conducted at 140 sites in the district. Statistics suggest that around 25.95 lakh people in the age group of 18 and 44 have received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine. Similarly, 16.13 lakh people aged between 45 and 60 years and 7.34 lakh people above 60 years of age have received at least one dose of vaccine. Meanwhile, the district recorded 36 COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, ending Sunday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,58,431. The death toll increased to 1,098 as one more person succumbed to the infection during the last 24 hours. During the same period, 46 persons undergoing treatment for the infection recovered. The total number of recoveries increased to 1,56,611. The number of active cases stood at 722.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/number-of-people-who-got-one-dose-of-vaccine-nears-50-lakh-mark/article37375560.ece
08 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||FTPC felicitates short film director Suranjan Dey||Suranjan Dey, director of the short film ‘Unlucky Shirt’ that has been selected for screening at six international film festivals, was felicitated by the Film and Television Promotion Council (FTPC) of Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. FTPC president Chaitanya Janga and secretary Varma Pakalapati said Mr. Dey had agreed to direct a direct a movie which would be made in Telugu, Bengali and Hindi. They said that Mr. Dey had come to the city to select the locations for the shooting of the movie in Araku Valley and other places. Actor and model Subhashree Kar, who has acted in three Bengali films, appreciated the FTPC for encouraging artistes of all languages to shoot their films in Andhra Pradesh. Ms. Kar said that she was floored by the scenic beauty and picturesque locations in Visakhapatnam district. Mr. Dey said that ‘Unlucky Shirt’ was selected for screening at the Lift of Global Network International Film Festival at Pinewood in the U.K. and at the Raleigh Festival in Hollywood, apart from three other festivals in Bangladesh, Bengaluru and Madhya Pradesh. The story of ‘Unlucky Shirt’ revolves around post-COVID economic recession and despair. His next film ‘Relationship’ for which, he has already written the story and screenplay, would be made under the banner of ‘Research Media Group’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ftpc-felicitates-short-film-director-suranjan-dey/article37375546.ece
08 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sai Seva Samithi holds blood donation camp||A blood donation camp was organised by the Ukkunagaram Sri Sathya Sai Seva Samithi, in association with the JCI, CISF, Training and Development Centre (T & DC), NTR Blood Bank and Lifeshare Blood Bank at Ukkunagaram on Sunday. The camp was inaugurated by Nupur Bhatt, president of Visakhapatnam Steel Mahila Samiti and Nilesh Kumar, Senior Commandant, CISF, Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. Ms. Nupur Bhatt said donating blood was the best way to serve the needy. She lauded the efforts of the Sri Sathya Sai Seva Samithi in serving the underprivileged. In total, 115 units of blood were donated by Sri Sathya Sai devotees, employees of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant and CISF personnel. A bhajan singer of the samithi and employee of RMHP (Raw Material Handling Plant) of VSP, K.V.L.N. Reddy donated blood for the 56th time on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sai-seva-samithi-holds-blood-donation-camp/article37375597.ece
08 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo to remain open on ‘Nagula Chavithi’||Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) will remain open for the visitors on the occasion of ‘Nagula Chavithi’ on Monday (November 8). IGZP Curator Nandani Salaria said even as Monday is a holiday for the zoo, the decision was taken in view of the festival. She said that the visitors would be allowed from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. as usual. However, they would not be allowed to bring firecrackers or any other explosives. She advised the visitors to strictly adhere to the COVID-19 protocols. Fines will be imposed on the visitors for violating norms or bringing any prohibited material inside the zoo, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zoo-to-remain-open-on-nagula-chavithi/article37375598.ece
08 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain likely from today as low pressure brews over Bay of Bengal||A low pressure area is brewing over the southeast Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood on November 9 and under its influence, rain or thundershowers is likely to occur over the north coastal Andhra Pradesh on November 8 and 9, meteorology officials have said. A cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal off south Andhra Pradesh and north Tamil Nadu coasts extending up to 4.5 km above the mean sea level persists. “Under its influence, a low pressure area is likely to form over southeast Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood by November 9. It is likely to become more marked and move west during the subsequent 48 hours,” said a bulletin issued by the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam, on Sunday evening. On November 10, rain or thunderstorms with lightning is likely to occur in the coastal Andhra Pradesh while heavy rain is expected in isolated places in south coastal Andhra Pradesh. Isolated rain or thundershowers with lightning may occur in coastal Andhra Pradesh the next day. Fishermen cautioned Squally weather and wind reaching a speed ranging between 40 km per hour and 50 km per hour is likely to blow over the westcentral Bay of Bengal off Andhra Pradesh coast. The sea surface is likely to remain rough. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea till November 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-likely-from-today-as-low-pressure-brews-over-bay-of-bengal/article37375544.ece
08 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fisherman drowns in sea||A 49-year-old fisherman drowned while three others swam to safety after a country boat they were on board capsized in the sea off Pudimadaka coast in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. The incident came to light after Atchutapuram police registered a case late on Saturday night. The deceased has been identified as T. Venkat Rao, a resident of Kadapalem village. Atchutapuram police SI D. Upendra said Venkat Rao, along with three fishermen including his son T. Ramu ventured into the sea on Saturday morning. The boat capsized when they were returning to the shore. Venkat Rao went missing while Ramu and two others swam ashore. Venkat Rao’s body was retrieved from the water on Sunday morning .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fisherman-drowns-in-sea/article37375551.ece
08 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thalassemia project launched||The pilot project of ‘Thalassemia screening in Tribal Area For Tribal Children’ and the related HPLC equipment, worth nearly Rs. 20 lakh was inaugurated by ITDA Project Officer R. Gopala Krishna in the Department of Pathology of Andhra Medical College (AMC). AMC Principal Dr. P.V. Sudhakar explained that as part of the pilot project, all thalassemia and sickle cell patients in tribal areas would be identified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thalassemia-project-launched/article37375596.ece
08 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘kills’ mother for money||The city police on Sunday arrested a 40-year-old man on charge of killing his mother and fleeing with valuables worth Rs. 12,500, at Velampeta under the I-Town police station limits. The accused has been identified as N. Naga Sankara Rao, an auto-rickshaw driver from Gnanapuram. The victim, N. Atchayamma, was living alone in a house at Velampeta. On November 6, her sister found her dead in the house. Acting on a complaint lodged by the family members of the victim, the police registered a case and launched an investigation, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law & Order – I) S. Gowthami told the media here. The investigation revealed that Atchayamma’s younger son, Sankara Rao went to her house and allegedly asked her to give him the property documents, gold jewellery and cash. “As Atchayamma refused to part with her property, Sankara Rao allegedly strangulated her with a nylon thread to death. He allegedly took away her gold ear rings worth Rs. 12,500,” the DCP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-kills-mother-for-money/article37375550.ece
08 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mahalakshmi temple gets new Dy. EE||Ch.V. Ramana, Deputy Executive Engineer of the Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam at Simhachalam, took charge as the Deputy EE of Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi Devasthanam at Burujupeta. Mr. Ramana reported to the temple Executive Officer S.J. Madhavi. Mr. Ramana replaced B. Rambabu, who has been transferred to the Simhachalam temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mahalakshmi-temple-gets-new-dy-ee/article37375559.ece
08 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Navaratnalu promised in Kotia villages||Parvatipuram ITDA Project Officer R. Kurmanath on Sunday assured residents of the Kotia villages that the State government would ensure implementation of all welfare schemes, including Navaratnalu, in their areas to ensure a decent life for all the families. Mr. Kurmanath visited villages such as Paguluchennuru, Eguvamendangi, Doliyamba, and Murakada and enquired about the ongoing welfare schemes. His visit assumed significance in the backdrop of Odisha's claim over the villages. Recently, representatives of a few villages passed resolutions expressing their willingness to be under the administrative purview of Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Kurmanath said anganwadi centres would be set up in all the villages after identification of suitable land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/navaratnalu-promised-in-kotia-villages/article37375502.ece
08 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to relieve teachers from unproductive work||Andhra Pradesh SC and ST Upadhyaya Sangham State president Samala Simhachalam on Sunday urged the State government to relieve teachers from unproductive work such as uploading of photos of mid-deal meal schemes and maintenance of toilets. In a press release, he said that teachers were unable to concentrate on their work as they were being forced to upload the details in mobile applications. “Due to the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown, students missed many classes,” said Mr.Simhachalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-relieve-teachers-from-unproductive-work/article37375540.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dead as heavy rain lashes Chittoor||The Araniyar reservoir in Pichatur mandal received heavy inflows in the last 24 hours and the irrigation officials lifted a gate and released 300 cusecs of water downstream towards Tamil Nadu. Meanwhile, in view of the heavy rainfall alert for the next 48 hours, the district administration has kept the revenue and police personnel on alert in the eastern mandals. Tirupati Special Correspondent adds: Some rivulets in spate in the district caused breaches to bunds. Police personnel were deployed at perilous bridges and causeways over streams to prevent movement of vulnerable vehicles and unsuspecting people. The revenue and panchayat officials have also kept a watch on the weakened rural roads prone to damage due to the constant flow of water. Tirupati Urban SP Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu cautioned the public not to cross overflowing water bodies as they could get washed away in the swirling water. Rajampet Divn. received 344 mm In Kadapa district, the Rajampet revenue division abutting Chittoor district recorded 344 mm rainfall, with Railway Kodur mandal peaking at 80.2mm, followed by Obulavaripalle (61.2), Chitvel (50.8), Pullampet (50.2), Penagalur (47.6) and Rajampet (30.2). Ironically, Kadapa division recorded minuscule figures, while Jammalamadugu division had drawn a blank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-dead-as-heavy-rain-lashes-chittoor/article37375070.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Form of worship||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/form-of-worship/article37374994.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strict vigil||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/strict-vigil/article37375555.ece
08 November 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Support pours in for Adivasi IIT girl after KTR’s tweet||In a heart-warming gesture, several good Samaritans have come forward to support Karam Srilatha, the 17-year-old girl belonging to a poor tribal family from the interior Mamidigudem village in Charla mandal of Bhadrachalam Agency, to help her pursue B. Tech at the Indian Institute of Technology - BHU, Varanasi. Driven by optimism, Srilatha continued her educational pursuits with fortitude and secured admission in B. Tech (ceramic engineering) course at IIT-BHU by virtue of her 919 rank in JEE (Advanced) 2021. But a major hurdle stood in her way to continue with further studies at a far-off place due to the poor financial condition of her parents. Srilatha’s determined quest to join the IIT against all odds was highlighted in these columns in a report titled “Adivasi girl from remote village bags IIT seat” on Sunday. Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao was among those who expressed their willingness to extend all help to the Adivasi girl in her endeavour to do the B. Tech course. Mr. Rama Rao responded to a tweet from a Nalgonda-based doctor, J.P. Reddy, who sought the intervention of the Minister to help the poor girl realise her dream. Mr. Reddy also tagged a copy of the article published in The Hindu highlighting the remarkable achievement of the Adivasi girl from Telangana’s tribal heartland. Mr. Rao promptly responded to the tweet saying: “Will take care. Let’s find her and help.” Soon a member of Mr. Rao’s office contacted the Adivasi girl over phone and conveyed the message to the latter. A host of philanthropists and representatives of various NGOs besides several readers of The Hindu volunteered to extend financial support to Srilatha to give a fillip to her educational pursuits. Many Good Samaritans reached out to The Hindu office to express their desire to help the girl. Speaking to The Hindu , Srilatha said, “I am overwhelmed by the encouragement and support assured by many generous people, including KTR.” I am eager to join the prestigious institution and pursue a B. Tech course to prove my calibre in the realm of engineering, she asserted. Meanwhile, a press release issued by the Telangana tribal welfare department said that the State government is already implementing a scheme for providing post-matric scholarship to all eligible students who got admissions in premier institutions such as IITs, IIITs, NIT, IIMs, Central universities, premier medical colleges, and agricultural universities. About 255 premier institutions are approved by the government for providing post-matric scholarships to ST students of premier institutions of other States. The Project Officer, ITDA, Bhadrachalam, and the Deputy Director (Tribal Welfare) have already been instructed to facilitate the Adivasi girl to apply for post-matric scholarship through e-pass portal, the press release added. It asked all eligible students to apply for scholarship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/support-pours-in-for-adivasi-iit-girl-after-ktrs-tweet/article37375313.ece
08 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘CSIR-CCMB’s dry swab RT PCR more authentic’||CSIR-CCMB’s novel ‘Dry Swab’, extraction-free direct RT-PCR testing method, which has reduced the time taken for the COVID test result to be declared, got further validation with another study highlighting the ‘immense’ value of the method in the detection of any kind of variant, better sensitivity and illuminating more ‘scientific dimensions’. Published by the Indian Academy of Sciences, Journal of Biosciences, in the latest issue, the “Temporal Stability and Detection Sensitivity of Dry Swab Diagnosis” of SARS-CoV-2 by scientists C.G. Gokulan, Uday Kiran, Santosh Kumar K and Rakesh Mishra of CSIR-CCM, Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research (AcSIR), Ghaziabad and Buchmann Institute for Molecular Life Sciences, Goethe University, Frankfurt (Germany), discussed more advantages and scope for commercialisation as it can increase lab throughput by three-folds. Challenges like reagent shortage, limited human resources and high transmission rate can be handled in a better manner to contain the infection and better allocation of medical resources, as it can quickly diagnose and control the spread. The study on temporal stability of two strains of SARS-CoV-2 at two different temperatures indicates that for shorter distance transportation, cold chain can be avoided and the dry swab samples with low viral load also is stable at RT for 24 hours. In case of high sample surge, the swabs can be stored at 4°C for up to 3 days without compromising the detection sensitivity. The method is expected to hold similar advantages in case of other emerging variants of SARS-CoV-2 as indicated by multiple sewage surveillance and sequencing studies, it said. This suggests that while the virus variants could be different with respect to the rate of infection and eliciting immune response, they are generally stable for longer time in different conditions. Throughput of dry swab-based sample processing could be further increased by collection of samples directly into tubes containing the ‘TE-P buffer’ and since no transportation is required, it would increase the turnover time drastically when thousands of samples are being tested. “There is no loss of detection seen upon storage at RT for up to 3 or 4 days of time and results indicated that a minimum final concentration of 0.5 mg/ml of proteinase K is enough to produce results comparable to that of 2 mg/ml,” they said. This suggests tests can be increased four times and corresponding costs reduced. Data indicates that dry swab method correlates well with the conventional method. Lesser CT values of dry swab samples in comparison to that of the VTM-RNA samples suggest better sensitivity of the method within 48 hours of time. Dry swab samples are also found to be stable at RT for 24 hours and the detection of SARS-CoV-2 RNA by RT-PCR do not show variance from VTM-RNA. This extraction free, direct RT-PCR method holds phenomenal standing in the present life-threatening circumstances due to COVID. Thus, we propose dry swab method as a viable and economical alternative for the existing gold standard https://rdcu.be/cAJ7Q, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/csir-ccmbs-dry-swab-rt-pcr-test-more-authentic/article37375316.ece
08 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State Archives in dire need of funds||With the largest repository of historical records in terms of volume in the country, the Telangana State Archives and Research Institute (TSARI) was not allocated funds for projects and maintenance of the millions of records in its custody for the past five years, and while a small allocation was made this FY 2021-22, this has not been spent thus far. The TSARI premises in Tarnaka was inaugurated by then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri in 1965. Once known as the Daftar-e-Diwani , it houses documents from 14 departments of the Asaf Jahi Dynasty. Archival records here number approximately 43 million, and include records from 1406 CE. Other documents in its custody include lakhs of marriage certificates, the oldest of which dates back to the early 18th century. According to an RTI response, while no funds were earmarked for projects and maintenance of records from FY 2016-2017 to 2020-2021, in 2021-2022 a paltry sum of Rs. 4.68 lakh was allocated. However, this has not been not used. The RTI response states that a total budget of Rs. 3 crore was sanctioned from FY 2012-13 to FY 2017-17 for digitisation of records; a total of 60 lakh folios have been digitised. However, this is only a fraction of a staggering 4.3 crore folios which exist. The TSARI has also been hit by paucity of staff. The RTI response shows that the institution has a sanctioned post strength of 72. Out of this, as many as 33 permanent posts are vacant. TSARI Director Zareena Parveen, an expert of the Persian language, has been discharging her duties on a contractual basis. According to sources, while digitisation of records is an important facet of preserving archival records, equally important is mending damaged folios, and preserving existing records. The sources said that there is a need for annual budgetary allocations for this. “While several files have been digitised, a huge number including those from the Nizam’s Secretariat, Home Department, Army, Finance Department, Revenue Department, and Commerce and Industries Department, are untouched. The Archives needs permanent archivists and research assistants who are well versed with Urdu and Persian as a majority of documents here are in those languages,” the source said. As was reported in these columns, portions of plaster of the roof and walls gave way. Workers pointed out that the building requires immediate attention. While a building proposal was submitted to a government agency in 2018, no concrete steps were taken to ameliorate the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-archives-in-dire-need-of-funds/article37375327.ece
08 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chief Minister accuses BJP of double standards on paddy||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has attacked the BJP for its double standards as he targeted the central leadership of the party for not lifting paddy from the State, and its local unit instigating farmers to cultivate the crop. He appealed to farmers not to sow the crop immediately as it could land them in huge losses because the BJP-led Central government had not come forth to buy stocks. At a press conference, Mr. Rao trained his guns on BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar saying his blackmailing tactics against the State government and playing with the lives of farmers will not be tolerated. The government had so far observed restraint against him but not any more, he said. “I have been lenient towards him so far despite his false claims but he went after the government for vote bank politics, more recently in Huzurabad Assembly byelection. Elections come and go and parties win or lose but it is our commitment to implement Dalit Bandhu scheme for SCs over which he cast aspersions on the government. It is our commitment to implement the scheme hundred per cent,” he said. Mr. Rao reminded the BJP that TRS is a powerful party in the State with 103 MLAs of its own and seven MLAs of friendly MIM. The government will take legal action against BJP if the trend continued, he said. He criticised the Centre for abrogating its responsibility of purchasing foodgrains from the State which is its constitutional responsibility. Ensuring food security is the primary responsibility of the FCI., he said. For over a month, the government had been advising farmers to go for alternative crops in lieu of paddy but the State BJP worked in conflict with its Central leadership for political gains, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chief-minister-accuses-bjp-of-double-standards-on-paddy/article37375336.ece
08 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 5 k dengue stings this monsoon||Telangana has recorded a little over 5,000 dengue cases in this year’s monsoon. According to meteorologists, southwest monsoon in the State ended in October. From January to June 10, 265 people in the State were detected with the vector borne disease. And around 5,200 people had dengue virus from June 11 to November 5. Monsoon had set in the State in June. In all, 5,512 cases were detected this year till November 5. Officials from the Health department said that the number of dengue cases came down as the rains subsided. Usually, cases surge during the monsoon since chances of water stagnation, which breeds mosquitoes, increases. “Currently, we are recording only around eight to ten cases a day. The present temperature is not suitable for mosquitoes to breed,” said additional director at the National Vector Borne Diseases Control Programme (NVBDCP) G. Amar Singh. Ideal conditions The ideal conditions for mosquitoes to breed and dengue virus to spread are around 25 degrees centigrade temperature, constant water stagnation, and presence of huge number of people. He said that temperatures of less than 20 or above 30 degrees centigrade is not ideal for mosquitoes to grow. On Sunday, the maximum temperature of around 30 degrees was recorded in various districts. Officials said that prevalence of the dengue virus will further come down in the coming weeks. The high prevalence of dengue cases was recorded in both urban and rural districts of Telangana. 1,397 from Hyderabad Of the 5,512 dengue cases from January to November 5, the highest of 1,397 was from Hyderabad, followed by 751 in Khammam, 399 in Rangareddy, 398 in Mahabubnagar, and 301 in Medchal. The lowest of two cases were from Mulugu and nine from Jayashankar Bhupalapally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/reality-bites-over-5-k-dengue-cases-this-monsoon/article37375308.ece
08 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR and Modi are cheating farmers, alleges Revanth||Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao spoke like a middleman refusing to take responsibility for procurement of paddy, and rather than providing some succour to the farming the community, he is trying to play politics, alleged TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy. Responding to the Chief Minister’s press conference on Sunday, he said Mr. Rao himself had agreed at the press conference that he would not ask the Centre to buy boiled rice and had written a letter to that effect. “Whom did you ask before writing that letter? Did you interact with farmers associations or those working in the sector,” Mr. Reddy asked and questioned his sincerity in now shifting the blame totally on the Centre. He alleged that both Mr. Rao and Prime Minister Narendra Modi are together in cheating farmers. “Mr. Rao is now posing as if he would take on the Centre but does he have the gumption to do that,” he said and went on to add that no farmer in Telangana will believe Mr. Rao. The Congress chief also ridiculed Mr. Rao’s assurance that he would now join the farmers agitation against the three new farm laws. “You have met the Prime Minister several times since the agitation started. You did not have the heart to visit the farmers protest sites in New Delhi as you were busy trying to please Mr. Modi fearing your corruption. Now whom are you trying to fool,” he asked. Mr. Reddy said he expected the Chief Minister to give some solace to the farmers on the paddy procurement but instead Mr. Rao sounded insensitive and further instilled fear among them. “He did not even talk about opening 6,500 procurement centres as promised nor did he refer to the suicide of farmer Beeraiah in Kamareddy. Neither did he refer to the new token system introduced to harass the farmers on harvesting their own produce,” Mr. Reddy said. Demanding that fuel prices be slashed in Telangana like several other States in the country, Mr. Reddy alleged that Mr. Rao never raised the fuel hike issue as he too stands to benefit. “Now suddenly he has realised that petrol prices were hurting the common man,” Mr. Reddy said and asked when other States reduced their VAT component, why is KCR refusing to do so. “We will go to people and expose this hollowness,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-and-modi-are-cheating-ryots-revanth/article37375339.ece
08 November 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||With mounting losses, TSRTC fare hike on the anvil||A bus fare hike is on the anvil with the Telangana State Road Tranport Corporation (TSRTC) on Sunday preparing proposals to increase by 25 paise per kilometer to 30 paise per km. The move was deliberated upon at a review meeting which Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar chaired with TSRTC officials, including Managing Director V C Sajjanar and Chairman Bajireddy Goverdhan. The move comes in the wake of devastating losses which the transport juggernaut sustained primarily due to an increase in fuel prices, suspension of services due to the COVID–19 pandemic, and operational costs. It may be recalled that the TSRTC, in a statement to the media released in August had underscored that it had suffered losses to the tune of Rs. 2,600 crore. According to sources from the TSRTC an increase of 25 paise per km for Palle Velugu and City Ordinary Buses is being proposed. Further an increase of 30 paise for Metro Express and Metro Deluxe is being proposed. The sources said that previously, a hike of 35 paise per km was suggested. The rationale behind this was the fact that diesel became dearer by approximately Rs. 22 per litre in about 18 months. But, with the Centre recently slashing excise duty on diesel by Rs. 10, the idea was eventually dropped, and a hike of between 25 paise and 30 paise was proposed.TSRTC officials claimed that all efforts are being made not to burden the passengers. The last bus fare hike in the State was witnessed in December 2019 when the basic fare was enhanced by 20 paise per km. The minimum fare for Palle Velugu and City Ordinary buses was increased to Rs. 10 and. Prior to this, a hike in fare was seen in 2016. For the past several weeks, the transport juggernaut has been engaged in deliberations to increase its revenues. Monetising its properties by leasing out its large land parcels, including the bus stations in Karimnagar, too were discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-fare-hike-on-the-anvil/article37375303.ece
08 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Collectors told to furnish land-related details||The Cabinet sub-committee constituted under the chairmanship of Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao has asked the District Collectors to furnish information regarding ceiling lands, applications pending for regularisation and other issues under their purview. The committee with Municipal Administration special chief secretary Arvind Kumar as its convener had been constituted to look into issues pertaining to house sites. It had been tasked with the responsibility to look into issues pertaining to unauthorised layouts, regularisation of plots & house sites, grama kantam and any other issue as decided by the panel. The sub-committee had been constituted in view of the long pending issue of regularisation of illegal layouts that are prohibited to be registered on Dharani portal. This called for formulation of a policy on regularisation of these lands failing which the real estate sector would suffer. Mr. Arvind has asked the District Collectors to provide information regarding ceiling lands, applications pending under GO Ms. 166, 58 & 59, assigned lands and lands recorded as government lands as per old revenue records but subsequently recorded as patta lands that are still showing in prohibitory register under the government lands in Dharani portal. The Collectors were asked to furnish details of endowment/waqf/forest lands/other departmental lands etc in a specified format.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collectors-told-to-furnish-land-related-details/article37375333.ece
08 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Public health conclave at Hitex from Nov. 12||An expo titled “Public Health Innovations Conclave” will be held at Hitex in Madhapur from November 12 to November 14. The health conclave will be dedicated to innovations, technology and best practices in public health, according to a statement here. Industry leaders, academicians, exhibitors, and government officials are expected to participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/public-health-conclave-at-hitex-from-nov-12/article37375311.ece
08 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||122 test COVID positive in Telangana||Telangana recorded 122 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total to 6,72,489. While 25,847 samples were tested, results of 730 were awaited. Two more COVID patients died. The new 122 cases include 46 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), and 10 from Rangareddy. No infection was detected in ten districts. From March 2, 2020, to November 5 this year, a total of 2.77 crore samples were tested and 6,72,489 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 3,764 were active cases, 6,64,759 have recovered, and 3,966 died. Regarding vaccination against COVID, 2.31 crore people took the first dose and 1.03 crore took the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/122-people-test-positive/article37375310.ece
08 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Govt. teacher found dead at home||A government teacher was found dead at his residence in Sri Sai Colony of Jeedimetla here on Saturday. According to the police, Golla Chandrashekar (47), allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fanaround, due to family disputes. His wife Srilatha (40) is a private teacher at a school in Abids. “Chandrashekar and his wife had frequent altercations and they suspected each other’s fidelity. On Saturday they both left for work, and their children went to school. He returned home in the afternoon and resorted to the extreme step,” Jeedimetla police said. The incident came to light when his wife returned home at 4 p.m. [Roshni - suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000 ]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-teacher-ends-life/article37375321.ece
08 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held for growing ganja||A 30-year-old man cultivating ganja in his house at Shamshabad was arrested by the RGI Airport police. The accused Rajput, a daily wage earner from Uttar Pradesh, migrated to Hyderabad in search of livelihood. “He is addicted to ganja and started growing the plants in his house,” police said. Based on the information shared by the locals, RGIA police along with Revenue officials raided his house and found ganja plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-growing-ganja/article37375323.ece
08 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR consoles Srinivas Goud’s family||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao visited Mahabubnagar on Sunday to console the family of Minister for Excise V. Srinivas Goud following the death of latter’s mother on October 29. The Chief Minister along with Ministers Md. Mahamood Ali, Gangula Kamalakar, Talasani Srinivas Yadav and S. Niranjan Reddy, Members of Parliament M. Srinivas Reddy and P. Ramulu, legislators, other elected representatives and district officials visited the farm house of Mr. Srinivas Goud where his mother was laid to rest and offered floral tributes at the memorial. He also consoled the bereaved family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-consoles-srinivas-goud/article37375330.ece
08 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress men visit paddy procurement centres||Senior leaders of the Congress party visited the procurement centres in several districts of Telangana and interacted with the farmers to understand the problems and the confusion created over paddy procurement. Teams of Congress led by former Minister G. Chinna Reddy, Sambhani Chandrashekhar, Malreddy Ranga Reddy visited procurement centres in Bhongir, Brahmanapalli, Valigonda, Edullaguda and Suryapet in the erstwhile Nalgonda district. TPCC vice president and former Member of Parliament Mallu Ravi visited Bandalingampalli in Yellareddypet mandal of Rajanna Sircilla district while another team of MLC T. Jeevan Reddy and Mr. Mallu Ravi visited the centres in Peddur municipality in the same district where the farmers explained to them on the confusion over the procurement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-men-visit-paddy-procurement-centres/article37375337.ece
08 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL to start operation of 3 OC mines this fiscal||Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has stepped up its preparations to start mining operations in the new opencast projects (OCPs) such as GDK, Naini (Odisha) and JVR (capacity enhancement) by the end of the current financial year. It has also fixed self coal production target of 75 million tonnes for the next fiscal. The company also has plans to open five new OCPs during the next financial year. The new OCPs would be opened at Ramagundam, Kothagudem, Bellampalli, Yellandu and Goleti areas. A meeting of the Directors, Area General Managers and others chaired by Chairman and Managing Director N. Sridhar here on Friday also decided to produce at least 20 million tonnes of coal in the first year from the five mines. The CMD stated at the meeting that the company had secured some clearances for opening new OCPs but they were yet to take up land acquisition and process for other permissions. Directing the officials to secure all clearances for new OCPs by March next, he informed them to resolve land acquisition, relief and rehabilitation packages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-to-start-operation-of-3-oc-mines-this-fiscal/article37375329.ece
08 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Positive parenting vital to protect child’||Positive parenting is key to protecting children and fathers could also be included in child care programmes, said National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) member Pragna Parande on Sunday. Addressing a workshop called “Aaryajanani – power of the first 1,000 days from conception to 2 years”, organised by Dhastri Mothers Milk Bank, Sushena Health Foundation, Fernandez Foundation, and UNICEF, she said that integration of yoga and meditation in pre-natal care is important for a child’s development. “Inclusion of fathers in any protection programme is necessary to ensure holistic care,” she said, and stressed on strengthening rural health infrastructure and accessibility to all. She called for more awareness on breastfeeding, nurturing, and infant nutrition. Secretary and commissioner, Health and Family Welfare, Divya Devrajan, and Ramakrishna Math chairperson Swami Shitikantananda, among others, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/positive-parenting-vital-to-protect-child/article37375317.ece
08 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Dawn to Dusk duathlon on Nov. 15||The “Apollo Dawn to Dusk Duathlon 2021”, a virtual duathlon, will be held in Hyderabad on November 15, to raise awareness on paediatric cancer, and promote the need for a healthy lifestyle to ensure a future with lower cancer risk. Registrations to it are open and the last date is November 13. To participate in the duathlon, you have to register on the website www.apollod2d.com. Participants can run, walk, or cycle to cover about 3-125 km at their own pace and location of their choice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dawn-to-dusk-duathlon-on-nov-15/article37375309.ece
08 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSRTC driver assaulted||A video of two persons assaulting a TSRTC bus driver and hurling abuses for reportedly overtaking their vehicle went viral on social media on Sunday. The duo was travelling in an SUV sporting an MLA sticker. The incident reportedly took place between Shadnagar and Jadcherla on the Hyderabad-Bengaluru national highway. Shadnagar police registered a case against the two persons. Later in the evening TSRTC MD V.C. Sajjanar tweeted: Police have assured us that stern action will be taken. #TSRTC request Public not to take #Law into their hands otherwise #Law has to do its duty. No one is above law,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-driver-assaulted/article37375322.ece
08 November 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Nalgonda police team off to Kerala to find the bus||A strong suspicion that the Assam-bound private bus from Kerala, that left 64 migrant workers midway at Narketpally on Friday, was returning to its place of origin, and to enquire about the events that led to the bus crew’s puzzling slipaway, a Nalgonda police team has set off for Kerala. Narketpally police, following the Friday-noon incident in its limits, had already booked a case of cheating and pressed other charges against the bus crew, the agents and the owner the same day. As per footage it retrieved from Pantangi toll plaza on the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) stretch, the white colour bus bearing registration number KL-38-D-709 had exited Nalgonda limits around 12.20 p.m., covering about 25 kms from the place the passengers were asked to break for lunch. The police remained unaware about the bus even till Saturday late evening, suspecting the bus took the service roads and escaped surveillance on highways, but on Sunday the police sounded almost confident. “It would be possible to trace the bus with its FASTag log from NHAI, if they already did not remove the sticker. Or, through their mobile phones. We will find the bus very soon,” said an officer, who also indicated that an Inspector-headed team has already begun its journey to Kerala. Also, as per reports from Ernakulam, Kerala, that the bus crew decided on the slipaway to avoid adverse consequences when they reach the destination as a reaction to their altercation with passengers on overloading the bus, also strengthened Nalgonda police’s suspicion that the transporter would ultimately return to the safe zone, the place of origin. A senior police officer in the district, confirming that they were certain about the bus returning to the origin via Zaheerabad, parts of Karnataka and into Kerala, suspected there would be more reasons for cheating the inter-State passengers, than the altercation-following-overloading version.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nalgonda-police-team-off-to-kerala-to-find-the-bus/article37375332.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Political aspirants make a beeline to Pragati Bhavan||As the election process was completed for Huzurabad Assembly constituency where former Minister Eatala Rajender was re-elected trouncing his Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) rival, political parties are now exploring options to corner the ruling party on the other aspects, including administration-related ones. But this does not appear to be the case with the TRS as the schedule for the election to six vacancies under the MLAs quota has been released immediately after the Huzurabad bypoll. TRS president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is understood to have been seriously examining all aspects, including caste equations, in this direction. With the news about the exercise doing rounds in political corridors, aspirants, including those who switched loyalty from other parties, are said to be making a beeline to Pragati Bhavan, the official residence of the Chief Minister, in spite of knowing about the astute thinking of the Chief Minister known for weighing all options for taking a final decision.   Three major political parties which contested the recent by-election to Huzurabad constituency, which was retained by Eatala Rajender even after switching over from the ruling TRS to BJP, have viewed their performance in different ways. During a talk-show on the day of counting of votes (Nov.2), former Member of Legislative Assembly of BJP N.V.S.S. Prabhakar observed that the defection of Padi Kaushik Reddy from Congress to TRS has not gone down well with one community in erstwhile Karimnagar district, particularly in Huzurabad constituency, as politics in the district always has been a fight between two particular communities. As a result, Congress votes did not transfer to TRS as expected and 80% of vote of one community went to BJP. However, another political commentator felt transfer of vote of a community had taken place and that’s why the margin of BJP victory was limited to 24,000 votes!     There were several instances when senior police officials held press conferences and issue lengthy press releases even for recovering three tolas of gold, but surprisingly no press conference was held when over Rs. 12 lakh of seizure was done in Begumpet during a high-profile party where gambling was organised. Interestingly, the cash seizure was nearly double of what was seized by Cyberabad police recently from a villa at Narsingi which became a sensational issue. The silence of several key officials in North Zone (Secunderabad) and the Commissioner’s Task Force has only strengthened the speculation about the presence of key politicians and bureaucrats in the poker party. However, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar categorically denied the presence of any politicians and directed this correspondent to speak to his subordinates in the North Zone for information, but it ended in vain. (M. Rajeev, B. Chandrashekhar and Abhinay Deshpande)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/political-aspirants-make-a-beeline-to-pragathi-bhavan/article37375334.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Thing of beauty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/thing-of-beauty/article37375320.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Burdened young shoulders||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/burdened-young-shoulders/article37375565.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Readers Mail||The Central government has reduced excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs. 5 and Rs. 10 respectively, as a Deepavali gift to citizens. Whatever may be the reason behind this sudden reduction, citizens are happy they can save on fuel and it will also remove some pressure from the transport sector as charges for all essential commodities got hiked as a cascading effect. In view of this development, the Telangana government should take cue and reduce tax accordingly to give relief to citizens. J.P. Reddy Nalgonda   The GHMC’s move to allow residential properties to be converted into commercial areas seems to be a revenue generating exercise with scant regard to public convenience. Has any public hearing been carried out while identifying commercial areas? What are the implications for pedestrians and provisions for vehicle parking? What are the plans to widen roads to take the impact of such property conversions? What are the proposals for speed regulations in such areas? The municipal corporation owes an explanation on these valid concerns and provide a forum for grievance and objection redressal. R.G.C. Sekhar Yapral   The Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) seems to be oblivious to the repeated pleas to install a garbage bin near Jayashankar statue on Doveton Bazaar route in Bolarum. Lack of a bin is forcing nearby residents to throw their garbage on the road and vehicle movement is spreading it further. The situation on both sides of the railway bridge with one side coming under Alwal Municipality is no different with a stinking drainage canal to compound our misery. N.S.R. Murthy Bolarum   We travelled by Venkatadri Express on October 22 from Tirupati to Secunderabad in coach no S-7. To our utter shock, we noticed that the compartment was full of cockroaches and we had to keep our luggage on the berth and sit without sleep for the entire journey of around 12 hours. If the railways’ claim that all bogies get sanitised and cleaned before departure is to be believed, how could there be so many roaches? I request the railway authorities to ensure proper cleaning and sanitation at the starting points without fail. K. Durga Prasad Rao Hyderabad  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu.   co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/readers-mail/article37375318.ece
08 November 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab House special session extended||The Punjab Cabinet on Sunday decided to extend the special session of Vidhan Sabha by one day. Earlier, the session of the Punjab Assembly had been called for a day on November 8. With the Cabinet decision, the second day of the session will be held on November 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/punjab-house-special-session-extended/article37375410.ece
08 November 2021||Farrukhabad,||Prisoner dies, 30 policemen injured in clash at U.P. jail||A prisoner was allegedly killed and about 30 policemen injured in a clash at a district jail here on Sunday after the death of another man due to dengue. The prisoners allegedly hurled stones at policemen and started a fire in the jail after hearing about the death of an inmate, identified as Sandeep Yadav, in Saifai Medical College due to dengue. The police, however, claimed that another prisoner, Shivam, who died later, was also suffering from an ailment and lost his life while being taken to the hospital on Sunday. But in a purported video which surfaced on social media, Shivam claimed before his death that he suffered a bullet injury. Bullet injury The video purportedly showing Shivam claiming that he was hit by a bullet fired by the jailor while he was trying to close the gates of the barrack surfaced later in the afternoon. “Around 8.45 a.m., the district jail officials requested for police force. On reaching the jail, senior officials learnt that one Sandeep Yadav, who was undergoing life imprisonment in a dowry case since 2012, had got infected by dengue on November 5. He was referred to Saifai Medical College, where he died on Saturday. Today [Sunday], when tea was given to the inmates around 8.30 a.m., they attacked the deputy jailor. “Subsequently, there was stone pelting and arson in the barrack, and this was done by inmates with a criminal mindset. The police force then managed to control the situation. In this, 30 policemen were injured, and the deputy jailor, too, was attacked by the inmates,” Superintendent of Police Ashok Kumar Meena told reporters earlier in the day. A fire brigade had to be called after the inmates resorted to arson. Heavy police force was deployed to control the situation, police said. District Magistrate Sanjay Kumar Singh said the guilty will be punished after investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/prisoner-dies-30-policemen-injured-in-clash-at-up-jail/article37375226.ece
08 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||Refrain from religious activities on roads: Vij||Amid the growing controversy over the offering of Friday prayers (Jumma Namaz) at public places in Gurugram, Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Sunday said that religious activities must be conducted inside religious places. In his first ever comments on the namaz row, Mr. Vij said religious activities should be held inside religious places, adding that everyone should refrain from holding such activities on roads without the permission of authorities. One-day permission Hindu right wing outfits in Gurugram have been demanding that Friday prayers should not be allowed at public places. The outfit leaders claimed that the permission granted for offering namaz at 37 designated public places three years ago was only for one day. Meanwhile, Gurugram’s Muslim community, after several meetings over the last couple of days, has formed a 21-member committee under the leadership of former Rajya Sabha MP Mohammad Adeeb to talk to the administration on holding namaz in the open. The representation from Muslims staying across various sectors of Gurugram and Manesar has been taken for the committee. ‘More space needed’ “A five-member delegation from the 21-member committee shall meet the Gurugram administration on Monday and submit a memorandum for not reducing any site from the list of 37 open places agreed with them in 2018. Instead, we need more places in new sectors as more Muslim migrant workers have come in the past three years. We shall also seek an appointment from the Chief Minister with an appeal to grant us land for building mosques in Gurugram as per town planning guidelines. We would also request for stern action against those who are working towards disturbing the communal harmony of Gurugram,” said Altaf Ahmad, a committee member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/refrain-from-religious-activities-on-roads-vij/article37375220.ece
08 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||Cong. seeks apology from Rohak BJP MP for controversial remarks||A day after controversial remarks of Rohtak Lok Sabha MP Arvind Sharma on Congress party and its Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda, Congress Legislature Party Chief Whip and Rohtak MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra on Sunday said the BJP had crossed all limits of democracy in the intoxication of power and demanded an apology from the leader on public forum for his “disgraceful” comments. In the wake of farmers holding BJP leaders, including former Minister Manish Grover, hostage in a temple in Kiloi village for several hours on Friday, Dr. Sharma on Saturday had said the Congress and Mr. Hooda should listen to him and if anyone dared to look towards Mr. Grover, his eyes would be taken out and hands chopped off. Mr. Batra said the farmers and other Khap leaders constantly opposing the political programmes of the BJP in Kiloi village were being wrongly associated with the Congress. Legal recourse He said the entire incident had happened in the presence of the administration and the BJP leaders must take legal recourse if they had any grievances. “On the contrary, the BJP leaders are trying to mislead the public by making statements against the Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Bhupendra Singh Hooda. The irresponsible statement of Dr. Sharma is being condemned by all sections of society. Such violent statements have no place in a civilised society,” said Mr. Batra, in a press statement. The MLA said the BJP has lost its political ground proving to be a failure on all fronts and its leaders were resorting to such tactics to divert attention from important issues. He said everyone knew about the contribution of Mr. Hooda to the development of Haryana and the BJP leaders were targetting him to hide their frustration and failures.  The BJP leaders are trying to mislead the public by making statements against Hooda. The irresponsible statement of Dr. Sharma is being condemned by all sections of society Bharat Bhushan Batra Rohtak MLA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-seeks-apology-from-rohak-bjp-mp-for-controversial-remarks/article37375219.ece
08 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||Ex-Assam CM’s son arrested for loan default||The Central Bureau of Investigation has arrested the eldest son of former Assam Chief Minister Hiteswar Saikia in a bank loan default case. The CBI team arrested Ashok Saikia, also the brother of Congress Legislature Party leader Debabrata Saikia, from his Guwahati residence in a case related to a Rs. 9.37 lakh loan taken from the Assam State Cooperative and Agriculture Development (ASCARD) Bank in 1998. The case was transferred to the CBI in 2001 after two complaints were filed with the probe agency’s Kolkata branch. Mr. Ashok was convicted in one of the cases in 2013. In a statement, Mr. Ashok said he was being victimised for a loan he had repaid long ago. “I have cleared the dues and H.N. Borah, the then general manager of the bank, had in a letter on October 10, 2015, said the loan has been liquidated.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ex-assam-cms-son-arrested-for-loan-default/article37375225.ece
08 November 2021||Jaipur,||Meghalaya Governor supports farmers’ issue||Meghalaya Governor Satya Pal Malik on Sunday attacked the Central Government and the BJP over the farmers’ issue and the Central Vista project, declaring that he is not scared of being asked to step down from his post. In a series of provocative remarks here, he said leaders in Delhi send their condolences even when a dog dies but none of them expressed grief on the death of “600” farmers over the course of the agitation against the Centre’s three agri-marketing laws. He also referred to the assassination of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, asking the Government not to antagonise the Sikh community. He said there are people in the Government who are in favour of the farmers but “one or two people” are arrogant. Mr. Malik has been taking swipes at the Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/meghalaya-guv-backs-farmers-issue/article37375224.ece
08 November 2021||Kanpur,||10 more test positive for Zika in Kanpur||Ten more people, including three Indian Air Force personnel, tested positive for Zika virus in Kanpur on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 89, District Magistrate Vishak G. Ayyar said. On Saturday, 13 people had tested positive for Zika virus. “Out of the 89 infected people, 55 are men and 34 are women. Among these, 23 are those having age below 21 years. Of the total infected persons, 12 are Indian Air Force personnel. This includes 11 men and one woman,” the District Magistrate said. Health teams had collected blood samples of 525 people on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, and were sent to the virology lab of the King George’s Medical University in Lucknow and the National Institute of Virology in Pune for testing. “Of this, 23 samples tested positive for Zika virus,” the District Magistrate added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/10-more-test-positive-for-zika-in-kanpur/article37375412.ece
08 November 2021||Kolkata,||No plan to leave BJP voluntarily: Tathagata||BJP leader Tathagata Roy on Sunday asserted that he will continue to play the role of his party’s “conscience-keeper”, a day after the saffron camp national vice-president, Dilip Ghosh, told him that he was free to leave the camp if he was “upset and ashamed” over its style of functioning. Mr. Roy clarified that he has no plan of quitting the organisation.  Critical of decisions He took to Twitter on Sunday and said, “I am being deluged with phone calls since yesterday. Let me assure you that I am not voluntarily leaving the party.” The former Meghalaya Governor had recently been critical of the decisions taken by BJP’s ex-West Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, Mr. Ghosh, and senior leaders Arvind Menon and Shiv Prakash, ahead of March-April Assembly polls, and blamed them in a series of tweets for the saffron camp’s poor show in the State. Earlier, too, he had flayed the senior leaders for “indiscriminate” induction of TMC leaders into the party without taking their experience and chance of winning into account. Mr. Ghosh, who was the State president of the BJP during the Assembly polls, took exception to his tweets and told reporters on Saturday, “If you are so upset and ashamed of all that is happening within the party, why don’t you just leave?” Maintaining that he will remain an ordinary member of the BJP, Mr. Roy, in response to Mr. Ghosh’s barbs, said that had he left the party, he would have unravelled many secrets, but that wasn’t happening now. “I am an ordinary member of the BJP. I will perform the role of conscience-keeper of the party, like the conscience-keeper in ‘Jatra’ (stage play). Had I left the party, I would have unravelled many secrets. But that is not happening now,” the former Governor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-plan-to-leave-bjp-voluntarily-tathagata/article37375223.ece
08 November 2021||New Delhi,||BJP MP dares CM to stop him from celebrating Chhath at Yamuna ghat||The politics over Chhath Puja continued on Sunday with BJP MP Parvesh Verma challenging Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to stop him from celebrating the festival at the ghat on the Yamuna banks at ITO. “I will be accompanied by Purvanchali brothers and sisters and we will clean the Chhath ghat at ITO and start the puja. I challenge Mr. Kejriwal to stop us if he can,” Mr. Verma said in a video statement. He added that it was unacceptable that Mr. Kejriwal had banned Chhath Puja on the Yamuna banks this year. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said it was the BJP, which, through the office of the Lieutenant-Governor, who is also the chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), prohibited the use of Chhath ghats on the Yamuna banks. The DDMA, however, allowed celebrations at other designated sites across the city, following a protest by the BJP outside the Chief Minister’s office last month. The Delhi Government said that it was not against Chhath and had written to the Centre seeking directions for the conduct of the festival. The tussle has been going on with AAP alleging that the BJP is not allowing preparations for Chhath at the sites where the land is under the control of the DDA and the municipal corporations. AAP MLA Somnath Bharti said the Lieutenant-Governor had decided that he would not allow Chhath, but Mr. Kejriwal fought for permission to be granted so that people from Purvanchal could celebrate the festival. “For following COVID-19 protocol, the Yamuna banks would have been the perfect place since it is so spacious. But now that there will be no rituals and worship on the banks, people will start crowding the smaller riverbanks. It is at the behest of the BJP that the Lieutenant Governor issued an order that Chhath should not be held on the Yamuna banks,” AAP said. The Congress said both the BJP and AAP were showing discrimination towards the people of Poorvanchal by denying them permission to hold Chhath at Yamuna ghats. “If these parties in power wanted, they could have easily got the permission to celebrate the festival on the Yamuna banks,” it said. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar appealed to AAP and BJP leaders not to politicise Chhath Puja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-mp-dares-cm-to-stop-him-from-celebrating-chhath-at-yamuna-ghat/article37375208.ece
08 November 2021||New Delhi,||Builder who cheated 13 people of Rs. 1.34 crore arrested by EOW||The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police has arrested a builder for allegedly cheating 13 people, including former Indian cricketer Chetan Sharma, to the tune of Rs. 1.34 crore by luring them into investing with him on the pretext of high returns. According to R.K. Singh, ACP (EOW), the present case was registered on the complaint of Monika Khattar against the accused, Sameesh Chawla, and his accomplices — his wife Seema Chawla and father Ramesh Chawla — for duping the complainant and 12 others, including Mr. Sharma, in 2017. “Investigation revealed that Sameesh and his family members used to lure people residing in their vicinity into investing with them. The money was received in cash as well as through banking channels,” the ACP said. He added that initially, the accused used to give the victims regular returns for a short period to inculcate the feeling of trust but later, they neither paid the principal amount nor returns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/builder-who-cheated-13-people-of-rs-134-crore-arrested-by-eow/article37375214.ece
08 November 2021||New Delhi,||Man beaten to death, 4 arrested||Delhi Police on Sunday said that a 22-year-old man died while his friend was injured after four men, who were drunk, allegedly beat them up with bricks in a robbery bid on the night of Deepavali in Outer Delhi’s Swaroop Nagar. The accused, Nikhil Pal, Vijay, Shushil and Ashok, have been arrested and sent to judicial custody. DCP (Outer North) Brijendra Kumar Yadav said the deceased has been identified as Ankit Jaiswal, who used to repair air conditioners and refrigerators. The injured, Anand Kumar Jha (20), is a resident of north Delhi’s Burari. He is being treated at a city hospital. According to the case records, the incident occurred on the intervening night of November 4 and 5 when Jaiswal and Mr. Jha were going on a bike. The DCP said the four men pushed the duo off their motorbike and hit them with bricks before snatching their phones. “When our PCR van reached the spot, a person was found in an unconscious state and he was taken to BJRM Hospital where he was declared brought dead,” the DCP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-beaten-to-death-4-arrested/article37375216.ece
08 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 cases on the rise in city||The Capital recorded 47 new cases of COVID-19 and zero deaths in the last 24 hours, as per a health bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Sunday. The bulletin said that 43,337 tests had been conducted with a positivity rate of 0.11%. There are 365 active cases in the city, with 161 patients under home isolation. There has been a slight increase in the positivity rate over the past few days with Saturday’s bulletin showing a positivity rate of 0.10% and Friday’s bulletin showing 0.14%. The bulletin released on Thursday – the day of Deepavali – showed a positivity rate of 0.08%, same as the day before. In the last 24 hours, 56,904 people have been vaccinated, of whom 17,191 have been administered their first dose. So far, 2,06,75,735 people have been vaccinated in the Capital, of whom 75,53,963 have received both doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-19-cases-on-the-rise-in-city/article37375212.ece
08 November 2021||New Delhi,||IIT laboratories to focus on EV technology||In a bid to expand research in electrical vehicle technology, the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, has launched laboratories at the Centre for Automotive Research and Tribology (CART). These labs will conduct battery research and work on charging infrastructure and automotive health monitoring. Director of IIT Delhi V. Ramgopal Rao said CART had been conducting high-end research and development in the areas of battery-operated electric vehicles, hybrid electric vehicles, storage and alternative energy sources, and autonomous and connected vehicles. It had also collaborated with several automotive industries and was working to solve technological challenges faced by them. “These laboratories will take the ongoing research work at CART to a new level and many cutting-edge technologies will reach the industry from here,” Mr. Rao said. IIT Delhi said that the battery research lab has equipment for battery testing at cell, module and pack levels. The AHM lab is provided with equipment for condition monitoring and automotive noise, vibration and harshness testing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/iit-laboratories-to-focus-on-ev-technology/article37375215.ece
08 November 2021||Pune,||Chorus against Pune’s riverfront project grows louder||Noted environmentalists and activists have been raising grave concerns against the Pune Municipal Corporation’s ambitious, multi-crore Pune River Front Development project, whose objective is to clean and rejuvenate the 44-km stretch of the city’s polluted rivers. For a long time, they have contended that the project, ostensibly intended to purify and restore the natural flow of the city’s rivers, would only result in the rise of floodwater levels while irreversibly destroying the rich biodiversity along the riverbank. However, the PMC, refusing to pay heed to them, has started the tendering process for the project. After the environmentalists approached the State Water Resources Department (WRD) with their concerns, the WRD warned the civic body that it would be “solely responsible for any loss of life or property” owing to any flood-like situation arising due to the project. The Department told the PMC last week that it has been informed of debris being dumped alongside the Mutha riverbed which was obstructing the water flow. “We are reiterating that the PMC should ensure no obstacles to the river flow and no reduction in the water-carrying capacity of the river, else, the WRD would take action,” said an official. “The basic questions which arise in the wake of the Water Resources Department’s warning to the PMC is that who proposed such a dangerous project for the city when Pune in itself is a flood-prone metropolis?” says noted environmentalist and architect Sarang Yadwadkar. “In the last two decades, the health of Pune rivers has rapidly deteriorated and the city’s burgeoning population has generated huge quantities of sewage which is not being treated adequately owing to the sheer inefficiency of the PMC’s sewage treatment plants (STPs). So, if this water stagnates, the stink will further aggravate and the levels of the stagnant water will also rise. This will defeat the very purpose of the project, which is to purify rivers,” he says. Demanding to know how the PMC could go ahead with the tendering in the riverfront project, noted RTI activist Vivek Velankar of ‘Sajag Nagrik Manch’ said that the civic body’s move was astonishing given the intense discussions on the project for the last few years. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Vijay Kumbhar, also a well-known activist, questioned the motive behind the PMC’s unseemly ‘hurry’ to get the project going in spite of not having received environmental clearance in a proper manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/chorus-against-punes-riverfront-project-grows-louder/article37375401.ece
08 November 2021||Pune,||Funds for fire audits in Maharashtra hospitals||A day after a massive blaze in the ICU of Ahmednagar civil hospital killed 11 COVID-19 patients, Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday said the State Government will allocate funds for fire safety audits in all district hospitals and also work towards creating a post of ‘fire safety officer’ in each of these facilities. Speaking to reporters after visiting the site of the tragedy, he said the need for fire safety audits of all district hospitals has been discussed and a decision was taken that separate funds would be earmarked for the purpose. He also said that Rs. 217 crore should be immediately sanctioned by the Government to conduct the fire safety audits of such hospitals. “Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has given instructions to undertake measures to prevent such fire incidents. There is also a proposal to form a new post of ‘fire safety officer’ in each district hospital. Moreover, health workers will be trained to deal with such situations and activities like mock drills will be implemented,” Mr. Tope said. The fire safety officer will monitor the fire safety-related aspects in all the government-run district, tehsil and rural hospitals, he added. The Minister said that there is a need to think about what kind of material should be used inside intensive care units (ICUs) to avoid fire incidents. “The aspect related to continuous screening of ICUs and other sections of hospitals has also been discussed,” he said. Short-circuit Talking about the Ahmednagar hospital fire incident, Mr. Tope said officials have apprised him that prima facie, short-circuit was the cause of the blaze. “A committee formed to probe the Ahmednagar fire tragedy has been asked to submit a report in eight days, following which action will be taken against the guilty,” Mr. Tope said. The blaze erupted around 11 a.m. on Saturday in the ICU ward, where 17 COVID-19 patients, many of them senior citizens and some on ventilator or oxygen support, were undergoing treatment. “After the fire broke out, the staff present there immediately used fire extinguishers to douse the flames, but due to the thick smoke, the fire extinguishers did not work effectively enough,” he said.  Health workers will be trained to deal with such situations and activities like mock drills will be implemented Rajesh Tope Maharashtra Health Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-to-allocate-funds-for-fire-audits/article37375222.ece
08 November 2021||Srinagar,||Valley re-enacts ‘Battle of Shalateng’||The Army on Sunday conducted a unique light and sound show to re-enact the historic ‘Battle of Shalateng’ — the most decisive battle of the first Indo-Pak war of 1947 in the wake of Pakistani raids in the Kashmir Valley. “As part of celebration for ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ and to commemorate the historic victory of the Indian Armed forces in its first war after Independence, Chinar Corps conducted the show to re-enact the historic ‘Battle of Shalateng’,” Srinagar-based Defence spokesman Colonel Emron Musavi said. He said the ‘Battle of Shalateng’ had a long-standing impact on the history and geography of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/valley-re-enacts-battle-of-shalateng/article37375402.ece
08 November 2021||Udaipur,||5 policemen booked for assaulting colleague||Four constables and a head constable were shunted to police lines for allegedly beating up and stripping a colleague in Udaipur, police said on Sunday. Head constable Manoj Meena filed a case against the five policemen — head constable Jagdish Menaria and constables Nandkishore, Harikishan, Achlaram and Kailash Bishnoi — alleging that they thrashed and stripped him at his residence on Wednesday night, police said. He also alleged that he was forced to dance by the accused policemen. All of them were posted at Pratap Nagar Police Station. Mr. Meena alleged that the accused policemen were under the influence of alcohol when they barged into his house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/5-policemen-booked-for-assaulting-colleague/article37375411.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Place for pet pals||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/place-for-pet-pals/article37375210.ece
08 November 2021||Baghdad,||Iraqi PM survives assassination attempt||Troops deployed around Baghdad on Sunday following the failed assassination attempt with armed drones that targeted the residence of Iraq’s Prime Minister. The attack significantly ramped up tensions sparked by the refusal of Iran-backed militias to accept last month’s parliamentary election results. Seven of Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi’s security guards were wounded in the attack by at least two armed drones in Baghdad’s heavily fortified Green Zone area, according to two Iraqi officials. Mr. Kadhimi was unharmed. He later appeared on Iraqi television, seated behind a desk in a white shirt, looking calm and composed. His left hand appeared to be wrapped in a bandage. An aide confirmed a light cut. “Cowardly rocket and drone attacks don’t build homelands and don’t build a future,” he said. Later on Sunday, he received Iraqi President Barham Salih and headed a government security meeting. Residents of Baghdad heard the sound of an explosion followed by heavy gunfire from the direction of the Green Zone, which houses foreign embassies and government offices. Handout photos showed the damage in Mr. Kadhimi’s residence, including smashed windows and doors blown off their hinges. There was no claim for the attack, but suspicion immediately fell on Iran-backed militias who had been publicly attacking Mr. Kadhimi and issuing threats. It came amid a stand-off between security forces and the pro-Iran Shia militias whose supporters have been camped outside the Green Zone for nearly a month. They gathered after rejecting the results of Iraq’s parliamentary elections, in which they lost around two-thirds of their seats. Brig. Gen. Yahya Rasool, spokesman for Mr. Kadhimi and Iraq’s commander in chief, told the Beirut-based Al-Mayadeen TV that the drone flew in from southeast Baghdad at low altitude and could not be detected by defensive systems“The assassination attempt is a dramatic escalation, crossing a line in unprecedented fashion that may have violent reverberations,” wrote Ranj Alaaldin, a non-resident fellow at the Brookings Institution, in a post on Twitter. Protests turned deadly on Friday when the demonstrators tried to enter the Green Zone. Security forces used tear gas and live ammunition. There was an exchange of fire in which one protester affiliated with the militias was killed. Dozens of security forces were injured. Mr. Al-Khadimi ordered an investigation to determine what sparked the clashes and who violated orders not to open fire. Some of the leaders of the most powerful militia factions loyal to Iran openly blamed Mr. Kadhimi for Friday’s clashes and the protester’s death. “The blood of martyrs is to hold you accountable,” said Qais al-Khazali, leader of the Asaib Ahl al-Haq militia, addressing Mr. Kadhimi in recorded comments to supporters. “The protesters only had one demand against fraud in elections. Responding (with live fire) means you are the first responsible for this fraud.” A funeral for the protester on Saturday was attended by leaders of the mostly Shia Iran-backed factions who together are known as the Popular Mobilization Forces, or Hashd al-Shaabi in Arabic. Al-Khazali, in a statement Sunday, suggested the militias were being framed, calling for an investigation and for the punishment of the perpetrators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iraqi-pm-survives-assassination-attempt/article37374830.ece
08 November 2021||Khartoum,||Teachers take out anti-coup rally in Sudan||Sudanese security forces on Sunday fired tear gas at an anti-coup rally by teachers at the start of a two-day civil disobedience call against last month’s military takeover. Dozens of teachers carried banners reading “no, no to military rule” and demanded a transition to “full civilian rule” at a rally outside the Education Ministry in the capital Khartoum. Nationwide anti-coup protests — including by tens of thousands on October 30 — have occurred since the October 25 coup but have been met by a deadly crackdown. At least 14 demonstrators have been killed and about 300 wounded, according to the independent Central Committee of Sudan’s Doctors. “We organised a silent stand against the decisions by Burhan outside the Ministry of Education,” said Mohamed al-Amin, a geography teacher who took part in that protest against the country’s top General, Abdel Fattah al-Burhan. “Police later came and fired tear gas at us though we were simply standing on the streets and carrying banners,” he said. There were no confirmed reports of casualties but about 87 teachers have been detained, according to the Sudanese Professionals Association, an umbrella of unions which called for the Sunday-Monday civil disobedience. The teachers’ rally came after the military leadership which carried out the coup replaced heads of department at the Education Ministry, as part of sweeping changes it made in multiple sectors. “The protest rejects the return of remnants of the old regime” linked to ousted President Omar al-Bashir, the teachers’ union said in a Facebook post. Sunday’s rally followed calls for civil disobedience made by SPA, an umbrella of unions which were instrumental in the 2018-2019 protests which led to the ouster of longtime strongman Bashir in April 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/teachers-take-out-anti-coup-rally-in-sudan/article37374828.ece
08 November 2021||Tel aviv,||Palestinians, Israel spar over U.S. mission in Jerusalem||The Palestinians on Sunday slammed Israel for rejecting the promised reopening of the U.S. consulate in Jerusalem, a move that would restore Washington’s main diplomatic mission for the Palestinians in the contested city. Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett said late on Saturday there was no room in Jerusalem for another American mission. The Trump administration shuttered the U.S. Jerusalem consulate, an office that for years served as the de facto embassy to the Palestinians. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has pledged to reopen it, a move that Israel says would challenge its sovereignty over the city. In a statement, the Palestinian Foreign Ministry said it views the reopening of the consulate as part of the international community’s commitments to ending Israel’s decades-long occupation of territories the Palestinians seek for their future state. “East Jerusalem is an inseparable part of the occupied Palestinian territory and is the capital of the state of Palestine. Israel, as the occupying power, does not have the right to veto the U.S. administration’s decision,” the statement said. Asked about the consulate at a press conference, Mr. Bennett repeated Israel’s position on Jerusalem. “There’s no room for another American consulate in Jerusalem,” he said. “Jerusalem is the capital of one state and that’s the state of Israel.” Israeli Foreign Minister Yair Lapid suggested the consulate could instead be opened in the Palestinian administrative center in Ramallah, West Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/palestinians-israel-spar-over-us-mission-in-jerusalem/article37374836.ece
08 November 2021||Hong Kong,||With grip on present, Xi eyes control over party’s past, future||A major four-day Communist Party conclave that will open in Beijing on Monday is expected to further tighten President and General Secretary Xi Jinping’s grip over China’s ruling party and enshrine his place in the party’s official history. Mr. Xi, who took over in 2012, has already abolished term limits and ended the collective leadership model. The 20th Party Congress to be held in October next year will likely see him begin his third five-year term. Monday’s behind-closed doors meet, called the sixth plenum, is an annual gathering of the 370 members of the party’s Central Committee. Seven such meetings are held during the five-year period between each Party Congress. The sixth plenum has traditionally occupied particular significance as it focuses on party ideology. At the last sixth plenum five years ago, Mr. Xi was declared the “core” of the party, formalising the disbanding of the collective leadership model that had been in place for more than two decades. This plenum could be even more significant, reports in the Chinese press have said, noting that the party will pass what is called a “historic resolution”. This would be only the third in its 100-year history, with the first passed by Mao Zedong in 1945, signifying a turn away from Stalin’s ideological influence towards what is called “Mao Zedong Thought” as a leading ideology for the party. The second resolution in 1981, passed by Deng Xiaoping, marked the end of the Mao era, turned the page over the disasters of the Cultural Revolution and the excesses of Maoism, and launched what is called the “reform and opening up” era. Third ‘new era’ The party media has said Mr. Xi’s ascension has marked the start of a third “new era”, and a transition from “growing rich” under Deng to “growing strong” under Mr. Xi, a theme that the plenum may emphasise. The party sees this “new era” as reflecting China’s growing prosperity, strength, and global clout, while Mr. Xi’s detractors see an era that is being marked by a shrinking space for dissent amid centralisation of power at home, coupled with more assertive behaviour abroad, with rising tensions from Taiwan to India and the South China Sea.  The broader goal of the plenum may be to cement Mr. Xi’s place in party history, and establish him as the party’s tallest leader, certainly since Deng and perhaps even on par with Mao. This would also pave the way for Mr. Xi, who is 68, to appoint his favoured candidates in top positions as part of next year’s leadership change when many senior officials, including second-ranked Premier Li Keqiang, will retire. This weekend, the official Xinhua news agency published a lengthy profile of Mr. Xi that was carried across many newspapers in China, appearing to lay the groundwork for a major announcement in the coming week. “A landmark document will be tabled at this important meeting — the resolution on the major achievements and historical experience of the CPC’s 100 years of endeavours,” the report said, adding that “since being elected general secretary of the CPC Central Committee in November 2012, Xi has been seen as a man of determination and action, a man of profound thoughts and feelings, a man who inherited a legacy but dares to innovate, and a man who has forward-looking vision and is committed to working tirelessly”. “Under his leadership, China is becoming a powerful country, and is now entering an era of strength,” it said, adding that “without a strong leadership core, the CPC would find it hard to unify the entire Party’s will or build solidarity and unity among people of all ethnic groups”. On Friday, ahead of the meet, Mr. Xi conferred honours on “national ethical role models” selected by the party from different walks of life. Among those he met was Qi Fabao, the PLA regiment commander involved in the June 2020 Galwan Valley clash. The commander and four PLA soldiers who died in the clash, in which 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives, were among those nominated as “the country’s ethical role models”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/with-grip-on-present-xi-eyes-control-over-partys-past-future/article37374838.ece
08 November 2021||Addis Ababa,||Ethiopia capital not facing bloodbath, say rebels||Rebels fighting Ethiopia’s Government have played down reports that they would face a hostile population or cause a “bloodbath” if they advanced into Addis Ababa, even as tens of thousands joined a pro-military rally in the capital on Sunday. Fighters from the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF) and their allies have been locked in a year-long war with the government that has killed thousands and pushed many more into desperate conditions in the vast east African nation. Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, winner of the 2019 Nobel Peace Prize, sent troops into Tigray in November last year to topple the TPLF, accusing them of attacking military bases. But the TPLF and their allies have claimed several victories in recent weeks, taking towns some 400 kilometres from the capital, and have not ruled out marching on Addis Ababa. “The story that the population in Addis is vehemently opposed to us is absolutely overstated,” TPLF spokesman Getachew Reda told AFP in an interview on Saturday night. “Addis is a melting pot. People with all kinds of interests live in Addis. The claim that Addis will turn into a bloodbath if we enter Addis is absolutely ridiculous.” But tens of thousands joined a pro-military rally on Sunday where attendees poured scorn on diplomatic efforts to end the conflict, spearheaded by U.S. official Jeffrey Feltman. Rally-goers held signs blasting Western media for broadcasting “fake news” overstating rebel gains and urging the U.S. to “stop sucking our blood”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ethiopia-capital-not-facing-bloodbath-say-rebels/article37374826.ece
08 November 2021||ISLAMABAD,||AS--Afghanistan-Polio Vaccinations||The Taliban-run Afghan Public Health Ministry announced on Sunday the start of a four-day nationwide polio vaccination campaign aimed at inoculating children under age 5. For the past three years before taking control of Afghanistan, the Taliban had barred UN-organised vaccination teams from doing door-to-door campaigns in parts of the country under their control. The group apparently was suspicious that the team members could be spies for the previous government or the West.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-afghanistan-polio-vaccinations/article37374832.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||A new jurisprudence for political prisoners||A judgment of the Supreme Court of India on October 28, 2021 has immense potential to reclaim the idea of personal liberty and human dignity. In Thwaha Fasal vs Union of India , the Court has acted in its introspective jurisdiction and deconstructed the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) with a great sense of legal realism. This paves the way for a formidable judicial authority against blatant misuse of this draconian law.  The background In this case from Kerala, there are three accused. The third among them is absconding. The police registered the case and later the investigation was handed over to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The accused were in their twenties when arrested on November 1, 2019. During the investigation, some materials containing radical literature were found, which included a book on caste issues in India and a translation of the dissent notes written by Rosa Luxemburg to Lenin. There were also leaflets that were allegedly related to Maoist organisations. Thus, the provisions of the UAPA were invoked. Against the first accused, Allen Shuaib, offences under Sections 38 and 39 of the UAPA and 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) were alleged. Section 38 deals with “offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation” and Section 39 deals with “offence relating to support given to a terrorist organisation.” Section 120B of the IPC is the penal provision on criminal conspiracy. Against the second accused, Thwaha Fasal, over and above these charges, Section 13 of the UAPA was alleged — which is the provision about punishment for unlawful activities. Both the accused were students and there were no allegations of any overt act of violence. According to the accused, the charges were an attempt to label them as terrorists, based on the intellectual and ideological inclinations attributed to them.  Judicial trajectory The case had a curious trajectory. After initial rejection of the pleas, the trial judge granted bail to both the accused in September 2020. By that time, the students had completed more than 10 months in prison. The High Court, in appeal, while confirming the bail of Allen, chose to set aside the bail granted to Thwaha. The matter then reached the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court, after a comprehensive examination, upheld the trial judge’s finding that the materials, prima facie , do not show any “intention on the part of both the accused to further the activities of the terrorist organisation”. It found fault with the High Court for not venturing to record, prima facie , findings regarding charges against Thwaha, whose bail was set aside by the High Court. The top court confirmed the bail granted to both the students. Now, they have been set free. The Supreme Court was emphatic and liberal when it said that mere association with a terrorist organisation is not sufficient to attract the offences alleged. Unless and until the association and the support were “with intention of furthering the activities of a terrorist organisation”, offence under Section 38 or Section 39 is not made out, said the Court. Mere possession of documents or books by the accused at a formative young age, or even their fascination for an ideology, does not ipso facto or ipso jure make out an offence, the Court ruled. The judgment can act as an effective admonition against a suppressive regime. It also exposes the hypocrisy of the law, the UAPA. Section 43D(5) of the UAPA says that for many of the offences under the Act, bail should not be granted, if “on perusal of the case diary or the report (of the investigation)… there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation … is prima facie true”. Thus, the Act prompts the Court to consider the version of the prosecution alone while deciding the question of bail. Unlike the Criminal Procedure Code, the UAPA, by virtue of the proviso to Section 43D(2), permits keeping a person in prison for up to 180 days, without even filing a charge sheet. Thus, the statute prevents a comprehensive examination of the facts of the case on the one hand, and prolongs the trial indefinitely by keeping the accused in prison on the other. Presumption of guilt Instead of presumption of innocence, the UAPA holds presumption of guilt of the accused. Section 43E of the Act expressly says about “presumption as to the offences”. According to Section 43D(5), jail is the rule and bail is often not even an exception. The Court, in Thwaha Fasal , refused to construct this Section in a narrow and restrictive sense. This analysis has to some extent, liberalised an otherwise illiberal bail clause. In the process, the Court has also tried to mitigate the egregious error committed by a two-judge Bench of the Supreme Court in National Investigation Agency vs Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali (2019) that interpreted the same provision. In Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali , the Court said that by virtue of Section 43D(5) of UAPA, the burden is on the accused to show that the prosecution case is not prima facie true. The proposition in Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali is that the bail court should not even investigate deeply into the materials and evidence and should consider the bail plea, primarily based on the nature of allegations, for, according to the Court, Section 43D(5) prohibits a thorough and deeper examination. As such, in several cases, bail pleas were rejected relying on Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali , despite the strong indications that the evidence itself was false or fabricated. Many intellectuals including Sudha Bharadwaj and Siddique Kappan were denied bail based on a narrow interpretation of the bail provision as done in Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali . Stan Swamy was another victim of this provision and its fallacious reading. The top court has now altered this terrible legal landscape. For doing so, the Court also relied on a later three-judge Bench decision in Union of India vs K.A. Najeeb (2021). In K.A. Najeeb , the larger Bench said that even the stringent provisions under Section 43D(5) do not curtail the power of the constitutional court to grant bail on the ground of violation of fundamental rights. The text of the draconian laws sometimes poses immense challenge to the courts by limiting the space for judicial discretion and adjudication. This is more evident in the context of bail. The courts usually adopt two mutually contradictory methods in dealing with such tough provisions. One is to read and apply the provision literally and mechanically which has the effect of curtailing the individual freedom as intended by the makers of the law. In contrast to this approach, there could be a constitutional reading of the statute, which perceives the issues in a human rights angle and tries to mitigate the rigour of the vicious content of the law. The former approach is reflected in Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali and the latter in Thwaha Fasal . In Thwaha Fasal , the Court has asserted the primacy of judicial process over the text of the enactment, by way of an interpretative exercise. Delhi riots case On June 15, 2021, the Delhi High Court granted bail to student activists Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha who were charged under the UAPA for alleged connections with the Delhi riots. In an appeal by the Delhi police, unfortunately, the Supreme Court said that the well-reasoned judgment of the High Court shall not be treated as a precedent. The Thwaha Fasal judgment has, by implication, legitimised the methodology in the Delhi High Court verdict that ventured to examine the content of the charge instead of swallowing the prosecution’s story. It is this judicial radicalism that builds an emancipatory legal tool. The judgment should be invoked to release other political prisoners in the country who have been denied bail either due to the harshness of the law or due to the follies in understanding the law or both. Kaleeswaram Raj is a lawyer at the Supreme Court of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-new-jurisprudence-for-political-prisoners/article37374813.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||AUKUS could rock China’s boat in the Indo-Pacific||The trilateral security agreement between Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States (AUKUS) continues to be in the news. At the COP26 meeting at Glasgow, U.S. President Joe Biden tried to smoothen ruffled feathers when he candidly told his French counterpart, President Emmanuel Macron, that the Australian submarine deal with France had been handled clumsily. An assuaged France is bound to come around eventually since the Trans-Atlantic partnership is important for both sides. In regard to Australia, however, the kerfuffle over the cancelled submarine deal continues to dog relations. A piqued France harbours resentment at the Australian action, going by Mr. Macron’s recent remarks at the G20 press conference on November 1. The ASEAN factor There is also the matter of Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) disunity over the emergence of AUKUS. The South-east Asian nations have been unable to agree on other issues before, such as developments in Myanmar or the strategic threats posed by China. While AUKUS is clearly an attempt by the U.S. to bolster regional security, including securing Australia’s seaborne trade, any sudden accretion in Australia’s naval capabilities is bound to cause unease in the region. In a statement on September 20, Australia had unambiguously reassured the region of its commitment to ASEAN centrality and its continued support for the South Pacific Nuclear-Free Zone Treaty as well as the Treaty of Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone. Even though Australia has denied that AUKUS is a defence alliance, this hardly prevents China from exploiting ASEAN’s concerns at having to face a Hobson’s choice amidst worsening U.S.-China regional rivalry. True to style, the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman has criticised AUKUS as an “exclusive bloc” and “clique” that gravely undermines regional peace and security and reflects a Cold War mentality. AUKUS is based on a shared commitment of its three members to deepening diplomatic, security and defence cooperation in the Indo-Pacific to meet the challenges of the 21st century. Even though this has not been stated explicitly, the rise of China, particularly its rapid militarisation and aggressive behaviour, is undoubtedly the trigger. Decades-old partnership As such, there is nothing surprising about the U.S., the U.K. and Australia coming together. The U.S. and the U.K. have enjoyed a special defence partnership for decades. The U.S. and the U.K. have fought together as allies, together with Australia, in the Second World War. The U.S. shared nuclear weapons technology with the U.K. following the merging of the latter’s nuclear weapons programme with the American Manhattan Project as early as in 1943. The first U.K. test was conducted in 1952 in the Montebello Islands in Australia, a country that still regards the British monarch as the head of state, whose powers are exercised constitutionally through her representative, the Governor-General of Australia. To suggest that these three nations have come together to forge a new defence pact is stating the obvious. They have been alliance partners all along. Engagement with China For three nations, their relations with China have recently been marked by contretemps. Australia, especially, had for years subordinated its strategic assessment of China to transactional commercial interests. Much to China’s chagrin, its policy of deliberately targeting Australian exports has not yielded the desired results. Instead of kow-towing, the plucky Australian character has led Canberra to favour a fundamental overhaul of its China policy. The attempt to torment Australia has clearly backfired. That China’s naval expansion and far-ranging forays in the oceanic space should have compelled Australia to revisit its defence and security policies should also not surprise anyone. As early as in 1942, during the Second World War, three Japanese midget submarines, launched from five large submarines that acted as launching platforms, had mounted a sneak attack in Sydney Harbour. Though the damage and casualties inflicted by the attack were limited, that brazen episode, combined by the bombing by Japanese warplanes of Darwin, also in 1942, drove home to Australia that its distant geographical location could not guarantee its security against a direct maritime threat. In 2017 and 2019, the Talisman Sabre exercises (a biennial exercise that is led by either Australia or the U.S.), conducted by the Royal Australian Navy, were tagged by a Chinese People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) Dongdiao -class Type 815 auxiliary general intelligence (AGI) vessel. China also used the same type of vessel to monitor the multilateral Rim of the Pacific (RIMPAC) exercise in 2018. These developments, no doubt a portent of things to come, have cast a long shadow on Australia’s trade and strategic interests. ‘To further’ is the key The transfer of sensitive submarine technology by the U.S. to the U.K. is a sui generis arrangement based on their long-standing Mutual Defence Agreement of 1958. The AUKUS joint statement clearly acknowledges that trilateral defence ties are decades old, and that AUKUS aims to further joint capabilities and interoperability. The word “further” is key, since defence cooperation already exists. The other areas covered are cyber capabilities, artificial intelligence and quantum technologies, apart from undersea capabilities. The latter is the most visible part of the agreement, and potentially, a game-changer. Elements in the broader agenda provide opportunities to the U.S., the U.K. and Australia to engage the regional countries. There are clear indications that New Zealand is open to cooperation with AUKUS in such areas, especially cyber, its nuclear-averse record notwithstanding. All three nations will also play a major role in U.S.-led programmes such as Build Back Better World, Blue Dot Network and Clean Network, to meet the challenge of China’s Belt and Road Initiative. A comparison, the reach The Quad and AUKUS are distinct, yet complementary. Neither diminishes the other. Whereas the Quad initiatives straddle the Indian and the Pacific Oceans, a Pacific-centric orientation for AUKUS has advantages. Such a strategy could potentially strengthen Japan’s security as well as that of Taiwan in the face of China’s mounting bellicosity. Shifting AUKUS’s fulcrum to the Pacific Ocean could reassure ASEAN nations. It could also inure AUKUS to any insidious insinuation that accretion in the number of nuclear submarines plying the Indo-Pacific might upset the balance of power in the Indian Ocean. China’s potent military capacities must be taken seriously. China has a large and growing undersea fleet, including attack submarines, both nuclear-powered and diesel-electric. China’s naval power is enabling it to challenge U.S. dominance in the Pacific beyond the first island chain. A U.S. that still boasts the world’s most powerful military is perhaps tempted to look at effective means to militarily counter China. The Quad structure currently has neither the mandate nor the capability to achieve this. There are limited options in the economic arena with China already having emerged as a global economic powerhouse. AUKUS, though, provides an opportunity to the U.S. to place proxy submarine forces to limit China’s forays, especially in the Pacific Ocean. Sujan R. Chinoy, a former Ambassador, is currently the Director General of the Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/aukus-could-rock-chinas-boat-in-the-indo-pacific/article37374815.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The long road to timely MGNREGA payments||There is a famous parable of the 13th century mystic Mullah Nasruddin. He was once spotted under a street light searching frantically for a key that he had lost. A passer-by noticed the frazzled Nasruddin and stopped to help him. After both of them spent a long time searching for the key, the exasperated passer-by asked Nasruddin if he was sure that he had dropped his key there. Pointing to his house far away, Nasruddin said that he had, in fact, lost the key near his house. Agitated, the passer-by shouted at Nasruddin: “If you lost the key near your house, why are you wasting time searching for your key here?” To which Nasruddin, with no sense of irony, responded, “There is no light near my house but there is light here, so I am searching for the lost key here.” Delays in payments This parable captures the essence of wage payment delays under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Eight crore MGNREGA wage transactions were pending on Diwali. The People’s Action for Employment Guarantee (PAEG) recently released a tracker with important metrics on MGNREGA implementation. It showed that funds allocation this financial year (FY) is 34% lower than the revised budget allocation of last year. And this year’s funds have been exhausted. The Ministry of Rural Development issued a press release in response to these stating, “Currently Rs.8921 crore funds are available which can meet the wage liability...” This statement is misleading as the Ministry has not accounted for pending arrears of Rs. 17,543 crore from previous years. In a welcome move since the media reports, the Chief Ministers of Odisha and Tamil Nadu wrote to the Prime Minister seeking additional funds for MGNREGA. There is ample evidence by now, including an admission by the Ministry of Finance, that delays in wage payments are a consequence of insufficient funds. There are two stages in the wage payment process. In Stage 1, States must electronically send invoices, also called FTOs, to the Central government within eight days of completion of work at a worksite. These invoices contain essential worker details like their names and bank account numbers. The Central government then processes the invoices and transfers wages directly to the workers’ accounts. This is called Stage 2 and is the Central government’s responsibility that must be completed within seven days after Stage 1. Since Supreme Court orders in 2018, Stage 1 delays have reduced while Stage 2 delays continue. As per the Act, if Stage 1 plus Stage 2 exceeds 15 days, then workers are entitled to a delay compensation for each day’s delay. However, in violation of the Act and the Supreme Court’s orders, no delay compensation for Stage 2 is even being calculated. Instead of ensuring sufficient funds for timely payments, the Central government has repeatedly tinkered with the payment architecture as if payment delays are an artefact of technological hurdles. The Nasruddin parable appeared in a new avatar this year. Earlier, the invoices were not segregated by caste. On March 2, the Central government issued a circular to segregate invoices based on the caste of workers (Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and ‘Others’). In order to investigate Stage 2 delays and the impact of caste-based invoices, as part of LibTech India, we released a report called ‘Heavy Wait’. We analysed 18 lakh invoices across 10 States from April to September. In our sample, Stage 2 was completed only for 29% of the invoices within the mandated seven-day period. In fact, for nearly two-thirds of the transactions in Jharkhand and more than half the transactions in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal, Stage 2 exceeded 15 days. There was also a steady increase in Stage 2 delays from July to September indicating depletion of funds. If the Central government’s recent claims of allocations being adequate are true, then what is the explanation for such massive delays in wage payments? Caste-based segregation There were significant variations in delays by caste. While 46% of payments to SC workers and 37% for ST workers were completed in the mandated seven-day period, it was a dismal 26% for non-SC/ST workers. The negative impact of caste-based segregation was felt acutely in poorer States such as Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal. For instance, Stage 2 was completed in seven days for only half the transactions for SC/ST workers in Madhya Pradesh. This was much worse for non-SC/ST workers in Madhya Pradesh for whom only 7% of transactions were completed in that period. In addition to such stark differences, in West Bengal, the Central government kept pending nearly 45% of the wages beyond 15 days as on October 13. As this newspaper reported earlier, caste-based segregation has also resulted in tensions at worksites. It had also resulted in a threefold increase of workload for computer operators at blocks. Our Right to Information request to access the circular met with a hazy response. When questioned by the media earlier about this move, the Central government said that “For better accounting purposes, it has been decided, in consultation with the Department of Expenditure, to have a category-wise (SC, ST and others) wage payment system.” No doubt, knowing the earnings of SC/ST households is useful. But it could have been done after the wages were paid. Toying with the Act using the veil of better accounting is illegal. After critical media reportage, the Central government, in a welcome move, has revoked the caste-based segregation of wage payments. However, the Central government has not assumed any accountability by paying compensation for delays despite the evident damage caused by caste-based segregation of payments. Additionally, in our large sample analysis, we found no difference in the time taken for payments through the Aadhaar Payment Bridge Systems (APBS) and traditional account-based payments. In fact, APBS has given rise to a litany of complicated problems like misdirected payments and payment failures due to erroneous Aadhaar mapping with the payment software. Misdirected payments happen when one person’s Aadhaar gets linked to somebody else’s bank account. These problems are difficult to resolve even for bank and block officials resulting in increased hardships for workers. These minimally warrant an impartial, independent assessment and audit of the payment systems. Lost keys cannot be found where they were not lost in the first place. In the same vein, technical fixes cannot be substitutes for political will. Official data show that the work demand this year is similar to that of last year. As such, at least Rs. 50,000 crore needs to be allocated urgently and the Central government, in compliance with Supreme Court orders, must automatically calculate and pay the workers their entitled delay compensation. Anuradha De is a researcher with LibTech India; Rajendran Narayanan teaches in Azim Premji University, Bengaluru, and is associated with LibTech India and PAEG||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-long-road-to-timely-mgnrega-payments/article37374825.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Strengthening vaccine trust||India has found its footing in its campaign to vaccinate citizens against COVID-19. About 78% of the adult population has received one dose and more than 36% has received both doses. This is great news as vaccination, together with face masks and social distancing, is a powerful tool for returning to normalcy. Recent evidence indicates that acceptance of COVID-19 vaccines in India is among the highest in the world. This is a testament to those who have been working tirelessly for months within communities. However, even small pockets of unvaccinated individuals can threaten the success of an immunisation campaign. This is especially true for a highly transmissible virus like the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2. Misinformation about vaccines, in particular, can erode vaccine confidence. In 2017-2019, false rumours about the measles-rubella vaccine spread through social media and led to a spike in vaccine refusals in some areas. Also, with daily confirmed cases as low as they are now, enthusiasm to get vaccinated could wane. This is why we need to solidify vaccine confidence now. Power of trust Vaccine confidence exists on a spectrum. There are some who are against all vaccines. But there are also many who remain on the fence. Perhaps they have concerns about the speed with which the vaccines were developed or they received a message from a trusted family member or friend about the ingredients of the vaccine. The COVID-19 vaccines used in India are safe and effective, especially in preventing severe outcomes. And so, many of us may feel the urge to refute each and every one of these concerns. For those who remain sceptical, however, such arguments may feel patronising and could backfire. Conversations around vaccination, rather, should stem from a place of respect, empathy and understanding and should avoid disparaging language. This helps build trust — the key to vaccine confidence. In addition, when speaking with peers about misinformation, it helps to acknowledge that it is sometimes difficult in the current context to know what is true and what is not. Providing data from a trusted source, like government agencies or academic institutions, can also help correct misperceptions about vaccines. Framing vaccination as the default normative behaviour can help encourage those who have doubts. Many of us have already been doing this when we ask our friends and family, “ Teeka lagwaya, na? ” or “You’ve been vaccinated, right?” By asking this simple question, we are setting expectations for those around us. Vaccination is the norm. We are asked the question and we in turn ask others too. The messenger is also important for building trust. Individuals are more likely to listen to someone from their own background or area. In many villages, all the eligible individuals have been vaccinated. In some cases, someone within the community — a sarpanch or a highly respected individual — got vaccinated and encouraged others to do so as well. Doctors and health workers are also often trusted sources of information about health decisions. Actors and sportspersons are also powerful spokespersons. A campaign that appeals to people The COVID-19 immunisation campaign it is not the first large-scale vaccination effort in India. In 2014, India was declared polio free. This achievement could not have been possible without the simple campaign, ‘ Do boond zindagi ki ‘ or ‘Two drops of life’. The message was hopeful and appealed to Indians. A strong endorsement from celebrities and the engagement of community leaders propelled the message. The ongoing campaign to vaccinate India requires similar energy. An effective response to any health emergency requires a multidisciplinary approach. And so, creatives and public health experts must work closely together to bolster vaccine confidence. Bollywood is uniquely positioned to tap into the Indian psyche through effective storytelling. This is important because not everyone connects in the same way with facts and figures. We recently launched a campaign with creative support provided by the leading marketing agency Wieden+Kennedy, Delhi, centered around the question everyone is already asking: “ Teeka lagwaya, na? ” We hope to see more campaigns in the future. Vaccines bring the hope of returning to normalcy. Normalcy is not just survival, but also about fearless living, of bringing joy back into our lives and caring for others. These are essential considerations for effective, narrative-based communication around vaccines. Brian Wahl is an epidemiologist and assistant scientist at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and Neeraj Ghaywan is a National Film Award-winning movie director. Madhu Gupta, Professor at the Postgraduate Institute Medical Education and Research, contributed to this piece||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/strengthening-vaccine-trust/article37374819.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The BJP’s woes in West Bengal||Five months can be a long time in politics, as the case of West Bengal shows. Earlier this year, in the run-up to the Assembly elections, the entire Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, campaigned across the State in the hope of forming the government. Five months later, after facing a big loss during those polls, the BJP seems to have lost interest in the State. It has also faced humiliating losses in the bypolls of September and October, which have raised questions about the party’s claims of being a strong opposition to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the State. A clean sweep In the bypolls held on October 30, the TMC made a clean sweep by winning all four seats — Dinhata, Santipur, Khardaha and Gosaba. It wrested the Dinhata and Santipur seats from the BJP, which had won these seats in May. The TMC’s margins of victory have also been massive: it won the Dinhata Assembly seat in north Bengal by a margin of 1.64 lakh votes and Gosaba in south Bengal by 1.43 lakh votes. The BJP’s candidates lost deposits in three of the four seats as they failed to win one-sixth of the valid votes polled. The party managed to secure only 14.5% of the votes compared to the 38% it received in the Assembly polls five months ago. In September, the BJP also lost the bypolls to three Assembly seats, including Bhabanipur, from where Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee contested and won. After two rounds of bypolls, the number of TMC MLAs in West Bengal Assembly has increased from 213 to 217 in a 294-member House. Not only has the TMC won the bypolls to all seven seats, but it has also managed to attract leaders from the BJP. Defectors from the BJP include former Union Minister Babul Supriyo and leaders such as Mukul Roy and Rajib Banerjee. The TMC’s political dominance in Bengal can only be compared to the Left Front’s 34-year dominance, which ended in 2011.  BJP’s brand of politics The bypolls show a rejection of the BJP’s brand of politics in West Bengal. Before the bypolls held on October 30, the BJP raked up the issue of the recent communal violence in Bangladesh hoping that it would help the party reap electoral dividends. Attempts to polarise the electorate did not work for the BJP in the 2021 Assembly polls and did not work for the party in the bypolls either. In a State with a minority population of 27.01% (2011 Census), the BJP will need to focus on a more constructive approach. The TMC government’s increased focus on cash transfer schemes, the last being ‘Lakshmir Bhandar’, is working well for the party. Adding to the BJP’s woes were the high prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, which the TMC leadership never misses an opportunity to point out. In the run-up to the bypolls, the BJP leadership failed to organise a major political campaign in the State. Despite the fact that the supporters of the party were at the receiving end of the post-poll violence, and the Calcutta High Court directed a probe by Central agencies, the BJP failed to galvanise its supporters on the issue. Moreover, inner party feuds are making matters worse. A few BJP veterans have blamed a section of the Central leadership for the party’s humiliation  in the Assembly polls. In the next few months, hundreds of civic bodies including the Kolkata Municipal Corporation will go to the polls. The Opposition has been demanding polls in these municipalities and municipal corporations for the past couple of years. Unless the BJP comes up with another agenda to counter the TMC’s brand of politics, the regional party’s sway over the political landscape of West Bengal will continue unhindered. shivsahay.s@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-bjps-woes-in-west-bengal/article37374821.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Fuel price optics||The Centre finally decided last week to relent and act on the advice of monetary policymakers by cutting the excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs. 5 and Rs. 10 a litre, respectively. The duty reduction, announced on the eve of Deepavali, immediately helped lower the retail prices of the two fuels by at least about 5% and 11%, respectively. And on the Government’s urging, more than 20 States and Union Territories also reduced the VAT levied on the fuel products, thereby enhancing the relief provided to consumers from record pump prices. While the Centre asserted that the decision was to impart a fillip to the reviving economy, as well as easing inflationary pressure, the political significance of its timing was hard to overlook, coming a day after the ruling BJP suffered electoral reverses in some legislative and parliamentary bypolls. That the Government was keen to make political capital out of its belated reduction of levies was made obvious two days later, when it sought to call out the States — almost all ruled by Opposition parties — that were yet to make commensurate VAT reductions. With a clutch of crucial State elections, including to the prized U.P. Assembly, due early next year, the BJP is keen to regain control of the narrative, especially given the heightened public concern over inflation and the surge in fuel prices. As far as the economy is concerned, the reduction in fuel bills is bound to have a salutary impact on inflation as diesel is the main fuel for freight carriage and impacts the cost of everything requiring to be transported. The softening in transportation costs ought to provide some cushion to the manufacturing sector, which has had to cope with surging input prices at a time when demand is still tenuous. The additional cash left in the wallets of consumers may also provide a small bump in consumption though the durability of this stimulus will hinge on how global oil prices behave in the coming weeks and months. Global oil prices have been on a boil this year and the World Bank group projected last month that average crude prices would end 2021 with a gain of about 70%. With the Indian crude basket having risen on average almost 62% in the 10 months through October and the historical trend suggesting a firming of prices towards the year-end when the northern hemisphere’s winter usually pushes up energy demand, there is a real risk that Indian refiners may be left with little option but to continue raising retail prices. The onus would then be again on the Centre to make further cuts to the duty it had raised last year. States run by other parties should take the cue from Tamil Nadu and Punjab and bring down the prices at the outlets, and not hold back for political or revenue reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/fuel-price-optics/article37374807.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Rebels and rulers||Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed’s year-long war on the rebels in the northern Tigray region threatens to pull the whole country into a deadly civil war between the federal troops and several ethnic militias. When the war began, Mr. Abiy, a Nobel peace laureate, wanted to oust the Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), an ethnic paramilitary group-turned-political party, in Tigray and install a friendly regional government. Within a month, he met his objectives and declared that major combat operations were over. But retaining control over a rebellious region was harder than ousting the rebels. Moreover, Mr. Abiy seemed to have overlooked Tigray’s complex history. The mountainous region that shares a long border with Eritrea was the base of resistance against the military dictatorship in the 1970-80s. The TPLF, which fought the Derg, the military regime, for 16 years before ruling Ethiopia through a multiparty coalition for three decades, was not an easy pushover. It retreated to the mountains, regrouped and hit back, forcing the federal troops and their allies, including paramilitaries from Eritrea, to withdraw. Now, after taking Tigray and key towns in neighbouring regions, the TPLF, joined by other militias, has threatened to take Addis Ababa, the capital city that is home to five million people, “within weeks”. In his attempt to shake up Ethiopia’s power structures and crush the former ruling elites, Mr. Abiy has unleashed a series of events that he is no longer in a position to control. When the country moved to a parliamentary system from military dictatorship in the early 1990s, it adopted a model called “ethnic federalism” in which the regions, largely divided on ethnic lines, enjoyed some autonomy, while the federal government, controlled by the TPLF, focused on national unity, economic growth and defence. This model worked, at least for a decade, as Ethiopia, Africa’s second most populous country that was devastated by a famine in 1983-85, emerged as East Africa’s strongest economic powerhouse. But ethnic tensions started resurfacing late last decade, and Mr. Abiy, an ethnic Oromo, was chosen to put the country back on the trajectory of growth and stability. But his moves to sideline the TPLF triggered a bigger political crisis, which eventually led to the war in Tigray. Mr. Abiy is now on the defensive. The move to take control of Tigray has failed. If he stops the military operations now, it would be seen as weakness and the rebels, emboldened by their recent victories and political support they gained from opposition groups, could march southwards. An all-out civil war would be disastrous as it could open old ethnic wounds. To avoid such a calamity, there has to be a mutually agreed upon ceasefire. But neither side has shown any interest in talks. The international community, particularly the African Union, should press both the rulers and the rebels to immediately end the fighting and start talking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/rebels-and-rulers/article37374808.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Alighting or boarding buses||Madras, November 6: Seventeen persons including 7 cyclists lost their lives during the first 10 months of this year while suddenly emerging out of side-roads and alighting or boarding moving buses. Disclosing this at the weekly press conference, Mr. K.R. Shenai, Commissioner of Police, said the number of fatal cases of cyclists stood at 8 during 1970 and the number of bus passengers who were dead were 11 last year. In all these cases, individuals or the cyclists were at fault. He appealed to the cyclists as well as those boarding or alighting from moving buses to take the above cases as an indication of how fatal it would be to violate the traffic regulations. Of late it had come to his notice, the Commissioner said, that some driving school cars were weaving in and out of traffic during peak hours on main thoroughfares thus causing obstruction to the free flow of traffic and endangering the lives of others besides their own. A meeting of representatives of driving schools in Madras City was convened by the Deputy Commissioner of Police Traffic, yesterday, in which the former agreed not to teach learner-drivers during peak hours namely from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. within City limits. The Police Commissioner requested all learner-drivers to observe these restrictions in the public interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/alighting-or-boarding-buses/article37374816.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Ask Us||Q.I am a PSU employee with a salary of Rs. 29,000 p.m. I save about 60% of salary. The PSU deducts for NPS and EPF. I have bought three life insurance plans, of which two are endowment and one a whole-life plan with Rs. 3 lakh as sum assured. I have opened a PPF account and contribute about Rs. 1,500 a month. I have started three SIPs totalling Rs. 3,000 with two equity and one debt fund. I have an emergency fund in bank FDs for 8 months’ expenses. What are the next steps in my investment journey? Yogi Patel A.Congratulations on managing to save such a substantial portion of your income and making some right moves so far. Of the investments you already make, NPS and EPF, and PPF are very good choices to take care of your retirement or other long-term goals. An emergency fund equal to 8 month’s expenses is also quite adequate at this stage. While we don’t know the identity of your equity and debt funds, as a first-time investor we hope you have invested in index funds or flexicap equity funds with a good record. On the debt fund side, it would be best to stick with short duration funds that invest in high-quality debt instruments at this juncture. If you need help with choosing the right funds do use the services of a qualified financial adviser. The only quibble we have is with your choice of insurance plans. While you will need life insurance if you have dependant family members (they will get a lump sum to compensate for loss of income in case of your death), the cheapest and best option to buy sufficient life insurance is to purchase a pure term policy. Endowment and whole life plans usually charge you a very stiff premium for very low cover and make for poor investments given their less-than-FD returns. If you have dependants (you don’t need insurance if you don’t), your current life insurance cover of Rs. 3 lakh is quite inadequate given your income levels. We suggest you use online calculators to work out the right amount of life insurance for yourself and buy a pure term policy online. You can discontinue your high-cost endowment and whole-life plans and redeploy the money in term cover or other investments. As the next step in your investment journey, you should map out your financial goals and the horizons by which you would like to achieve them. Refer URL / scan the QR code alongside to learn how to go about it. As your career graph and income rise, try and step up investments in tandem. Try to achieve a 5% increase in your surpluses each year to beat inflation in the long run. Though you may have an insurance cover from your employer, get another standalone plan that can see you through periods when you change jobs. Q.My daughter (24) works in the private sector earning Rs. 25,000 per month. Please advise as to how much she should save every month and where she should invest to get Rs. 7 lakh in three years. She is saving Rs. 1,000 a month in PPF. So far, she has saved Rs. 70,000. Where she can invest this lump sum? Raj Genevive Veena A.At the start of her career, she should aim to save about 15% of her pay and try and step up this to 20-25% as her income rises. However, even with a higher level of savings, it will be quite difficult for her to get to Rs. 7 lakhin three years. A monthly investment of Rs. 10,000 (40% of her pay) for three years, if it earns a 6.5% annual return, can get her to about Rs. 4 lakh at the end of 3 years. While a higher return-earning investment (like equity mutual funds or stocks) can get her to a higher amount if she’s very lucky, it would be very imprudent for her to invest in risky instruments such as equities or shares with only a three-year horizon. Indian stock markets today are trading at fairly high valuations and if there should be a correction or a crash, a three-year period would not offer sufficient time for her to recover even her invested principal. To reach specific targets, it would be good if she takes time to map out a comprehensive financial plan as explained earlier. (Refer URL / scan the QR code alongside.) As the article explains, it will be good if she sets aside an emergency fund amounting to 9-12 month’s expenses before starting on investments. The Rs. 70,000 savings can help towards this. She can park it in FDs with a systemically important bank. Q.I’m 21 and want to invest Rs. 10,000 a month to buy a home in the next five years. Which MF plan should I choose? Khushal Satwara A.As you will need to fund the bulk of the cost of a home with a housing loan, we hope you are looking to save towards the down payment alone. If you are very keen on buying a home in five years’ time, you should stick to mutual funds that invest in debt instruments to accumulate your down-payment amount. Funds that invest mostly in equities or have a large equity component are not a good option if you plan to withdraw money from them in five years’ time. With stock market valuations at record highs, there’s a high risk of a market correction reducing the value of any equity investments made right now. Should such a correction materialise, it may take more than five years’ time to recoup your capital and earn a good return over and above it. To save money for down payment, you can mull short-duration/floating rate or target maturity debt funds that invest in both PSU bonds and State Government Loans. Investing Rs. 10,000 a month in a fund that earns about 6.5% a year can get you to Rs. 7.1 lakh at the end of five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article37374805.ece
08 November 2021||Dubai,||West Indies — missing the right mix||The West Indies’ dream of a third ICC T20 World Cup title ended in the group stage. Over the years, T20 games involving the West Indies have been about speed, skill, aggression and ambition as the Maroon Brigade kept walloping opponents to stake a claim as the first truly great men’s T20I team. Four semifinal appearances in six editions and two World titles attest to that. Incredible run So, the early exit from the 2021 edition should in no way diminish the larger achievements of a side that, for nearly a decade, was regarded as the gold standard in T20 cricket and refashioned the way the format is played. However, the West Indians’ campaign at the World Cup was marred by curious selections, inability to tailor the boundary-hitting strategy to conditions and an ageing group of T20 Hall of Famers. When the West Indies won titles in 2012 and 2016, it had a team that was also built around effective spin bowling options, and was well-suited to defending totals. Leg-spinner Samuel Badree and left-arm spinner Sulieman Benn are cases in point. No place for Narine! Inexplicably, there was no place for Sunil Narine in the World Cup squad. It was quite surprising given that he had been active in the CPL, IPL and Hundred. Roger Harper, the lead selector, had said at the time: “Sunil Narine is a great miss for a team like this in a tournament like this. Any team would miss having a bowler of that quality in the team but… [he] did not make our fitness standards.” The team clearly missed Narine’s experience and guile in conditions that aided spin bowling. Over-reliance Another impediment was the West Indies’ over-reliance on power-hitting which didn’t really click on the slow, low pitches and large boundaries in the UAE. It lost 0-3 to Pakistan in the UAE in 2016 due to the same reason. The importance of running ones and twos on big grounds, like Dubai and Abu Dhabi, was once again emphasised. The T20 nous and experience that Kieron Pollard, Andre Russell, Chris Gayle and Dwayne Bravo bring from their time in T20 leagues globally is unparalleled. Unfortunately, barring Shimron Hetmyer and Nicholas Pooran, the next generation of West Indies batters is yet to find its feet. Nonetheless it’s time to pass on the baton.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/west-indies-missing-the-right-mix/article37375072.ece
08 November 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Kiwis beat Afghanistan, knock out India||New Zealand beat Afghanistan by eight wickets in a Group 2 Super-12 game here on Sunday to progress to the ICC T20 World Cup semifinals. As a result, India and Afghanistan failed to qualify further. Needing a modest 125 to win, Daryl Mitchell and Martin Guptill began with a flurry of fours before Mujeeb Ur Rahman got Mitchell caught behind. Guptill, with Kane Williamson, took New Zealand to 45 for one in six overs. Percentage game Rashid Khan (1/27) castled Guptill in the ninth over for his 400th T20 wicket. But with only 68 to get off 11.1 overs and eight wickets to spare, Williamson and Devon Conway were content with singles and the occasional fours. Conway brought the equation down to 34 from 36 balls with two fours off Mohammad Nabi's last over. New Zealand eventually got over the line, riding on an unbeaten 68-run partnership between Conway and Williamson. Earlier, Afghanistan lost both openers cheaply after electing to bat. Adam Milne removed Mohammad Shahzad in the third over, courtesy a fine catch by wicketkeeper Conway. Trent Boult then had Hazratullah Zazai caught. And when Tim Southee trapped Rahmanullah Gurbaz in front in the last over of the PowerPlay, Afghanistan was in dire straits. Najibullah Zadran infused some life into the innings with a couple of boundaries off James Neesham in the ninth over. But just when there was a semblance of a fightback, Gulbadin, at the other end, chopped on. Meanwhile, Najibullah clubbed Santner for two sixes as 19 came off the 14th over, including a wide. Next over, the left-hander brought up a 33-ball half-century. The boundaries dried up between overs 15 and 17 before Najibullah ended the drought with a six and a four off Southee in the 18th. Off the last ball of the same over, Nabi was caught and bowled while Najibullah fell in the next, having struck a 48-ball 73. Neesham conceded two runs and took a wicket in the 20th as Afghanistan finished on 124 for eight. It wasn't enough to keep the side alive in the end.   The knockouts   Semifinals: Nov. 10: England (Group 1 topper) vs New Zealand (Group 2 runner-up), Abu Dhabi  Nov. 11: Pakistan (Group 2 winner) vs Australia (Group 1 runner-up), Dubai  Final: Nov. 14: Dubai  All matches at 7.30 p.m. IST||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kiwis-beat-afghanistan-knock-out-india/article37375018.ece
08 November 2021||Paris,||Djokovic clinches sixth Paris title||World No. 1 Novak Djokovic won a sixth Paris title and record 37th Masters crown on Sunday, beating Daniil Medvedev 4-6, 6-3, 6-3 in the final. The 34-year-old Serbian gained a measure of revenge over his Russian opponent who dashed his dreams of a Grand Slam sweep when he beat him in the US Open final in September. Victory on Sunday was Djokovic's second record in as many days after he was confirmed as season-ending World No. 1 for a seventh time. In an entertaining contest, befitting a duel between the top two in the world, Djokovic again had to come back from a set down after needing three sets to defeat Hubert Hurkacz in the semifinals. It was only the second time the top two in Paris had clashed in the final.  The result (final): Novak Djokovic bt Daniil Medvedev 4-6, 6-3, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-wins-sixth-paris-title/article37375024.ece
08 November 2021||Pune:,||Petronia takes the S.A. Poonawalla Million||Trainer Hosidar Daji’s Petronia (K. Nazil up) claimed the S.A. Poonawalla Million (Gr. 3), the main attraction of Sunday’s (Nov. 7) races. The winner is owned by Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy Rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. Trainer Pesi Shroff saddled three winners of the day.  1. MASOOM MASTER TROPHY (2,000m), Cl. V, 4-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: AIRA (Bhawani) 1, Royal Castle (J. Chinoy) 2, Walk The Talk (Kaviraj) 3 and Chastity (Neeraj) 4. Dist, 3 and Lnk. 2m, 8.00s. Rs. 68 (w) 18, 20 and 31 (p). SHP: 82, FP: 223, Q: 184, Tanala: 1,328 and 474. Favourite: Memorable Moments. Owners: Mrs. Sameena Grewal & Mr. Gurtej Singh Grewal. Trainer: Karthik Ganapathy.  2. CARDINAL PLATE (1,000m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: IMPERMANENCE (Sandesh) 1, Murwara Princess (T.S. Jodha) 2, Dark Secret (Akshay) 3 and Spirit Bay (Zeeshan) 4. 2, 1-1/4 and 2-1/4. 59.87s. Rs. 14 (w), 13, 17 and 15 (p). SHP: 83, FP: 126, Q: 74, Tanala: 239 and 81. Favourite: Impermanence. Owners: M/s. Hemant S. Dharnidharka, Dinesh G. Virwani & Sultan Singh. Trainer: Imtiaz A. Sait.  3. JEFFERSON PLATE (2,000m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: ARCADIA (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Bold Legend (Kaviraj) 2, Successor (Sandesh) 3 and Circle Of Love (Neeraj) 4. Hd, 3-1/4 and 1. 2m, 7.21s. Rs. 17 (w), 10 and 24 (p). SHP: 37, FP: 67, Q: 47, Tanala: 93 and 19. Favourite: Arcadia. Owners: Mr. P. Shroff, Mrs. Tina Shroff, Mr. Yohann Shroff, Ms. Anya P. Shroff & Mr. Roshan Emmanuel J. Trainer: P. Shroff.  4. INGLENOOK PLATE (1,400m), Cl. II, rated 60 to 86: JOAQUIN (Zervan) 1, Giant Star (Yash Narredu) 2, Sunrise Ruby (Nazil) 3 and Enid Blyton (Neeraj) 4. 2-3/4, 1 and 3. 1m 24. 61s. Rs. 51 (w), 22 and 14 (p). SHP: 37, FP: 95, Q: 57, Tanala: 267 and 159. Favourite: Giant Star. Owners: Mr. Jaydev M. Mody rep. J.M. Livestock Pvt Ltd & Mr. Ashish Kiran Kapadia. Trainer: Shazaan Shah.  5. STAR SUPERIOR TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward: MYSTIC BAY (Peter) 1, Hidden Gold (Kaviraj) 2, Augustus Caesar (Neeraj) 3 and St. Andrews (P. Shinde) 4. 1-1/4, 1-1/4 and Sh. 1m, 8.57s. Rs. 67 (w), 25, 16 and 14 (p). SHP: 49, FP: 382, Q: 166, Tanala: 1,066 and 457. Favourite: Augustus Caesar. Owners: Mr. Jamshed Byramjee Jeejeebhoy rep. Byramjee Jeejeebhoy Pvt Ltd, Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla & Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd. & Mrs. B.E. Saldhana. Trainer: M. Narredu.  6. S.A. POONAWALLA MILLION (Gr. 3) (1,600m) (Terms), 3-y-o only: PETRONIA (Nazil) 1, Regal Command (Bhawani) 2, Alicia (Chouhan) 3 and Chopin (Neeraj) 4. 3/4, Sh and 1-3/4. 1m, 39.33s. Rs. 91 (w), 24 and 19 (p). SHP: 36, FP: 492, Q: 585, Tanala: 772 and 184. Favourite: Alicia. Owners: Mr. K.N. Dhunjibhoy and Mr. Z.K. Dhunjibhoy rep. Five Stars Shipping Co. Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Hosidar Daji.  7. RAO SAHEB KEDARI GOLD TROPHY (1,600m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: THE BAWAJI (Neeraj) 1, Rasputin (Zervan) 2, Multiencrypted (Parmar) 3 and Seminole (T.S. Jodha) 4. 3/4, 6-3/4 and 1/2. 1m, 39.32s. Rs. 77 (w), 19, 16 and 16 (p). SHP: 40, FP: 397, Q: 252, Tanala: 4,036 and 692. Favourite: Revolution. Owners: Equs Racing (PF) & Mr. Berjis Minoo Desai. Trainer: P. Shroff.  Note: Farahnoush (Yash Narredu up) planted in the stalls and did not participate.  8. GREAT SECRET PLATE (1,200m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: ALASTAIR (Chouhan) 1, Fuhrer (Kaviraj) 2, Flash Force (Peter) 3 and Lagertha (P. Vinod) 4. Not run: Remus and Tormenta Storm. 3-1/4, 4-1/2 and Lnk. 1m 8.91s. Rs. 17 (w), 10, 18 and 106 (p). SHP: 30, FP: 57, Q: 42, Tanala: 759 and 604. Favourite: Alastair. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke & Mr. Jay V. Shirke. Trainer: P. Shroff. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 20, 389 (2 tkts.) & 30%: 8,738 (2 tkts.). Treble: (i) 176 (36 tkts.), (ii) 3,486 (3 tkts.). Super Jackpot: 70%: 9,527 (c/o) & 30%: 4,083 (1 tkt).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/petronia-takes-the-sa-poonawalla-million/article37375470.ece
08 November 2021||DUBAI,||‘A break between IPL, WC would’ve helped’||A day before he is set to end a fruitful stint as India bowling coach, Bharat Arun opined a proper break after the Indian Premier League may have helped India fare better in the ICC T20 World Cup. “Being on the road for six months is a huge ask. I think the players haven’t gone home since the short break after the first phase of the IPL. They have been in a bubble for the last six months. That takes a huge toll,” Arun said on Sunday. “Maybe a short break between the IPL and the World Cup would have done a lot of good,” he said. Formality Having lost two games at the start, and New Zealand having beaten Afghanistan on Sunday, India’s last game against Namibia on Monday would be a mere formality. “I am not trying to give any excuses,” Arun said. “The toss played a very vital role. Batting first or second in these conditions makes a huge difference. That shouldn’t be the case,” Arun said. With India’s last game in the World Cup on Monday, Arun’s stint as bowling coach will also come to an end. The former India pacer was satisfied with having contributed immensely to India’s rise in the pace-bowling department, especially in Tests. “It’s been a great journey, an outstanding journey that had ups and downs. But the team is in a much better position than when we started,” he said. Highest points “We began winning Test matches overseas. That is what we strived hard to achieve as a team. The highest points could be the two back-to-back wins in Australia and also more-or-less winning the series in England. “Of course, there is one more Test to go. But I think the team’s performance during the English series was outstanding,” he said.  The toss played a very vital role. Batting first or second in these conditions makes a huge difference. That shouldn’t be the case Arun||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-break-between-ipl-wc-wouldve-helped/article37375013.ece
08 November 2021||DUBAI,||India’s Namibia game has some significance||Minutes after New Zealand sealed its semifinal spot in the ICC T20 World Cup with yet another clinical performance versus Afghanistan in its last Super 12 tie in Abu Dhabi, the Indian team cancelled its optional practice session scheduled at the ICC Academy here on Sunday evening. Disappointing note It was understandable in a way since irrespective of the result of India’s last game against Namibia, Virat Kohli’s final assignment as India’s T20I captain will end on a disappointing note. Mediocre outings in its first two games meant that India will take the flight back home after the Namibia match. Monday night’s game will still be significant in more ways than one for India. To begin with, Kohli & Co. would like to give a win as a farewell gift to three pillars of its support staff who made India a great force in Test cricket. Head coach Ravi Shastri, bowling coach B. Arun and fielding coach R. Sridhar will sign off their long vigil in charge of the team on Monday night, handing over the reins to Rahul Dravid. More importantly, it will be a perfect opportunity for Virat Kohli to pass on the captaincy baton to the man who will be at the helm for next year’s T20 World Cup. New T20I captain likely to be unveiled today While the selectors are yet to announce the squad, India’s new T20I captain could well be unveiled at the time of the toss on Monday. This will also give a chance to let leg-spinner Rahul Chahar, the only player in the 15-member squad to have not featured in the XI so far in the competition, get some game time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-namibia-game-has-some-significance/article37375017.ece
08 November 2021||SHARJAH,||Pakistan’s remarkable run continues||Babar Azam and Shoaib Malik struck half-centuries to lead Pakistan to 189 for four against Scotland in its final ICC T20 World Cup Super 12 game on Sunday. In reply, the Scots were restricted to 117 for six in 20 overs. It was Pakistan’s fifth win in five games as it topped Group 2. Pakistan skipper Babar scored a 47-ball-66 — his 24th fifty in T20Is and his fourth in five matches — after deciding to bat on a flat pitch. Malik then punished a hapless Scottish attack during his 18-ball unbeaten 54 which contained six sixes and one four. He hit 26 off Chris Greaves’ last over. Babar stroked five boundaries and smashed three sixes to become the highest run-scorer of this edition with 264 in five games, overtaking England’s Jos Buttler (240). Babar fell to spinner Greaves in the 18th over as Pakistan increased the scoring rate, adding 129 in the last 10 overs. As many as 77 came in the last five. Babar and Mohammad Rizwan (15) had put on a slow 35 for the opening stand. Rizwan’s record Rizwan, when on five, broke West Indian Chris Gayle’s record for most runs in T20s in a calendar year. Rizwan now has 1,676 runs in 41 games. Gayle had notched up 1,665 in 36 matches in 2015.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistans-remarkable-run-continues/article37375020.ece
08 November 2021||London,||West Ham upends Liverpool||Arsenal closed in on the Premier League top four after a second-half goal from Emile Smith-Rowe gave it a 1-0 home win over Watford on Sunday in manager Mikael Arteta’s 100th league and cup game in charge. The result lifted Arsenal lifted one place up to fifth on 20 points from 11 games. Antonio Conte’s first Premier League game in charge of Tottenham Hotspur ended in a scrappy 0-0 draw at Everton on Sunday, as a crucial VAR intervention helped it scrape a point. The pivotal moment in a game of few clear chances came just past the hour mark when referee Chris Kavanagh awarded a penalty against Tottenham keeper Hugo Lloris for a foul on Richarlison but changed his mind after checking the pitchside monitor. Everton ended a feisty match with 10 men after Mason Holgate was sent off in stoppage time for a wild tackle on Spurs midfielder Pierre-Emile Hojgberg.   The results: Premier League: Arsenal 1 (Smith Rowe 56) bt Watford 0; Everton 0 drew with Tottenham 0; Leeds 1 (Raphinha 26) drew with Leicester 1 (Barnes 28).   Serie A: Venezia 3 (Caldara 3, Aramu 65-pen, Okereke 74) bt Roma 2 (Shomurodov 43, Abraham 45+2); Sampdoria 1 (Thorsby 77) lost to Bologna 2 (Svanberg 47, Arnautovic 79); Udinese 3 (Deulofeu 8, Frattesi 39-og, Beto 51) bt Sassuolo 2 (Berardi 15, Frattesi 28).   Saturday: Premier League: Brentford 1 (Henry 60) lost to Norwich 2 (Normann 6, Pukki 29-pen); Chelsea 1 (Havertz 33) drew with Burnley 1 (Vydra 79); Crystal Palace 2 (Zaha 61, Gallagher 78) bt Wolves 0; Brighton 1 (Trossard 24-pen) drew with Newcastle 1 (Hayden 66).   La Liga: Celta Vigo 3 (Aspas 52, 90+6, Nolito 74) drew with Barcelona 3 (Fati 5, Busquets 18, Depay 34); Alaves 2 (Joselu 77-pen, 90+1) bt Levante 1 (de Frutos 13); Real Madrid 2 (Kroos 14, Benzema 38) bt Rayo Vallecano 1 (Falcao 76).   Bundesliga: Bayern Munich 2 (Goretzka 30, Lewandowski 75) bt Freiburg 1 (Haberer 90+3); VfL Wolfsburg 1 (Nmecha 14) bt Augsburg 0; VfB Stuttgart 0 lost to Arminia Bielefeld 1 (Okugawa 19); VfL Bochum 2 (Novothny 66, Pantovic 90+7) bt Hoffenheim 0; RB Leipzig 2 (Nkunku 29, Poulsen 68) bt Borussia Dortmund 1 (Reus 52).   Serie A: Juventus 1 (Cuadrado 90+1) bt Fiorentina 0; Cagliari 1 (Joao Pedro 27) lost to Atalanta 2 (Pasalic 6, Zapata 43).   Ligue 1: Bordeaux 2 (Elis 78, Niang 90+2) lost to Paris Saint-Germain 3 (Neymar 26, 43, Mbappe 63).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arsenal-inches-towards-top-four/article37375027.ece
08 November 2021||PRAGUE,||Mixed feelings over the maiden edition of Billie Jean King Cup||The Billie Jean King Cup, whose maiden edition ended in Prague on Saturday with Russia getting the better of Switzerland 2-0, has reaped praise for actually taking place amid the Covid pandemic but also left a few questions. The International Tennis Federation (ITF) revamped the original Fed Cup into a tournament, World Cup-like format, following a similar decision on the Davis Cup. It had to wait for two years because of the pandemic to see the maiden edition kick off. Mixed feelings But while ITF head David Haggerty hailed the event as an “outstanding week of tennis”, many players and fans were left with mixed feelings. Only five top 20 players took part in the event scheduled for the week just before the WTA Finals in Mexico — even though the ITF raised the prize money to the Davis Cup level. Ties often ended late at night and some teams bemoaned a lack of time for recovery in the packed schedule. Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova praised the “exciting format” after Russia had reached the final. “It’s better that you have everything in one place during one week. I find it different and fun and I like the atmosphere,” she said. “I have found this format rather demanding, tiring, the days are long. Hyper-demanding,” said France’s Alize Cornet. Czech veteran Lucie Hradecka, who finished her doubles rubber after midnight on the first day of the tournament, said she was “drained” after getting to the hotel at 2am. “I took the entire day to recover. And thinking I would have to play the next day, that would not be ideal,” she said. Concilatory tone Sloane Stephens put on a more conciliatory tone, describing the tournament as a “work in progress”. “There can be some things that we can change and adjust to better suit the players, not be here till 1am or 2 a.m. or whatever, but that’s just a learning curve for everyone,” she said. Prague earned praise for organising the event on a very tight schedule after it took over from Budapest in the summer with the hope that local fans will provide the atmosphere the event deserves. Lack of crowd But fans were scarce for most of the tournament played from Monday to Saturday, partly because of the Covid restrictions in place. Some 8,700 fans watched the Czechs lose to Switzerland in their last group game on Thursday in the O2 Arena, but a day later, only 3,500 turned up for the semifinals. “I thought we had amazing crowds especially when the Czechs played,” said Billie Jean King. “I was amazed we had any people, if you look at most tournaments.” But many opening ties played on workdays had just a handful of spectators, with the clatter of trolleys and cutlery from the skybox kitchen clearly audible most of the time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mixed-feelings-over-the-maiden-edition-of-billie-jean-king-cup/article37375074.ece
08 November 2021||Sharjah,||It’s a bitter pill to swallow: Boucher||South Africa head coach Mark Boucher says missing out on the semifinals of the T20 World Cup due to an inferior net run rate was a bitter pill to swallow. South Africa emerged as a strong contender to qualify for the semifinals as the tournament progressed but despite winning four of their five matches, the Proteas failed to make the top four. In their final group game they defeated England by 10 runs which was not enough to seal a top-four spot as England and Australia, which also had eight points each, had a better net run rate than the Proteas. “It’s not successful because you’re knocked out of the World Cup. It’s a bitter pill to swallow” Boucher said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-a-bitter-pill-to-swallow-boucher/article37375075.ece
08 November 2021||Gold Coast,||Stokes has lit England’s fire, says Burns||Confidence is high in the England camp, the players believing they can regain the Ashes, with opening batsman Rory Burns saying on Sunday the return of the talismanic Ben Stokes has provided a “massive boost” for the squad. England has not enjoyed much Test success in recent months, losing home series to New Zealand and India, and has not held the Ashes since 2015. But the late inclusion of Stokes, who has not played any cricket since July because of a finger injury and mental health issues, has lifted the squad, Burns said. “It’s obviously a massive boost to get Stokesy back in the side,” Burns said from the luxury resort on the Gold Coast where England’s Test players, who arrived in Australia on Saturday, are serving 14 days in quarantine. “You know what a good player he is. To get a bloke of his calibre back around our group is a big lift for us. It’s exciting because we wanted to get out here and have the best side possible and obviously Ben adds to that,” Burns said. The 30-year-old Stokes is a proven match-winner and his unbeaten 135 in a record run chase at Headingley carried England to a stunning one-wicket victory and ensured the 2019 Ashes was squared. But the New Zealand-born all-rounder has played down his return to full fitness and told Sky Sports before leaving for Australia that while he was desperate to be back playing in the “pinnacle of Test cricket”, one player did not make a team. “Although I know I’m a senior member of that team over the last few years, every member of that team is just as important,” he said. “We’ve got the likes of Jimmy (Anderson), Broady (Stuart Broad) who have obviously been there, done that. Rooty — fantastic leader and England’s greatest-ever batter, so we’ve got everything to come back at Australia,” Stokes said. Back-up England has taken a back-up squad to Australia to provide opposition in two warm-up games before the first Test starts in Brisbane on December 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stokes-return-massive-boost-says-burns/article37375078.ece
08 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gold eludes Saurabh, Abhishek||Saurabh Chaudhary and Abhishek Verma won silver and bronze in men’s air pistol, as Christian Reitz of Germany dominated right through to capture the gold, in the President’s Cup shooting championship in Wroclaw, Poland. Reitz triumphs The Indian duo had the satisfaction of going past the Olympic champion Javad Foroughi, but were unable to match Reitz who topped the qualification and semifinals before asserting himself in the four-men final, finishing 10 points ahead of Saurabh. Manu misses final In women’s air pistol, qualification topper Manu Bhaker missed the final by one point as she finished third behind Mathilde Lamolle and Olena Kostevych in the semifinals. Olena and Mathilde went on to win the gold and silver respectively.  The results:   Men’s air pistol: 1. Christian Reitz (Ger) 34 (25) 586; 2. Saurabh Chaudhary 24 (24) 581; 3. Abhishek Verma 21 (27) 580; 4. Javad Foroughi (IRI) 10 (24) 584.   Women’s air pistol: 1. Olena Kostevych (Ukr) 30 (24) 582; 2. Mathilde Lamolle (Fra) 30 (24) 568; 3. Jiang Ranxin (Chn) 18 (27) 581; 4. Anna Korakaki 8 (24) 583; 5. Manu Bhaker 23 (585); 10. Yashaswini Singh Deswal 567.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gold-eludes-saurabh-abhishek/article37375089.ece
08 November 2021||Chennai,||Manika-Archana win women’s crown||India’s Manika Batra and Archana Kamath produced a clinical performance to defeat the Diaz sisters, Melanie and Adriana 11-3, 11-8, 12-10 in the women’s doubles final of the World Table Tennis Contender Lasko (Slovenia) on Sunday. In what was expected to be a tough contest against the fourth-seeded pair from Puerto Rico, the Indians came up with a dominant display to win in 25 minutes.  Earlier on Saturday, Yang Widi of China, the top seed, shut out a firm challenge from Manika to win 11-7, 7-11, 13-11, 10-12, 11-7, 11-5 in the women’s singles semifinals.  The results (finals): Doubles: Manika Batra & Archana Kamath bt Melanie Diaz & Adriana Diaz (Pur) 11-3, 11-8, 12-10 .   It was great fun playing with Manika. We have paired in the past as well competing in a few ITTF tournaments. But this is our best performance Archana Kamath||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manika-archana-win-womens-crown/article37375026.ece
08 November 2021||Hyderabad:,||Makhtoob well prepped to deliver in feature||Trainer S.K. Sunderji’s ward Makhtoob is well tuned and may score over his rivals in the Telangana Cup, the feature event of the opening day of Hyderabad Winter Races 2021-22 here on Monday (Nov. 8).   OWN OPINION PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III), 12.50 p.m.:1. Furious Fun (11) Santosh Raj 62, 2. Golden Forza (7) R. Ajinkya 62, 3. Hurricane (3) Abhay Singh 62, 4. My Master (5) Gaurav Singh 62, 5. Amalfitana (2) Antony Raj 61.5, 6. Challenger (8) R.S. Jodha 61, 7. Rhine (9) G. Naresh 61, 8. Air Salute (10) Md. Ismail 59.5, 9. Racing Rani (6) Ajeeth Kumar 59.5, 10. Inception (12) Ajit Singh 59, 11. Jo Malone (1) Afroz Khan 57 and 12. Turf Monarch (4) Surya Prakash 50.  1. FURIOUS FUN,   AMALFITANA, 3. MY MASTER   TENACITY PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 1.20: 1. Hidden Hope (12) Mukesh Kumar 60, 2. Cosmico (14) Ajeeth Kumar 59, 3. Show Me Your Walk (7) Akshay Kumar 58.5, 4. Muaser (11) Nakhat Singh 57.5, 5. Explosive (8) Gaurav Singh 55.5, 6. Special Effort (1) Antony Raj 55, 7. Sweet Melody (13) C.P. Bopanna 55, 8. Nolan (10) C.S. Jodha 54, 9. Soul Empress (4) Aneel 53.5, 10. Ashwa Migsun (3) Koushik 53, 11. Battle Ready (5) G. Naresh 53, 12. Space Walk (2) R.S. Jodha 53, 13. Wild Card (6) Afroz Khan 52 and 14. Armani Candy (9) Surya Prakash 50.  1. SHOW ME YOUR WALK, 2. NOLAN, 3. COSMICO   SRISAILAM PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 1.55: 1. Miss Marvellous (N.B. Kuldeep) 60, 2. By The Bay (10) Mukesh Kumar 59.5, 3. N R I Sport (13) Nakhat Singh 59, 4. Unsung Hero (2) Akshay Kumar 58, 5. Sun Dancer (8) Afroz Khan 55.5, 6. Narakamicie (4) C.S. Jodha 54, 7. Akash (12) G. Naresh 53, 8. Fatuma (6) Gaurav Singh 52.5, 9. Flamingo Fame (9) Santosh Raj 52, 10. Princess Daniale (5) Md. Ismail 51.5, 11. Sye Ra (11) Ajeeth Kumar 51.5, 12. Prime Gardenia (3) B. Nikhil 51 and 13. Neffereti (7) S.S. Tanwar 50.5.  1. NARAKAMICIE,   2. FLAMINGO FAME,   3. UNSUNG HERO   TENACITY PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.30: 1. Red Snaper (10) Nikhil Naidu 60.5, 2. Blue Origin (3) Akshay Kumar 59, 3. Flying Scotsman (1) C.S. Jodha 59, 4. Nightmare (13) Mukesh Kumar 58, 5. Archangels (8) A.A. Vikrant 56.5, 6. Pacific Command (2) Abhay Singh 55.5, 7. Horse O’ War (11) B. Nikhil 55, 8. Bernini (9) R. Ajinkya 54, 9. Inside Story (6) Nakhat Singh 53.5, 10. Morior Invictus (7) Ajeeth Kumar 53.5, 11. Sheldon (5) Kiran Naidu 53.5, 12. Bedazzled (12) R.S. Jodha 53, 13. Rivadavia (14) Gaurav Singh 52 and 14. Dream Jewel (4) Md. Ismail 51.  1. FLYING SCOTSMAN, 2. BLUE ORIGIN, 3. NIGHTMARE   AMARNATH GUPTA MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 3.05: 1. Strategist (5) Antony Raj 60, 2. N R I Elegance (8) Mukesh Kumar 57, 3. Market King (3) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 4. Sporting Smile (6) C.P. Bopanna 54, 5. Mystery (7) G. Naresh 53.5, 6. Apollo (1) Rafique Sk. 53, 7. Kingston (10) Nakhat Singh 52, 8. N R I Vision (4) Koushik 52, 9. Sublime (9) Ajit Singh 52, 10. Watch My Stride (11) Akshay Kumar 51.5 and 11. Burano (2) Ashad Asbar 51.  1. MARKET KING,   2. WATCH MY STRIDE,   3. KINGSTON   SRISAILAM PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.40: 1. Brilliant View (1) Mukesh Kumar 60, 2. Thanks (4) Nakhat Singh 60, 3. Mandala Bay (6) Nikhil Naidu 58.5, 4. Bold Bidding (12) Akshay Kumar 57, 5. Rising Queen (3) B. Nikhil 55, 6. Angelita (2) Ajeeth Kumar 54, 7. Costello (10) Ashad Asbar 53.5, 8. N R I Blue (7) Koushik 52.5, 9. California Beauty (11) Md. Ismail 52, 10. Choice Of Diamond (5) Aneel 52, 11. Most Loveable (8) C.P.Bopanna 52 and 12. Spectacular Cruise (9) G. Naresh 52.  1. THANKS, 2. BRILLIANT VIEW, 3. BOLD BIDDING   TELANGANA CUP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 4.15: 1. Makhtoob (7) C.S. Jodha 60, 2. Akido (6) Nakhat Singh 59.5, 3. New Look (3) Gaurav Singh 59.5, 4. Private Empire (2) Abhay Singh 57, 5. Soloist (10) Akshay Kumar 55.5, 6. Southern Princess (5) Mukesh Kumar 55, 7. Lockhart (4) Afroz Khan 54.5, 8. Fire Power (1) Antony Raj 54, 9. King Maker (9) Khurshad Alam 53.5 and 10. Icicle (8) Ashad Asbar 53.  1. MAKHTOOB,   2. FIRE POWER,   3. SOLOIST   OWN OPINION PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III), 4.50: 1. Grand Duke (5) R.S. Jodha 62, 2. Joy O Joy (1) Surya Prakash 62, 3. Star Cruise (13) R. Ajinkya 62, 4. Silk (12) Koushik 61.5, 5. Winning Player (6) Ashad Asbar 61.5, 6. Ahanu (9) Rafique Sk. 60.5, 7. Starwalker (3) G. Naresh 60, 8. Thunder Road (7) Mukesh Kumar 60, 9. Golden Amaris (4) Ajeeth Kumar 59.5, 10. Elmira (2) Afroz Khan 58.5, 11. Queen Blossom (11) Rohit Kumar 57.5, 12. Good Tidings (8) Md. Ismail 56 and 13. Acadian Angel (10) Kiran Naidu 53.5.  1. WINNING PLAYER,   2. THUNDER ROAD,   3. SILK  Day’s best: MARKET KING  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5, (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8; Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3, (ii) 3, 4 & 5, (iii) 6, 7 & 8; Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/makhtoob-well-prepped-to-deliver-in-feature/article37375076.ece
08 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sasikiran slips to joint-15||The front-runner among Indians, K. Sasikiran lost for the second time in three rounds, this time to Russia’s Andrey Esipenko, to slip down the order after the 10th and penultimate round of the $425,000 FIDE Chess.com Grand Swiss chess tournament in Riga, Latvia, on Saturday. The 60-move defeat saw Sasikiran slip to joint 15th spot at six points. P. Harikrishna and Nihal Sarin drew their games to catch up with Sasikiran at six points. At the top, France’s Alireza Firouzja (7.5) reclaimed the lead with a win over England’s David Howell. The other overnight leader Fabiano Caruana (USA) drew with Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (France) to slip to joint second spot at seven points. Meanwhile, China’s Lei Tingjie (8.5) took a title-winning lead in the women’s section after a draw with Ukraine’s Mariya Muzychuk. Lei enjoys an unsurpassable 1.5 point lead before the final round.  Tenth round results (involving Indians): Open: Andrey Esipenko (Rus, 6.5) bt K. Sasikiran (6); Sanan Sjugirov (Rus, 6) drew with P. Harikrishna (6); Vladimir Fedoseev (Rus, 6) drew with Nihal Sarin (6): Alexey Sarana (Rus, 6) bt Raunak Sadhwani (5); Arjun Erigaisi (5) drew with David Navara (5); R. Praggnanandhaa (4.5) drew with Boris Gelfand (4.5); Haik Martirosyan (4.5) drew with S.P. Sethuraman (4.5); Kiril Georgiev (Mkd, 3.5) lost to D. Gukesh (4.5); Aleksey Dreev (Rus, 3.5) lost to Surya Shekhar Ganguly (4.5); Nikita Meshkovs (Lat, 3.5) drew with B. Adhiban (3.5).   Women: D. Harika (6.5) drew with Elisabeth Paehtz (Ger, 6.5); Antoaneta Stefanova (Bul, 5.5) lost to R. Vaishali (5.5); Nataliya Buksa (Ukr, 4.5) lost to Vantika Agrawal (6); Elina Danielian (Arm, 4) drew with Padmini Rout (4); Divya Deshmukh (4) bt Jesse Nikki February (RSA, 0) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sasikiran-slips-to-joint-15/article37375077.ece
08 November 2021||Saarbrucken (Germany),||Srikanth, Lakshya bow out||India’s challenge ended at the Hylo Open Super 500 badminton tournament after K. Srikanth and Lakshya Sen lost in the semifinals on Saturday. Lakshya went down fighting 18-21, 12-21 to Singapore’s Loh Kean Yew while Srikanth suffered a 19-21, 20-22 loss to Malaysia’s Lee Zii Jia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srikanth-lakshya-bow-out/article37375011.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Loh, Busanan triumph||Singapore’s Loh Kean Yew and Thailand’s Busanan Ongbamrungphan won the men’s and women’s singles titles respectively in the Hylo Open Super 500 badminton tournament in Saarbrucken (Germany) on Sunday.  The results (final): Men: Loh Kean Yew (Sgp) bt Lee Zii Jia (Mas) 19-21, 21-13, 17-12 retd.; Women : Busanan Ongbamrungphan (Tha) bt Yeo Jia Min (Sgp) 21-10, 21-14 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/loh-busanan-triumph/article37375037.ece
08 November 2021||ABU DHABI,||Abu Dhabi’s chief curator passes away||Mohan Singh, the chief curator of the Abu Dhabi cricket stadium, passed away hours before Sunday’s ICC T20 World Cup game between Afghanistan and New Zealand. The 45-year-old, who hailed from Uttarakhand, is survived by wife and daughter. Abu Dhabi Cricket and the International Cricket Council (ICC), while paying tributes to him, did not reveal the cause of death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abu-dhabis-chief-curator-passes-away/article37375014.ece
08 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Former umpire Ghosh no more||Former international umpire Sunit Kumar Ghosh passed away at a hospital here on Sunday, according to a Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) source. He was 87 and is survived by two sons.  Ghosh officiated in two Tests, seven One-Day Internationals (ODIs) and one women’s ODI. He also stood in 12 First Class matches and was match referee in four. His Tests were New Zealand’s matches in (then) Bangalore and Hyderabad in 1988.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-umpire-ghosh-no-more/article37375490.ece
08 November 2021||Palakkad:,||AIFA enters KPL qualifiers final||Host AIFA entered the final of the KPL qualifiers after blanking Lord’s FA 3-0 here on Sunday. AIFA topped Group-B with its second consecutive win to make the title round. Hashif (46), Shamnas (55) and M.D. Jasbeer (93) were the goal-scorers for AIFA.     Thiruvananthapuram, with 36 points, won the overall title in the State Road cycling championships here on Sunday. Ernakulam came second (24) ahead of Thrissur (8).  The results:   Men: 80km mass start: 1. Akshay Cleetus (Ekm) (2:23:33.12), 2. N. Ashik (Tvm), 3. N.S. Vivek Raj (Tvm). Under-23: 80km mass start: 1. A. Anandhu (Tvm) (2:38:54.33), 2. Aayush Padur (Tvm), 3. C.C. Abhinav (Mlp).   Boys: Youth: 10km individual time trial: 1. Rishab Shyam (Ekm) (17:01.02), 2. A.S. Akash (Ekm), 3. Criss Varghese (Ekm)   Junior: 50km mass start: 1. Adwaith Sankar (Tvm) (1:40.57.24s), 2. V.J. Salvin (Ekm), 3. Nandhu Krishna (Tvm).   Sub-junior: 30km mass start: 1. Atharva Ashok Patil (Tvm) (1:03:09.14), 2. K.V. Sanoof (Mlp), 3. Levin Robin (Ekm).   Women: Elite: 60km mass start: 1. Athulya K. Sudhakaran (Tsr) (2:02:10.65), 2. P. Saisree (Tsr), 3. Arya Vinod (Koz).   Girls: Youth: 8km individual time trial: 1. Annriya Antony (Ekm) (19:49.33), 2. P. Devmitra (Ktm), 3. Sethulakshmi (Ktm).   Junior: 40km mass start: 1. K. Sneha (Tvm) (1:4.29.03), 2. Agxa Ann Thomas (Idk), 3. Binilamol Giby (Idk).   Sub-junior: 25km mass start: 1. Srusthi Sanjay Kumbhoje (Tvm) (55:25.24), 2. Laxmi Shivaji Patil (Tvm), 3. Alanis Lilly Cubelo (Ekm).   Overall championship: 1. Thirvananthapuram (36 points), 2. Ernakulam (24), 3. Thrissur (8) .    Favourite G.S. Sanjay made short work of Abraham Martin 9-2 to enter the men’s singles quarterfinals in the Thiruvananthapuram district tennis championships here on Sunday.  The results:   Men (pre-quarterfinals): G.S. Sanjay bt Abraham Martin 9-2; Manu Gautam bt Vignesh S. Jeev 9-8(3); V.S. Vishak bt Tiji Girija 9-3; Ram Narayan bt Binu Mani 9-4; M.C. Nithin bt Aravid Ajay 9-2; Nithin Justin bt S.R. Adithyan 9-0; Gautam Krishna bt S. Sourej 9-2.   Boys: Under-16 (quarterfinals): V.S. Sreenath bt Vishnu Narayan 9-1.   Under-14 (pre-quarterfinals): Eashwar Shankar bt Joshua Jacob 8-2; Sharon Mohammed bt R. Vinayak 8-2; V.S. Sreenath bt Nishaan Krishna 8-0.   Under-12 (pre-quarterfinals): Sree Karthik bt Ishwin Deep 6-0; Mikhael Shiyad bt Vasudev 6-3; Siddharth Raj bt Ayaan Harish 6-3; Nivin S. Vinod bt Kashinath 6-0.   Under-10 (quarterfinals): Nivin S. Vinod bt S.D. Abhinav 7-6(5); Aman Mathew bt M. Narun 6-0; Mikhael Shiyad bt Abel George 6-0; Ayaan Harish bt Salimsha 6-3 .      Leg-spinner Arjun Venugopal’s match-haul of 11 wickets inspired Athreya Cricket Academy’s brilliant comeback as the Thrissur-based team won the Muthoot Pappachan multi-day youth cricket tournament at the KCA ground here on Sunday. Athreya had conceded a 15-run first innings lead to Masters CC, but came back strongly and declared its second innings at 232 for nine with S.S. Sharon contributing with a quick 57 (70b, 5x4, 2x6) after Pavan Sreedhar’s 75 on Saturday. Needing 218 to win in a possible 75 overs, Masters was bundled out for 119 in 54.1 overs as Athreya won by 98 runs. Arjun, who had taken six wickets in the first innings, took five more in the second and walked away with the player of the final award. Muthoot Microfin Ltd. executive vice-president Udeesh Ullas and Kerala Cricket Association president Sajan K. Varghese gave away the prizes.  The scores (three-day final): Athreya CA 150 & 232/9 in 62.4 overs (Pavan Sreedhar 75, Sharon 57, Edhen Apple Tom 3/31) bt Masters CC, Tvm 165 & 119 in 54.1 overs (Arjun Venugopal 5/49, Shine John 3/17).   Special prizes: Player of the final: Arjun Venugopal (Athreya); best batter: Abhishek J. Nair (Masters); best bowler: Shine John (Athreya). Emerging players: Govind D. Pai (Tripunithura CC) & Edhen Apple Tom (Masters) .    K. Govind and Pavithra Naveen, the men’s and women’s top seeds, posted easy wins and entered the pre-quarterfinals of the all-Kerala senior ranking badminton tournament at the Indian Sports Badminton Acadmey here on Sunday.  The results (winners enter pre-quarterfinals): Men: K. Govind (Koz) bt Dhruv Manghat (Tvm) 21-10, 21-11; F. Rizwan (Tvm) bt Rigin Rosh (Wyd) 21-11, 21-14; K. Saikrishnan (Tvm) bt Antony K. Jacob (Ekm) 21-19, 21-13; K. Nikhil (Koz) bt U. Syam Prasad (Tvm) 21-14, 15-21, 21-18; Jacob Thomas (Pta) bt Hashir Ahammed (Knr) 21-11, 21-13.   Women: Pavithra Naveen (Ekm) bt Isabel Sabu (Ktm) 21-5, 21-7; Ritika Paliath (Idk) bt Gayathri Nambiar (Koz) 21-19, 21-17; Nayana S. Oasis (Koz) bt Anaswara Ajai (Ekm) 21-18, 24-22; Anju Thomas (Ktm) bt Mary Athulya Anil (Ekm) 21-16, 24-22; Treesa Wilson (Tsr) bt P.G. Gowrinandana (Ekm) 22-20, 22-20 .    Thrissur’s Bharath Latheesh and Ernakulam’s Kiran Noguchi, the top seeds in the under-15 and under-13 boys sections, had easy outings in the all-Kerala sub-junior badminton tournament at the Vaikom Badminton Academy here on Sunday.  The results (singles): Boys: Under-15 (third round): Bharath Latheesh (Tsr) bt R. Athulkrishna (Ekm) 15-3, 15-4; Joe Gipson (Ekm) bt Abu Fahmin (Pkd) 15-3, 15-6; Abhimanue Bhakth (Tvm) bt Sreehari Raj (Knr) 15-8 15-5; Louis Filan Jose (Alp) bt Joel Jenson (Ekm) 15-5, 15-8.   Under-13 (second round): Kiran Noguchi (Ekm) bt Achuthan Unni (Alp) 15-4, 15-4.   Under-11 (third round): Jovin Sojan (Ekm) bt G. Rithvik (Tvm) 15-3, 15-8; Kesav Krishna (Alp) bt M.D. Drona (Pkd) 15-5, 15-7; Gautham Sumesh (Ekm) bt Noel Tom Joseph (Wyd) 15-2, 15-11 .    Former junior international Shiras Muhammed topscored with 25 points as Kalady’s NAS retained the men’s title in the Ernakulam District senior basketball title at the Rajiv Gandhi indoor stadium, Kadavanthra, on Sunday. Meanwhile, Roshanz 7-Star Club defeated host Regional Sports Centre 55-46 and completed a hat-trick of triumphs in the women’s section. Former international Stephy Nixon, with 22 points, was Roshanz’ leading scorer.  The results (finals):   Men: NAS, Kalady 70 (Shiras Muhammed 25) bt Carmel, Aluva 58 (Ebin Wilson 10).   Women: Roshanz 7-Star Club 55 (Stephy Nixon 22) bt Regional Sports Centre, Kochi 46 (Raima Johnson 14) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aifa-enters-kpl-qualifiers-final/article37375414.ece
08 November 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM:,||Passionate CA claims title with all-win record||Passionate CA emerged victorious in the RDCA junior cricket league. Passionate won all its matches in the six-team league. SDAT Sports Hostel, with four wins, finished runner-up.  The scores: SDAT Sports Hostel 141/4 in 20 overs bt Amrita Vidyalayam 17 in 13 overs (Hari Om 3/3).   MS CA 100/6 in 20 overs bt Sathyam CA 98/8 in 20 overs.   Campions CA 158/6 in 20 overs bt Amrita Vidyalayam 51 in 13 overs (K. Athil Niksan 3/11).   Passionate 154/3 in 20 overs (M. Kishore Kumar 54 n.o., S.B. Viswa 43 n.o.) bt Sathyam 47/9 in 20 overs (V. Shyam Sabari 3/13).   Campions 80/6 in 20 overs (S. Mohamed Farhan 31) lost to SDAT Sports Hostel 81/3 in 13.2 overs.   MS 99/9 in 20 overs bt Campions 97/8 in 20 overs.   MS 56/9 in 20 overs lost to Passionate 57/1 in 9.3 overs.   Passionate 123/6 in 20 overs (M. Kishore Kumar 52) bt SDAT Sports Hostel 77/9 in 20 overs.   Special awards: Best batsman: M. Kishore Kumar (Passionate); Best bowler: P. Harish (Passionate) .      Appunraj's five-wicket haul including a hat-trick helped Walaja CA beat YMCA by three wickets in the Ranipet DCA first division recently.  The scores:   I div.: Arakonam CA 100 in 28.3 overs (K. Muralidharan 36, S. Prabhakaran 4/8) lost to Emerald 102/3 in 21.5 overs (G. Prakash 50 n.o.).   Arakonam CA 151/7 in 30 overs (V.M. Purushothaman 48, M. Srinivasan 28 n.o, L. Gowthaman 3/28) lost to Walaja CA 155/6 in 21.5 overs (P. Ekambaram 28, S. Karthikeyan 29 n.o., M. Srinivasan 3/33).   YMCA 156 in 26.1 overs (A. Jana 41, Bilwa Prasath 53, Appunraj 5/30, including hat-trick) lost to Walaja CA 158/7 (S. Sathish Raj 28, P. Ekambaram 29, L. Gowthaman 56 n.o.).   Miller 193/9 in 30 overs (S. Clement Raj 36, M. Harikrishnan 38) bt NHK 171/9 in 30 overs (S. Surya 44, Sathish 29, D. Mani 29, M. Harikrishnan 5/34).   II div.: Ideal 135 in 25.5 overs (Giridharan 33, P. Santhosh 3/41, S. Sharukh Khan 4/17) bt Sai Sri 113 in 21.4 overs (S. Ram kumar 33, Raj Kumar 4/28).   Eagle 148/8 in 25 overs (Karthik Somraj 33) bt Arcot 137/9 in 25 overs (G. Purushothaman 3/17).   Ideal 131/9 in 25 overs (K. Giridharan 53) bt Sputnik 106 in 21.2 overs (M. Irman khan 52, S. Mani 4/18).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/passionate-ca-claims-title-with-all-win-record/article37375164.ece
08 November 2021||CHENNAI:,||Second day of athletics meet postponed||The second day’s events of the Chennai District junior athletics meet here on Sunday have been postponed due to incessant rain. New dates will be announced in due course, according to a release from Chennai District Athletics Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/second-day-of-athletics-meet-postponed/article37375126.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 08:01 IST,||Sudoku — November 8, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-8-2021/article37375674.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Use technology wisely||Lockdowns and social distancing restrictions due to the COVID-19 pandemic have forced educational institutions to shift from traditional face-to-face learning modes to online learning environments. Reports during the pandemic highlighted issues such as learning and productivity loss, and emotional distress among students worldwide. The key question is: what can be done to enhance the IT-mediated learning effectiveness during the pandemic and beyond? Promoting IT mindfulness is one way to boost learning effectiveness. Specific traits IT mindfulness is an IT-specific individual trait that can help users extract value from their IT use. It is noticeable when users focus on the present, pay attention to distinctive operational details, and display interest to investigate new features, with the overall goal of getting better insights and improving their functioning. IT mindfulness is a dynamic and malleable trait that has four key dimensions: alertness to distinction, awareness of multiple perspectives, openness to novelty, and orientation in the present. Alertness to distinction is the capacity to recognise the differences between the capabilities of old and new features of an IT system . Awareness of multiple perspectives is the ability of users to observe different potential applications of feature sets that go beyond the intentions of the designers or managers. Openness to novelty is the capability to go beyond the standard features such as voice and text in IT and experiment with less familiar features such as Virtual Reality and screen sharing to increase productivity. Lastly, orientation in the present is the users’ competence to stay focused on the present and understand that their system use needs to vary in response to different contexts. IT mindful users are more likely to identify the changes in their environment and the corresponding opportunities for action. They tend to have a systemic action repertoire, which allows them to use the technology in innovative ways, even in academic settings. IT mindful learners can improvise on their prior knowledge structures and look for alternative solutions in the new IT-mediated learning context. They use IT for knowledge search, retention, and reuse that can help them innovate with IT for learning. Thus, IT mindfulness will provide students with a self-regulatory coping mechanism in the face of enhanced IT demands for learning during the COVID-19 lockdown period. Contribution The individual traits of the user influence the response to stressful demands as positive or negative. The resilience to cope with the sudden technological shift during COVID-19 is shaped by the learners’ perceptions about technology use, which are expected to influence their appraisals of technology-mediated learning. Students with low IT mindfulness tend to appraise enhanced IT demands as a hindrance as they evaluate the loss, fear, or harm from its usage, thus responding to them as negative or distress. On the contrary, IT mindful students tend to appraise enhanced IT demands as a challenge to upgrade their skills and improve their flexibility, thus responding to them as positive or eustress. Educators should take into consideration IT mindfulness in designing their technology-mediated instruction process. For students high on IT mindfulness, the switch to online learning would have been relatively easy. Directed efforts are required to identify and train vulnerable students to enhance IT mindfulness. Educational institutions should proactively enhance the IT mindfulness of their students by actively teaching and training rather than sharpening their technological infrastructure alone. This will help reduce any negative impact of online learning on student well-being, creativity, and productivity. The writer is Associate Professor (Information Systems) at SP Jain School of Global Management.  This article is based on a study that will be published in the December 2021 issue of International Journal of Information Management, co-authored by Shalini Chandra; Anuragini Shirish, Associate Professor at Institute Mines-Télécom Business School; and Shirish C. Srivastava, Professor at HEC Paris.   IT mindful students tend to appraise enhanced IT demands as a challenge to upgrade their skills and improve their flexibility||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/use-technology-wisely/article37374989.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||For a taste of Chhattisgarh||Last week, as the rest of the world carved netherworld faces on pumpkins for Halloween, chefs Manish Mehrotra, Prateek Sadhu and I (in my capacity as a food historian) found ourselves in another world, quite off the map. Vishrampur is a dusty little village in the Kanker district of Bastar in Chhattisgarh. Tourists — even the few who do visit the State — rarely come here, preferring instead the region’s mighty waterfalls, the deep quiet of its emerald forests, and the colour and pageantry of its tribal culture. The chefs and I, however, are on a voyage of another kind — to discover the region’s ingredients and cuisine, on a State-sponsored visit that eventually aims to promote gastronomic tourism in the region. By the time we drive in at noon, Vishrampur (literally ‘a place of rest’) is belying its name; it is caught up in the bustle of its weekly haat (market). Villagers from the interiors are here with whatever they have grown, caught or made, seeking to make some Diwali profit. There are beautifully glazed clay diyas (earthen lamps), 12 for Rs. 200, which may command 10 times the price in the metros, thick metal work anklets, dhokra art and colourful cloth bags and sheets. And then there are the giant pumpkins. A solitary reaper sits beside two to three of these, each seemingly weighing 30-40 kg. Next to her is a tribeswoman selling tumba or the equally gigantic bottle gourd, still green. Here is the raw material for the tumba art (where the dried vegetable is used to make lamps, sculptures and bric-à-brac) that shows up in arty living rooms in Delhi and Mumbai. But I want to know more about the vegetables. “What are these?” I ask Mukesh, the affable security officer who has been accompanying us. “Containers for water,” he says simply. The gourds and pumpkins, allowed to stay on the vine for months to grow to this size, are harvested, scooped hollow, dried and used as containers to store water (or salfi , the local fruit ‘beer’). Kamandal , or the ancient water pot of wandering holy men in Indian myth, was apparently a hollowed out pumpkin too, I later hear. Sometimes, these are also used to make musical instruments, much like the four-stringed tanpura from Miraj in southern Maharashtra, a town revered for its now disappearing art of making stringed musical instruments. This ‘plant art’ must have possibly originated here, in the depths of the jungle, where ancient sounds and customs persist.  Flavours from the  haat   The chefs, meanwhile, are besotted with another tradition: bhajiyas (fritters)! Fresh from a wok, these are irresistible anywhere in the markets of India. Here in Vishrampur, Mehrotra and Sadhu are studying the technique of crispiness and quizzing local makers about batters. But the proof of the pakora is in the eating. So, I am called to pass the verdict. I bite into a crisp green chilli fritter that could give any tempura in a good Japanese restaurant a run for its money. When it comes to fried snacks, gulgul bhajiya is Chhattisgarh’s most interesting offering. It is usually sweet, and made with gram dal . It reminds you of the gulgule of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Bihar, which are sweet round fritters made from refined wheat flour batter. Because so many dishes from the State are similar to others from around the country, chef Mehrotra wonders “what can distinguish Chhattisgarh food from other cuisines”. He also has in mind the meal from the night before — where we were served the local version of bari (fermented dal dumplings), which is more spongy than its counterpart in Punjab or Bengal, yams, greens such as bohar bhaji that’s grown uniquely in Chhattisgarh, and urad dal (black lentils). He advocates an approach where just 10-20 dishes unique to Chhattisgarh are catalogued to showcase to tourists.  When borders blur  But I am leaning towards a deeper approach: one where, if uniqueness must be studied, so should similarities and parallels, since this region of central India has a continuity of culture with parts of Maharashtra, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh, from which it was carved out. My most interesting discovery happens while we taste a simple dish of black lentils for dinner. A distinct goda masala flavour from Pune is at once apparent. But why would black lentils in Chhattisgarh taste of this spice mix? The next day, I quiz the cook, who brings me the packaged spice blend she uses. Made in Jagdalpur (Bastar’s capital), it has writing in Oriya (the region has many cultural similarities with tribes of Odisha), but the ingredients fortunately are listed in English. Among these, I find a rather colourfully-dubbed chabila spice, roughly translated as somebody who is “pretty and cultivates their appearance”.  Chabila turns out to be none other than that most powerful and unique of Deccani spices, the d agadh ka p hool , or lichen that grows on rocks. Alternatively called k alpasi , it gives the distinctive deep flavour to Maharashtrian, Hyderabadi and Chettinad spicing. It later occurs to me that this region saw Maratha rule in the 18th century. Culinary history often follows political conquest, we must remember too.  There are other cultural similarities. That we are in the rice bowl of India is evident in dishes such as farre , or pasta-like dumplings sprinkled with sesame, a breakfast item. Farre is now disappearing from eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bundelkhand (where maida casings are filled with ground gram dal ). I am yet to establish a connection. Meanwhile, the chefs are unanimous that farre can be gentrified in their restaurants with bits of bacon and whatnot. Then, there is the culinary congruence with village practices from Odisha, where paddy fields give a valuable source of protein to the poor — fish. My Oriya friend, Sujata Dehury, says that smoking small freshwater fish ( jhuri ) was a practice in her home, when paddy fields were drained. The fish was caught, sorted according to size, and the smallest was smoked on tin sheets on open charcoal fires, to be preserved for later use. This seems to be the practice here, too. The women at the haat say they fry the smoked fish in oil and add it to any bhaji or green they are cooking that day. Where is the fabled red ant chutney, though? We have been ruing its elusiveness and the fact that it is only available immediately after the monsoon (as also some varieties of mushroom that chef Sadhu is interested in). “We should come back for longer, spend at least 10-15 days here looking at ingredients like bamboo and berries,” says chef Sadhu, for whom Vishrampur is foraging heaven. He has been plucking bits of lavender-like grass to determine if it could be made into a chutney. Back in Raipur, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel invites us to his home for tea. He has gone out of his way to procure all his favourite local sweets and snacks. There is khurmi , made with rice and wheat flours, and deep fried, khoya jalebi made with milk solids, mahua, dried ginger laddoos and more. As we sip a mahua sherbet , cooling and fragrant, it is clear that this is not the stereotypical alcohol liqueur we all associate with the flower. Ingredients can have diverse uses, and there is potential for Chhattisgarhi dishes to be widely popular. We just need to come back and delve deeper into the State’s bounty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/for-a-taste-of-chhattisgarh/article37375397.ece
08 November 2021||New Delhi,||Tihar management is going downhill: prison expert||Tihar Jail, which houses some of the most dreaded criminals in the country, has been in the news over the past few months for all the wrong reasons. Incidents of inmate violence, prison officials conniving in running extortion rackets, and killings of undertrials purportedly at the hands of jail staff are rampant in the Capital’s maximum-security prison. In this backdrop, Sunil Gupta, author and a prison expert, who has served as a law officer and spokesperson at Tihar Jail for almost four decades, speaks to The Hindu about what ails the jail administration and if there is a better way to tackle the situation. There have been at least 15 incidents of violence inside Tihar since July. Have such occurrences been common during your tenure or can the current state of affairs be called unprecedented? It would be wrong to say that such incidents didn’t occur in the past. During my tenure, there were scuffles too. Inmate fights are common as jails are known as the garbage dumps of a civilised society, but the level of indiscipline inside Tihar has undoubtedly increased. Tihar has, of course,  been infamous for prison breaks and staff malpractices for which we have been pulled up time and again by the National Human Rights Commission. But the current state of affairs shows the management is going downhill, and unless drastic changes are made to the staff structure and overall functioning of the prison, such instances are here to stay. Why do such brawls become common inside the prison? Is there a particular reason such as past rivalries or one-upmanship among inmates? The increased presence of Delhi-based gangsters could be one of the reasons. Earlier, most of the criminals belonged to U.P. and Haryana. If rival gang members are kept in the same cell or barrack or if a gang leader gets to know that an inmate has helped his rival or is part of an opposite gang, then friction is bound to happen. Such violence is also caused by lack of identification as it is the police’s duty to inform beforehand as to which gang the accused belongs to. Most of such fights inevitably involve knives, blades or other sharp weapons, which are seized from the inmates’ possession. How do the inmates get hold of such items? Are they smuggled into the jail? While these items can easily be smuggled with the connivance of prison staff, most of the weapons are improvised and are procured in-house. Often, the inmates break parts of the fan inside their barrack or cell or destroy the television and use its internal parts as weapons. They even cut the steel plates on which food is served in order to use the sharp end for attacks. It is not practical to expect jail guards to keep an eye on such things throughout the day. The possession of mobile phones among inmates is an open secret. The phones are used to run extortion rackets from inside the jail or for carrying out hit jobs outside. How are they able to make use of phones when there are jammers installed? Yes, there is rampant use of mobile phones. A common way to smuggle mobiles into Tihar is to throw them over the boundary walls, a major portion of which is very close to residential areas. The scenario in both Tihar and Mandoli jails is such that if someone throws something from outside, it will eventually fall in the hands of the intended inmate. About jammers, inmates cleverly cut their power supply as they themselves carry out all the electric work of the jail . Moreover, the jammers use old technology and cannot catch 4G signal. Scuffles between jail staff and undertrials have come to light. In gangster Ankit Gujjar’s murder case, four prison officials were suspended and a case was lodged against them, while the matter is now being probed by the CBI. What leads to such incidents? While several allegations have been made by Ankit’s family in the petition about his killing, the misconduct and misbehaviour on the part of jail officials  does not come as a surprise. In my experience, a majority of such incidents occur when there is a sense of hostility between the jail staff and the inmates. Caste rivalries also play out when an inmate and a jail official belong to different castes. Why is it that in so many of these incidents, the role of jail staff has been revealed? Is there a deep-rooted structural problem in their postings or is it negligence on the part of the prison administration? While negligence has always been there, one of the most pressing problems that, in my view, has led to the present situation is the deputation of incompetent officers at commanding posts. What Tihar needs right now are young and energetic officers. A majority of the jail staff are DANICS (Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands Civil Services) officers. But, instead of fresh recruits, promotee DANICS personnel are deputed, which leads to maladministration as they do not possess the requisite competence and expertise to handle jail affairs. Also, there is lack of coordination between staff members. Can the current mismanagement be attributed to Tihar being one of the most overcrowded yet understaffed prisons in India? Absolutely. Jails have always been a low priority area as Governments only plan to build either hospitals or schools. The problem of overcrowding arises because there are not enough prisons. It might be a long shot but in light of the current events, is there a chance of a full-fledged prison break or violence inside Tihar? No. A prison escape would not be possible in the current scenario as the entire jail premises is guarded by the Tamil Nadu Special Police Force. Other paramilitary forces such as the Central Reserve Police Force and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police are also deployed at Tihar. What drastic changes do you think are needed to address Tihar’s current situation? To curb prisoner fights, inmates in cells and barracks should be frisked every day and surprise checks should be carried out under the supervision of senior officers. During my tenure, such checks were the norm and still are, but they should now be intensified. In case of negligence or collusion, responsibility should be fixed on the jail official concerned and departmental action should be taken. Moreover, there is no training centre for the prison staff to help them understand the rule of law and human rights of inmates, and steps should be taken in this regard. Do you think behavioural changes need to be inculcated in inmates in order to curb such incidents of violence? Should parole and furlough be encouraged as a means of reform? After spending years in prison, there is a pent-up anger and frustration among inmates. The provisions of parole and furlough were brought in with the intention to reform prisoners and help them reconnect with the outer world. Hence, they should be promoted. To encourage reform, the concept of bail is the rule and jail is the exception should also be upheld by courts. Seeing the current scenario, shouldn’t the judiciary take suo motu cognisance of the happenings inside Tihar Jail and pass a stringent order? Yes, it should, but unfortunately, a Supreme Court panel on prison reforms headed by Justice Amitava Roy was formed and it had issued crucial directions in February last year, but they have not been followed. Even if the judiciary takes cognisance of these cases, I hardly think it would make an impact on ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/current-state-of-affairs-at-tihar-shows-management-is-going-downhill/article37375217.ece
08 November 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. to hold mega jab drive from Nov. 10||The Madhya Pradesh Government will hold a special mega COVID-19 vaccination drive on Wednesdays starting November 10 to administer the second dose to one crore eligible persons in order to achieve 100 per cent inoculation by December 31, an official said on Sunday. M.P. immunisation officer Santosh Shukla said that there had been a let up in the vaccination drive since last month due to the festive season, with less people visiting centres, and the ‘COVID Vaccination Maha Abhiyan’ every Wednesday starting November 10 was to catch up on targets. 5.49 crore eligible “In M.P., around 5.49 crore people are eligible for COVID-19 vaccination, including 10% who are migrants. Some 5 crore people have got the first dose and 2.13 crore have received the second one as well. So currently, 91.8% have got the first dose and 39% have got the second dose in the state,” Dr. Shukla informed. “We have administered 7.13 crore jabs so far. Bhopal, Indore and Agar Malwa districts have completed 100 per cent first dose target. Twenty-six other districts (M.P. has 52 districts) have covered 90% of first dose beneficiaries. Narsingh Gunda, a tribal village in Jhabua district, has been fully vaccinated,” he added. Seven virus cases Meanwhile, the COVID-19 tally in the State rose to 7,92,907 on Sunday with the addition of seven cases, while the total death toll remained unchanged at 10,524, an official said. The recovery count stood at 7,82,283, with 13 people being discharged during the day, leaving Madhya Pradesh with 100 active cases, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mp-to-hold-mega-jab-drive-from-nov-10/article37375405.ece
08 November 2021||November 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Cooling off||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cooling-off/article37375409.ece
08 November 2021||Rishikesh,||Corbett demolishes illegal structures||Demolition of illegal structures in the Kalagarh forest division of the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) is under way following an order issued by the director of the reserve. The demolition exercise began on Saturday in Morghatti forest zone that falls in the buffer zone of the reserve. Four under-construction houses in the Morghatti forest area without clearance of reserve authorities will be razed as part of the exercise, he said. Work on the illegal constructions under way in Pakhro range of the reserve has also been halted as per the recommendations of the National Tiger Conservation Authority, the CTR director Rahul said. Permission of authorities will be sought for construction being carried out in Pakhro beyond the limits sanctioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/corbett-demolishes-illegal-structures/article37375403.ece
