09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC proposes Lakhimpur Kheri investigation by an ex-HC judge||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Uttar Pradesh Government’s response to a proposal to appoint a retired High Court judge, possibly who served outside the State, to monitor the investigation into the Lakhimpur Kheri murders and violence. The court highlighted an urgent need to “infuse fairness and impartiality” into the probe. “The investigation is not going the way we expected... We are here to see that a proper investigation takes place. There is a need to appoint a retired High Court judge to monitor it [investigation] without bias,” Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana, heading a Bench also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, observed. Justice Kant said the retired High Court judge could independently monitor the probe till chargesheets were filed. The court refused to entertain suggestions from some lawyers to order the CBI to take over from the State police. “The CBI is not the solution to everything,” Justice Kant remarked. Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Ajay Mishra, is a prime accused. The suggestion for a probe by a retired judge came after the court expressed its waning confidence about the fate of the investigation at the hands of the State police. After more than a month since the Union Minister’s convoy mowed down farmers attending a rally in Lakhimpur Kheri protesting the agricultural laws on October 3, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) has still not got hold of the forensic lab reports. “The lab reports are expected on November 15... We are following up regularly,” senior advocate Harish Salve, for the State government, assured. The court noted that the SIT had seized only one mobile phone from the 13 accused persons in the case. The movement of the accused at the time of the incident could be tracked from their phones. Mr. Salve responded, “Some accused said they do not have phones.” Justice Kohli asked, “Is it your statement then that none of the others have mobile phones?” Mr. Salve explained that accused at times threw away their phones and claimed they do not have one. The court pointed out that call detail records of the accused persons’ phones were not specifically listed as part of evidence in the status report. Moreover, videos showing the cars in the convoy running over the farmers were yet to be certified for use as evidence in the trial. Mr. Salve agreed that the videos, once certified, would be a “clinching proof” of the presence of the accused at the crime scene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-proposes-lakhimpur-kheri-investigation-by-an-ex-hc-judge/article37389300.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI not investigating Rafale ‘kickbacks’, claims Mediapart||French portal Mediapart has alleged that Dassault paid at least €7.5 million to middleman Sushen Gupta from 2007 to 2012 through “overbilled” IT contracts with a shell company to secure the €7.87-billion Rafale deal with India. It also alleged that despite the existence of related papers since October 2018, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has not yet taken up a probe. A response from the CBI to the allegation is still awaited. The probe agencies have accused Mr. Gupta of being instrumental in the routing of commissions in the 2010 AgustaWestland VVIP chopper deal via Mauritius-based shell company Interstellar Technologies Ltd. and several other such entities. In March 2019, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested Mr. Gupta in that case, based on disclosures made by Rajiv Saxena, who was deported from the United Arab Emirates. The latter disclosed that Interstellar Technologies was controlled by Mr. Gupta and another accused, Gautam Khaitan. The funds were further transferred by him to other entities in different countries. Documents sent to CBI According to the French portal’s report, the Attorney General’s office in Mauritius had sent the documents to the CBI Director on October 11, 2018, in response to a letter of request seeking information in the chopper deal case. A week earlier, on October 4, 2018, the CBI got a complaint alleging corruption in Rafale deal from lawyer Prashant Bhushan and former Union Minister Arun Shourie. “...His (Sushen Gupta’s) Mauritian company, Interstellar Technologies received at least €7.5 million from the French aviation firm between 2007 and 2012, thanks to IT contracts that were clearly overbills,” said the Mediapart report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-not-investigating-rafale-kickbacks-claims-mediapart/article37389298.ece
09 November 2021||Srinagar,||UNESCO picks Srinagar as ‘creative city’||The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has picked Srinagar among 49 cities as part of the creative city network under the Crafts and Folk Arts category. “It is a proud moment for all of us. The process of nomination of Srinagar under the UNESCO ‘Creative City Network’ was undertaken and funded under the World Bank-funded Jhelum Tawi Flood Recovery Project. This is the recognition of the historical crafts and arts of the city,” said Chief Executive Officer, Jhelum Tawi Flood Recovery Project (JTFRP), Abid Rashid Shah. The inclusion is likely to pave way for the city to represent its handicrafts on the global stage through UNESCO. “It’s a major recognition for Jammu and Kashmir,” Dr. Shah said. The network involves folk art, media, film, literature, design, gastronomy and media arts. Srinagar was among one more city from India competing for the coveted recognition this year. The dossier for its nomination was filed first in 2019 and then again in 2021. Only Jaipur (Crafts and Folk Arts) in 2015, Varanasi and Chennai (Creative city of Music) in 2015 and 2017 respectively have so far been recognised as members of the UCCN for creative cities. “Credit must go to the JTFRP and the Department of Industries and line departments for taking up the task positively. Consultants were hired and work was taken up to complete all the requirements,” said Director, Technical, Planning and Coordination, JTFRP, Iftikhaar Hakeem. Mahmood Ahmad Shah, Director, Industries, said Srinagar has made it to the elite list. “This nomination is the global recognition to the rich craft legacy of Srinagar,” Mr. Shah said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a tweet, said, “Delighted that beautiful Srinagar joins the UNESCO Creative Cities Network with a special mention for its craft and folk art. It is a fitting recognition for the vibrant cultural ethos of Srinagar. Congratulations to the people of Jammu and Kashmir.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unesco-picks-srinagar-as-creative-city/article37389338.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Flood-hit Chennai braces for intense spell of showers||For the second day, many parts of Chennai were inundated as intermittent showers continued through Monday. However, the water level had receded at several locations that reported severe inundation on Sunday. The city and its neighbouring districts are likely to face more days of intense rain. With a fresh weather system brewing in the Bay of Bengal, the India Meteorological Department has issued red and orange alerts particularly for coastal and adjoining interior districts on November 10 and 11, respectively. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin continued to inspect various waterlogged locations in the city, including Mullai Nagar in Perambur and Annai Sathya Nagar, for the second consecutive day. He distributed relief materials to residents in Royapuram and Mahakavi Bharathiyar Nagar and also instructed officials to take swift remedial action. Most of the main roads in south Chennai were clear as the water drained gradually. However, residents of many parts of central and north Chennai struggled with waterlogging for the second day. Pulianthope, Kodambakkam and T. Nagar were among the worst-affected areas. Several localities also had to grapple with long power outages due to the incessant rain. According to the Greater Chennai Corporation, water had receded in 140 out of the 317 locations that reported flooding on Sunday. Of the 16 city subways that witnessed flooding, water has been drained in 14 of them and the remaining two would also be free of rainwater soon, the authorities said. The civic body has allocated Rs. 4 crore for additional machinery to mitigate flooding and opened more lines for its helpline 1913. Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi visited flooded areas such as T. Nagar and Mambalam. New low pressure area While the city is still grappling with inundation from the prevailing cyclonic circulation, a new low-pressure area is likely to develop over the southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood around November 9 (Tuesday). It is likely to concentrate into a depression and reach near the north Tamil Nadu coast by the morning of November 11. According to IMD bulletin, heavy to very heavy rain is likely to occur at isolated places over Tirunelveli, Thenkasi, Theni, Dindigul, Nilgiris and Coimbatore districts on Tuesday. As the new weather system moves closer, heavy rain may cover more districts and extremely heavy rain spells of over 20 cm may occur in one or two places of Cuddalore and Ariyalur and Puducherry on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-respite-for-chennai-as-new-bay-system-gathers-pace/article37389291.ece
09 November 2021||New Delhi,||Ansals get 7-year jail for evidence tampering||A Delhi court on Monday sentenced real estate barons Sushil Ansal and Gopal Ansal and others to seven years’ imprisonment for tampering with evidence in the 1997 Uphaar cinema fire case. Fifty-nine people were killed and 100 injured when fire broke out during the screening of Hindi movie Border, and the Supreme Court had earlier convicted and sentenced both the brothers. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma, in his 15-page order, said they deserved punishment. The court also imposed a fine of Rs. 2.25 crore each on both of them. On October 8, the Ansal brothers were convicted by a Delhi court under Sections 201 (tampering of evidence), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. The other accused, including a former court staff, who were sentenced are Dinesh Chandra Sharma, Prem Prakash Batra and Anoop Singh. They were slapped a fine of Rs. 3 lakh each. The court said the accused were taking advantage of the missing documents during the trial of the main Uphaar case .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ansals-get-7-year-jail-for-evidence-tampering/article37389296.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Post monsoon’ demand led to power deficit: Govt.||India’s power deficit this year ‘spiked marginally’ to 1.2% due to the ‘annual post-monsoon pressure’ on output, the Government said in a statement on Monday, asserting that the deficit has been ‘near about wiped out’ in recent years. “The current year, up till October, it (the power deficit) has been -1.2%; the marginal spike being attributable to the annual post-monsoon pressure on power output. This is also likely to normalise by the end of the year,” the Power Ministry said in a statement, contrasting the figure with deficit levels of up to 16% some years ago.  “India had a massive power deficit of -16.6% in 2007-08. Through the multi-pronged, comprehensive interventions of the government, this deficit is near about wiped out, consistently over the last three years: -.4% in 2020-21, -.7% in 2019-20 and -.8% in 2018-19,” the Ministry said. The Ministry attributed ‘this transformation from an acutely power deficit country to a situation of demand being met except for an extremely marginal shortfall of less than 1%’ to several schemes introduced by the government over the past six years in the power sector ‘to address the unhappy situation’. “The augmentation to the installed power capacity in the country, consequent to these efforts, has been 1,55,377 megawatt in last approximately seven years,” it concluded, citing schemes such as the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana for setting up of transmission and sub-transmission systems in rural India and the Integrated Power Development Scheme (IPDS) to plug power infrastructure gaps in urban areas. “The Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana (Saubhagya) scheme launched on September 25, 2017, had the vision to take electricity to every household (willing), and has been able to supply electricity connections to 2.8 to crore households which were hitherto in darkness,” the statement noted.  The augmentation to the installed power capacity in the country, consequent to these efforts, has been 1,55,377 megawatt in last approximately seven years. Power Ministry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/post-monsoon-demand-led-to-power-deficit-govt/article37389301.ece
09 November 2021||Bhopal/Raipur,||4 CRPF jawans shot dead by colleague||In a case of fratricide, four Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were killed and three injured when their colleague opened fire on them at the paramilitary force’s camp in Maraiguda Linglapalli in Sukma district of Chhattisgarh early on Monday. The accused constable has been arrested. “The CRPF has ordered an inquiry into the incident to ascertain the cause of incident and suggest remedial measures. Prima facie , it seems that due to some emotional stress leading to sudden psychological disbalance, constable Reetesh Ranjan lost control and in a fit of rage opened fire on his colleagues,” said the CRPF. CRPF Director-General Kuldeep Singh is expected to visit Sukma on Tuesday along with other senior officials to take stock of the situation. According to the paramilitary force, the incident took place at 3.25 a.m. when constable Ranjan of C-Company 50th Battalion opened fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/4-crpf-jawans-shot-dead-by-colleague-in-sukma/article37389295.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Cong. alleges duplicity||The Congress on Monday accused the Modi Government of duplicity saying Mr. Modi had once called the Italian firm Finmeccanica, the parent company of AgustaWest- land — now known as Leonardo SpA — “corrupt” but was now ready to trade with the same firm.page 12||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-alleges-duplicity/article37389302.ece
09 November 2021||New Delhi,||Dengue cases cross 2,500 mark in Delhi||The Capital reported 1,171 cases of dengue and three deaths over the past week (till November 6), a civic report said on Monday. While the death toll for the season has reached nine, the caseload stands at 2,708 — the highest since 2017. The total cases for November remain at 1,171, which is the highest for the month since 2018. Till October 30, Delhi had reported 1,537 cases of dengue and six deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dengue-cases-cross-2500-mark-in-delhi/article37389488.ece
09 November 2021||New Delhi,||Ansals get 7-year jail for evidence tampering||A Delhi court on Monday sentenced real estate barons Sushil Ansal and Gopal Ansal and others to seven years’ imprisonment for tampering with evidence in the 1997 Uphaar cinema fire case. Fifty-nine people were killed and 100 injured in the fire. The Supreme Court had earlier sentenced both brothers to a two-year jail term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ansals-get-7-year-jail-for-evidence-tampering/article37389489.ece
09 November 2021||Chennai,||Govt. issues order for Karunanidhi’s memorial||The Tamil Nadu Government on Monday issued a government order to set up a memorial for former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi on the Marina in Chennai. The memorial will come up at a cost of Rs. 39 crore and will be set up on 2.21 acres. It will come up inside the Perarignar Anna Memorial and Museum Complex on Kamarajar Salai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-issues-order-for-karunanidhis-memorial/article37389381.ece
09 November 2021||Chennai,||Water released from dam as per SC direction’||‘  The decision to release water from the Mullaperiyar dam by Tamil Nadu on October 29 was in adherence to the direction of the Supreme Court, as per the rule curve level approved by the Central Water Commission, Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan said on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/water-released-from-dam-as-per-sc-direction/article37389383.ece
09 November 2021||MANGALURU,||BJP favours naming circle after Savarkar||BJP Dakshina Kannada unit president Sudharshan Moodbidri said here on Monday that the party will support the demand made by Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharat Shetty to name Surathkal Junction after Vinayak Damodar Savarkar. To a question at a press conference here on the growing opposition to name the traffic circle after Veer Savarkar, he said that Savarkar was a well-known freedom fighter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-favours-naming-circle-after-savarkar/article37389767.ece
09 November 2021||BELAGAVI,||Winter session will be webcast, says Horatti||The winter session of the State legislature will be webcast. “We are trying to live stream the session,” Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti said on Monday. He was speaking to journalists in Belagavi after a meeting with officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/winter-session-will-be-webcast-says-horatti/article37389577.ece
09 November 2021||HUBBALLI,||Systematically distribute food kits, officials told||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has said that officials concerned will be held accountable if there are any lapses in the procurement and distribution of nutritional food kits meant for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/systematically-distribute-food-kits-officials-told/article37389579.ece
09 November 2021||Pune,||Strike by MSRTC workers paralyses Maharashtra||The protracted strike by staff members of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation over a number of grievances paralysed commute across the State on Monday, leaving thousands of travellers stranded at bus depots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/strike-by-msrtc-workers-paralyses-maharashtra/article37389729.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||90 Zika cases in U.P.; Delhi too on alert||With a rise in the number of Zika virus cases in U.P., doctors have advised that people should avoid all non-essential travel to areas reporting cases. Close to 90 persons have tested positive for the virus. Delhi also has been placed on alert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/90-zika-cases-in-up-delhi-too-on-alert/article37389730.ece
09 November 2021||Salem,||Mettur likely to attain full reservoir level||With the water level at the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur nearing 118 feet and the inflow at over 27,000 cusecs on Monday morning, Salem Collector S. Karmegam said the dam was likely to reach its full reservoir level of 120 feet by Tuesday night, after which discharge would be stepped up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mettur-likely-to-attain-full-reservoir-level/article37389382.ece
09 November 2021||GOA,||‘Inclusive maritime region must’||Stating that a free, open and inclusive maritime region, where legitimate interests of all nations must be respected, is imperative to achieving high growth, Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar said on Monday that India hoped that its maritime neighbours understood, and were sensitive to, India’s “legitimate maritime security concerns”. “Unprecedented expansion” of conventional Navies could start a “new genre” of arms race, he said at the third edition of the Goa Maritime Conclave hosted by the Navy, “While we talk of non-traditional threats, we cannot ignore the impact of expansion at an unprecedented speed of conventional Navies in the Pacific. We are also witnessing enhancement of certain maritime presence and passages in our region, which may not be always be innocent. The negative effects of such rapid expansion are felt far beyond the Pacific,” Mr. Kumar said without naming any country. “Though it is early to conclude, such expansion has potential to trigger others to acquire additional capabilities and thus start a new genre of arms race.” China has not only increased its forays into the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) but has also set up a base in Djibouti and is also expanding its Navy at an unprecedented rate. The Navy chiefs and heads of maritime agencies of Bangladesh, Comoros, Indonesia, Madagascar, Malaysia, the Maldives, Mauritius, Myanmar, the Seychelles, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Thailand are taking part in the conclave. The theme for this year’s edition is “Maritime security and emerging non-traditional threats: a case for proactive role for IOR Navies”. Radar surveillance Addressing the conclave, Foreign Secretary Harsh V. Shringla highlighted the joint coastal radar surveillance systems in coordination with countries in the region and other cooperative efforts. “We have worked and are willing to work with our partners on improving Exclusive Economic Zones (EEZ) surveillance,” he said. India has supplied equipment, vessels and aircraft to friends like Vietnam, Mozambique, the Maldives, Mauritius, Seychelles, Comoros, Bangladesh and Myanmar, he said. “We are willing to work with partners in upgrading maritime hardware and software.” Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh laid emphasis on common efforts on information exchange for maritime domain awareness in the region and capacity building. India’s efforts are spearheaded by the Information Fusion Centre for IOR (IFC-IOR) located in Gurugram which also has several international liaison officers. Mr. Kumar said that for a secure and prosperous future, it was important to adhere to international rules and laws and understand each other’s interests and sensitivities and act accordingly. Disaster relief While seas open the doors for economic progress, Mr. Kumar said, the region is one of the most disaster-prone areas causing enormous destruction. Mr. Kumar said India was in the process of making a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for dealing with disaster related situations in the Asia-Pacific which would be shared with all nations concerned. Talking of various non-traditional threats such as piracy, maritime terrorism, armed robbery, illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing, human trafficking, narcotics and arms trafficking which have a direct impact on safety and economic well being, Mr. Kumar specially referred to the challenge of IUU fishing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/free-open-maritime-region-imperative/article37389215.ece
09 November 2021||New Delhi,||Deol does not have moral right to continue as A-G, says Sidhu||In an unending crisis for the Congress in Punjab, the party’s State president, Navjot Singh Sidhu, hit back at Advocate-General A.P.S. Deol, saying a lawyer who procured blanket protection for the police in the 2015 Kotkapura firing on a gathering of Sikh demonstrators did not have the moral or ethical right to continue in the post. Two days ago, Mr. Sidhu withdrew his resignation as Pradesh Congress Committee president, but said he would resume work only if Mr. Deol and Director-General of Police Preet Singh Sahota, both appointees of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, were removed. On Saturday, Mr. Deol, in a brief statement, accused Mr. Sidhu of spreading misinformation to gain political advantage over his political colleagues. In response to this, Mr. Sidhu, at a press conference in Chandigarh, questioned the police on the firing. He said the Punjab and Haryana High Court had directed that the probe into the incident should be completed preferably within six months. “Today, six months and one day have passed. Where is the chargesheet [in the matter],” he asked. He further asked why a special leave petition has not been filed against the blanket bail given to former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, one of the accused in the firing incident. Moral grounds Technically, Mr. Sidhu stated, any lawyer could become the A-G and any IPS officer could become the DGP. But on moral and ethical grounds can Mr. Deol and Mr. Sahota continue, he asked. “Can we appoint a lawyer who has procured blanket protection to the main accused persons in that case as the Advocate-General? Or can we have an IPS officer, who was the first investigating officer and gave a clean chit to the main conspirators as the DGP, especially when the case is still being investigated,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deol-does-not-have-moral-right-to-continue-as-a-g-says-sidhu/article37389235.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||90 Zika cases in U.P.; Delhi too on alert||With a rise in the number of Zika virus cases in Uttar Pradesh, doctors have advised that people should avoid all non-essential travel to areas reporting cases. Currently close to 90 persons, including 17 children, have tested positive for the virus from the State. Delhi also has been placed on alert. According to information released by the World Health Organisation (WHO), a majority of those infected with Zika virus disease either remain asymptomatic (up to 80%) or show mild symptoms of fever, rash, conjunctivitis, body ache, joint pains. The mosquito that transmits the Zika virus, the Aedes Aegypti , also transmits the dengue virus and is widely prevalent in India. With no vaccine or drug available to prevent or treat the Zika virus disease at present, doctors have said that Zika infections should be suspected in patients reporting with acute onset of fever, maculo-papular rash, among those individuals who travelled to areas with ongoing transmission during the two weeks preceding the onset of illness. Based on the available information of previous outbreaks, severe forms of disease requiring hospitalisation are uncommon and fatalities are rare. The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) had in its previous travel advisory said non-essential travel to the affected areas and countries should be deferred/ cancelled and pregnant women or women who are trying to become pregnant should cancel their travel to the affected areas. Encouraging the use of protective measures, especially during day, the NCDC added that persons with comorbid conditions (diabetes, hypertension, chronic respiratory illness, immune disorders etc) should seek advice from the nearest health facility, prior to travel to an affected country. Delhi Medical Association member Dr. Anil Bansal said, “There is no specific medicine for Zika virus disease and self-medication should be avoided. Also people should avoid using aspirin for treating fever and use paracetamol. Travel to areas that are seeing a rise in Zika cases is best avoided.” The Union Health Ministry has also advised that people to control/prevent mosquito breeding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/90-zika-cases-in-up-delhi-too-on-alert/article37389245.ece
09 November 2021||New Delhi,||Sushma, Fernandes honoured||Former Union Ministers George Fernandes, Arun Jaitley and Sushma Swaraj, and former President of Mauritius Anerood Jugnauth were on Monday given the Padma Vibhushan posthumously for exceptional and distinguished service. The awards were presented at two civil investiture ceremonies at the Rashtrapati Bhavan for the years 2020 and 2021, held in the morning and evening, respectively. A total of seven Padma Vibhushan, 16 Padma Bhushan and 122 Padma Shri awards were presented for the two years. The face of women’s boxing in India, M.C. Mary Kom, who is a six-time AIBA women’s boxing champion, Shri Shri Visvesha Tirtha Swamiji of Udupi (posthumous), were also honoured with the Padma Vibhushan by President Ram Nath Kovind. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were present. Former Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar (posthumous), who had also served as the Chief Minister of Goa, Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra, Sundaram-Clayton Group chairman Venu Srinivasan, and former Nagaland Chief Minister S.C. Jamir were given the Padma Bhushan. Badminton star P.V. Sindhu, Kashmiri political leader Muzaffar Hussain Baig, Tsering Landol, the first gynaecologist from Leh, bilingual author Manoj Das (posthumous), and Krishnammal Jagannathan, a social activist from Tamil Nadu, were also among those who received the Padma Bhushan. Aritstes, film stars Bollywood star Kangna Ranaut, film producer Karan Johar, television and film producer Ekta Kapoor, senior Professor at PGIMER, Chandigarh, Digambar Behera, and internationally renowned Indian classical dance exponent Indira P.P. Bora were among those conferred the Padma Shri. The Padma awards are given in three categories — Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri — and announced annually on the eve of Republic Day. The Padma Vibhushan is awarded for exceptional and distinguished service, Padma Bhushan for distinguished service of high order and Padma Shri for distinguished service in any field. Pandit Chhannulal Mishra, Hindustani classical and semi-classical vocalist, was among those who won Padma Vibhushan. President Kovind termed Fernandes a veteran political leader and trade unionist, who was a “champion of the poor and devoted his life to uplifting the cause of the downtrodden”. The award was received by his wife, Leila Kabir. The President described Jaitley as an outstanding parliamentarian and a distinguished lawyer. President Kovind also presented the Padma Shri to Harekala Hajabba, an orange vendor in Mangalore, who saved money to build a school in his village, and Mohammad Shareef, a cycle mechanic turned social worker who performed last rites of unclaimed dead bodies with full dignity. Abdul Jabbar Khan (posthumous) from Bhopal, who was known for his fight for justice for victims of the Bhopal gas tragedy, was also awarded the Padma Shri. Padma Shri was given to Leela Josho, a gynaecologist known as Mother Teresa of Ratlam, for her contribution of more than two decades to reduce maternal mortality in tribal, rural and urban slums of Madhya Pradesh and Tulsi Gowda, an environmentalist from Karnataka who has planted more than 30,000 saplings and has been involved in environmental conservation activities for the past six decades. The Padma Shri award was also given to renowned Santali litterateur Damayanti Beshra, television and film actress Sarita Joshi, composer Adnan Sami Khan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sushma-fernandes-honoured/article37389220.ece
09 November 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata has voids to fill in Govt.||Death of a veteran Minister and the non-availability of a senior Minister have put up a challenge before West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in addressing the leadership void in the government. Subrata Mukherjee, who held the key Panchayat Department, passed away on November 4. Finance Minister Amit Mitra stayed away from the Assembly polls and also from the recent bypolls, and by not getting elected to the Assembly, he is almost on his way out from the Cabinet. Key portfolios Not only the two veterans held key portfolios, they also brought in huge experience and expertise on various issues. Mukherjee had a political career spanning over five decades and was one of the youngest Ministers in the Siddhartha Sankar Ray government in the 1970s. He was also the Kolkata Mayor. He was behind the implementation of schemes at the grassroots levels, including the 100 days of work MGNREGA scheme. Mr. Mitra, who has been the Finance Minister for the past 10 years, played a key role in allocating funds to several populist schemes, which at times required allocation of huge resources. He also held the portfolio of Industry and Commerce for a considerable period of time, trying to sell the industry-starved State as a favourable investment destination. Adviser appointment Despite the unavailability of Mr. Mitra , the Chief Minister is keen that her government receives his counsel. She may appoint him as an adviser to the Government in some capacity. The Chief Minister is already in charge of key portfolios such as Home and Hill Affairs, Health and Family Welfare, Information and Cultural Affairs, Minority Affairs. She may keep Finance with her, while the Panchayat Department may have a new Minister. Political observer and psephologist Biswanath Chakraborty said that with the passing away of Mukherjee and Mr. Mitra’s unavailability to discharge functions as a Minister, there are not many in the Cabinet who are senior to Ms. Banerjee. “TheGgovernment, particularly the Chief Minister, will miss the political acumen of Subrata Mukherjee and the economic wisdom of Mr. Mitra.,” said Professor Chakraborty, who is the Head of the Department, Political Science, Rabindra Bharati University. Height of dominance The Trinamool Congress has 217 MLAs in the Assembly, which has a strength of 294 legislators. Therefore, inducting new Ministers or giving additional responsibility to Ministers is not a tough task. Political observers like Professor Chakraborty feel that the Trinamool Congress is at its height of political dominance in the State and its influence can be compared to the heyday of the Left Front. Since people have overwhelmingly supported the Trinamool Congress in the recent Assembly polls, it will have to hand over ministerial responsibility of crucial portfolios like Finance and Panchayat to the best of its leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-has-voids-to-fill-in-govt/article37389232.ece
09 November 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. alleges secret deal with Italian firm||A day after news reports about India lifting the ban on the Italian defence company involved in the AgustaWestland helicopter deal, the Congress on Monday attacked the Narendra Modi Government, alleging duplicity. The procurement ban was lifted just days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with his Italian counterpart, Mario Draghi, on the sidelines of the G-20 summit in Rome. The Congress said Mr. Modi and his Government had lost all the cases against AgustaWestland in international courts and did not even file appeals. The party asked if the “fake bogey of corruption” raised just before the 2014 elections against the UPA Government is being given a quiet burial. Party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh pointed out that Mr. Modi had called Finmeccanica, the parent company of AgustaWestland, now known as Leonardo SpA, as “corrupt” but was now ready to trade with the same firm. On July 22, 2014, the company was removed from the blacklist and now the Government has lifted the procurement ban from it. The UPA Government had decisively ordered investigations when media reports suggested corruption in the case, he said. In February 2010, a global tender was issued to purchase 12 helicopters. This was allotted to AgustaWestland for Rs. 3,546 crore. In February 2013, after allegations of corruption surfaced, the CBI started investigating the deal and finally, in January 2014, the UPA Government cancelled the contract to purchase 12 helicopters from AgustaWestland. Till then, a payment of Rs. 1,620 crore had been made to Agusta and three helicopters had been delivered. On cancelling the contract, the UPA-Congress Government had encashed the bank guarantees worth Rs. 240 crore from of AgustaWestland deposited with Indian banks. “The UPA-Congress government had also filed a case against AgustaWestland in Milan, Italy. On 23.5.2014, UPA-Congress government won the case for encashment of international guarantees of AgustaWestland to recover €228 million. The Congress-UPA government recovered a total of Rs. 2,068 crore from Agusta Westland against the payment of Rs. 1,620 crore,” Mr Vallabh said. It was the UPA Government, he said, that initiated the process of blacklisting the AgustaWestland in February 2013. The Congress questioned the Centre’s “secret deal” with the firm. Mr. Vallabh asked, “Is it now OK to deal with a company that Modi ji & his Govt called “corrupt, bribe-giver, bogus?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-alleges-secret-deal-with-italian-firm/article37389251.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Regional NSAs to hold talks on Afghanistan||Security czars of Russia, Iran and five Central Asian countries will arrive in Delhi on Tuesday ahead of the “Delhi regional security dialogue” on Afghanistan, chaired by National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval, who will also meet his counterparts bilaterally. Officials involved in the dialogue said the meeting, in which Pakistan and China have declined to participate, would seek to share a “common understanding of concerns” shared by Afghanistan’s neighbours due to the Taliban takeover on August 15, and build consensus on the way forward to deal with threats. “The high-level dialogue will review and deliberate upon measures to address relevant security challenges and support the people of Afghanistan in promoting peace, security and stability. India has called for a unified international response to address the security and humanitarian challenges facing Afghanistan,” said a statement by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), referring to India’s traditional “close and friendly ties” with the people of Afghanistan. Officials said the Chinese security chief had stated that he could not attend due to “scheduling difficulties”, ostensibly due to the CPC Central Committee plenum this week as well as strict quarantine regulations in China. Pakistan’s NSA had publicly declined the invitation. It had also refused to attend previous iterations of the regional NSA dialogue held in Iran in 2018 and 2019 as it did not want to share the forum with India, the officials said. No invitations were sent to the Taliban or to former leaders like Hamid Karzai and Abdullah Abdullah, the officials said, when asked. In the past few months, Mr. Doval has engaged with each of the other security chiefs at various bilateral and multilateral summits, and these common threats include terrorism inside Afghanistan and its cross-border spread, worries of the Taliban ideology, radicalism and extremism being exported, the problems emanating from the large cache of military equipment left behind by U.S. and NATO forces when they left Afghanistan, cross-border migration and refugees, as well as the growing concerns over the production and export of drugs from the country, the officials noted. In addition, sources said the countries participating had not “legitimised” the Taliban regime, and shared a common perception of Pakistan as one of the “sources of the problems” in Afghanistan with a “serious credibility gap” between its actions and intentions. Following the establishment of the Taliban’s “interim government” with Pakistan’s backing, it was felt that New Delhi’s role as a major development and trade partner to Kabul shrunk, but officials said that all participating countries had been “keen” for India to host the conference, to reinforce its “importance” in dealing with the challenges. “Each of these countries bilaterally say there is convergence on worries, points of concern are very similar. Also our objectives in Afghanistan- we speak of diversity, respecting minority rights, culture of moderation and rational thought, all these other countries share with us,” the sources said. However, officials conceded there are some differences between the participants, given that Russia and Iran maintain embassies in Kabul, while countries like Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan have held bilateral talks with Taliban Ministers on issues like connectivity. . The conference will be held on Wednesday morning in Delhi, but officials said plans for the visiting delegations were being made for their stay Tuesday-Thursday. Mr. Doval will meet his counterparts from Tajikistan and Uzbekistan on Tuesday itself, and the others after the Regional Dialogue plenary session on Wednesday morning. Some of the delegations would travel to Amritsar and Agra for sightseeing, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/regional-nsas-to-hold-talks-on-afghanistan/article37389281.ece
09 November 2021||Lucknow,||Taliban mentality won’t be tolerated, says Adityanath||Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday invoked the ‘exodus’ of Hindus from Kairana a few years ago, telling people in the western Uttar Pradesh town that those who shoot at traders now would be dispatched to the “next world”. At a public meeting in Kairana, he slammed the “Taliban mentality” saying it would not be accepted in the State. He also attacked the Opposition saying those parties did not act when the houses of Hindus were being burnt and innocent youth killed in Muzaffarnagar, referring to the communal riots in the region in 2013. The alleged exodus from Kairana was a big issue in the 2017 Assembly election as the BJP claimed then that scores of Hindu families had left the town after receiving threats from criminals. The claim, however, was contested by others. Ahead of next year’s Assembly election, Mr. Adityanath visited the town and promised compensation to some families who were allegedly forced to leave it between 2014 and 2016. Mr. Adityanath said the Muzaffarnagar riots and the “exodus” were not election issues for the BJP. ‘Issue of identity’ These are issues of our identity, honour and glory, he said. “The criminals who had forced the traders and residents of Kairana to flee had in the past four-and-a-half-years been forced to flee themselves. “No criminal has the courage to walk with his head held high. And if a criminal dares to shoot a trader or a citizen, then the bullet will hit him and will send him to next world [ doosre lok ].” Promising exemplary punishment to criminals, the CM said nobody would be allowed to spread anarchy, incite riots and play with the honour of women. Those who support the “Taliban mentality” would not be accepted, he said. “It [Taliban] makes the life of sisters and daughters hellish and violates the fundamental rights of citizens. This will not be accepted at all in U.P.,” the CM said. The CM also alleged that people who opposed the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya were ‘happy’ over the riots in Muzaffarnagar and the ‘exodus’ from Kairana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/taliban-mentality-wont-be-tolerated-says-adityanath/article37389229.ece
09 November 2021||Muzaffarnagar,||RLD chief rules out alliance with Congress in U.P. polls||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Singh ruled out the possibility of an alliance with the Congress in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls. Talking to reporters in Shamli on Sunday evening, he asserted that his party’s alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) was in the “final stage”. The RLD leader recently met Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at the Lucknow airport, and later both of them left for Delhi in a chartered aircraft of the Chhattisgarh government, a development that set tongues wagging in political circles. On being asked that the meeting was perceived as arm-twisting tactics of the RLD to exert pressure on the SP with regard to seat sharing for the State polls, a senior RLD leader had said, “No pressure has been exerted by anyone.” ‘Arm-twisting tactic’ “This was an informal meeting ( shishtaachaar bhet ), and it was prevalent among leaders of earlier times. The BJP has changed this trend and people have become enemies of each other in politics,” he added. Meanwhile, Mr. Singh said the RLD will fulfill all promises made in the party manifesto, including one crore jobs to youths, setting State Advisory Price (SAP) for sugarcane and guaranteed payments within 14 days, if it is voted to power in the State. He also opposed the proposed amendments to the Electricity Act 2003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rld-chief-rules-out-alliance-with-congress-in-up-polls/article37389237.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. officials to be trained in handling disability issues||Government functionaries, from ASHA and anganwadi workers at the grassroots level to senior officers and MPs at the national level, would soon be trained and sensitised regarding Central sector schemes and facilities for persons with disabilities, Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry officials said on Monday. The Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD) under the Ministry would on Tuesday be releasing five training modules for different categories of government officials, according to the officials concerned. The Rehabilitation Council of India would be the nodal agency to coordinate the training sessions for government departments, schools, colleges, health and allied professionals, ASHA workers and anganwadi workers through a network of 700 training colleges, a senior official said. The respective training modules would be shared with the stakeholders, who would also get financial support and the services of a resource person. The training modules were drafted in simple language and would soon be translated into seven regional languages after the launch of the English and Hindi versions by Social Justice Minister Dr. Virendra Kumar on Tuesday, the official said. For senior government officers, there would be half-day sessions, while school and college principals and health workers would have day-long sessions. The training for anganwadi and ASHA workers would be for two days, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-officials-to-be-trained-in-handling-disability-issues/article37389247.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,||The Hindu Lit For Life on Nov. 12, 13||After a two-year hiatus, thanks to the pandemic, The Hindu Lit For Life festival, which began as a celebration of 20 years of The Hindu ’s literary supplement, Literary Review , now returns. The event will be held online on November 12 and 13 and here is the link to the schedule of the much-sought after festival: https://www.thehindulfl.in/ schedule-2021/. Day one of the festival will start at 5 p.m. with an inaugural address and have four sessions. Day two will begin by 10.30 a.m. and have eight sessions. The festival now returns “in a digital format with a carefully curated programme that reflects our much-changed world with sessions on the virus and its impact with leading scientists and medical practitioners, conversations between thinkers and writers on a variety of topics such as films, art and literature, as well as an important conversation on how to navigate these complex times,” says Dr. Nirmala Lakshman, Festival Director and Curator and Director, The Hindu Group. In ‘Lessons of the Pandemic’, moderated by Kamini Mahadevan, Gagandeep Kang, Srinath Reddy and Arun Kumar take stock of the impact on healthcare, society and the economy. ‘Mind Matters: An exploration of lifespan mental health in COVID-19 times’ will have Pratima Murthy, Shekhar Seshadri, Soumitra Pathare and Ennapadam S. Krishnamoorthy discuss what the past two years have meant for our mental well-being. ‘In the Wild: Conversations about Conservation’ has Neha Sinha, Sanjay Gubbi and Mahesh Rangarajan talking about the imperatives of co-existence. The festival is about people and the world around them. This is what comes to the fore in ‘Shashi and Sashi’, as Shashi Tharoor and Sashi Kumar have a candid chat about life, literature, politics and more. Art is one of the aspects that light up life. In ‘Reclaiming Gandhi’, artist Subodh Kerkar revisits his lifelong engagement with the Mahatma and examines how art can help spread his ideas. In ‘Sense Smell Touch: Collaborating in Theatre Making’, Anuradha Kapur and Deepan Sivaraman suggest that the process of production is collaborative and individual. The festival concludes with ‘Running Towards Mystery’ in which Tenzin Priyadarshi talks to N. Ravi, Chairman of Kasturi & Sons Ltd and publisher of The Hindu Group of Newspapers, about transforming ourselves and the world in a positive manner using ethics and values as tools for now and later. To register for Lit For Life’s first virtual event, visit https://bit.ly/THLFL21 or scan the QR code. The festival sponsors are Rajasthan Tourism (associate sponsor), Casagrand (realty partner), State Bank of India (banking partner), Life Insurance Corporation of India (insurance partner) and Higginbothams (bookstore partner).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-hindu-lit-for-life-on-nov-12-13/article37389212.ece
09 November 2021||Srinagar,||One more civilian killed in Srinagar||A civilian, who worked as a salesman in a shop owned by a Kashmiri Pandit, was shot dead by militants in Srinagar on Monday evening. “Preliminary investigation has revealed that terrorists fired upon the civilian at Bohri Kadal [in the old city]. In this terror incident, he sustained critical gunshot injuries and was immediately shifted to a nearby hospital. However, he succumbed to his injuries,” a police spokesman said. The victim was identified as Mohammad Ibrahim Khan, 45, son of Ghulam Mohammad Khan, a resident of Astengoo area in Bandipora. “An investigation is in progress and officers continue to work to establish the circumstances that led to this terror crime,” the police said. The incident took place at 8.10 p.m. in the area that houses the spice market of Gadde Kocha. Initial reports suggested the victim was a salesman at the spice shop owned by a Kashmiri Pandit who had reopened the shop after 29 years in 2019. This is the second such attack in the past 24 hours in Srinagar. An off-duty policeman was killed outside his house in Srinagar’s Batamaloo area on Sunday evening. Militants carried out nine targeted killings in Srinagar in the last two months, which included five civilians who belonged to the minority communities. The regional parties condemned the killings . “ Ibrahim is the latest in a series of targeted killings in the Valley, especially Srinagar,” National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/civilian-shot-dead-in-srinagar/article37389218.ece
09 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Govt. begins another eviction drive in Hojai district||More than a month after the controversial eviction drive in Gorukhuti in Darrang district, the Assam Government on Monday began another round, evicting encroachers from a reserve forest in Hojai district’s Lumding. Local officials aided by about 1,000 security personnel, including four companies of the Central Reserve Police Force(CRPF), used elephants, excavators and tractors to clear encroachment on the 22,403-hectare Lumding Reserve Forest. District officials said the eviction, being carried out at the direction of the Gauhati High Court, will continue till Tuesday. The court had on September 30 directed the State Government to clear the encroachment in a phased manner. Officials said there was no resistance unlike the one in Gorukhuti where two persons, including a minor, died in police firing. About 1,410 hectares of the forest are under encroachment, officials said. “Many settlers vacated their houses while others are ready to leave. We are trying to convince a few who are refusing to budge,” Hojai’s Superintendent of Police Barun Purkayastha said. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said a few businessmen had encroached the forest and settled people from Barpeta and Dhubri. The CPI (M-L) criticised the Government for issuing notices to people settled on sandbars in the Dhing area of Nagaon district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-govt-begins-another-eviction-drive-in-hojai-district/article37389249.ece
09 November 2021||Srinagar,||UNESCO picks Srinagar as ‘creative city’||The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has picked Srinagar among 49 cities as part of the creative city network under the Crafts and Folk Arts category. “It is a proud moment for all of us. The process of nomination of Srinagar under the UNESCO ‘Creative City Network’ was undertaken and funded under the World Bank-funded Jhelum Tawi Flood Recovery Project. This is the recognition of the historical crafts and arts of the city,” said Chief Executive Officer, Jhelum Tawi Flood Recovery Project (JTFRP), Abid Rashid Shah. The inclusion is likely to pave way for the city to represent its handicrafts on the global stage through UNESCO. Only Jaipur (Crafts and Folk Arts) in 2015, Varanasi and Chennai (Creative city of Music) in 2015 and 2017 respectively have so far been recognised as members of the UCCN for creative cities.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a tweet, said, “Delighted that beautiful Srinagar joins the UNESCO Creative Cities Network with a special mention for its craft and folk art. It is a fitting recognition for the vibrant cultural ethos of Srinagar. Congratulations to the people of Jammu and Kashmir.” The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) has picked Srinagar among 49 cities as part of the creative city network under the Crafts and Folk Arts category. “It is a proud moment for all of us. The process of nomination of Srinagar under the UNESCO ‘Creative City Network’ was undertaken and funded under the World Bank-funded Jhelum Tawi Flood Recovery Project. This is the recognition of the historical crafts and arts of the city,” said Chief Executive Officer, Jhelum Tawi Flood Recovery Project (JTFRP), Abid Rashid Shah. The inclusion is likely to pave way for the city to represent its handicrafts on the global stage through UNESCO. “It’s a major recognition for Jammu and Kashmir,” Dr. Shah said. The network involves folk art, media, film, literature, design, gastronomy and media arts. Srinagar was among one more city from India competing for the coveted recognition this year. The dossier for its nomination was filed first in 2019 and then again in 2021. Only Jaipur (Crafts and Folk Arts) in 2015, Varanasi and Chennai (Creative city of Music) in 2015 and 2017 respectively have so far been recognised as members of the UCCN for creative cities. “Credit must go to the JTFRP and the Department of Industries and line departments for taking up the task positively. Consultants were hired and work was taken up to complete all the requirements,” said Director, Technical, Planning and Coordination, JTFRP, Iftikhaar Hakeem. Mahmood Ahmad Shah, Director, Industries, said Srinagar has made it to the elite list. “This nomination is the global recognition to the rich craft legacy of Srinagar,” Mr. Shah said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a tweet, said, “Delighted that beautiful Srinagar joins the UNESCO Creative Cities Network with a special mention for its craft and folk art. It is a fitting recognition for the vibrant cultural ethos of Srinagar. Congratulations to the people of Jammu and Kashmir.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unesco-picks-srinagar-as-creative-city/article37389699.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||NSA talks to focus on Taliban takeover||National Security Adviser Ajit Doval will hold bilateral meetings with his counterparts from Russia, Iran and five Central Asian countries in addition to chairing the “Delhi regional security dialogue”, on Wednesday. Mr. Doval will meet his counterparts from Tajikistan and Uzbekistan on Tuesday, and the others after the Regional Dialogue plenary session on Wednesday morning. Common threats In the past few months, Mr. Doval has engaged with each of the other security chiefs at various bilateral and multilateral summits, and these common threats include terrorism inside Afghanistan and its cross-border spread, worries of the Taliban ideology, radicalism and extremism being exported, the problems emanating from the large cache of military equipment left behind by U.S. and NATO forces when they left Afghanistan, cross-border migration and refugees, as well as the growing concerns over the production and export of drugs from the country, the officials noted. In addition, sources said the countries participating had not “legitimised” the Taliban regime, and shared a common perception of Pakistan as one of the “sources of the problems” in Afghanistan with a “serious credibility gap” between its actions and intentions. New Delhi’s role Following the establishment of the Taliban’s “interim government” with Pakistan’s backing, it was felt that New Delhi’s role as a major development and trade partner to Kabul shrunk, but officials said that all participating countries had been “keen” for India to host the conference, to reinforce its “importance” in dealing with the challenges. “Each of these countries bilaterally say there is convergence on worries, points of concern are very similar. Also our objectives in Afghanistan — we speak of diversity, respecting minority rights, culture of moderation and rational thought, all these other countries share with us,” the sources said. However, officials conceded there are some differences between the participants, given that Russia and Iran maintain embassies in Kabul, while countries like Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan have held bilateral talks with Taliban Ministers on issues like connectivity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nsa-talks-to-focus-on-taliban-takeover/article37389221.ece
09 November 2021||Mumbai,||Chhath Puja: Congress claims win in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday issued guidelines for the celebration of the annual Chhath Puja, making an announcement of setting up artificial ponds for north Indian devotees. The move comes after Mumbai Congress unit president Bhai Jagtap along with north Indian leaders of the party held a meeting with BMC officials. Mr. Jagtap had earlier held talks with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and had even written a letter to BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal. The initiative is also seen as an attempt to woo north Indian voters who have deserted the party over the last few years. The civic body, as per the earlier guidelines, had prohibited the puja at the seafront owing to COVID-19 related restrictions. It had also directed devotees to set up artificial ponds if need be. “It is not possible for individual devotees to set up such ponds. We requested the civic administration to find a way out and our demand was successfully accepted,” said Mr. Jagtap. Suraj Singh Thakur, one of the north Indian leaders of the Mumbai Congress, said the puja is an important festival for them and they wanted the BMC to allow its celebration like other festivals. BMC’s restrictions As per the BMC guidelines, not more than 200 devotees can gather at a single spot for puja at open places and not more than 50 for indoor celebrations. The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) claimed that it was the victory of the party and the north Indians that the Shiv Sena-ruled BMC had to reissue the guidelines. “We had opposed the guidelines. Now they will have to set up artificial ponds,” said Sanjay Pandey, president, Maharashtra BJP north Indian front.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chhath-puja-congress-claims-win-in-mumbai/article37389226.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Flood-hit Chennai braces for more showers||While the city is still grappling with inundation from the prevailing cyclonic circulation, a new low pressure area is likely to develop over the southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood around November 9. It is likely to concentrate into a depression and reach near the north Tamil Nadu coast by the morning of November 11. According to IMD bulletin, heavy to very heavy rain is likely to occur at isolated places over Tirunelveli, Thenkasi, Theni, Dindigul, Nilgiris and Coimbatore districts on Tuesday. As the new weather system moves closer, heavy rain may cover more districts and extremely heavy rain spells of over 20 cm may occur in one or two places of Cuddalore and Ariyalur and Puducherry on Wednesday. Chennai and its neighbouring districts can expect torrential downpour on Thursday along with several other districts that are likely to get heavy to very heavy rain.Water discharge from the city’s reservoirs have been maintained as more inflow is expected this week. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Monday, Perambur in Chennai received 14 cm, the highest amount of rainfall for the day. During the day, rains pounded Puducherry too and it recorded heavy rains of 8 cm till 6 p.m. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said the State has received nearly 35 cm of rainfall, which is 43% excess for the season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-respite-for-chennai-new-system-gathers-pace/article37389211.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pakistani diplomat summoned by MEA||The Ministry of External Affairs on Monday summoned a senior Pakistani diplomat and lodged a “strong protest” on the firing upon fishermen by their agency. “Pakistani agency fired upon Indian fishing boat ‘Jalpari’ on November 6 resulting in the death of a fisherman and serious injury to another. The Government condemned this deplorable action which is in contravention to all established international practices and bilateral understandings,” said a source. The source said Pakistan was asked to investigate the incident and “instruct its forces to refrain from such acts of unprovoked firing”. India and Pakistan have been treating the issue of fisherfolk as a humanitarian matter and have routinely exchanged those imprisoned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pakistani-diplomat-summoned/article37389217.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||4 CRPF jawans shot dead by colleague in Sukma||The incident took place at 3.25 a.m. when constable Ranjan of C-Company 50th Battalion opened fire. The seven injured personnel were immediately rushed to the Government Area Hospital in nearby Bhadrachalam of Telangana for first aid. At the hospital, three victims were declared dead on arrival and the fourth succumbed to injuries during treatment. The deceased were identified as constables Rajmani Kumar Yadav, Rajib Mondal, Dhanji and Dharmendra Kumar. Earlier, taking note of the deaths, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel tweeted: “The incident of death of 4 jawans very sad and unfortunate. The police officers have been asked to take all measures to ensure that such incidents do not occur in future.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-crpf-jawans-shot-dead-by-colleague-in-sukma/article37389213.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||CBI not probing Rafale kickbacks: Mediapart||According to the French portal’s report, the Attorney General’s office in Mauritius had sent the documents to the CBI Director on October 11, 2018, in response to a letter of request seeking information in the chopper deal case. A week earlier, on October 4, 2018, the CBI got a complaint alleging corruption in Rafale deal from lawyer Prashant Bhushan and former Union Minister Arun Shourie. “...His (Sushen Gupta’s) Mauritian company, Interstellar Technologies received at least €7.5 million from the French aviation firm between 2007 and 2012, thanks to IT contracts that were clearly overbills, and from which most of the money was discreetly sent to Mauritius using a system of alleged false invoices. Some of these invoices even got the name of the French company wrong, referring instead to Dassult Aviation,” said the Mediapart report. According to the portal, Mr. Gupta was hired as a middleman by Dassault in 2001, after India announced that it wanted to buy fighter jets; the official bid process itself was only launched in 2007. “Other documents obtained by Indian detectives show that in 2015, during the final negotiations of the Rafale contract, Sushen Gupta got hold of confidential documents from India’s Ministry of Defence detailing the stance of the Indian negotiators, in particular how they calculated the price of the aircraft. Dassault has refused to comment on these documents. Sushen Gupta did not respond when contacted by Mediapart,” stated the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-not-probing-rafale-kickbacks-mediapart/article37389216.ece
09 November 2021||Srinagar,||Soldiers can do courses in Kashmir University||The Army personnel posted in the Kashmir Valley can pursue multiple courses from the University of Kashmir (UoK) now. The Army’s 15 Chinar Corps and the University of Kashmir (UoK), Srinagar, on Monday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that will pave way for the personnel to register with the varsity. “It was a historic day for the UoK, Srinagar, and the Chinar Corps. We have established a long-term relationship for provision of distance education courses to soldiers presently serving in Kashmir,” an Army spokesman said. The soldiers can seek admission for courses offered by the Directorate of Distance Education of the university. “The type of courses being made available ranges from six-month certificate courses to one-year diploma and two-year post-graduate courses,” the Army spokesman said. At present, 18 courses are available. They will be increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/soldiers-can-do-courses-in-kashmir-university/article37389277.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||SC proposes Kheri probe by an ex-HC judge||The court was piqued at the number of “eyewitnesses” who had come forward to depose in support of the accused in the case of the murder of the farmers. The senior lawyer stated that these 56 people had come forward saying they wanted to record their statements about the lynching of two local BJP workers and the driver of one of the convoy cars. “But when the police start recording their statements, they made exculpatory statements in support of the accused in the farmers’ death case,” he said. The SIT is separately investigating the deaths of the farmers and the subsequent incidents of violence and lynching orchestrated by a mob of angry locals. Two separate FIRs have been registered. On Monday, the Bench observed that concerted efforts were on to blur the lines between the two cases. “The two FIRs are now overlapping and one particular accused is getting all the benefit out of this... If this goes on, you know better than us what will be the fate of the case... The police have to distinguish between what is relevant and what is not in a case... That is the fine art of investigation,” Justice Kant addressed Mr. Salve, who contended that the police cannot refuse to record statements when people come forward to offer them. “We are being very careful.” However, the court continued to be sceptical. Overlapping of cases The CJI said, “It is to ensure there is no overlapping of the two cases that we want a retired High Court judge to monitor and ensure they are treated separately... We are not confident about your enquiry...”. At one point, Mr. Salve stated that how a wrong impression was sent out that a journalist, Raman Kashyap, was lynched by the mob because he was part of the convoy. However, evidence had come forth that he was, in fact, run over along with the farmers. Justice Kant said, “Exactly... This is the reason why we want a judge to independently monitor the investigation... You see how a wrong impression was sent about the circumstances of the death of poor journalist...” . Mr. Salve agreed to seek instructions from the government on the court’s suggestion. The case has been posted to Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-proposes-kheri-probe-by-an-ex-hc-judge/article37389224.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Week-long bike rally from Kathmandu to Varanasi||The Indian Embassy in Nepal will organise a week-long bike rally from the Pashupatinath temple in Kathmandu to the Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi from November 11. The people-to-people initiative comes days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi met his Nepalese counterpart Sher Bahadur Deuba in Glasgow on the sidelines of the COP26 summit. The rally will include a stopover at the Gorakhnath Math, a religious institution headed by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Adityanath. The Ministry of External Affairs said the rally will be flagged off by Minister of Culture of Nepal Prem Bahadur Ale from the premises of the Pashupatinath temple on the morning of November 11 after religious rituals which will be performed in the presence of Ambassador to Nepal Vinay Mohan Kwatra. The “Pashupatinath-Kashi Vishwanath Amrit Mahotsav Motorcycle Rally” between the two of the most important religious shrines of South Asia will draw participation from at least 50 bikers and is aimed at strengthening the connect, said the MEA. The rally will visit Motihari associated with Mahatma Gandhi-led Champaran Satyagraha of 1917, Sarnath, the place of the first sermon of Lord Buddha and the Gorakhnath Math in Gorakhpur. The stopover at the Math of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh is significant as Mr. Adityanath is the chief pontiff of the religious establishment. Mr. Deuba had sent former Foreign Minister Prakash Sharan Mahat as his emissary to India in October. He met Mr. Adityanath in Lucknow where both sides had discussed plans to strengthen people-to-people ties. It is understood that Mr. Adityanath’s following in Nepal is expected to amplify his image as a leader ahead of the poll in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/week-long-bike-rally-from-kathmandu-to-varanasi/article37389283.ece
09 November 2021||Pune,||Sena targets State Govt., Centre over hospital fire||The Shiv Sena on Monday called for the Ahmednagar hospital fire tragedy not to be ‘politicised’. It, however, targeted both the ruling tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition (of which it is a part of) as well as the Central Government over the incident, where 11 COVID-19 patients, mostly senior citizens, lost their lives. In an editorial in its mouthpiece, Saamana , the Sena, which shares power with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress and has its president Uddhav Thackeray as Chief Minister, said the upkeep of the public health system was the responsibility of both the State and Central Governments. The NCP holds the Health portfolio. It pointed out that several COVID-19 patients had lost their lives in similar hospital fire tragedies across the State in Gondia, Nashik, Mira-Bhayandar and Vasai-Virar and other places over the past two years. The editorial demanded that the Government tell the public what concrete steps it planned to take to prevent such accidents. The editorial also mocked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and chastised the Centre for the “shambolic” state of the country’s health infrastructure. It rued the “paltry” spending on improving the facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sena-targets-state-govt-centre-over-hospital-fire/article37389252.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Post monsoon’ demand led to power deficit: Govt.||“The augmentation to the installed power capacity in the country, consequent to these efforts, has been 1,55,377 megawatt in last approximately seven years,” it concluded, citing schemes such as the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojana for setting up of transmission and sub-transmission systems in rural India and the Integrated Power Development Scheme to plug power infrastructure gaps in urban areas. “The Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana (Saubhagya) scheme launched on September 25, 2017, had the vision to take electricity to every household (willing), and has been able to supply electricity connections to 2.8 to crore households which were hitherto in darkness,” the statement noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/post-monsoon-demand-led-to-power-deficit-govt/article37389223.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Hymn for moksha||Adi Sankara shines as a beacon light in the spiritual firmament by virtue of his superior jnana, vairagya and bhakti apart from his impeccable scholarship in the scriptures. These are basic and essential for all those seeking salvation and the acharya addresses the issue to reach out to each one of them, whatever may be one’s spiritual attainment, pointed out Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. For instance, his excellent Bashya granthas, the commentaries on the Prastanatraya texts, the Upanishads, the Brahma Sutra and the Bhagavad Gita explore the nuances of the scriptures and establish the Advaita siddhanta on a firm footing. But his innumerable stotra granthas on many deities such as Rama, Krishna, Goddess Devi, Siva, Dakshinamurthy, Subramanya, Ganesha, etc, are valuable to the common simple folk who can chant these and find great solace in tiding over the sorrows and hurdles of life. The Subramanya Bhujanga celebrates the glories of the deity Muruga at Tiruchendur. The Sankara Vijayam, the biography on Adi Sankara, mentions the story behind the birth of this soul-stirring hymn. Once when the acharya is in Gokarna, a jealous scholar named Abhinava Gupta inflicts a painful disease on him. Being an atma nishta, the acharya is unconcerned about it though the disciples are concerned. It is held that Siva appears in his dream and directs him to worship Subramanya at Tiruchendur. By his yogic power, the acharya goes to Tiruchendur and prays to be cured of the disease. The Lord is shown to be the most compassionate who is always ready to shower His boundless graces on all devoted souls. He grants all their rightful wishes necessary for crossing this life and also inspires them with the desire for salvation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hymn-for-moksha/article37389248.ece
09 November 2021||Srinagar,||‘Farmers’ stir will hit BJP’s poll prospects’||Former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday said the current agitation of farmers would impact the BJP’s poll prospects in the near future. “We see farmers agitating on the streets from the last one year. It does not impact the ruling regime. Is this not a display of pride? I believe times will change. In the end, farmers will have an impact. The recent poll results are already showing that people are expressing their anger. The BJP has to bite the reality one day,” Ms. Mufti told journalists in Srinagar. She termed the Centre’s claims about return of normalcy in Jammu and Kashmir “a hollow slogan”. “Hundreds of youths were arrested during the Union Home Minister’s visit recently. More CRPF battalions are being brought in. If the situation has improved, why such drastic steps? The ground situation belies the Government’s claims. The BJP is a party that believes in ‘jumlas’,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-stir-will-hit-bjps-poll-prospects/article37389227.ece
09 November 2021||Mumbai,||HC asks Malik to reply to libel plea||The Bombay High Court on Monday directed Nationalist Congress Party (NCP)leader and Maharashtra Cabinet Minister Nawab Malik to reply to a defamation suit filed by the father of Narcotics Control Bureau zonal director Sameer Wankhede. A vacation Bench of Justice Madhav Jamdar was hearing the suit filed by Dhyandev Wankhede seeking damages of Rs. 1.25 crore for making ‘defamatory’ statements. The plea mentions Mr. Malik leaking a purported birth certificate of his son on Twitter allegedly posing that he is a Muslim. Advocate for Dhyandev Wankhede told the Bombay High Court that everyday something or the other was put by Nawab Malik on Twitter and that today it was about his son’s sister-in-law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-asks-malik-to-reply-to-libel-plea/article37389222.ece
09 November 2021||Kolkata,||BJP workers, police clash in Kolkata||BJP supporters clashed with the police in Kolkata on Monday after they were stopped from taking out a rally demanding a reduction in VAT (Value Added Tax) on petrol and diesel by the West Bengal Government after the Union government slashed taxes on petrol and diesel. Senior BJP leaders, including State president Sukanta Majumdar, Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari and party’s national vice-president Dilip Ghosh were present outside the party headquarters at Murlidhar Sen Lane when the whole area was cordoned off by the police. The police refused permission for the BJP leaders to lead a rally due to the COVID-19 situation. There was a scuffle between party supporters and the police and several BJP leaders and supporters were detained. Mr. Adhikari stated that he would raise the issue in the next session of the Assembly. Ms. Banerjee said the Centre has collected about Rs. 4 lakh crore from petroleum products and was not giving anything to the States ruled by Opposition parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-workers-police-clash-in-kolkata/article37389230.ece
09 November 2021||Pune,||Modi calls for development of Pandharpur||Calling for the temple town of Pandharpur in Maharashtra’s Solapur district to be transformed into the cleanest pilgrimage site in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that the palkhi (palanquin) highways would accelerate the development of the region whilst enhancing connectivity with South India. He was speaking during the virtual ground breaking ceremony of 13 highway projects which are aimed at increasing connectivity to the iconic temple town in Solapur district. Mr. Modi virtually laid the foundation stone for the widening of five sections of NH-965 and three sections of NH-965G to four lanes. The NH-965 is popularly known as the Sant Dnyaneshawar Maharaj Palkhi Marg while NH-965G is also called the Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi Marg after the two of the most revered saints of Maharashtra. The Prime Minister appealed to the locals to plant trees on both sides of the highways and install drinking water facilities at regular stops for the warkaris (devotees undertaking the pilgrimage). “Pandharpur signifies happiness and prosperity…. The Pandharpur wari (the annual pilgrimage to the shrine of Lord Vithoba in Pandharpur is the oldest such pilgrimage in the world,” Mr. Modi said. He said that the palkhi highways would not only boost the cultural development of the region, but enhance development as a whole by increasing religious tourism and helping create employment opportunities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-calls-for-development-of-pandharpur/article37389284.ece
09 November 2021||New Delhi,||Winter session of Parliament to begin soon||The winter session of Parliament will begin on November 29 and go on till December 23. The Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs has approved the dates. There will be 20 working days in the session. Last year, the winter session could not be held due to the pandemic. The last three parliamentary sessions were also curtailed due to the COVID-19 scare. The coming session will also adhere to the COVID-19 protocols. Both Houses of Parliament — Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha — will hold proceedings simultaneously while ensuring that the members follow social distancing norms. It is expected to be a heated session, as it comes on the eve of Assembly elections in Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Manipur and Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/winter-session-of-parliament-to-begin-soon/article37389233.ece
09 November 2021||New Delhi,||Zydus Cadila to supply one crore doses||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Monday said it had received an order to supply one crore doses of its COVID-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D, to the Government of India at Rs. 265 a dose. “Zydus Cadila has received an order to supply one crore doses of ZyCoV-D, the world’s first plasmid DNA vaccine, to the Government of India at Rs. 265 per dose and the needle-free applicator being offered at Rs. 93 per dose, excluding GST,” the pharma firm said in a regulatory filing. The pricing has been decided in consultation with the Central Government, it added. The vaccine will be administered using a needle-free applicator as opposed to traditional syringes. Painless delivery PharmaJet is a needle-free applicator to ensure painless intradermal vaccine delivery which also leads to a significant reduction in major side effects. “We are happy to support the Government’s vaccination programme with ZyCoV-D. The needle-free application of the vaccination, we hope, will motivate many more to vaccinate and safeguard themselves from COVID-19, especially children and young adults in the age group of 12 to 18,” Zydus Cadila Managing Director Sharvil Patel said. ZyCoV-D is the first vaccine cleared by India’s drug regulator for inoculation of those aged 12 and above. Three doses of ZyCoV-D are to be administered 28 days apart. The company has also sought approval for the two dose regimen of the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/zydus-cadila-to-supply-one-crore-doses/article37389238.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Autumn palette||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/autumn-palette/article37389243.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Many proposals post 2015 floods yet to be implemented||The flooding of residential neighbourhoods across the city has left many residents marooned. After the deluge in 2015, the Greater Chennai Corporation and other line agencies came up with proposals for various infrastructure projects to reduce flooding in 498 locations, based on the report of flood monitoring officers. Among the proposals was improving the drainage system to handle a precipitation of 70 mm per hour. But this week, residents complained about flooding in as many as 317 locations. Over 5,000 complaints were received by Corporation officials in the past three days. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi on Monday said water had not receded in as many as 177 of the 317 residential neighbourhoods. Though the civic body cleaned drains this year, most of the major infrastructure projects remained incomplete ahead of the monsoon. A case in point is the work on the restoration of the Mambalam Canal from Valluvar Kottam to Saidapet. In 2020, the civic body announced that the Mambalam Canal would be restored in 9 months. But the project has faced delays. Illegal dumping of garbage into sewage inlets and encroachments on the canal continue to hinder the flow of water from areas like T. Nagar. As regards the Kosasthalaiyar river basin, the Asian Development Bank had sanctioned a loan for a Rs. 3,220-crore project covering 769 km of drains. But the Corporation has not yet completed work on 600 km of drains, leading to flooding in the northern parts of the city. The development of drains for a length of 325 km in the southern parts of the city, funded by KfW, also remains incomplete. Work on missing links was carried out in areas like T. Nagar at a cost of Rs. 350 crore. But encroachments on canals including the one in Mambalam have led to flooding in several neighbourhoods. Former urban planners of CMDA pointed to the issue of the reduction in the width of canals like Buckingham Canal in many parts of the city. The Corporation maintains 2,070 km of stormwater drains on 9,224 stretches in the city. It also maintains 30 canals with a total length of 48.8 km. But major proposals to develop underground canals to drain water from the southern parts of the city are yet to be implemented. Work on the development of drains across railway tracks and highways at 23 locations has not been completed despite administrative sanction having been issued before the monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-proposals-post-2015-floods-yet-to-be-implemented/article37389423.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No respite from inundation for residents of north Chennai||There was no respite from waterlogging for residents of many parts of north Chennai. As rain inundated several roads, interior lanes and low-lying neighbourhoods in the northern part of the city, residents of many areas blamed the poor storm water drain network that was causing flooding. Residents of Pulianthope and its surrounding areas were among the worst-hit as rainwater inundated many of the stretches, leaving hundreds of residents in the lurch. Decaster Road, Stephenson Road, Pulianthope Main Road and Pattalam and K.M. Garden were heavily waterlogged. Many streets and neighbourhoods in Tiruvottiyur were flooded, while interior lanes in parts of Choolai, Jawahar Nagar, parts of Perambur and Vyasarpadi were waterlogged. With no signs of water receding, Siraj, a resident of Decaster Road in Pulianthope, said he wanted to shift his parents out of the locality but could not move due to lack of transportation. “Waterlogging is a perennial problem here. The area is densely populated but the drain network is poor. The storm water drain that was laid only a few years ago has little or no flow. But who is going to look into our long-pending pleas? We serve only as a vote bank but our woes remain unaddressed for several years,” he said. Subway opened The Ganeshapuram subway at Jeeva railway station was opened for traffic after water was drained, while the Vyasarpadi subway remained partially waterlogged. Some of the arterial stretches including Dr. Ambedkar College Road in Pulianthope, Perambur High Road in Jamalia and First Main Road in Jawahar Nagar were inundated. No help from authorities In fact, in some of these areas, residents were left on their own with little or no help from authorities to drain water or regulate traffic. A number of residents in and around Pulianthope started to move out of their homes to their relatives’ houses in other localities. “There is no power supply for 36 hours. Power supply was cut at 7 a.m. on Sunday and has not been restored till now. The area is surrounded with water as always,” said Veronica, a resident of Pattalam. Sathish, a resident of Kakkan Street in Rajaji Nagar, Tiruvottiyur, said the area was completely inundated for the last two days. “There is water for about 2.5 feet. Nearby localities such as Jothi Nagar is also inundated. We are stepping out of our homes only in case of any urgent requirement. No action has been taken till now to drain the water. Though storm water drain was constructed here, they did not complete the work of connecting the drain network. The work has been going on for the past year,” he said. Areas in Mathur such as Kamaraj Nagar, Bhuvaneshwari Nagar and Nehruji Nagar, and Kavi Thendral Kalyanasundaram Nagar in Chinnamathur witnessed waterlogging. An official of the north region, Greater Chennai Corporation said major waterlogging issues were from zones III (Madhavaram), IV (Tondiarpet) and V (Royapuram). “Annai Sathya Nagar was one of the areas that is facing waterlogging. We have deployed a boat to carry out relief operations,” the official said. Motors were being used in many areas to pump out the stagnant water. He added that food was being provided for nearly 70,000 rain-affected persons in the north Chennai region alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-respite-from-inundation-for-residents-of-north-chennai/article37389406.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court baffled at number of cases on religious matters||The Madras High Court, on Monday, was baffled at the overwhelming number of cases filed in connection with protection of temples and their properties in the State. It said public-spirited persons should also concentrate on promoting education and eradicating poverty than just confining their concern to religious matters. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu made the observations while refusing to entertain a public interest litigation petition, which sought for a direction to the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department to appoint watchmen in all 44,286 temples and mutts under its control. Appointing watchmen The judges said that there were a host of other progressive issues that could be taken up by public-spirited persons instead of concentrating only on temples and religion. They said a decision on appointing watchmen was something that had to be taken care of by individual temples and that a litigant could not seek an omnibus direction. “There’s no doubt that the HR&CE department is obliged to ensure that all temple properties under its control are protected and preserved,” the judges said before adding that it was not for the court to address a wide and generic issue, such as appointment of watchmen in all temples, by way of a PIL petition. Vacancies Stating that the temple trustees would be the best persons to take a call on this appointment, the judges said they had already taken judicial notice, in another case, of the HR&CE department having commenced the required steps to fill up the vacancies of trustees in all temples. The Bench also pointed out that it had already restrained the State Government and the HR&CE department from taking a call on melting or selling the gold jewels and articles, which were donated by devotees to various temples in the last 10 years, until the trustees assume charge in the relevant temples. The present PIL petition had been preferred by S. Ayya, an advocate from Palayamkottai in Tirunelveli district. Aggrieved over the theft of many temple properties, the petitioner said human intervention would minimise the chances of illegal activities and hence it was essential to appoint watchmen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-baffled-at-number-of-cases-filed-on-religious-matters/article37389452.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||WRD opts for measured discharge from major reservoirs in Chennai||For the second day, the Water Resources Department released the same amount of surplus water from the major city reservoirs as they continued to get good inflow on Monday. Spread over 25.51 sq.km., the Chembarambakkam reservoir, one of the major drinking water sources of the city now has a storage of 2,934 million cubic feet against its capacity of 3,645 mcft. As the inflow remained at 610 cubic feet per second around noon, WRD discharged nearly 2,000 cusecs of surplus water into the Adyar river at 6 p.m. on Monday. Water Resources Minister Durai Murugan inspected the waterbody and the sluice gates along with Minister for Rural Industries T.M.Anbarasan on Monday. Officials of the WRD said the Adyar river carried a flow of 5,000-6,000 cusecs now. “We can safely discharge about 40,000 cusecs into the river. Adyar is also carrying nearly 2,500 cusecs of excess water from Adhanur tank, apart from the water released from Chembarambakkam reservoir,” said an official. Similarly, nearly 4,040 cusecs of water is being let out from Poondi reservoir as it continues to receive heavy inflow from catchment areas and the dam in Andhra Pradesh. In reservoirs at Red Hills and Cholavaram too, the water release is being maintained at 2,000 cusecs and 1,200 cusecs respectively. Officials said as more inflow is expected to reach the waterbodies in the coming days, about 20% more water, out of what is received as inflow, is being released into the surplus courses and rivers. The levels in reservoirs are monitored and measured every few hours. The measured discharge would help take in additional quantity of water in the reservoirs during heavy rain spells and alleviate inundation. Waterbodies filling up Many large waterbodies like the ones in Madurantakam and Uthiramerur have filled up. Of the 381 tanks in Kancheepuram district, nearly 138 have reached their full capacity. The Kancheepuram district administration issued flood warning for villages, including Kattupakkam and Bharathipuram, as surplus water was released from Uthiramerur tank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wrd-opts-for-measured-discharge-from-major-reservoirs/article37389414.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Break from heavy spell saves south Chennai||Unlike north and central Chennai, the situation was marginally better in many parts of south Chennai barring some streets where waterlogging continued on Sunday. The break from intense downpour on Sunday night provided much needed relief for the residents who were reeling under the fear of facing another 2015-like situation. Though the main roads in Velachery, Adambakkam, Adyar, Pallikaranai and Madipakkam were free from flooding, many of the streets witnessed waterlogging although the water level had begun to slowly recede owing to the break from heavy spell. In areas including Mohanapuri New Colony, Lake View Road and Shaw Wallace Colony in Adambakkam, residents had to wade through water. AGS Colony in Velachery was flooded on Sunday but the water had almost drained on Monday morning. Some residents said, they began shifting things from the ground floor. B Yasmin, a resident of AGS Colony said, even if moderate rain occurs, they get ready to pack their things. “Those living in the ground floor suffer the most. We wind up and head to the first floor and subsequently, the power goes off as well. It is high time authorities take some action to resolve this issue here. We suffer year after year during the monsoon,” she added. Flooding, still a concern For those residing in Ram Nagar, they say they experience a deja vu of 2015 floods every monsoon for the last six years. Meenakshi Sundaram, a resident of north extension in Ram Nagar said, “Though the levels are starting to recede, there is still waterlogging on many streets. We also have to constantly keep checking the vehicles parked here.” Many residents continued to have their vehicles parked on the Velachery flyover as they feared there could be another heavy spell and flooding. Some streets in areas like Nehru Nagar and Kamaraj Nagar in Adyar experienced waterlogging as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/break-from-heavy-spell-saves-south-chennai/article37389408.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Policemen rush to the rescue of the needy||It was a busy Sunday and Monday for policemen as they rescued an elderly couple trapped inside their house, removed fallen trees and burnt the midnight oil to attend to emergencies in their respective jurisdiction. The Police control room received an emergency call from an elderly couple who were stranded in their house on the ground floor of a two-storey building on Raman Street in T.Nagar. Immediately, Assistant Commissioner of Police Bharathiraja deputed a team led by Sub-Inspector Prabakaran to the spot. The team reached the street that was heavily flooded. Since the vehicle could not reach the couple’s house, policemen walked in knee-deep water and reached the spot. The couple — identified as Murthy, 81, a retired sound engineer, and Syamala, 70, — were stranded since the flood water entered their house. Their children were staying abroad. The couple took shelter on the first floor after the water level began rising “They were seated on a plastic chair, and we carried them out one by one to our vehicle on the road and safely took them to their relative’s house in K.K.Nagar,” Mr. Prabakaran said. Similarly, on receipt of information of a two-year-old child who had taken ill at an apartment, policemen from Vepery brought the child and his father out despite waterlogging and helped them reach a hospital. An 80-year-old man who was struggling with breathing difficulties was rescued by Vepery Inspector Kannan and rushed to a hospital for treatment. In Abiramapuram, a huge tree near an apartment was slowly getting uprooted. As the matter was reported to E4 Police Station, a team of police personnel immediately rushed to the spot with a tree cutting team from Chennai Corporation and cleared the road for traffic after removing the branches. Police said on the orders of City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal, 13 ‘Greater Chennai Police Disaster Rescue’ teams have been constituted to protect the public from rain-related mishaps, meet emergencies and extend assistance to the marooned people. The team consists of a Sub-Inspector and Armed Police constables who are trained swimmers. In several pockets, police personnel were seen wading through the water with a public address system asking the public if they need any assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policemen-rush-to-the-rescue-of-the-needy/article37389418.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central Chennai is the worst-hit||Residential neighbourhoods in Central region of Greater Chennai Corporation, located in close proximity to the banks of the Cooum, Buckingham Canal and the Adyar rivers have been the worst-affected in the floods. Out of the 5,000 complaints of flooding received by the Greater Chennai Corporation in this spell of rain in the past two days, zones of Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Anna Nagar and Kodambakkam in Central Chennai have registered the highest number among the 15 zones in the city. Residents were seen moving out of their homes in flooded areas on Monday as power supply was disrupted, water remained waist high and snakes slithered across in residential areas. Hundreds of residents lost their personal property because of flooding on Sunday. Many families in Golden Jubilee Apartments, developed by the Tamil Nadu Housing Board in Anna Nagar West, were marooned for the past two days. Residents were found vacating their houses owing to huge loss of personal belongings. Many neighbourhoods in Chennai faced such issues. Anna Nagar West resident Vijay Kumar said that his home was flooded. “We have lost our valuables. We are shifting to another place now,” he said. S. Rajasekar, joint secretary of Golden Jubilee Apartments said the residential complex with 624 houses in the 12-acre area was developed by the Tamil Nadu Housing Board 25 years ago. But the TNHB did not develop any civic infrastructure. The new residential projects in the vicinity have raised the level by three feet, hindering the flow of water from old residential neighbourhoods to the Cooum River. “The Chennai Corporation should use heavy duty pumps to bale out water,” said Mr. Rajasekar. In Kolathur, resident S. Vaidhyanathan said the water did not recede on Monday in Thillai Nagar. “There is waist-high water on our streets since Saturday night. The conditions are worse in our area, especially on the Fifth Cross Street in Thillai Nagar,” he said. “We have been facing this almost for the past six years. This is because of the encroachments on 100 feet road, which is also a barrier to the draining of water. People have been permitted to construct three floors, blocking drains. Corporation pumped water today, but the water level receded only by two inches," said Mr. Vaidhyanathan. Triplicane resident I. Revathi said electrical appliances have been damaged because of voltage fluctuations after the rain. Residents in areas such as Peravallur, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Ambattur, T. Nagar, Teynampet, Mylapore and West Mambalam have registered numerous complaints about flooding with the Corporation officials. Coorporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said additional machinery and earthmovers would be deployed to clear bottlenecks and facilitate draining of water in flooded areas. Mr. Bedi visited Mambalam Canal to assess the flow of water from T. Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-chennai-is-the-worst-hit/article37389402.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||841 people test positive for COVID-19 in State||The trend of gradual decline in fresh COVID-19 infections in Tamil Nadu continued for the 46th consecutive day on Monday, with 841 people testing positive in the State, taking the tally to 27,09,080. Six people succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 36,220. With 958 people getting discharged after treatment, the total figure stood at 26,62,386. Districts that reported over 50 cases were: Chennai (126), Coimbatore (94), Chengalpattu (74), Erode (67) and Tiruppur (60). Of the remaining districts, 19 saw cases in single digits. Perambalur, Tenkasi, Theni and Virudhunagar logged just one case each. While cases marginally declined or remained the same in 22 districts, when compared with the day before, the 16 others logged a minor increase. Fatalities in State Six districts — Chennai, Kancheepuram, Coimbatore, Chengalpattu, Nagapattinam and Tirupathur — accounted for one death each. While five of the deceased had co-morbidities, a 56-year-old man from Tirupathur district, who died at the Dharmapuri Medical College Hospital on Monday, had none. The oldest among the deceased was an 84-year-old woman from Chengalpattu, who had diabetes, hypertension and hypothyroidism. She was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai in the last week of October and died on Monday. As many as 1,00,563 people were tested for COVID-19, and the test positivity rate remained at 0.84%. A total of 1,25,580 people were administered the vaccines. Those inoculated included 75,841 people in the 18-44 age group, 35,681 aged 45 to 60 and 13,920 aged over 60. The State has so far administered 5,72,08,217 vaccine doses.  As many as 1,00,563 people were tested for COVID-19, and the State’s test positivity rate remained at 0.84%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/841-people-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-state/article37389385.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Complete probe against Velumani in 10 weeks: HC||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) to complete in 10 weeks its investigation in a case booked against former Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani of the AIADMK, for alleged irregularities in the awarding of civil contracts by the Greater Chennai and Coimbatore corporations. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu issued the direction while disposing of petitions filed by non-governmental organisation Arappor Iyakkam and DMK MP R.S. Bharathi in 2018. Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram requested the court to close the petitions since the DVAC had recently registered an FIR and commenced investigation. The court also recorded the A-G’s submission that a copy of the preliminary inquiry report, submitted by the previous investigation officer in favour of the prime accused, during the AIADMK regime, could not be shared with the latter at the present stage of the probe, and a decision on sharing relevant documents could be taken by the trial court concerned only after completion of the investigation. FIR registered After the two petitions seeking registration of an FIR were filed in 2018, the High Court had ordered a preliminary inquiry by the DVAC, which gave a clean chit to the then Minister. The investigating officer’s report was accepted by the State government too, and all further proceedings were dropped in January 2020. However, after the DMK came to power this May, the DVAC decided to register an FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complete-probe-against-velumani-in-10-weeks-hc/article37389391.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amid widespread flooding, Vedanthangal bird sanctuary has not enough water||Sunday’s rainflooded many parts of Chennaiand its neighbouring districts, but Vedanthangal bird sanctuary, the oldest in the country, has not enough water despite the migratory season kicking in. “This is not new. It is becoming a struggle every year. Last year, water had to be diverted from a weir upstream with police protection,” says Chandrakumar, a local birder and activist. According to activists, the rain water from Valayaputhur lake upstream of the sanctuary is released to Maduranthakam tank and not into the channel connecting the bird sanctuary. Two days ago, Public Works Department (PWD) officials put sandbags to divert water into this channel, and the sanctuary was beginning to fill up but local residents pushed the sandbags down, the activists charge. Every year the Forest Department cleans up the channel for seven kilometres so that water can reach the sanctuary from Valayaputhur lake, but getting the water in remains a challenge. Last year, the revenue authorities had to divert water to the sanctuary with police protection, they recall. This has been happening from 2009, Mr. Chandrakumar said. Activists like him want a permanent solution to the issue as it crops up every year. “When there is no water, the migratory birds will look for another place. For the past few years, Melmaruvathur has been attracting water birds in abundance. But the country's first and smallest bird sanctuary needs to be preserved,” says another activist. This year, the pelicans have come in good numbers and are nesting in the front itself after many years. While Sunday’s rain did not fill up Vedanthangal and the nearby Karikili sanctuary, it rained in both places on Monday. “The previous AIADMK government had a Rs. 4 crore proposal to bring about a permanent solution. The DMK government has to implement it this year to ensure the survival of Vedanthangal bird sanctuary,” Mr. Chandrakumar says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amid-widespread-flooding-vedanthangal-bird-sanctuary-has-not-enough-water/article37389449.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Concerns being raised over cows stranded on roads in city during the rain||Concerns are being raised over cows kept without shelter or proper care during the ongoing rain, particularly in the Triplicane area. Two days ago, a social media user said a calf was lying sick near the MRTS bridge on Dr. Besant Road. According to the user, while the person rearing it had abandoned the calf, the animal rescue services too were not of any help. When The Hindu visited the spot on Monday, cows were found on the road and on the banks of the canal without shelter. Similar scenes were witnessed in places in and around Triplicane. Vignesh, a resident of the area, said around five families were rearing cows in the area. “They have limited space. There must be around 50 cows, but only 10 or 15 get to be in the sheds erected by the families,” he said. A youngster from one of the families, who did not want to be quoted, said a calf was sick two days ago. “It was someone else’s male calf. So the owner probably did not bother to take care of it. Moreover, it was difficult to take it to a veterinarian during the rain,” he said. Saying that the cows are fed properly, as they are the families’ key source of income, he said it was not possible to erect shelters for all of them due to lack of space. “Our family has been rearing cows and selling milk for many generations. During the time of my grandfather, there was more vacant land that we could use. It is all gone now,” he said. Arun Prasanna, from People for Cattle in India, said the way in which these cows were being maintained was illegal. He urged the Greater Chennai Corporation to take action. “It is difficult for animal rights’ activists to intervene in this situation as we often face stiff resistance from owners,” he said. A senior official from the GCC said owners were issued warnings and imposed fines periodically for letting the cows roam freely on roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concerns-being-raised-over-cows-stranded-on-roads-in-city-during-the-rain/article37389425.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAi,TAMIL NADU||Marooned residents leave vehicles on flyover fearing heavy rain||Residents who were marooned due to incessant downpour have resorted to using Velachery flyover as a parking lot for their cars and two-wheelers hoping to save the vehicles from rain damage. A resident of Third Street in Ram Nagar, Velachery said, “In 2015, the streets in our area was completely waterlogged. Our vehicles which were parked at home got submerged in the water. It took several days for the water to recede and by then, the vehicles became nearly irreparable. We had to spend a huge amount of money to get the vehicles ready. The water level this time also is dangerously threatening. So we brought the vehicle and parked it on the bridge.” People living in the surrounding areas and facing waterlogging on their streets have followed suit. The vehicles have been parked on the bridge in a long line since Sunday morning. Past experience C.Amaldass, a resident of Seventh Street in Ram Nagar said, “My car was irreparable after it was submerged in 2015. Then we had to spend a fortune to get the car back to working condition again. This time, the flood was about to touch my parking area on Sunday night. I hurriedly brought the car and parked it here.” Call-taxis and mini lorries are also parked on the flyover. A call-taxi driver said, “We used to park vehicles on the streets when there are no customers. Now we have no other option to park our vehicles here since the streets are flooded.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flood-hit-residents-leave-their-vehicles-on-flyover/article37389404.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||KVPY exam case to be heard today||The Madras High Court on Monday decided to hear on Tuesday a public interest litigation petition which had insisted upon conducting the Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana examination in regional languages too and not just in English and Hindi. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu adjourned the matter by a day to accommodate Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan, appearing on behalf of the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kvpy-exam-case-to-be-heard-today/article37389845.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister joins issue with Udhayakumar on flood handling||Revenue and Disaster Management Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran on Monday joined issue with his predecesor, R.B. Udhayakumar, on the handling of the floods in Chennai and its surrounding regions, and said people had not forgotten the hardship faced during the monsoon under the erstwhile AIADMK Government. In a statement, Mr. Ramachandran said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had conducted four review meetings with Ministers and officials on the handling of monsoon, and given suggestions. It was due to the desilting of stormwater drains in the past five months, since the DMK came to power, that there was less flooding on the roads, he said. Rainwater from low-lying areas is being removed using high-power pumps, the Minister said. He said Mr. Stalin’s government was not like the AIADMK regime, where announcements made by their Chief Ministers, late Jayalalithaa and Edappadi K. Palaniswami, were not implemented and remained just on paper. He reminded Mr. Udhayakumar that Mr. Stalin had visited the State disaster control room and conducted a review on Sunday, and had nominated 15 special officers to monitor and implement relief works. “Unlike the hardship caused by the AIADMK government in 2015 by releasing water from Chembarambakkam, this government has constituted an expert committee to monitor and release water. The people will never forget the way your government caused so much damage by releasing water from the lake,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-joins-issue-with-udhayakumar-on-flood-handling/article37389398.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM visits affected areas||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday visited various locations in the city and distributed relief materials to flood-affected residents. Mr. Stalin inspected canals, including the Buckingham Canal in North Chennai, and distributed relief materials to residents of Kalyanapuram. The Chief Minister inspected medical camp for residents at Kalyanapuram. A total of 8,000 residents attended medical camps in the city on Monday. The Chief Minister also visited flooded areas near Bharath Theatre in Royapuram constituency and distributed relief materials and food packets. A total of 3.36 lakh food packets were distributed on Monday. Mr. Stalin visited R.K. Nagar and Perambur and distributed relief materials among the flood-hit residents. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi on Monday asked residents to be prepared for rain between November 10 and November 12. Mr. Stalin has ordered officials to distribute food packets to flood-affected residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-visits-affected-areas/article37389428.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Adambakkam Police Station flooded, shifted||The Adambakkam Police Station has been temporarily shifted to a new location, following waterlogging on the existing premises due to heavy rain. S8 Adambakkam station is one of the busiest police stations in the St. Thomas Mount Police district in the city. It has been functioning with over 40 personnel at a building located on New Colony Main Road, for the last few years. “Our station floor is at least three feet below the ground level and the building is also leaky. During the monsoon, rain water enters the premises. This time, we have witnessed heavy inundation inside the premises besides flooding on the roads. On the orders of senior officers, we have shifted the station immediately to a new premises to continue our service to the public,” said Valarmathi, Inspector of Police. Police personnel packed up and shifted to a house on New Colony Second Street in Adambakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adambakkam-police-station-flooded-shifted/article37389416.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lack of planning had led to waterlogging: EPS||Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday said the DMK Government had completely failed to take precautionary measures ahead of monsoon, and the lack of planning had led to waterlogging in Chennai. The AIADMK co-coordinator visited affected areas in T. Nagar, Kodambakkam, Rajamannar Salai and Koyambedu and gave away relief to residents. He said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s constituency, Kolathur, was affected. “If that is the situation there, think about other areas. The monsoon has just started and this is the situation,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lack-of-planning-had-led-to-waterlogging-eps/article37389386.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. issues order for Karunanidhi’s memorial||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday issued a government order (G.O.) to set up a memorial for former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi on the Marina in Chennai. The memorial will come up at a cost of Rs. 39 crore and will be set up on 2.21 acres. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had made the announcement about the setting up of the memorial, inside the Perarignar Anna Memorial and Museum Complex on Kamarajar Salai, in the Assembly in August. The government has advised the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority to provide memorial construction plan permission to the government, the Coastal Zone Management Authority to submit a report to confirm whether the memorial falls under CRZ-II and the burial site of Karunanidhi is within the existing Anna Memorial. The Chennai Collector has been asked to provide the necessary clearances to construct the memorial within the Anna Memorial complex. Following rules The Public Works Department has been directed to confirm the clearances and approvals to ensure that the construction of the memorial follows all stipulations and legal requirements and submit its recommendations to the government. The G.O. said the structure would showcase the former Chief Minister’s achievements and thoughts through photographs and displays to enable people and future generations to learn about his life and achievements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-issues-order-for-karunanidhis-memorial/article37389393.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Water released from dam as per SC direction’||The decision to release water from the Mullaperiyar dam by Tamil Nadu on October 29 was in adherence to the direction of the Supreme Court, as per the rule curve level approved by the Central Water Commission, Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan said on Monday. The statement comes amid the AIADMK and the BJP questioning the DMK Government’s decision to release water from the dam. Both the parties have alleged that the water was released by Kerala. “As per the rule curve approved by the CWC, water levels to be maintained in the dam are 138.50 feet on October 10, 2021; 137.75 feet on October 20, and 138 feet on October 31. From October 27 afternoon, the water level was rising, and on October 28 morning, the level was 138.05 feet, and on the 29th, the level was 138.75 feet, while the permitted rule level for the corresponding period was 138 feet,” he said. The Minister said the excess water had to be released through the spillway. The decision to open the gates were made by the Tamil Nadu Water Resources Department, he reiterated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-dam-as-per-sc-direction/article37389397.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS seeks explanation from Duraimurugan||Former Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Sunday said it was amusing that PWD Minister Duraimurugan had not spoken anything about the release of water to Kerala from the Mullaperiyar dam and should give a proper explanation on the issue. Rebutting Mr. Duraimurugan’s statement that he had not visited the Mullaperiyar dam during the AIADMK regime, Mr. Panneerselvam said he had in fact visited the dam 14 times during the 10-year rule of the AIADMK. The DMK should use its influence with the Left parties and get Kerala’s permission to carry out repair works on the dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-seeks-explanation-from-duraimurugan/article37389575.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DGP Karan Singha inspects rescue work||Director General of Police (DGP), Fire and Rescue Services, Karan Singha on Monday inspected rescue operations taken up by the Fire and Rescue Services personnel in the city and gave instructions to them to expedite the work. Mr. Singha visited the marooned ESI hospital in K.K.Nagar and personally monitored the rescue work. The personnel baled out water from the premises using heavy duty motors. The DGP also visited Ashok Nagar Fire Station and inspected the rescue equipment besides taking stock of the preparedness of fire commandos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dgp-karan-singha-inspects-rescue-work/article37389419.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Public transport functions in city, but with reduced services||Despite the downpour affecting several parts of the city, public transport, including buses, suburban trains and the metro, functioned with minimum services. With not many people venturing out, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) operated fewer vehicles than normal. A senior MTC official said that normally, 3,200 buses would be operated in three shifts during weekdays. But due to heavy rain and the announcement of a holiday for schools and colleges, only 2,500 were operated. Similarly, the Chennai division of the Southern Railway began operating trains on the weekday timetable. But due to incessant rain, the services were reduced in the evening. With heavy rain predicted throughout the week, trains would be operated taking into consideration the flood situation in the morning, a senior Railway official said. Regarding long-distance trains from MGR Central and Egmore stations, the official said only a few trains were rescheduled due to the late arrival of pairing trains, but no services were cancelled. Tracking wind speed The Chennai Metro Rail (CMRL) continued to operate services without disruption. But since the government announced a holiday, the frequency was reduced. There was a train every 10 minutes on Monday. CMRL said it had taken measures to prevent flooding of underground stations, and had tracked wind speed in the elevated stations using anemometers. At the airport, flights were operated as usual without any cancellations or delays in departures or arrivals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-transport-functions-in-city-but-with-reduced-services/article37389420.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers gear up for animal rescue||With several areas inundated and more rainfall expected in the city over the next few days, animal rescuers are gearing up to attend to calls from residents and help rescue stranded animals. Dinesh Baba, founder, Cloud 9 Animal Rescue and Rehabilitation, said following the heavy rain over the last two days, they rescued a stray dog stranded inside a compound with four feet of water. For animal rescuers, the experience of having rescued animals in the aftermath of the 2015 floods as well as Cyclone Vardah has prepared them. “We are expecting more rescue calls over the next two days and have a team of volunteers ready,” said Shravan Krishnan, who helps run the Besant Memorial Animal Dispensary (BMAD). Showkath Jamal from Bay of Life, who attends to rescue calls from Kovalam, South OMR, ECR and other areas, said they had inflatable rafts and kayaks ready. With the rain expected to increase, Mr. Dinesh appealed to people to let strays take shelter in their compounds. “They just need some space. Residents can also provide food and water,” he added. (For emergency animal rescues during the rain, call: Tamil Nadu Forest Department: 044-22200335; Blue Cross of India: +919176025265, +919677297978; Cloud 9: 98415 88852; BMAD: 80126 34271; Aditya: 91760 47608; and Bay of Life: 99404 88880)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/volunteers-gear-up-for-animal-rescue/article37389421.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IAS officers to monitor relief measures||The government has appointed five IAS officers to monitor preventive measures in flood-affected areas, provide advice to remove bottlenecks and ensure relief measures reached the people. The government appointed M.A. Siddique, Principal Secretary, Commercial Taxes, as the nodal officer of the GCC to coordinate rain-related activities with the Corporation Commissioner and other officers nominated for various zones. P. Amudha, Principal Secretary, Rural Development, is the coordinator for Tambaram and Sholinganallur and adjacent areas in Chengalpattu district; Dr. K. Gopal, Principal Secretary, Transport, is the coordinator for GCC South; D. Karthikeyan, Principal Secretary, Higher Education, will coordinate for GCC North; and Pankaj Kumar Bansal, CMD, TIDCO, will handle GCC Central.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ias-officers-to-monitor-relief-measures/article37389426.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||227 job offers for IIT-M||As many as 227 students of the Indian Institute of Technology Madras have received pre-placement offers (PPO), as on November 5, this academic year. Throughout the previous academic year, 186 students had received PPOs. The institute had conducted an online summer internship programme and attributed the offers to it and the students’ performance during the process. The PPOs will continue until the phase 1 of campus placement commences on December 1. C. S. Shankar Ram, Advisor (Training and Placement) said, “The internship provides a good opportunity for companies to evaluate our students, who will intern with them for an extended period. It also helps our students learn more about the company, the roles that they may be offered and potential career prospects. PPOs are a natural outcome of this interaction and is a win-win for companies and students.” According to Mr. Ram, the internship transforms students from being classroom ready to placement ready. The students’ participation in curricular and co-curricular activities enables them do well in internships. In the current academic year, core engineering and research and development sectors accounted for the most PPOs (59.47%), followed by analytics, and consulting and finance with 22.19%. As much as 12.33% of the offers came from the FMCG sector and the IT sector provided 5.29% of the offers. Offers increased Pre-placement offers have increased five times since 2016-17, when only 73 offers were made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/summer-internship-helps-iit-m-students-garner-jobs/article37389543.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case against Kanimozhi quashed||Justice M. Nirmal Kumar of the Madras High Court on Monday allowed individual petitions filed by DMK MPs Kanimozhi, Dayanidhi Maran and former Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president E.V.K.S. Elangovan to quash various criminal defamation cases booked against them during the previous AIADMK regime. The case against Ms. Kanimozhi was booked for a speech delivered at a protest by the DMK in Tindivanam in 2018 to condemn the alleged corrupt practices of the then government. Representing her, senior counsel P. Wilson argued that the judicial process could not be misused to stifle democratic dissent. The case against Mr. Maran was booked for a press conference he addressed on April 18, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-against-maran-kanimozhi-quashed/article37389392.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cinema halls: High Court dismisses PIL||The Madras High Court on Monday dismissed a public interest litigation petition which challenged the State government’s recent nod for 100% occupancy in cinema halls despite the threat of COVID-19 not having subsided completely. The court, however, requested the government to review the situation depending upon the number of COVID-19 positive cases detected in individual cities, towns and other localities. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu said that the courts should be slow in entering into administrative domain without there being any concrete material to disprove the basis on which the government had taken the decision. The judges also said that there would always be a presumption in favour of the State that when it takes certain decisions, they would have been taken only after due diligence. “There is no doubt that the pandemic has not gone away. Yet, the recent number of COVID-19 positive cases, even during the festive season, does not raise any alarm of a third surge,” the judges said with a rider that there could still not be any room for complacency. Though it was argued vehemently that the government had not come out with a specific Standard Operating Procedure for the cinema halls, the judges pointed out that the only protocol advised to be followed in all public places was wearing of masks and maintaining physical distance. Cinema halls do not appear to have been exempted from these two norms while allowing them to operate with 100% occupancy, the Division Bench said. R. Sivamurugan Athithan, a businessman from Thoothukudi, had filed the PIL petition fearing that the COVID-19 postive cases might go up if the theatres were allowed to function to capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-against-100-occupancy-in-cinema-halls-dismissed/article37389453.ece
09 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore receives moderate rainfall||Several parts of Coimbatore district received moderate rain on Monday, registering a decline in the intensity and frequency from the previous days. Roads in low-lying areas, including several underpasses, remained inundated on Monday. Dr. Krishnasamy Mudaliyar Road, Goodshed Road, Avinashi Road flyover at Uppilipalayam and Coimbatore north flyover witnessed traffic snarls after motorists could not use the underpasses. A huge tree got uprooted at Uppilipalayam in the impact of the rain. According to the district administration, water level in Sholayar reservoir stood at 160.27 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 165 feet. Aliyar reservoir had 118.60 feet of water against the FRL of 120 feet. The water level in Bhavani Sagar reservoir touched 103.70 feet against the FRL of 105 feet. The water level stood at 70.99 feet against the FRL of 72 feet in Parambikulam reservoir. Pilloor reservoir had 87.25 feet of water against its FRL of 100 feet and Siruvani reservoir had 44.60 feet against the FRL of 49.53 feet. The inflow to Bhavanisagar reservoir was 4,468 cusecs and the outflow 5,342 cusecs. Pilloor’s inflow and outflow stood at 2,000 and 3,000 cusecs respectively. The inflow into Parambikulam was 1,737 cusecs, with the same amount of outflow. Coimbatore district registered a total rainfall of 257 mm and an average rainfall of 18.36 mm in the 24 hours that ended 8 a.m. Monday, according to the district administration. The rainfall recorded in different places during the 24-hour period are: Mettuapalayam 11 mm, Cincona 5 mm, Chinnakallar 8 mm, Valparai PAP 1 mm, Valparai Taluk 1 mm, Sholayar 2 mm, Aliyar 7 mm, Sulur 2 mm, Pollachi 15 mm, Coimbatore south 83 mm, airport 22 mm, Periyanaickenpalayam 37 mm, and Tamil Nadu Agricultural University 63 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-receives-moderate-rainfall/article37389472.ece
09 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Rescued juvenile elephant falls sick||A juvenile male elephant that was rescued by the Forest Department from a pit on the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) campus near Periyanaickenpalayam in the district two days ago, was found collapsed in a private land on Monday. Treatment on District Forest Officer T.K. Ashok Kumar said that two veterinarians, Rajesh Kumar from the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve and Vetrivel from Kovanoor near Periyanaickenpalayam, administered glucose and other vital drugs to revive the elephant. Periyanaickenpalayam Forest Range Officer S. Selvaraj and his team are on guard at the place to stop other elephants from straying into the private land in search of the juvenile. The elephant was found trapped in a rainwater clogged pit on the fringes of the CRPF campus on Saturday noon. As it was unable to get out of the pit, the Department lifted it using an excavator. Though the elephant walked into the forest, the staff continued to monitor the animal and found it unwell on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rescued-juvenile-elephant-falls-sick/article37389467.ece
09 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Fire and Rescue Services dept. steps up monsoon preparedness||The Department of Fire and Rescue Services has urged people to remain cautious of rain-related damages during the north-east monsoon in Coimbatore district. All the 13 fire stations in the district are prepared to take care of rain-related rescue services. Fire and Rescue Services personnel are at present distributing notices to the public on the dos and don’ts to be followed during the monsoon. District Fire Officer Annadurai has instructed all station officers to keep their personnel standby to attend to rescue calls from the public. The fire stations have also been asked to conduct awareness programmes and rescue drills at places prone to monsoon related damages. The Kovaipudur Fire Station on Monday conducted a drill at Perur Periyakulam on rescuing and providing first aid to those who get trapped in tanks and other water bodies. Helplines For emergency response, people can reach Fire and Rescue Services control room at 101, Government ambulance service at 108 and fire stations in the district: Coimbatore south (0422-2300101), Pollachi (04259-223333), Coimbatore north (0422-2450101), Valparai (04253-222444), Peelamedu (0422-2595101), Mettupalayam (04254-222299), Ganapathy (0422-2511001), Annur (04254-264101), Sulur (0422-2689101), Thondamuthur (0422-2617101), Kinathukkadavu (04259-226101), Periyanaickenpalayam (04259-2695101), and Kovaipudur (0422-2606101).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-and-rescue-services-dept-steps-up-monsoon-preparedness/article37389469.ece
09 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Orthopaedic surgeon from Coimbatore ranks high in global database||S. Rajasekaran of Ganga Hospital, Coimbatore, has been ranked the highest among the orthopaedic surgeons from India in the updated database of over 1.9 lakh top scientists from across the world prepared by the publisher Elsevier. A release said as many as 1,90,064 global scientists had been listed this year, including 1,425 orthopaedic surgeons. Among the listed Indian orthopaedic surgeons, Dr. Rajasekaran was the highest ranked at 139, followed by Raju Vaishya of Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, New Delhi, (242) and Rajesh Malhotra of AIIMS, New Delhi (634). Other orthopaedic surgeons from India featured in this database were Anil Jain (640), Mandeep Dhillon (1,233), and Ajay Puri (1,254). The recently-published database of the top scientists by Elsevier had been curated based on several metrics related to research and publications and only those scientists who had published at least five papers in their career till the end of 2020 had been included. Only 3,353 Indian researchers had figured in this global database in total, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/orthopaedic-surgeon-from-coimbatore-ranks-high-in-global-database/article37389447.ece
09 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 94 fresh COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district on Monday reported 94 new COVID-19 cases, which took the overall tally to 2,47,622. The Health Department reported one death and the district’s toll rose to 2,431. The district had 1,146 active cases and 109 persons were reported to have recovered on Monday. Tiruppur district reported 60 fresh cases on Monday and the overall tally stood at 95,931. No new deaths were reported. The district had 693 active cases and 72 persons recovered on Monday. Thirteen persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Monday and the overall tally stood at 33,713. The district had 213 active cases on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-94-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37389463.ece
09 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Resumption of trains welcomed||The Pollachi Train Passengers’ Welfare Association has welcomed the Southern Railway’s announcement on operation of 11 pairs of unreserved express special train services that remained suspended for around 19 months following COVID-19 lockdown. Association secretary B. Mohanraj recalled the multiple representations made to the railway authorities regarding the resumption of these trains. “The trains will be beneficial to students, government employees and devotees,” he said. He also sought the resumption of Palakkad-Tiruchendur passenger trains at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resumption-of-trains-welcomed/article37389459.ece
09 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited from transgender students||District Collector G.S. Sameeran said that transgender students from Coimbatore district, who had enrolled in colleges during the academic year 2019-2020, shall submit their applications for financial assistance at the Department of Social Welfare office in Coimbatore. In a statement, he said that eligible transwomen and transmen candidates from Tamil Nadu with a minimum of 40% marks in Class XII from government/aided schools or orphanages and a minimum of 40% marks during their first year in a regular college will receive financial assistance of Rs. 1 lakh and a gold medal weighing one sovereign each from the Department of Social Welfare. Transgender students studying in government colleges will be accorded priority, Mr. Sameeran said in the statement. The applications along with copies of necessary documents must reach the Department of Social Welfare office at the District Collectorate complex by 5 p.m. on November 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-from-transgender-students/article37389461.ece
09 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man gets seven years jail term||The First Additional Subordinate Court, Coimbatore, on Monday awarded seven years of imprisonment to a man who attempted to murder a woman while robbing her of gold chain in 2013. Judge K. Krishnapriya awarded the punishment to Aravind Kumar (27), a resident of Marakkadai in Coimbatore. The police said that Kumar approached Athira at her residence in Hudco Colony near Gandhimanagar on October 15, 2013, on the pretext of asking water to drink. She was alone at the house. As she went inside to fetch water, Kumar followed her and threatened her at knifepoint demanding to give her jewellery. As she resisted, the accused assaulted her with the knife and escaped from the house with her chain. The Saravanampatti police arrested Kumar and investigated the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-seven-years-jail-for-murder-attempt-during-robbery/article37389473.ece
09 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown today||In view of the proposed maintenance works to be carried out at Madukkarai sub-station on November 9 (Tuesday), there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the following areas: KG Chavadi, Palathurai, Bypass Road, Chavadypudur, Kaliyapuram, Ettimadai, MGR Nagar, Sugunapuram, BK Pudur, Madukkarai, Arivoli Nagar and Kovaidpudur one part.   Superintending Engineer, South Tangedco, Coimbatore, will hold a grievances redress meeting for power consumers in Somanur area on November 10 (Wednesday) at 11 a.m. at the office of the Executive Engineer, Tangedco - Somanur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown-today/article37389464.ece
09 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Twin Art Expo in city for five days from November 10||Kasthuri Sreenivasan Trust is organising a twin art exhibition and 198th painting exhibition for five days from November 10 to 14 at the Trust’s art gallery premises on Avinashi Road. The expo will be inaugurated by G. Shanmugasundaram, DIG of Prisons and Correctional Services, at 10.30 p.m. on November 10 and will be open from 10 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. Artists M. Koilpichai Prabakar, Chennai, and J. Jesen, Coimbatore, will be displaying and offering for sale their works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/twin-art-expo-in-city-for-five-days-from-november-10/article37389465.ece
09 November 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Micro food processing units eligible for support under PMFME scheme||Micro food processing units in the informal sector are eligible for support under the Prime Minister’s Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises Scheme (PMFME) here in the district. Launched under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan , PMFME is being implemented with the Central funding of 60% and the State funding of 40%. The scheme is geared towards strengthening unorganised micro food processing units and to promote formalisation of the sector. According to the administration, the scheme is being implemented for a five year period from 2020-21 upto 2024-25. “One District, One Product Price” Under this, based on the principal of “One District, One Product Price” the scheme seeks to enhance the competitiveness of existing individual micro enterprises and promote formalisation of the sector. This envisions providing support to Farmer Producer Organisations, Self Help Groups and Producers Cooperatives along their entire value chain. Existing micro food processing enterprises, new enterprises will be provided financial support on individual basis for strengthening infrastructure of the existing units, strengthening the producers cooperatives, the administration has stated. Under the scheme, a micro food processing unit may secure 35% or up to Rs. 10 lakh subsidy. Bank credit Similarly, a 50 % subsidy will be provided for marketing. In addition, support for bank credit will also be provided to the units under the Scheme. Those seeking to benefit from the scheme may contact the Deputy Director(Agricultural Marketing) on 9865815763.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/micro-food-processing-units-eligible-for-support-under-pmfme-scheme/article37389546.ece
09 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle movement hit as boulders fall on Anthiyur– Bargur ghat road||Movement of vehicles on Bargur ghat road was disrupted after boulders fell on the road at two spots on Monday. The hill area has been receiving rain in the past one month. Last month, huge boulders and trees fell on the road at 10 places. Due to rain on Sunday, a portion of loose soil slipped on the road at two places at Neikarai, affecting the vehicle movement completely. As bus services were also stopped, workers could not reach the hilltop. Likewise, people from the hilltop also could not reach Anthiyur. Only two-wheelers were allowed to use the stretch as restoration works could not begin due to rain. Police personnel, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and other officials reached the spot. Officials said the boulders should be broken and removed from the road and it would take time. At present, work was on to double lane Anthiyur - Bargur - Kollegal road by the NHAI and restoration work was expected to be completed only on Tuesday.  Boulders should be broken and removed from the road and it would take time, say officials||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicle-movement-hit-as-boulders-fall-on-anthiyur-bargur-ghat-road/article37389560.ece
09 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Move to amend Forest Conservation Act opposed||Members of the Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association staged protests in front of the 11 forest range offices here on Monday urging the Central government to drop the proposal to amend the Forest Conservation Act (FCA) and implement the Forest Rights Act, 2006, Members said that the proposed amendments in the Act will destroy the forest, instead of protecting it. “It is nothing but privatisation as forest land will be given to corporates at a very meagre price for implementing infrastructure projects”, they said. Members said that the proposed amendment will dilute the Forest Rights’ Act that ensures basic rights for people living in the forest area. “The proposal should be dropped and the FRA should be implemented”, they added. Protest was held in front of the range offices at Jerahalli, Talavadi, Talamalai, Hasanur, Germalam, Kadambur, Bhavanisagar, Sathyamangalam, T.N. Palayam, Thamaraikarai and Anthiyur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-amend-forest-conservation-act-opposed/article37389553.ece
09 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode dist. reports 67 new cases, Salem 50||Erode district on Monday reported 67 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,04,826. While 48 persons were discharged, 756 continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 50 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 1,00,343. While 62 persons were discharged, 592 continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 38 cases taking the tally to 52,585. While 35 persons were discharged, 454 continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 13cases, while 23 persons got discharged. The total number of cases in the district stood at 176 cases as of Monday. A total of 43,676 cases were reported in district. Dharmapuri recorded 15 fresh cases, while 15 persons were discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 169. As of date, a total 28,551 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-dist-reports-67-new-cases-salem-50/article37389551.ece
09 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||MP seeks construction of mini-flyovers in Erode district||With accidents rising at regular intervals claiming more lives on Chengapalli-Bhavani stretch on Salem – Kochi National Highway 544, K. Subbarayan, Tiruppur MP, has urged the Central government to construct mini-flyover at four places in Erode district. In a letter to Minister for Road, Transport and Highways Nitin Jairam Gadkari, the MP said the 340-km highway in South India connected Salem with Kochi and the 43-km stretch of the highway fell within Tiruppur constituency between Chengapalli and Bhavani in Erode district. Due to its proximity to Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Salem, the highway witnesses heavy traffic. Mini-flyovers were needed at Perundurai – Kanjikovil – Kavindapadi cross road, Perundurai – Pethampalayam – Kavundapadi cross road, Perundurai – Thudupathi – Makkinamkombai cross road and Kolathupalayam - Vijayamangalam cross section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-seeks-construction-of-mini-flyovers-in-erode-district/article37389555.ece
09 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Bhavanisagar Dam stepped up||With the water level at the Bhavanisagar Dam inching closer to the Full Reservoir Level (FRL) of 105 feet, discharge has been increased to 8,000 cusecs on Monday. At 4 p.m., the inflow into the reservoir was 4,972 cusecs while the water level stood at 103.62 feet. The storage was 31.64 thousand million cubic feet (tmc) against the capacity of 32.80 tmc. The discharge was 6,500 cusecs into River Bhavani and 1,500 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal. The discharge into Kalingarayan Canal and Arakankottai-Thadapalli canals were stopped due to rain. A Public Works Department official said that since inflow is expected to increase due to rain in catchment areas, the discharge was stepped up to prevent flooding in the river. “Currently, surplus water is discharged through the spillways into the River Bhavani”, they added. Since the discharge would be increased further based on the inflow, people living in the low-lying areas and along the river banks were asked to move to safer places. Also, people were warned not to enter the river. Revenue officials, with the help of tom-tom, continue to issue warnings to the people living along the river in Sathyamangalam and Gobichettipalayam taluks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharge-from-bhavanisagar-dam-stepped-up/article37389549.ece
09 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work in the following sub-stations, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on November 10.  Nadupalayam : Nadupalayam, Thamaraipalayam, Malayampalayam, Pasur, Kombanai Pudur, P.K. Mangalam, Injampalli, Kolanalli, Karumandampalayam, P.K. Palayam, Solangapalayam, Arampalayam, M.K. Pudur, Kalipalayam, Kolathupalayam, Semmandampalayam and Kuttapalayam.  Ganapathipalayam : Injampalli, Muthugoundanpalayam, Solangapalayam, Pasur, Rakiyapalayam, Madathupalayam, Ganapathipalayam, Pachampalayam, Palani Goundan Palayam, Panjalingapuram, Kangeyampalayam, Sanarpalayam and Kumaranpalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37389558.ece
09 November 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Krishnagiri district rolls out scheme to provide free power connections to farmers||Minister for Handlooms and Textiles R.Gandhi on Monday issued orders for farm electricity connections in Krishnagiri in pursuance of the State government roll out of 1 lakh power connections. The beneficiaries include those applied for connections in Pochmapalli, Hosur and Krishnagiri blocks between April 2004 and March 2006; those who have paid up varying amounts on self-financing application schemes up to 2012. Earlier, distributing the orders to the beneficiaries and addressing the event the Minister said, of the 1 lakh connections, 8,481 beneficiaries would be covered in the district in a phased manner over the course of three years. The State government had rolled out 1 lakh farm electricity connection scheme and announced the scheme under the Demand for Grants (2021-22) for the Energy Department. The scheme was launched by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in September 2021, New farm connections under various categories of free farm power, and self-financed applications with various cut off years upto 2012, were issued here to 127 beneficiaries on the occasion. Mr.Gandhi also handed over job orders on compassionate grounds to family members of Tangedco employees, who had died during service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishnagiri-district-rolls-out-scheme-to-provide-free-power-connections-to-farmers/article37389545.ece
09 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A private bar raises the hackles of DMK and allies||In a rare incident, office-bearers of the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and its coalition partners staged a demonstration here protesting against a private FL-2 bar at Bethaniyapuram. “Despite repeated representations made to the district administration, Madurai City police and Tasmac officials, the bar has come up in the commercial area on Anna Main Road,” said Communist Party of India (Marxist) office-bearer G. Ganesan. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, and DMK MLA G. Thalapathi had taken up the issue with the District Collector, he said. Despite the promise made by the Collector, the bar has started functioning stealthily without any name board outside, he charged. Stating that the bar had violated many basic rules, he complained that schools and hospitals were located close to by. “This is only a token protest. If the bar is not removed within a week as promised by the officials, we will intensify the protest,” he added. DMK functionaries Nagajothi Siva and Nagarajan, CPI (M) functionary Lenin, Velpandi of the Congress and Muthukumar of the MDMK took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-private-bar-raises-the-hackles-of-dmk-and-allies/article37389766.ece
09 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Mentored by MMC alumni, these girls crack NEET||As beneficiaries of a support programme initiated by the 2002-batch of Madurai Medical College (MMC), five students from Avvai Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School on East Avani Moola Street have done their mentors proud. The five girls are among the 88 students from government schools in Madurai district who have cleared NEET-2021. The medicos can't stop beaming about B. R. Priyanka, the district's top scorer with 414 marks. Priyanka, G. Deepasri (301), K. Vinodhini (283), B. Sangeethan (258) and G. B. Kousalya (226) were recipients of the MMC-02 scholarship. The cut-off for admissions is awaited, but all of them stand a good chance of getting into top medical colleges under the 7.5 per cent internal reservation quota, said Dr. N. Prithiviraj, Consultant, Surgical Gastroenterology, Vadamalayan Hospital. It was his idea to sponsor deserving students who are unable to afford the expensive NEET coaching. This year, however, 508 government and aided school students in Madurai received the Education department's e-box training as well. The results are a significant improvement over previous years. Two years ago Dr. Prithiviraj had approached his medical college batch mates to raise funds for government school students who wish to attend intensive coaching classes. “It was launched as a pilot project in one school. The donation covered the fees of five students,” he told The Hindu . However, the doctors did not stop there. They kept track of the progress of the five scholarship winners and spared their time to conduct extra classes and clear their doubts. “When we mentored the girls to ace the exam, it bolstered their confidence. We are thrilled that all five have made it,” said Dr. Prithiviraj. Daughters of an autodriver, bus conductor, cable worker and hotel waiter, the girls were selected based on their class X marks and their unflinching passion to become doctors. “In future we want to reach out to more students and especially those in rural areas who cannot commute to the city daily for special coaching,” the doctor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mentored-by-mmc-alumni-these-girls-crack-neet/article37389764.ece
09 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Body of youth fished out from Vaigai||Fire and Rescue Services personnel on Monday recovered the body of one of the two youth, who were swept away in the Vaigai river on Saturday. The deceased was identified as S. Arulvasanth (17) of Tiruppur. The police said that Arulvasanth along with another youth, K. Viswanathan (21) also from Tiruppur, had come to attend a function at a relative’s place in Paravai. Later, they both had gone to take bath in the Vaigai river. Both of them were swept away by the strong current near Thuvariman bridge. Samayanallur police had registered a case and several teams of firemen drawn from different fire stations in the district were deployed in the river for the search operation. However, after a strenuous attempt that went in vain on Sunday, the teams resumed their search on Monday. At around 3 p.m., the body was fished out from the river at Kochadai. The body had been swept away for nearly two kms, an official said. The search operation was suspended again on Monday after lights failed. The search operation would resume on Tuesday to trace the other missing person, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-of-youth-fished-out-from-vaigai/article37389541.ece
09 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Man files appeal to redact name from judgment copy||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday ordered notice to the High Court Registry on an appeal filed by a man, acquitted of all charges, seeking to redact his name from the judgment copy to protect his Right to Privacy. He preferred the appeal against a Single Bench order that dismissed his plea seeking the relief and held that in the absence of statutory backing, the court could not issue such directions. The Single Bench observed that it would be appropriate to await the enactment of the Data Protection Act and Rules which might provide an objective criterion while dealing with the plea for redacting names of accused persons acquitted of criminal charges. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan sought response from the Registry on the appeal. Earlier, the petitioner was sentenced by the trial court for cheating and rape. On appeal, the High Court acquitted him of all charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-files-appeal-to-redact-name-from-judgment-copy/article37389760.ece
09 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Kin of cracker unit fire victims seek compensation||Family members of employees of Rajammal Fireworks in Virudhunagar district who lost their lives in the 2020 fire on the unit premises filed a petition before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the State to provide compensation. In six separate petitions filed by family members of the victims, the petitioners said the State government had announced an interim compensation of Rs. 1 lakh and the Collector had assured that the State would provide a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh and employment. But, no relief has been granted to the family members so far. In spite of sending a number of representations to the authorities, no steps have been taken, they said. The family members sought a direction to the State to provide adequate compensation. They said that since the State had allowed Rajammal Fireworks to function without a proper licence and permission, the authorities were vicariously liable to pay compensation. The authorities had failed to properly monitor the cracker units in the region, the petitioners said. Hearing adjourned Justice C. V. Karthikeyan sought a response from the State and adjourned the hearing in the petitions filed by the six petitioners – M. Sivabalasubramaniyan, T. Krishnaveni, G. Singaraj, K. Mohanaselvi, G. Arumugathai and B. Vijaya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/family-members-of-cracker-unit-fire-victims-seek-compensation/article37389455.ece
09 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Constable killed in accident||A police constable attached to the Armed Reserve in Tiruchi, M. Chandra Subash, 25, was killed after his two-wheeler collided with a truck on Tiruchi highway near Melur on Monday. Chandra Subash, who was on a personal security officer duty for a community leader, was proceeding to Tiruchi from his native place in Tirunelveli district. While nearing Sathiyapuram junction, his bike hit a truck that was going to Melur from Tiruchi at around 11 a.m. Head injuries He suffered head injuries and was rushed to Melur Government Hospital, from where he was referred to Government Rajaji Hospital. However, he succumbed to his injuries in the afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-killed-in-accident/article37389456.ece
09 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC transfers woman’s case to another court||Considering the plea of a differently abled woman, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court transferred her case pending before the Family Court to the Additional District Court III in Tirunelveli so that she could attend court proceedings. Justice A.D. Jagadish Chandira was hearing the petition filed by Jacinth Christabel of Tirunelveli, who had filed a petition for divorce before the Tirunelveli Family Court, which was on the first floor of a building without lift facility. The petitioner, who had 80% disability, was finding it difficult to use the stairs to reach the court. Therefore, she filed a petition before the High Court seeking transfer of the case to the Additional District Court III, which was on the ground floor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-transfers-womans-case-to-another-court/article37389761.ece
09 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Monday stood at 138.45 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 1,629 cusecs and a discharge of 1,867 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 67.63 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 2,764 cusecs and a discharge of 569 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 9,620 mcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37389537.ece
09 November 2021||PERIYAKULAM,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Govt. cannot compromise farmers’ rights, says OPS||While the relationship between Tamil Nadu and Kerala is important, the Tamil Nadu Government cannot compromise the rights of the farmers’ in any manner, said AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam. Speaking to reporters on Monday, he said the DMK, after assuming power, had let down the farmers, especially on the Mullaperiyar reservoir row, as a result of which the five southern districts of Tamil Nadu may soon turn into a desert. According to him, when Jayalalithaa was the Chief Minister, the water in the dam was stored at 142 feet in 2014, 2015 and 2018. “The relationship with Kerala was cordial and good even then...” he said. Allowing the Kerala Government to release water from the Mullaperiyar a week ago was a “historic blunder” by the DMK Government [Tamil Nadu has maintained that it, not Kerala, had released the water]. The rights of the farmers have gone with the wind. The Supreme Court had clearly stated that the water shall be stored up to 142 feet, he said. Mr. Panneerselvam said Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan, misleading the people, had justified the release of water, attributing it to the “rule curve” theory. The people should be vigilant “about the designs and agenda” of the DMK Government. As a PWD Minister and as Deputy Chief Minister in the past, Mr. Panneerselvam said he had visited the dam and released water for irrigation with the Theni Collector, which has been the traditional practice for years. By posing questions, Mr. Duraimurugan was trying to divert attention from the issue. The question of constructing a new dam by the Kerala Government can be decided only by the Supreme Court and the Union government, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-govt-cannot-compromise-farmers-rights-says-ops/article37389389.ece
09 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rain affects normal life in Puducherry, Cuddalore, Villupuram||Normal life was disrupted in Puducherry and neighbouring districts of Cuddalore and Villupuram in Tamil Nadu on Monday due to continuous rain since the previous night. It inundated several low-lying areas in the region, forcing civic authorities to use pump sets to drain away the water. Waterlogging was reported in Rainbow Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Chellan Nagar, Ezhil Nagar, Pavanan Nagar, Indira Gandhi Statue, Uppalam and Indira Gandhi Square. By evening, water started receding as rain stopped for a few hours. Water entered several houses in the Irula colony in Villianur. “Stormwater entered at least six houses in our place causing damage to books, dress materials and utensils. It has become a routine affair. Even a few hours of rain causes flooding in our locality,” said Egambaram, a member of the Irula community. Home Minister A. Namassivayam, who also holds the electricity portfolio, held a meeting with officials of the Electricity Department. The department has been asked to attend to calls made by the residents regarding power disruption. According to an official in the Revenue Department, rain water entered farmlands in several places, especially in Bahour. The release of surplus water from the Veedur dam in Villupuram district has caused minor inundation in several rural areas of Puducherry, he added. Waterlogging was reported in Villupuram New Bus Stand. The district administration had to use pump sets to drain water from the area. Tamil Nadu Minister for Education K. Ponmudi and District Collector D. Mohan visited the bus stand to review the situation. Mr. Mohan also visited Mailadumper near Mailam following a complaint that rain had damaged the temporary huts of people belonging to Scheduled Tribe community. Waterlogging was also reported in the Tindivanam municipal area, said an official in the Villupuram district administration The Cuddalore district administration shifted around 10 families residing close to the banks of the Gadilam river. They have been shifted to an anganwadi. Schools and colleges in the districts of Cuddalore, Villupuram and Kallakurichi have been given a holiday on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-affects-normal-life-in-puducherry-cuddalore-villupuram/article37389815.ece
09 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||MBBS counselling will begin once Health Ministry releases NEET UG list||The process of counselling for MBBS admissions 2021-22 would be initiated as soon as the list of successful candidates for the NEET UG is made available by the Union Health Ministry, an official press note has said. Though the National Testing Agency (NTA) had announced National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) UG 2021 results on its official website at nta.ac.in a few days ago, the Department of Medical Education, Ministry of Health, New Delhi, is yet to communicate to government, the complete list of the result in respect of Union Territory of Puducherry for conducting counselling for admission through the Centralised Admission Committee (Centac), the note said. The Ministry is expected to release the list on November 9 and the same shall be published in the official website of Directorate of Health and Family Welfare Services, Puducherry, at https://health.py.gov.in. On Monday, Centac opened the issue of online applications from NEET UG qualified candidates for admission to the first year MBBS/BDS/BAMS and B.V.Sc & A.H courses in government and self-financing medical/dental and veterinary colleges in the Union Territory of Puducherry. Last date on Nov. 22 Applications have been invited under government/all-India (management)/NRI and self–supporting quota. The instructions are posted onwww.centacpuducherry.in The last date for online submission of applications is November 22, the Centac convenor said. Meanwhile, DMK convenor and Leader of the Opposition R. Siva has urged the government to bear the entire fees of medical students gaining admission through Centac. In a statement, he said though the Chief Minister had announced that the government would bear the education costs of students admitted through Centac in private medical colleges, a formal order would ensure that no capitation fee is extracted from these students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mbbs-counselling-will-begin-once-health-ministry-releases-neet-ug-list/article37389810.ece
09 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Councilors for the French living abroad elected||Predibane Siva, Chantal Samuel-David and Balaramin Bichat have been elected as Councilors for the French Living Abroad in the elections held on Sunday. The results of the elections for the southern constituency which were held across six polling booths — four in Puducherry and one each in Chennai and Karaikal — were formally declared by the Consulate General of France in Puducherry on Monday. A majority of the 4,618 voters registered on the consular registry of the French Consulate in Puducherry, are in the Union Territory of Puducherry. The elections registered a voter turnout of about 33.73%. In India, there are two constituencies, the north and the south, that elected Councilors, or advisers who represent the needs of the French nationals living abroad. Altogether, there were five candidates each of whom headed a list of six nominees in the electoral fray for the three seats in the southern constituency. Mr. Siva represented ‘The Experience at the Heart of the French’ list of nominees, Ms. Chantal led the nominees under the ‘Unis pour le Changement’ (United for Change) and Mr. Bichat headed the ‘Together for Progress’ list. While the Councilors do not represent the State or the Government of France, a role assumed by the Ambassadors and Consuls General, they will fill the role of assisting expatriate French citizens on day-to-day issues (education, health, security, retirement, etc) and to serve as an interface between the expatriate community and the French authorities.  Predibane Siva, Chantal Samuel-David and Balaramin Bichat are the winners||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/councilors-for-the-french-living-abroad-elected/article37389809.ece
09 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Teracotta artist receives Padma award||Terracotta artist V. K. Munusamy was conferred with the Padma award at a function at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Monday. He received the award from President Ram Nath Kovind. Mr. Munusamy has received several awards, including six national awards and State awards. Born in a small hamlet near Villianur, he got exposed to the art at a very young age, thanks to his parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teracotta-artist-receives-padma-award/article37389821.ece
09 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIC-PECF selected under seed fund scheme||The Atal Incubation Centre-PEC Foundation at Puducherry Technological University has been selected under Startup India Seed Fund Scheme (SISFS). Under the scheme, an approval for Rs. 3 crore has been granted by the Experts Advisory Committee (EAC) of Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade Government of India to AIC-PEC Foundation. The foundation is among seven other incubation centres across India who presented their progress and key milestones achieved, at the 8th EAC meeting held in October. According to a press note, the AIC-PEC Foundation was appreciated by the EAC for being the only active startup incubation centre in Puducherry offering the much-required support services to fledgling startups in the local ecosystem thereby providing employment and socio-economic growth in the society. The allotted fund will be disbursed and managed by AIC-PEC Foundation to the eligible startups. “We hope this will be of significant support to the startups, enabling them to graduate to next level and this is considered as one of the major milestones for the Puducherry Startup Ecosystem,” said V. Vishnu Varadan, CEO, Atal Incubation Centre-PEC Foundation. Being chosen for SISFS support will really boost the local startup ecosystem and create greater opportunities for aspiring student entrepreneurs, said R. Sundaramurthy, Executive Director, Atal Incubation Centre-PEC Foundation. The call for applications is full year-round and sector-agnostic and the startups can apply to three incubators simultaneously through SISFS website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aic-pecf-selected-under-seed-fund-scheme/article37389811.ece
09 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||24 cases, nil COVID-19 deaths reported in U.T.||No COVID-19 death occurred in the Union Territory in the last 24 hours as 24 new cases were reported on Monday. Puducherry accounted for 20 of the new cases, which were detected from 1,806 tests, followed by Karaikal (4). No new cases were reported in Yanam and Mahe. With 49 patients recovering in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 270. Of this, 65 patients were in hospitals and 205 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.33%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.34%. The cumulative death toll remained at 1,862: Puducherry (1,456), Karaikal (250), Yanam (108) and Mahe (48). The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,28,224 cases against 1,26,092 patients recovered. Of an estimated 19.32 lakh tests carried out so far, over 16.35 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 855 persons took the jab in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered 11,39,966 lakh doses of vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/24-cases-nil-covid-19-deaths-reported-in-ut/article37389812.ece
09 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||PCC launches membership drive in U.T.||The Pradesh Congress Committee on Monday launched a membership drive in the Union Territory. The AICC in-charge for the Union Territory, Dinesh Gundu Rao, launched the programme in the presence of former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, MP V. Vaithilingam, former Ministers M. Kandasamy, M.O.H.F Shahjahan, PCC chief A.V. Subramanian and vice-president Devadoss. Mr. Subramanian said the party was aiming at one lakh new members. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pcc-launches-membership-drive-in-ut/article37389813.ece
09 November 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Two youth drown in pond||Two youth drowned in a pond at Kottaikadu village in Pudukottai district on Sunday. Police identified the deceased as M. Kannan and T. Ashok, both from Kottaikadu. They went to the pond, which was filled with water due to the rains, to take a bath and drowned. Fire fighters retrieved the bodies which were sent to Pudukottai Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. Vadakadu Police have registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-youth-drown-in-pond/article37389518.ece
09 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Narikurava communit y demands free pattas||Members of the Narikurava community submitted a petition to the officials during the weekly grievance day meeting on Monday urging the district administration to provide free house pattas and also government welfare schemes, Over 300 members of the community were residing at Narikurava Colony in Panjathangi Eri for many years now. They were involved in selling fancy items and handbags to earn their livelihood. They said that they were residing in the area without basic amenities and were not receiving any welfare assistance from the government. Though we have submitted petitions to the officials demanding free house pattas and other assistance, no steps were taken so far, they added. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin visited the house of a Narikurava community and distributed welfare assistance and house patta to the woman that had brought hope in us. Hence, steps should be taken to provide pattas to us, they said. Members said that their livelihood could improve only if the government provides welfare assistance which has been delayed for many generations. They staged a protest outside the collectorate and later submitted a petition to the officials concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narikurava-communit-y-demands-free-pattas/article37389557.ece
09 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Solatium sought for medical college aspirant’s family||Urging the State government to provide a solatium of Rs. 1 crore to the family of a medical college aspirant, who died recently, AIADMK MLAs submitted a petition to the District Collector S. Karmegam on Monday. Low mark A petition submitted to the Collector said that G. Subhash Chandra Bose of Thalaivasal took the extreme steps after he scored low in the National Eligibility-cum- Entrance Test (NEET) thus putting an end to his dream. Daily wage earner His father Ganesan is a daily wager and the decision has shattered the entire family. “Steps should be taken to provide solatium to the family”, the petition said. Speaking to reporters, A. Nallathambi, MLA from Gangavalli Assembly constituency, said that during the AIADMK regime, the then Opposition leader M.K. Stalin demanded Rs. 1 crore as solatium to the families whose children ended their life due to NEET. Fulfil the demand “Hence, we are reiterating the same now and urge the Chief Minister to fulfil the demand”, he said. MLAs A.P. Jayasankaran (Attur), R. Mani (Omalur), E. Balasubramaniyan (Salem South) and M. Rajamuthu (Veerapandi) were present.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050)   When M.K. Stalin was Opposition leader, he demanded Rs. 1 crore as solatium to the families whose children ended their life due to NEET A. Nallathambi MLA from Gangavalli Assembly constituency||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solatium-sought-for-medical-college-aspirants-family/article37389561.ece
09 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Mettur likely to attain full reservoir level||With the water level at the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur nearing 118 feet and the inflow at over 27,000 cusecs on Monday morning, Salem Collector S. Karmegam said the dam was likely to reach its full reservoir level (FRL) of 120 feet by Tuesday night, after which discharge would be stepped up. At 8 a.m., the water level stood at 117.61 feet, while the storage was 89.71 thousand million cubic feet (tmc) against a capacity of 93.47 tmc. The inflow stood at 27,600 cusecs and the discharge at 350 cusecs into the canal, and 100 cusecs into the Cauvery. Addressing the media after inspecting the dam, Mr. Karmegam said both the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) (124.80 feet) and Kabini reservoirs (65 feet) in Karnataka had attained their maximum levels and the total discharge stood at 9,883 cusecs. Water realisation at Biligundulu is 28,000 cusecs, while the flow in Palar is 4,000 cusecs. “If the present inflow continues, the dam could reach its FRL on Tuesday evening or night,” he said. The Collector urged those living along the banks of the Cauvery and low-lying areas to move to safer locations. Mr. Karmegam said engineers at the dam were monitoring the situation round-the-clock, and 12 Collectors in the delta region were being alerted once every four hours. “Since rain is continuing and the inflow increasing, the initial discharge could be 30,000 cusecs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-likely-to-attain-full-reservoir-level/article37389387.ece
09 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||No drinking water supply today||Due to maintenance work undertaken by Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited at Mettur Thottilpatti area where the Corporation’s Dedicated Water Supply Scheme is being implemented, drinking water will not be supplied in the corporation limits on November 9, a release from Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-drinking-water-supply-today/article37389554.ece
09 November 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Plea for extension of deadline for crop insurance in delta||Delta farmers have pleaded that the last date for insuring their crop be extended by another fortnight or a month in view of the unforeseen delay in completion of the transplantation exercise and crop certification process. While the incessant heavy showers have applied brakes on the transplantation from the nursery to the fields in the areas where samba or thaladi cultivation has been taken up belatedly, stringent adherence of rules in the certification of crop for insurance by revenue staff has reportedly affected the crop insurance process that has to be completed before November 15. Further, the routine exercise of monsoon-related relief and rescue activities to be carried out by revenue staff is all set to cause further delay in issuance of crop certification, said G. Srinivasan, a progressive farmer of Ganapathi Agraharam. For instance, pattas are yet to be issued for lands in Pandaravadai hamlet near Papanasam despite the court orders issued in favour of the cultivators. The lands still remain under the category of ‘unclaimed land’ in the ‘A’ register. Thus, in the absence of issuance of crop certification the cultivators raising paddy on the lands over the years are unable to register their crop under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (crop insurance scheme), according to Papanasam MLA M.H. Jawahirullah. Requesting the government to initiate steps for reclassification of the lands as per the records prior to 2012, the he said reversion of ‘A’ register entries would help the cultivators avail the various benefits, including the crop insurance cover, extended to farmers by the State and Central governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-extension-of-deadline-for-crop-insurance-in-delta/article37389522.ece
09 November 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Sathaya Vizha at Big Temple on Nov. 13||The 1,036th Sathaya Vizha organised every year to mark the birth anniversary of Emperor Raja Raja Cholan will be held at the Big Temple in Thanjavur on November 13. The pandhakkal installation ceremony ahead of the annual event was organised on the temple premises on Monday and Sathaya Vizha committee president Selvam, vice-president Metha and temple officials participated. Similar to last year, the celebrations will be held only for a day, instead of the traditional two days, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The statue of Raja Raja Cholan installed outside the temple will be garlanded on the morning of November 13.    Abhishekams will be performed for Lord Peruvudaiyar, which will be followed by Perundheepa vazhipaadu in the afternoon and Swami purappadu (holy procession) within the temple in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sathaya-vizha-at-big-temple-on-nov-13/article37389444.ece
09 November 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||‘Chief Minister should respond to Mullaperiyar dam row’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin should respond to the farmers’ grievance on the Mullaperiyar dam row as there was every possibility that many southern districts may turn into a desert due to the ‘wrong policies’ of the government, according to BJP State president K. Annamalai. Leading a party demonstration in front of the Theni Collectorate, condemning the State government ‘for letting down the farmers’ rights,’ he said that the land coverage in the five districts — Theni, Dindigul, Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga — accounted for 2.41 lakh acres. When the storage was 142 feet in the Mullaperiyar dam, 1.70 lakh acres received water for irrigation, whereas with the storage leve; of 136 ft, only 71,000 acres received water for irrigation, he said. With the rights vested with the ayacut farmers in the five districts on drawing water from the dam, it was shocking to see the Kerala government releasing water, he said wondering “if a government is functioning”. The CM had the bounden duty to clarify to the people on the “U” turn by the Kerala government on the felling of trees near Idukki dam. Assuring the farmers that the BJP would be with them and protect their rights, he urged MDMK general secretary Vaiko, an ally of the DMK, to come together to fight against the Kerala government. Similarly, he also suggested the Madurai Lok Sabha MP Su Venkatesan to focus on the farmers’ issues and take it up with his party in Kerala than writing letters to Union Ministers on other issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-should-respond-to-mullaperiyar-dam-row/article37389451.ece
09 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Rain preparedness: 6,000 volunteers to play catalyst role||In a massive show of preparedness following the onset of northeast monsoon, Thoothukudi district had identified 6,000 volunteers to play a catalyst role between the public and the official machinery, according to Collector K. Senthil Raj. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, he said the objective of having these volunteers was to primarily carry the government’s messages to the people during the rainy days. Also, the volunteers would give feedback to the officials about the needs of the people in remote and isolated areas. For instance, the dos and don’ts to be followed during rainfall would be disseminated to the people, and interaction with the locals, the problems such as waterlogging and stagnation and fast-filling tanks in the taluks would be gathered by these volunteers and shared with the officials for action. Training was being imparted to these volunteers at taluk level. The volunteers include those from the NSS, NCC, Nehru Yuva Kendra and the Indian Red Cross Society, Dr. Senthil Raj said, adding another 1,030 first responders were ready to handle any crisis. With 30 first responders for each block, the district was comfortably placed to handle monsoon-related issues. The Collector said out of 639 tanks in the district, 74 had full capacity of water from the rain. Though there was not much rain in Kayathar and Kadambur blocks, the inflow into the Korampallam tank was very thin. From the past rainfall in the district, 36 vulnerable spots have been identified and 97 relief centres kept ready. In case of any inundation in any residential areas, the public would be shifted to the relief centres. Basic amenities are in place in these centres, Dr Senthil Raj said and added that there were not any tangible damages to the standing crops so far in the district. The Horticulture and Agriculture department officials were in touch with the farmers and water was being drained from the fields. As many as 75 dwellings were partly damaged and six fully damaged in the rain. About 15 milch animals and cattle had died and two persons were killed in lightning. Relief was being given to the legal heirs as per the guidelines of the Chief Minister. DRO Kannabiran, Additional Collector Saravanan, Assistant Collector (Training) Sruthanjay Narayanan and officials from the revenue and other departments were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-preparedness-6000-volunteers-to-play-catalyst-role-in-thoothukudi-district/article37389535.ece
09 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Low-lying areas flooded in Tiruchi||Several low-lying areas in the city were inundated due to heavy flow of water in Koraiyar and Kudamuritti rivers after many tanks in Viralimalai and Keranur in Pudukottai district and Manapparai in Tiruchi district started surplusing due to heavy rain over the past couple of days. The water flow in Koraiyar, which had a moderate flow of water until late evening on Sunday, began to increase overnight. It was in spate since early morning on Monday. It continued to remain so through the day on Monday, thereby leading to the heavy discharge of water into the Kudamuriti, which merges with the Cauvery near the city, at Puthur Weir. The heavy flow of water in the Kudamuriti caused flooding in several low-lying areas in the city. A large number of houses in M.M. Nagar, Shanmuga Nagar, Srinivasa Nagar, Bankers’ Colony in Kumaran Nagar extension on Vaylur Road and Linga Nagar, Marudhankurichi, Selvam Nagar, Aravind Nagar, Fathima Nagar in Woraiyur were inundated. While the inundation was scattered in the residential colonies of Kumaran Nagar, Srinivasa Nagar and Ammayapillai Nagar, almost all houses in Linga Nagar, Aravind Nagar, and Selvam Nagar were surrounded by knee-deep water, thereby causing severe hardship to residents. They had to wade through the water to buy essentials and commute to other parts of the city. Rainwater entered into several houses in Srinivasa Nagar. Similarly, water from the Koraiyar inundated residential colonies in Edamalaipattipudur, Ashok Nagar, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Gandhi Nagar and Krishna Nagar . The residents found it difficult to come out of their houses. As the inundation brought back memories of the 2005 flood in Tiruchi, anxious people made a beeline to the Puthur weir near Kuzhumayi Amman Temple to take stock of the situation. As a precaution, some residents of M.M. Nagar and Shanmuga Nagar locked their houses after removing the household articles to lofts and the first floor. They then moved to their relatives’ houses. “I had to move all items on the lower shelves to upper racks as rainwater entered my grocery shop. Water mixed with sewage has entered at least 25 houses in my locality,” said A. Selvan, who runs a grocery store in Srinivasa Nagar. Collector S. Sivarasu, accompanied by Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi, G. Karthikeyan and Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman, visited various flood-hit areas. They held a discussion at the PWD weir near Kuzhumayi Amman Temple with PWD officials on the steps to be taken to deal with the situation. Mr. Sivarasu told The Hindu that the Koraiyar was in spate mainly due to heavy flow of water from various tanks near Viralimalai. Water had been coming from a few jungle streams in the Manapparai region. The situation was under control and there was no cause for alarm. Water flow started receding in the afternoon. However, all departments had been put on alert due to forecast of further rain, he said. Mr. Rahuman said the entire men and machinery of the Corporation were out in the field to drain out water from the low-lying areas. About 1,500 food packets were distributed to residents in Edamalaipattipudur, Linga Nagar and other affected areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/low-lying-areas-flooded-in-tiruchi/article37389524.ece
09 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Firefighters rescue residents||With different residential localities inundated in the city owing to rain, firefighters are on their toes attending to rescue calls and shifting people to safer places. Acting on information on Monday morning, fire and rescue services teams armed with paraphernalia swung into action rescuing residents of Selvam Nagar, Aravindan Nagar and R.S. Puram in Woraiyur area. A total of 31 people, including 14 women and five children, were rescued from the three areas by the firefighters. Eleven people were rescued from Aravindan Nagar; 13 from Selvam Nagar and seven from R.S. Puram. Among the rescued residents was a pregnant woman. They were brought to safer places from where they left to houses of their relatives, said E. Banupriya, District Fire Officer, Pudukottai who is incharge of Tiruchi. Ms. Banupriya said the entire fire and rescue services personnel strength in Tiruchi district was mobilised to deal with any emergency situations and carry out rescue operations in the wake of the rain. Equipment required for rescue operations, including inflatable rubber boats with out-bound motors, life jackets, power saws and nylon ropes were kept in a state of readiness. Fire and rescue services personnel would be available round the clock to deal with emergency situations. Fire commandos were also in a state of readiness to act in times of crisis situations, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/firefighters-rescue-residents/article37389520.ece
09 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tanks fast filling up in central districts||Heavy rains in catchment areas have brought in good inflows to several tanks in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts. In Pudukottai district, 364 out of the 1,131 tanks controlled by the Public Works Department have reached full capacity, while 352 others have reached nearly 75% capacity. A senior PWD official said some of the big tanks which had reached full capacity were at Parambur, Pakudi, Kulathur, Vallanadu, Neerpalani, Avvayarpatti and Mirattu Nilai. The Kavinadu tank situated a few km from Pudukottai had reached nearly 90% capacity, the official said, adding no breaches had been reported in any of the PWD tanks so far. In Tiruchi district, 12 of the 98 non-system tanks under Ariyar Division of the PWD had filled up so far. Three other tanks had 81% to 90% storage and nine had 71% to 80% storage. Thirty-three tanks had less than 25% storage. Nine of the filled-up tanks in the district were in Thuraiyur sub-division. The rain in Kolli hill ranges has brought in good inflows to the tanks in the region, including Alathudayanpatti Periya Eri and Jamberi. Jamberi is one of the biggest irrigation tanks in the district and irrigates a fertile belt where the famous seeraga samba rice is grown. Alathudayapatti Chinna Eri, Thuraiyur Chinna Eri, Sirunavalur, Senappanallur, Naganaickampatti, Venkatachalapuram and Perur tanks are the other tanks in the sub-division which have filled up. Tanks in Kumbakudi, Kolukkattaikudi and Inam Kulathur in Tiruchi sub-division have also filled up. Of the 14 tanks under Ariyar division in Karur district, Vadaseri tank in Kulithalai taluk has filled up. In Perambalur district, 10 of the 73 tanks under the control of the Public Works Department have filled up so far. This includes Arumbavur big and small tanks, Keezha Perambalur, Vadakalur, Noothapur, Venbavur, Pandagapadi, Arasalur, Melapuliyur and Vadakkalur Agraharam tanks. Nerkunam, Peraiyur and Vayualur tanks in the district had 81%-90% storage of their capacities. Five other tanks, Perambalur small tank, Thuraimangalam big tank, V.Kalathur small and big tanks and Kurumbalur tank, have 71% to 80% storage. The storage ranged between 51% and 70% in five other tanks and between 26% and 50% in 17 others. Thirty-three tanks in the district have storage ranging between 1% and 25% of their capacities, according to officials of the Public Works Department, Marudaiyaru Basin Sub-Division. In Ariyalur, the water level has risen up in most of the PWD and Rural Development Department controlled tanks and ponds. According to sources, out of 2,477 tanks, 37 tanks have reached their full capacity as on Monday. The storage in 736 tanks has reached above 75% of their capacity. About 1,200 tanks have 50% water. Out of the 69 PWD tanks, three tanks have reached their full capacity. The storage in Arasanilayathan Kurichankulam tank and Thathanur big tank stood between 91% and 99% on Monday. Ten tanks had more than 80% of their capacity. Collector P. Ramana Saraswathy told The Hindu that Ponneri near Jayankondam, one of the biggest tanks in the district, had almost reached its capacity. Instructions had been given to the PWD officials to discharge the entire amount of water inflow as a precaution. S.S. Sivasankar, Minister for Backward Classes, also inspected Ponneri on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tanks-fast-filling-up-in-central-districts/article37389529.ece
09 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||10,000 cusecs of water being diverted to Kollidam river||The Public Works Department, on Monday evening, began diverting about 10,000 cusecs of water into the Kollidam river from the Upper Anicut (Mukkombu). The diversion came in the wake of heavy inflows into Koraiyar and Kudamuritti rivers, causing extensive inundation in residential colonies off the Vayalur Road, Woraiyur, Edamalaipattipudur and other places in Tiruchi. Despite a let up in the rain during the day in the city, houses in low-lying colonies were flooded. The Koraiyar received heavy inflows following heavy rain in and around Keeranur and Viralimalai in Pudukottai district and Manapparai in Tiruchi district over the past few days. A few tanks in Keeranur and Viralimalai areas were running into surplus levels. “About 3,000 cusecs was flowing in Koraiyar and across Puthur Weir into Kudamurutti river, which runs off into Cauvery. Another 2,000 cusecs was flowing into Cauvery through the Kodingal canal,” a PWD official said. The inflows are expected to come down by Tuesday, as there was a let up in rain in the catchment areas. Collector S. Sivarasu, while announcing the decision to divert water into Kollidam, pointed to the heavy inflows in Koraiyar and Kudamuritti and the anticipated flow in Cauvery, as the Mettur dam is fast reaching its full capacity due to heavy inflow from Karnataka. Although just 100 cusecs was being released from Mettur dam, 11,896 cusecs was flowing in the Cauvery past Mukkombu on Monday evening due to rain flows. To ease the pressure on Cauvery, water is being diverted into Kollidam, which serves as a flood carrier. Mr. Sivarasu asked people living along the banks of Kollidam to move to safer places. People have been advised against bathing, swimming or fishing in the Cauvery. People can reach officials by dialling 1077.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10000-cusecs-of-water-being-diverted-to-kollidam-river/article37389400.ece
09 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 116 new cases, one death||The central districts on Monday recorded 116 fresh cases of COVID-19 infection. Among the nine districts in central region, Tiruchi topped the list with 32 patients testing positive for the virus followed by 27 cases in Thanjavur district. Karur and Tiruvarur districts registered 17 and 16 cases respectively. All other districts registered less than 10 cases. While Nagapattinam and Pudukottai recorded seven cases, the day’s count was four in Mayiladuthurai, five in Ariyalur and one in Perambalur district. One patient succumbed to the virus in Nagapattinam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-region-records-116-new-cases-one-death/article37389531.ece
09 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special police teams set up||As heavy rain continues to pound the city, the city police have formed special rescue teams. Four teams have been set up with each consisting of 10 members who were trained by the State Disaster Response Force. Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan told The Hindu on Monday that one rescue team had been deployed at Woraiyur and three others were stationed at the City Police Armed Reserve Unit to act speedily in times of emergency situations. The teams were equipped with life jackets, life buoys, power saws and other implements to rescue and evacuate people to safer areas. The personnel would be relieved of other duties to enable them act swiftly as and when the situation warranted, he further said. The teams had been formed in the wake of inundation of low-lying areas in the city due to rain over the past few days. Mr. Karthikeyan reviewed the flood prevention measures and instructed the police personnel to mount vigil in the inundated areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-police-teams-set-up/article37389521.ece
09 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Gold jewellery, silver articles stolen from locked house||Gold jewellery weighing 119 sovereigns, three kg of silver articles, a diamond ear stud and Rs. 30,000 in cash were reported stolen from a locked house at Perakambi village in Manachanallur taluk in the district recently. The house owner, A. Latha, 50, the complainant, left for her daughter's house in Chennai on November 2 leaving the house locked. The theft is believed to have been committed thereafter. Latha's husband Anbazhagan and son worked abroad, police sources said. Latha was returning home from Chennai when she received a phone call informing her of the theft. The sources said unidentified persons gained entry into the house after breaking through the front door and escaped with the booty. Fingerprint experts inspected the scene of crime and Siruganur police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-jewellery-silver-articles-stolen-from-locked-house/article37389525.ece
09 November 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Speaker calls for judicious use of water||Appealing to farmers to use water for irrigation judiciously, Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Speaker M. Appavoo released water from the Kodumudiyar dam for pisanam crop here on Monday. According to the PWD engineers, about 5700 acres of land spread across Valliyoorankal, Padalayarkal and Athukal among other pockets would benefit. Similarly, the water release would also help six villages in Nanguneri block and another 10 hamlets in Radhapuram area. Depending on the storage level and inflow to the dam, the authorities would release 100 cusecs till March 7, 2022. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Appavoo said that as per the guidelines of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, all the primary agricultural cooperative societies had been instructed to release advances to the eligible farmers without delay. Farmers who had not registered as members may do so at once with proper documents with the societies and bring it to his notice, if there were any difficulties. The Speaker also said that the government had through a G.O, waived off gold loan obtained through the cooperative societies. Those who had taken advance by pledging less than 40 grams of gold were eligible for retrieval of the valuables free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assembly-speaker-calls-for-judicious-use-of-water/article37389576.ece
09 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 135.90 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 922.27 cusecs and a discharge of 1,358.50 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 85.25 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 280 cusecs and a discharge of 10 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37389844.ece
09 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Minister receives 205 petitions||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan on Monday participated in the grievances redress meeting held at the District Collectorate in Tiruppur and received petitions from the public. A press release said that the Minister received 205 petitions on issues such as house site pattas, drinking water supply, old age pension and ration cards. District Collector S. Vineeth, District Revenue Officer G. Saravanamurthy and Superintendent of Police G. Shashank Sai participated in the meeting. Misuse of petition alleged A woman from Tiruppur submitted a petition at the grievances redress meeting alleging that she was duped by a man who misused her petition seeking house site patta. In her petition, Madhana from Periyar Colony near Gandhi Nagar claimed that she received a phone call on Monday morning from a man who claimed to be calling from the Collectorate and asked her to visit Valipalayam with necessary documents. Upon visiting the location, a man claiming to be the official who contacted her allegedly showed the original copy of the petition that she had submitted to the District Collector on September 20 and told her that a house near Thekkalur has been allotted to her. He took Rs. 2,000 from her and did not pick up the phone after receiving the cash, she alleged. Wage hike sought Members of Tamil Nadu Health Department Employees’ Association petitioned District Revenue Officer P.S. Leela Alex at the Coimbatore Collectorate demanding an increase in daily wages for multi-purpose health workers (MPHW). In the petition, the Association State vice-president M. Mohandas wrote that around 150 MPHWs employed as daily wagers in primary health centres in Coimbatore district were not included in the list of employees eligible for wage hike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-receives-205-petitions/article37389446.ece
09 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Over 40,000 acres of Janmam lands in Gudalur occupied by tea plantations, residents: Minister||Of the total of 80,087 acres of Janmam lands in Gudalur, Devala and Pandalur, more than 5,161 acres have been encroached on by small landholders and around 35,000 acres of land are in the hands of private tea estate owners along crucial animal corridors. A note from State Forest Minister K. Ramachandran said that during Chief Minister’s campaign in the run-up to the election, a student told him that she lived in an area that was classified under “Section 17” lands of the Gudalur Janmam Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act and she was unable to get an electricity connection. The government had wanted to understand the issue better to solve the problems of local residents. Encroachments According to Mr. Ramachandran, the total extent of encroached or occupied “Section 17 lands” now stands at more than 40,147 acre. While the large estates, including ones run by multinational corporations occupy almost 35,000 acres of “Section 17” lands, around 4,867 acres of land have been encroached upon by people through farming, and a further 289 acres through illegal buildings. Around 10,608 buildings are said to be encroachments. Local conservationists said that the tea estates as well as the illegally constructed houses lie along crucial elephant corridors that connect the Nilgiris landscape to Nilambur and Wayanad. The non-settlement of claims and lack of action against encroachers has led to a profusion of problematic human-elephant interactions in the region. Mr. Ramachandran said that he would highlight the issues raised by people living in “Section 17” lands and urge the Chief Minister to take steps to solve their problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-40000-acres-of-janmam-lands-in-gudalur-occupied-by-tea-plantations-residents-minister/article37389475.ece
09 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||44 tonnes of waste generated in Ooty Municipality on Deepavali||Around 44 tonnes of waste was generated during Deepavali celebrations in Udhagamandalam Municipality, officials said. The amount of waste generated was more than three times the amount of waste that gets generated each day, mostly from households and the Udhagamandalam Municipal Market. Almost all sanitary staff were mobilised in a large-scale clean-up operation that continued till the weekend , officials said. “The amount of waste collected this year was significantly higher than in 2018,” officials said. Only 21 tonnes of waste was collected three years back. The district administration, Forest Department and others had issued guidelines to not light fireworks for more than 2 hours on Deepavali. However, none of the rules were followed, said G. Janardhanan, president of the Ooty Public Awareness Association. “Most people disregarded the rules, which really cannot be enforced very strictly. It is up to people to realise that lighting fireworks, especially in an ecologically-sensitive area like the Nilgiris will have a huge impact on wildlife, causing distress and harm to them,” he said. Mr. Janardhanan said that at the very least, residential areas bordering reserve forests need to be monitored and people prevented from lighting fireworks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/44-tonnes-of-waste-generated-in-ooty-municipality-on-deepavali/article37389474.ece
09 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 9 fresh COVID-19 infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,973 with nine new cases reported on November 8. With a total of 48,659 having been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 181. The district's toll is 1133. In Ranipet district, seven new cases were reported and the total number of cases stood at 43,487. In Tirupattur district, five fresh cases were reported on Monday and the total number cases touched 29,341. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was six, which took the total number of cases to 55,064. Of this, 54,261 have been discharged. The number of active cases stood at 135.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-9-fresh-covid-19-infections/article37389818.ece
09 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Strategies to contain adverse impact of monsoon on crops||The Department of Agriculture has come up with strategies to contain adverse impact of rains on paddy and horticulture crops. In a statement, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said since tender paddy crops were more prone to rotting, farmers should ensure that water did not stagnate in the field. In case, plants got rotten, the farmers should replace them with seedlings of the same age. In case the paddy plants of higher age got damaged, plants from bigger roots should be taken and planted to replace them to maintain the right number of plants in the farm. In order to compensate nitrogen deficiency in paddy crops that were submerged in water, a mixture of 22 kg of urea, 18 kg of gypsum and four kg of neem cake left overnight should be mixed with 17 kg of pottash and sprayed on the crop the next day after the rain stopped. For foliar spray, two kg of urea should be mixed with one kg of zinc sulphate in 200 litres of water and sprayed during morning or evening. The statement said cloudy weather condition could lead to leaf folder, shoot fly, brown plant hopper, gallmidge and blast attacks. Leaf folder could be contained by spraying 3% of neem oil neem seed slurry, 5% of flubendiamide 20 ml, cartap hydrochloride 400 grams, profenophos 400 ml mixed in 200 litres of water or 7 kg of carta hydrochloride mixed with 10 kg of sand. Shoot fly’s presence could be identified with minor holes on blades or breaking of blades. It could be controlled by spraying one kg of pseudomonas fluorescens and one kg of sour curd mixed in 200 litres of water. In case of blast, 20% cow dung slurry – prepared with 40 kg of cow dung mixed in 100 litres of water and kept over night and filtered – should be sprayed. Growing of vegetable crops like shallot, tomato, brinjal and chilli on raised beds with drip irrigation with proper draining facility would help in reduction of crop loss during the monsoon, the Collector said. The seedlings should be treated with two grams of tricoderma viride mixed in one litre of water before transplantation. Pruning would help in saving horticulture crops like coconut, mango, sapotta, guava and amla from getting uprooted or breaking of branches in heavy winds. Banana plantains could be saved by providing additional support with wooden sticks. The farmers could approach the Assistant Director (Horticulture) to get Rs. 25,000 subsidy per hectare for providing the support to plantains. Proper draining of water could save flowering-plants. Two grams of tricoderma viride mixed in one litre of water should be sprayed to avoid fungal attack, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strategies-to-contain-adverse-impact-of-monsoon-on-crops/article37389540.ece
09 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Two murdered in Virudhunagar district||Two murders were reported in different places in Virudhunagar district on Monday. In the first incident, the body of a 24-year-old man M. Selvaganesh of Sendrayapuram under Amathur police station limits was found burnt on the bunds of a waterbody under W. Pudupatti police station limits on Monday morning. The police said the deceased, a construction worker, got engaged with a girl from W. Pudupatti and was returning from her home late on Sunday evening on his motorbike. He was murdered on the way by unidentified persons. The police said the bike was placed over Selvaganesh and set on fire. W. Pudupatti police are investigating. In the other incident, a 38-year-old woman G. Indirani was murdered inside her petty shop in Rajapalayam. The police said Indirani was alone at the shop when some unidentified persons slashed her throat and stabbed her. She was found in a pool of blood inside the shop at Duraisamypuram at around 11.15 a.m. Her husband Ganesan had gone out for purchase of goods. The couple have two children. The Rajapalayam South Police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-murdered-in-virudhunagar-district/article37389539.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||High Court to hold virtual hearings||The virtual court mode, which came into extensive use across the State since March 2020 due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, has come in handy during heavy rains in Chennai and three other contiguous districts. Even though the State Government declared holiday for its offices on Monday, the High Court has decided to function online. It was announced on Sunday that all State Government offices, except for those involved in essential services such as milk and electricity, would not be functioning on Monday due to a bad weather forecast. The government also announced holiday for schools and colleges in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Thiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts. However, a notification issued by the Registry on November 8, 2021, stated that the principal seat of the High Court in Chennai would continue to function in a restricted manner on the virtual mode on Monday. It also stated that if some judges were unable to conduct virtual courts, then the work would be allotted to alternative benches. The notification published on the High Court's website clarified that final hearing cases would be taken up only if lawyers or litigants representing both sides were present in the virtual hearing. The functioning of City Civil Courts, Magistrate courts and Family Courts in Chennai would also be governed on the same lines. Decision A decision on the functioning of criminal and family courts in other districts would be taken by the respective Principal District and Sessions Judges depending upon the weather situation prevailing in those districts, the notification added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-to-hold-virtual-hearings/article37389458.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Wading through water||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wading-through-water/article37389824.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||VLB Janakiammal College of Arts and Science: Guest lecture on ‘Industrial Exposure’, 9.45 a.m.; Webinar on ‘Career as a Company Secretary’, 10 a.m.  KG College of Arts and Science: Webinar – ‘My Story - Motivational Session by Successful Entrepreneur’, 2 p.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women:  Seminar on ‘Employability To Deployability’, 11.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article37389460.ece
09 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Women’s university to organise 12th convocation today||Karnataka State Akka Mahadevi Women’s University will award honorary doctorates to three achievers, writer Janaki Srinivasmurthy, who is known by her pen name Vaidehi, musician Suma Sudheendra and entrepreneur Kalpana Saroj. Governor Thawarchand Gehlot, who is the Chancellor of the university, will present the honoris causa degrees to these eminent personalities at the 12th convocation of the university to be held in Vijayapura on Tuesday. The university will organise a simple ceremony as per COVID-19 guidelines and only gold medal and award winners and Ph.D students will be allowed to receive degrees in person, Vice-Chancellor B.K. Tulasimala told journalists on Monday. Infosys Foundation chairperson Sudha Murthy will deliver the convocation address online. Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan will be present. The university will award gold medals and cash awards to 76 students and Ph.Ds to 48 students. A total of 11,208 students have become eligible to receive degrees, diplomas, post-graduate and doctorate degrees. They include a total of 996 post-graduates of MA, M.Com, M.Sc, M.Ed, MP.Ed, MLISc, MSW, MFM and MCA streams. As many as 89 PG diplomas will be given in Yoga, music, DFM and fashion technology streams. A total of 10,123 students will get BA, BSW, B.Ed, BP.Ed, B.Com, BBA, B.Sc, BF.Ed, BCA and BFT degrees. The ceremony will be streamed live on AKK TV YouTube channel and the university’s social media handles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/womens-university-to-organise-12th-convocation-today/article37389601.ece
09 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Former councillor installs wife’s statue at his home||Shiva Chougule, former member of the city corporation council of Belagavi, has installed a plaster of Paris statue of his deceased wife Maina Bai at home. On most days, he worships it, by offering arati, flowers and sindhur. Maina Bai, who had also served as a corporation council member, died of pneumonia a few months ago. “It was very painful to let her go. We had both recovered from short illnesses. But she contracted pneumonia and died of it,’’ he said. The life-size statue is installed in a corner of the living room of his house in Margai Nagar, Belagavi. “I was missing her everyday. I decided I could not go on like that. By that time, someone told me about a businessman who had installed a bust of his wife in Maharashtra. I contacted Sandeep Gopal Kumbar who makes Ganesh idols in Belagavi. I then gave him photos of my wife and he created the statue in 45 days,’’ Mr. Chougule told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/former-councillor-installs-wifes-statue-at-his-home/article37389586.ece
09 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Directorate of Sugar not shifted yet’||Farmer leaders have complained that the State Government is yet to transfer the Sugar Directorate to Belagavi from Bengaluru, even after 45 days of orders being issued for shifting it. One of the leaders Sidagouda Modagi and others have written to the government complaining that officers were reluctant to come to Belagavi. “We have been demanding that the office be shifted to Suvarna Soudha. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai assured us of doing it on October 3. He told us that the orders were issued on October 1 and that all the staff, files, furniture and other property will be shifted to Belagavi in a day. We went to the temporary office on October 4, only to find that it was locked and there was no one there. We are very disappointed,” Mr. Modagi said. However, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath denied this charge being made by the farmers leaders. He said that the office was shifted and that Director Shivanand I.H. has taken charge in Belagavi. He has been allotted an office in the Suvarna Soudha. But, he is temporarily working from the premises of the S. Nijalingappa Institute of Sugar. He has also held a few meetings, the Deputy Commissioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/directorate-of-sugar-not-shifted-yet/article37389587.ece
09 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Youth arrested||The police arrested a youth on the charge of raping a minor girl in a village in Belagavi district. The offence occurred on Friday. Sonu, a construction worker, originally from Uttar Pradesh, lured an eight-year-old girl who wanted to play games on his mobile phone. He took her to a warehouse near the construction site and committed the offence. The girl is the daughter of the site watchman. When she came home crying, her parents found out what had happened to her. They told their neighbours who then complained to the police. Officers from the Kakati Police Station arrested the accused who was trying to flee. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-arrested/article37389591.ece
09 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Diabetic gangrene cured without amputation||Doctors of A.M. Shaikh Homoeopathic Medical College have successfully cured a case of diabetic wet gangrene without resorting to amputation, according to a press release. Senior doctor Sangeeta C.Belagavimath and student Poojitha Ankerela of the Department of Repertory in the college treated a 70-year-old woman who was suffering from diabetic wet gangrene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/diabetic-gangrene-cured-without-amputation/article37389592.ece
09 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Winter session of legislature to be webcast||The winter session of the State legislature will be webcast. “We are trying to live stream the session,” Legislative Council Chairman Basavaraj Horatti said on Monday. He was speaking to journalists in Belagavi after a meeting with officials to prepare for the session scheduled in the coming weeks. “The session is likely to be held in December. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will announce the dates of the session after consulting officers and Ministers,” Mr. Horatti said. “I have asked officers to complete all preparations before November 20,” he said. He said that issues pertaining to North Karnataka will be discussed in the winter session. To a query, he said that there is no law or rule to compel legislators to attend the legislature session. “But I hope all of them will attend this session. I am sure they will attend,” he said. He said that he will place before the State Government the demand of legislators that a Legislators Home be constructed in Belagavi. The government will take a decision considering all the factors involved, he said. Assembly Secretary M. Mahalakshmi, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath, Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi, Public Works Executive Engineer Sanjivkumar Hulakayi, National Informatics Centre officer S.K. Ksheerasagar, Deputy Director of Information Gurunath Kadabur and others were present during the Suvarna Soudha visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/winter-session-will-be-webcast-says-basavaraj-horatti/article37389593.ece
09 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two drown||One of the three sisters who drowned in a pond in Sambra village was rescued. Her sisters died on November 7. Sandhya, 10, Netra, 7, and Priya Kolavi, 5, went to the pond to immerse leftover pooja materials of Deepavali. When the younger sisters began to drown, Sandhya tried to pull them out. But she too was pulled into the water. Bystanders jumped into the water and tried to rescue Sandhya and Netra. While Sandhya survived, Netra succumbed in a private hospital. Police retrieved the body of Priya with the help of villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-drown/article37389603.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Medical colleges seek 20% fee hike||The Karnataka Professional Colleges’ Foundation has sought a 20% hike in fees. Medical Education Department officials met private medical and dental college management members to discuss the fees for MBBS and BDS seats for the 2021-22 academic year on Monday. Though officials of the department heard the college managements, no decision was taken. The managements were reportedly told that the decision would be taken after a meeting with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. M.R. Jayaram, chairman, Karnataka Professional Colleges’ Foundation, said that they had sought a 20% increase in fees. He said that the finances of medical college managements had suffered during the pandemic and a majority of them could not admit non COVID-19 patients. Many college managements also complained that due to the effect of the pandemic during the last academic year, their NRI quota and management quota seats were sold for lower prices compared to the previous years. Students left in the lurch With both the Karnataka Government and private college managements not willing to relent and reach a conclusion, medical and dental aspirants are left in the lurch as there has been a significant delay in fixing the fees. Sridhar S., a medical seat aspirant, said, “I come from a middle class family and need to have an idea of what the government quota and institutional quota seats in private colleges would be. Even though the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) results were announced last week, the government has not yet decided to fee structure for this academic year,” he said. Officials of the Medical Education Department said that while they had heard the demands of the private college managements, a final decision would have to be taken by the State government. “During a pandemic year, we cannot allow such a steep hike in fees as many people have had salary cuts. Keeping all this in mind, we hope to make a decision shortly,” a senior official of the department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medical-colleges-seek-20-increase-in-fees/article37389358.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Auto rides to be more costly from December 1||Travelling by an autorickshaw will be more expensive as the minimum fare has been hiked to Rs. 30 from Rs. 25 for the first 2 kilometres with effect from December 1. From thereon, the journey will cost Rs. 15 per km. At present, Rs. 13 is charged for every kilometre after the basic fare. The night fare — between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m. — will be the new minimum fare plus half of that. The waiting fare after the first five minutes will be Rs. 5 per 15 minutes, and the luggage fare will be free up to 20 kg, and Rs. 5 per 20 kg over that. The maximum luggage weight is 50 kg. Auto drivers have been directed to re-calibrate their digital meters as per the revised fare by February 2022. Till then they have to display a chart of the revised fare and collect applicable fare. Bengaluru Urban District DC J. Manjunatha, who is the Chairman, Regional Transport Authority, said the last revision was done in 2013. “Various auto unions have been requesting us to revise the fare. An autorickshaw used to cost Rs. 1.20 lakh, but the price has crossed over Rs. 2 lakh now. In addition to that, expenditure on spare parts, insurance amount, auto registration and others have increased. We have considered various factors while revising the fare. Consultation was done with various stakeholders, including auto commuters, before announcing the revision in the fare,” he said. Some unions unhappy However, some auto unions are not happy with the revised fare. C.N. Sreenivas , General Secretary of the auto union affiliated to CITU said, “We had asked for Rs. 18 per kilometre, but the authorities have fixed it at Rs. 15. We expected that they would fix at least Rs. 16 per kilometre. All the expenses, starting from fuel, spare parts, rent, hotel food, everything has increased. We are not happy with the revision. On Tuesday, our auto union will stage a protest at the DC’s office to consider our demand.” There are more than 1.75 lakh autorickshaws plying in the city. Commuters rue hike On the other hand, commuters, who are already reeling under the burden of price rise, are also unhappy. Anupama, who regularly uses an auto to reach S.V. Road metro station, said, “Increased auto fare will definitely impact passengers. Every thing is becoming expensive. I use auto to travel a distance of 7 km, and as per the revised fare, I will be paying an extra Rs. 15.” Rajashekar, another commuter, added: “Instead of hiking the fare, the government should have lowered prices of LPG. It would have been more beneficial for the auto drivers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auto-rides-to-be-more-costly-from-december-1/article37389348.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM looking into issue of land sale to JSW, Karnataka Govt. tells HC||The State Government on Monday told the High Court of Karnataka that the Chief Minister was looking into its earlier decision to sell 3,667 acres of land to JSW Ltd., Ballari, at a meagre price of Rs. 1.22 lakh per acre. Also, is was stated on behalf of the Government that the decision, taken to sell the land by the Cabinet headed by the then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa based on recommendation by the sub-committee headed by the then Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, was “not confirmed” in the subsequent Cabinet meeting. These submissions were made during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by one K.A. Paul, a resident of Bengaluru, who had questioned the decision to sell a large area of land for a meagre price to the private company. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, which recorded the Government counsel’s submission, closed the petition while stating that it did not survive for further consideration in view of the submission made on behalf of the Government. In its interim order of June, the court had imposed a rider on the Government that the decision to sell the land based on April 26, 2021 Cabinet meeting would be subject to further orders to be passed on the petition. Interestingly, the Government had on June 15 told the court that though the Cabinet meeting on April 26 had decided to sell the land to the company, it was “not confirmed” in the Cabinet meeting held on May 27. When it was later brought to court’s notice that the Government on May 6 itself had issued an order for selling the land to the company, the court in its July 13 order asked the Government to clarify that the GO of May 6 would not be acted upon without the approval of the Cabinet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-looking-into-issue-of-land-sale-to-jsw-karnataka-govt-tells-hc/article37389363.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Revised voters list published; citizens can review it for errors||In the run-up to the Special Summary Revision of Electoral Rolls - 2022, the revised voters list has been published in all the 23 Assembly constituencies in the BBMP limits, voter registration office, assistant electoral office and in the ward offices, a release quoted the Chief Civic Commissioner Gaurav Gupta as saying on Monday. The release said citizens can review the list to see if there are any errors, and if they wish to make any changes. Special Commissioner (Admin.) Dayanand said if voters want to correct inaccuracies in the list like missing names, errors in the names; or addition or deletion of names, they can do by approaching the nodal officers or registration officer, assistant officer or BLO with Form 6, 7, 8 and 8A. They can also raise objections with the Election Commission of India from November 8 to December 8, 2021. On website The revised voters list has been published in www.ceokarnataka.kar.nic.in and www.bbmp.gov.in website and arrangements have been made to make changes there. They can also check the list on the Voter Helpline mobile app or the National Voters Service Portal. According to the release, in the BBMP limits, on January 1, 2021, the total voters were 93,76,004, and on November 8, 2021, the total voters were 94,39,416. During that period, a total of 63,612 voters were registered, and according to the Election Commission of India, on January 13, 2022, the “Final Voters List” will be published.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/revised-voters-list-published-citizens-can-review-it-for-errors/article37389344.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many preschools and anganwadis record poor turnout||There was generally a poor turnout in preschools and anganwadis on Monday as they opened their doors to students after one and half years. Many, however, chose to postpone their reopening as some of them had to get their premises cleaned, while some others had to find a new place as they had given up their old rented premises. Schools and anganwadis, which reopened, wore a festive look with many of the teachers decorating the entire premises. Suchetha Agarwal, Director of Kids Space Academy, said they had around 50% of enrolled students attending offline classes on Monday. “We hope that the attendance will improve by next week as many students are out of town at the moment. We are also hoping that we get more new admissions this week,” she said. Aarti S. Nevatia, Principal, Scribbles Play School, said their preschool saw good attendance. “The children were trained well by the parents and they were following all the SOPs. They enjoyed themselves. One parent even called us, and said her son cried when he had to enter the house, and said he wants to go back to school,” she said. Anganwadi workers hope the attendance will improve by the end of this week. Sudha N., a worker in Muneshwaranagar said the attendance would improve once they start providing food. “Currently, we are calling students in small groups from 10 a.m. to noon. Once we start activities in a full-fledged manner, our attendance will improve,” she said. K.B. Bhat, Honorary President, Karnataka United Anganwadis said the institutions in North Karnataka saw a dull response with very few children turning up. Schools postpone reopening Many private schools, which were supposed to reopen for classes I to X after Deepavali, have postponed the reopening date and said they would reopen only next month. This has irked many parents who had made arrangements for their children to go back to school. Harshitha S., a parent whose child studies in a school affiliated to CBSE, said, “The school collected all the fees under different subheads ranging from electricity to transport fees. Now that most parents have paid the fees, they are stating that they will continue with online classes for another month. The school management has in fact not given any explanation on why they postponed the reopening,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-preschools-and-anganwadis-record-poor-turnout/article37389360.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mekedatu: ‘Cong. padayatra a ploy to take credit for project’||Commenting on the Congress decision to take out a padayatra from Mekedatu to Bengaluru to press for the early implementation of the Mekedatu drinking water project, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda on Monday said it was a move by that party to seek credit for the project. “Organising a padayatra is not going to be easy. Congress is holding the padayatra thinking that they will get the credit if they start early,” he said in his address to workers and leaders participating in the Janata Sangama, the party’s programme to strengthen the grassroots organisation ahead of the 2023 Assembly polls. “Nobody needs to think of credit-debit from the padayatra. When time is right, we will also fight,” he said, pointing to the party’s memorandum to the Governor on the Mekedatu issue. The former Prime Minister said that the Janata Dal (S) had not been launched to seek power. “There are several enemies working against the party. The (newly launched) paper should answer those who have pledged to finish the JD(S).” He refused to comment on the setback to the party in the recent bypolls. Commenting on the party’s mouthpiece ‘Janata Patrike’, a monthly paper launched on Monday, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said it would highlight people’s issues to draw attention of the Government besides covering national events. “It will not publish reports pertaining to JD (S) alone. Several parties across the country have their own papers to publish their programmes. This is the first such experiment in the State. Over the next eight days, the party leaders will interact with district, taluk, and hobli-level party workers, and is the continued part of the earlier workshop that was held at Bidadi. The ‘Janata Patrike’ was released by veteran journalist and former MLC P. Ramiah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mekedatu-cong-padayatra-a-ploy-to-take-credit-for-project/article37389364.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC castigates two IAS officers for not appearing before it despite orders||Castigating two senior IAS officers for neither complying with the court’s orders nor personally appearing before the court despite specific directions, the High Court of Karnataka on Monday summoned the State Advocate-General to deprecate such conduct by officers in general in several cases. While directing Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi to instruct the Chief Secretary to issue circulars to the officials to comply with court’s directions within a specific time, the court also orally observed that it would not hesitate to direct the Director-General and Inspector-General of Police to ensure that officers, who fail to appear before the court, are arrested and produced before the court. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, issued the direction while viewing seriously the absence of Principal Secretary, Medical Education Department and Principal Secretary, Housing Department, in two separate petitions. “What is is happening in the State? The officers appears to be taking the High Court very lightly... We are very competent to handle such conduct by the officers... Don’t compel us to pass any strict orders. We may not hesitate to order DG&IGP to arrest officers and produce them before the court,” the Bench told the A-G. “ We can make them [officers] understand what is the High Court. Even officers of the rank of Principal Secretaries don’t appear before the court despite directions. Neither they comply with orders nor they appear in person... I have not not seen my life, either as a judge or an advocate, the officers taking the court so lightly,” the Chief Justice orally observed. The Bench was informed by Government Counsel that Naveen Raj Singh, Principal Secretary, Medical Education, had come to the court in the morning but was not present when the petition was taken up for hearing as he had to rush back to the Vidhana Soudha in view of the Cabinet meeting. In case of J. Ravishankar, Principal Secretary, Housing Department, it was informed to the court that he did not come to court as compliance affidavit was ready to be filed as per earlier direction, which wanted his presence only on failure to file affidavit. As the affidavit was not filed before the court, though it was ready as claimed by the Government Counsel, he should have been personally present, the Bench said. Later, it was informed to the Bench that both the officers were posted to the respective department recently and would ensure compliance of directions issued earlier. As A-G assured the Court that the Chief Secretary would ensure that all the officers of the State would adhere to court’s orders, the Bench accepted the apology of both the officers while orally making it clear it would not tolerate such conduct by the officers in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-castigates-two-ias-officers-for-not-appearing-before-it-despite-orders/article37389365.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KMC Act to be amended; BBMP won’t have to refund Rs. 2,000 cr.||The State Cabinet has decided to promulgate an ordinance to amend the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, to safeguard the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) from refunding about Rs. 2,000 crore deposited by landowners, real estate developers, and others in the form of ground rent, licence fee, building licence fee, security fee, security deposit fee, and other charges under its bylaws for sanction of building plans. The Cabinet took the decision to amend the KMC Act following a judgment of the High Court of Karnataka that the BBMP bylaws, under which the fees are collected, are contrary to the provisions of the KMC Act. The court said the BBMP has no authority to levy fees and directed the civic body to refund nearly Rs. 2,000 crore deposited by petitioners, and several landowners, real estate developers and others, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy told reporters after the Cabinet meeting on Monday. The amendment would save the BBMP from refunding the amount and protect the civic body from incurring severe financial difficulties, the Minister said. The Cabinet has decided to hand over 69.07 acres of government gomal/ kharab lands in various locations in the Bengaluru Urban district for the Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation Limited for construction of one lakh houses in the city. The Cabinet decided to provide relief to the tune of 50% in the total interest rate to be paid by various organisations by coming forward to pay the full amount of lease fee for utilizing CA sites for running schools or charity activities. It would not be applicable for those using CA sites of the BDA for commercial activities, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kmc-act-to-be-amended-bbmp-wont-have-to-refund-rs-2000-cr/article37389350.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IBM opens Client Innovation Centre in Mysuru||IBM opened a Client Innovation Centre (CIC) in Mysuru on November 8 in response to the ‘Spoke-Shore Strategy’ floated by Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM), a special entity to take businesses ‘Beyond Bengaluru’. As an entrepreneurial startup within IBM Consulting, the CIC would specialise in design, software engineering and analytics while supporting clients in their business transformation journey. B.V. Naidu, Chairman, KDEM, said, “The launch of the Client Innovation Centre in Mysuru resonates with KDEM’s Spoke-Shore initiative of attracting at least 100 GCCs by 2025. “Seeing the pace at which centres like Mysuru are transforming digitally, we believe that such concerted efforts, such as IBM’s CIC, are key to amplifying Karnataka’s IT ecosystem, especially in centres beyond Bengaluru.” Minister for Higher Education, IT & BT, Science & Technology, Skill Development, Entrepreneurship & Livelihood Ashwath Narayan said, “It is encouraging to see that the industry is recognising places such as Mysuru, thereby echoing our vision of Beyond Bengaluru. We are confident that this partnership will propel Karnataka to become a frontrunner for digital services and technologies world over’’ “The IBM CIC would play a key role in the digital transformation of the IT ecosystem throughout Mysuru and create new employment opportunities to foster the next wave of technology innovation,” said Amit Sharma, Managing Partner, Worldwide Global Delivery, IBM. “IBM CIC is looking to hire over 10,000 staff this quarter globally. This builds on double digit hiring growth in its Global Delivery Centres this year. “This continued investment in talent will expand the company's skill sets in areas such as AI, intelligent workflows, application modernisation and management, and hybrid cloud,” Mr. Sharma added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ibm-opens-client-innovation-centre-in-mysuru/article37389349.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||283 new cases in State||As many as 283 new cases of COVID-19 and six deaths were reported in Karnataka, according to the Department of Health and Family Welfare bulletin on Monday. Bengaluru Urban reported the highest number of cases at 159.  There are 7,989 active cases in the State. The positivity rate was 0.26% and the case fatality rate 2.12%. With 290 people being discharged, the total number of recoveries stood at 29.44 lakh. The overall number of cases was 29.9 lakh, and deaths 38,118.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/283-new-cases-in-state/article37389355.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Case against contractor for damaging road||An Assistant Engineer of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has filed a case against a private contractor and his employees for damaging a public road to lay underground gas connection for GAIL. Based on the complaint filed by Siddik D., the Annapoorneshwarinagar police have charged the contractor, identified as Harish Gowda, for causing the damage on Sunday. Mr. Siddik, in his complaint, said that the workers had dug up the asphalted road on 80 feet road at Vinayaka Layout, causing inconvenience to the motorists and losses to the tune of Rs. 15,500. The contractor has not taken permission from the BBMP for the digging work, he said. Mr. Siddik seized a water tanker and digging machine and handed them to the police for investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-against-contractor-for-damaging-road/article37389345.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Restaurants increase prices by up to 10%||People will have to shell out more to eat out as restaurants in Bengaluru have increased prices of food by 5% to 10% with effect from November 8. Owners have cited a steep increase in operational expenses. B. Chandrashekar Hebbar, president, Karnataka State Hotel Association, which has over 6,000 members, said, compared to the pre-COVID-19 period, the cost of running hotels and restaurants has increased and they have no option but to increase prices. The prices of tea and coffee are likely to go up by Rs. 2 to Rs. 3, and that of idli and dosa by Rs. 5. The cost of a vegetarian meal may go up to Rs. 75. “Prior to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, a gas cylinder used cost around Rs. 900, but now it has gone up to Rs. 2,030. Due to increased fuel prices, transportation cost has also increased considerably, and edible oil, which used to cost Rs. 90 per kg, has now gone up to Rs. 150. Prices of pulses and other ingredients have increased substantially. Other than this, the salaries of workers, electricity and rent increases every year,” Mr. Hebbar said. Not only vegetarian hotels, even bars and restaurants serving non-vegetarian food too have increased food prices. “Up to 80% of our members implemented the revised prices from November 8. The rest will do so in the coming days,” said Mr. Hebbar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restaurants-increase-prices-by-up-to-10/article37389351.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three new judges of High Court take oath||The number of judges in the High Court of Karnataka has increased to 46 with the swearing-in of three newly appointed additional judges on Monday. Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot administered the oath of office to Justices Anant Ramanth Hegde, Siddaiah Rachaiah, and Kannankuzhyil Sreedharan Hemalekha at the Raj Bhavan. Born on March 7, 1971 at Sirsi in Uttara Kannada, Justice Hegde obtained law degree from University College of Law, Dharwad, and commenced practice as an advocate in 1994 in the office of his grandfather and father, who were also advocates. Justice Rachaiah, hailing from Malavalli in Mandya district, enrolled as an advocate in 1998 and was working as a government pleader in the office of the State Advocate General since 2015 and was representing prosecution prior to his elevation. Born on March 28, 1975 at Belagavi, Justice Hemalekha has secured her Bachelor’s degree in Commerce in 1996 and Bachelor’s degree in Law in 1999 before commencing practice as an advocate. She had also served as Central Government Standing Counsel since March 2018.  Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot administered the oath of office to Justices Anant Ramanth Hegde, Siddaiah Rachaiah, and Kannankuzhyil Sreedharan Hemalekha at the Raj Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-new-judges-of-high-court-take-oath/article37389366.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Excise duty collection grows by 20.7%||Excise duty collection in the State increased by about 20.7% in the first two quarters this financial year in comparison to the corresponding period last year. At the end of October, the collection stood at Rs. 14,444 crore as against Rs. 11,962 crore last year. IML sales Sales of Indian-Made liquor (IML) has grown by 22.32% with about 369 lakh carton boxes sold as against 301.83 lakh during the same period last year. A total of 583.23 lakh carton boxes of IML were sold last year. In the beer segment, sales increased by 28.94% with about 134.21 lakh carton boxes sold in comparison to 104.09 lakh last year. A total of 237.82 lakh carton boxes were sold during 2020-2021. Barring June and October, when excise duty collection fell below the corresponding months last year, the collection during other months saw a positive growth over the previous year. In all, Rs. 2,481 crore more was collected this financial year, data released by the Government on Monday revealed. With Rs. 14,444 crore collected against the annual target of Rs. 24,580 crore, the department has achieved 58.77 % progress. During the same period last year, the department achieved 52.7% of the target by collecting Rs. 11,962 crore of the annual target of Rs. 22,700 crore. However, at the end of the 2020-2021, the department collected Rs. 23,332 crore, about Rs. 632 crore more than the annual target.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/excise-duty-collection-grows-by-207/article37389368.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two more district milk unions formed||The State Cabinet has decided to form separate milk unions for Kolar and Chickballapur, and for Haveri and Dharwad districts. With these new ones, two more district milk unions have been added to the list of milk unions in Karnataka. Earlier, there was the Kolar Chikkaballapur District Co-operative Milk Producers’ Societies’ Union Limited for two districts. Similarly, there was one union for Haveri and Dharwad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-more-district-milk-unions-formed/article37389369.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Children speak up on post-pandemic challenges||As many as 40 children from across Karnataka presented issues and challenges they faced after the COVID-19 pandemic, on Monday here as part of the launch of a series of ‘Public hearing of children’, a joint initiative of UNICEF and the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR). Those listening to the voices of children included chairpersons and members of the State Commissions for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) from four states — Karnataka, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Goa — senior government and civil society representatives. Speaking on the occasion, Principal Secretary RDPR and WCD, Government of Karnataka, Uma Mahadevan, said, “Karnataka is one of the states that has many child-focused systems in place, like the child-friendly gram panchayat. Whatever grievances children are presenting here can also be presented to the gram panchayat, for resolution.” The release said the public hearing series will give an opportunity to children to provide and receive information associated with decisions to be made by the KSCPCR. “The orders to be issued will rely on the information gathered at the public hearings to provide a comprehensive view on how to address the specific child rights issues pertaining to physical care, psycho-social care, nutrition, abuse, online issues, and many more. Additionally, this initiative will give a space to children to share their thoughts and issues with those who can make the needed changes,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/children-speak-up-on-post-pandemic-challenges/article37389356.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New panel to clear tenders of all Govt. departments||The State Cabinet has decided to constitute a committee, headed by a retired judge of the High Court, to evaluate tenders and check the unrealistic estimation of amounts by various government departments and agencies. No tenders will be invited above Rs. 50 crore without clearance from the committee. The chairman will be assisted by two technical experts, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy told reporters after the Cabinet meeting on Monday. The decision was taken following tenders by departments/agencies without proper estimation of the amount required. The committee will scrutinise all proposals and only after the scrutiny, the departments will be allowed to float tenders, he said. The Cabinet has provided a Rs. 374.16-crore package for weavers from the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. The package will provide incentives for those who establish units, he said. A sum of Rs. 399 crore has been approved for Fire and Emergency Services for establishing new stations and modernisation of infrastructure, the Minister said. A sum of Rs. 165.47 crore has been approved to set up a 450-bed building at the Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences. Kittur Karnataka The Cabinet has also decided to rename Bombay-Karnataka region as Kittur Karnataka and the region comprises seven districts: Uttara Kannada, Dharwad, Belagavi, Gadag, Haveri, Vijayapura, and Bagalkot. Recently, the Government renamed Hyderabad-Karnataka region as Kalyana Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-panel-to-clear-tenders-of-all-govt-departments/article37389371.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man stabbed, robbed of Rs. 500||Armed men stabbed a 38-year-old salesman multiple times near his house and took away Rs. 500 from him, in J.P. Nagar on Saturday night. The victim, Siddaramu, has been admitted to a private hospital and is recovering. He told the police that he was walking home from work at around 11.30 p.m. when two men on a bike intercepted him. They flashed a knife and demanded valuables, but he tried to resist. The pillion rider held him from behind while the rider stabbed him on his thigh, chest, neck and shoulder before taking Rs. 500 from his pocket and pushed him to the ground. The profusely bleeding Siddaramu shouted for help, prompting passers-by to rush to his help and take him to a hospital. The J.P. Nagar police have registered a case of robbery and are checking the CCTV footage in the area to identify the accused....||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/armed-men-stab-salesman-rob-rs-500/article37389346.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Srikrishna was under influence of drugs: Police||City-based jeweller Vishnu Bhat, who was arrested for assaulting hotel staff, besides ‘hacker’ Srikrishna (SriKi), is in trouble again as the medical test confirmed that he was under the influence of drugs. Following the report, the police booked him under the NDPS Act and have taken him into custody to ascertain the source of drugs. The two were produced before the magistrate on Monday. While Srikrishna was remanded to judicial custody, Vishnu was taken into police custody for further investigations. The police are now questioning Vishnu to find out the reasons for meeting Srikrishna. Srikrishna was also found to be under the influence of drugs at the time of incident and was booked under the NDPS Act too, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/srikrishna-was-under-influence-of-drugs-police/article37389347.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Data entry operator booked||A data entry operator working on contract for the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has been accused of misusing Rs. 67 lakh which he had collected as taxes from commercial establishments for the civic body. The cheating came to light when the health officer of Bommanahalli zone conducted an annual audit for the year 2017-18. Investigations revealed that the accused data entry operator, identified as Rajashekhar, had collected taxes worth Rs. 13.03 crore but did not maintain proper records. The Bommanahalli police have registered a case against Rajashekhar charging him under cheating and criminal breach of trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/data-entry-operator-booked/article37389354.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown today||There will be no power supply on Tuesday in the areas serviced by the Jayanagar sub-division. According to a Bescom press release, the areas that will be affected are: From 10 a.m to 5 p.m.: Urvashi, Swamy Alcove, 4th Cross, Lakshmi Road, Bikasipura, Mango Garden, Prathima Industrial Layout, Kashi Nagar, ISRO Layout, Kumaraswamy Layout, Pipeline Road, Vasantha Vallabha Nagar, Sarada Nagar, Maruthi Layout. S-9 Padmanabhanagar: BDA Complex, KIMS College, 7th Cross, 21st Main, 13th and 14th Cross. S9 Office Ringroad, 27th th Main, 25th Main, 28th Cross, Chinnappa Naidu Layout, Banashankari III Stage, Thyagarajanagara Main Road, BBMP Swimming Pool and surrounding areas, 1st Cross Road, Banagiri Nagar, Outer Ring Road, D.G. Hospital limits. Komarala Brigde Apartment, part of Gowdanapalya. From 10 a.m to 5.30 p.m.: S1, Jayanagar: Jayanagar 6th Block, Sakamma Garden. NIMHANS: Jayanagar 1st and 2nd Blocks. RBI Layout, Yadav Farm. Jaraganahalli, M.S. Layout, GKM College Road, Chikkaswamy Layout, Rajamma Garden, Govind Reddy Layout, part of Rajeev Gandhi Road. J.P. Nagar 5th Phase, K.R. Layout, Venkatadri Layout, Doresanipalya, Katahriguppe Main Road, Kathriguppe Village, KEB Layout, Ramrao Layout, C.K.Acchukattu, Hosakerehalli, Kalidas Nagara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown-today/article37389342.ece
09 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘No question of leadership change in State’||Accusing the Congress of levelling baseless allegations against the BJP government on the bitcoin issue, BJP national general secretary and State in-charge Arun Singh on Monday made it clear that there was no question of any leadership change in Karnataka, either in the government or in the party organisation. Mr. Singh, who arrived here to take part in the party meetings, told reporters that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had initiated swift and effective measures on the bitcoin issue. Launching a counter-attack, Mr. Singh described the Congress as a divided house due to serious differences between Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D. K. Shivakumar. Such a division in the Congress was not confined to just Karnataka and was visible in other States, including Punjab and Chhattisgarh, too he said, while blaming it on the failure by the top leadership. Seeking to downplay the episode of the party losing the Hangal seat, Mr. Singh said the party had lost by a narrow margin there while it had registered a thumping victory in Sindgi. Mr. Singh said the party leaders would hold consultations in this regard on Tuesday to learn from the bypoll episode to further strengthen the party organisation in a bid to ensure that it won a majority of seats in the 2023 Assembly elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-question-of-leadership-change-in-state/article37389367.ece
09 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Winter session in Belagavi||The winter session of the State Legislative Assembly will be held in Belagavi, likely in mid-December. Though the Cabinet has not finalised dates, it is said that the session is likely to be held from December 13 to 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/winter-session-in-belagavi/article37389374.ece
09 November 2021||elagavi,KARNATAKA||Property return parade||The District Police organised a recovered property return parade in Belagavi on Monday. Officers returned stolen valuables estimated at Rs. 8.58 crore, in all, to their rightful owners. These were recovered after successful investigation of 206 cases of theft, robbery and similar offences in the last one year. The valuables include gold worth Rs. 1.32 crore, jewellery, vehicles and electronic items such as mobile phones. And, Rs. 1.2 crore in cash seized from offenders was also returned. A large portion of the valuables were returned to owners after obtaining permission from courts, Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbargi said. There are some other valuables that will be returned to the owners through the police stations, the SP said. Additional SP Amarnath Reddy and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/property-return-parade/article37389602.ece
09 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Ensure systematic distribution of food kits’||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has said that officials concerned will be held accountable if there are any lapses in the procurement and distribution of nutritional food kits meant for children, pregnant women and lactating mothers. He was speaking after a surprise visit to the warehouse storing nutritional food kits at APMC Yard in Dharwad on Monday wherein he randomly checked the food kits for quality and asked the staff to ensure mandatory display of the food packets available and the list of the foodgrains in the packets. Mr. Patil said that the State Government has been distributing foodgrains and nutritional food kits to children in the six months to three years, three years to six years and school dropouts in the 11 years to 14 years age groups and also to pregnant and lactating mothers. “If there are any lapses in distribution of foodkits, the beneficiaries can directly complain to the district administration,” he said. He said that committees formed to monitor food distribution will have to compulsorily check quality of foodgrains and then, pack them as per the stipulated quantity. Parents sending their children to anganwadi centres should be informed about the availability of food packets and nutritional kits on a regular basis, he said. As the scheme is meant to address the problem of malnutrition, the officials of Women and Child Development Department should ensure strict adherence to quality and any lapses will be treated seriously, he said. Elaborating on nutritional food kits, he said that the kits meant for children in the six months to 3 years age group, should have 500 grams wheat, 500 grams rice, 375 grams ragi, 325 grams tur, 375 grams green gram, 250 grams groundnut and one kilogram jaggery. Malnourished children will also be given three eggs. For children in the three years to six years age group, the same food kits will be given, along with two eggs per week. And, it will be five eggs per week for under-weight children. For pregnant women and lactating mothers, the kits should have 750 grams wheat, three kilograms rice, 275 grams tur, 400 grams green gram, groundnut chikki 250 grams, jaggery one kilogram, 375 grams sugar, 50 grams masala powder, 250 grams edible oil, 500 grams milk powder and 25 eggs per month, he said. Emphasising on the need for properly educating beneficiaries and the general public on the scheme, he said that those showing negligence towards their duties will be held accountable for lapses. People could also file complaints directly with the district administration in case of lapses, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensure-systematic-distribution-of-food-kits/article37389596.ece
09 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Team visits tremor-hit Gadikeshwar village||Commissioner of Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) Manoj Rajan, along with seismologists, paid a visit to Gadikeshwar village, which was recently hit by frequent tremors, in Chincholi taluk on Monday. The team took stock of the condition of the seismometer put up in the village for recording the earth’s motion during an earthquake. It then visited the houses damaged in the tremors and interacted with the people. Mr. Rajan then proceeded to Ramanagar Tanda and Korvi village. He directed the local officers to examine the condition of the water in the village wells and submit a report on it. Speaking to media representatives after the visits, Mr. Rajan said that a detailed study of the tremors reported in Kalaburagi, Bidar and Vijayapura districts is on and the report will shortly be submitted to the government. “Two more teams are visiting the tremor-hit areas — one in Bidar district and the other in Vijayapura district. A scientific study on the recent tremors is under way. We will submit a report to the government shortly,” Mr. Rajan said. Seismologists Shashidhar, Balasubramanyam, Chiranjeevi, A.P. Singhe, Harish, Lingadevarau, Anveerappa and Mohan Kumar were part of the team. Chincholi Tahsildar Anjum Tabassum, Executive Engineer of Taluk Panchayat Anil Kumar Rathod and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/team-visits-tremor-hit-gadikeshwar-village/article37389608.ece
09 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Six arrested for murder||The Kalaburagi Police on Sunday arrested six persons in connection with the murder of Abhishek C. Nandur who was brutally killed in the city on Tuesday last. The names of the arrested persons were given as Murtuza Mohammad Ali, Sagar Bairamadagi, Akash Jadhav, Shubham Doddmani, Abhishek Moolabharati and Kaushik Halimani. The police also seized two motorcycles, a four-wheeler, four lethal weapons used for the crime. All have been remanded in judicial custody. On November 4, in a suspected revenge attack, 26-year-old rowdy-sheeter Abhishek Nandur was brutally hacked to death by the gang of six on the Central Bus Stand premises in Kalaburagi. Based on a complaint lodged by the victim’s father, Chandrakant Nandur, and also CCTV footage gathered from the crime scene, the Kalaburagi Police made the arrests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-arrested-for-murder/article37389594.ece
09 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||ASHAs felicitated||Congress leader and former Minister Santosh Lad felicitated hundreds of Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) considering their service in the time of the COVID-19 crisis in Ballari on Monday. The event was organised by Santosh S. Lad Foundation. “When people were afraid of COVID-19 and many were hesitant to work, ASHAs displayed their commitment to duty by actively involving themselves in the survey risking their lives,” Mr. Lad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ashas-felicitated/article37389606.ece
09 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rentals for private paddy harvesters may come down as diesel price falls||The demand for reduction in private operators paddy harvesting machines rental in Udupi district is likely to materialise with nearly Rs. 20 reduction in diesel price, deployment of 45 more machines by Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project and unity among farmers. While the government had fixed rental at Rs. 1,800 per hour for machines being rented out from its farmer service centres under the Yantradhara scheme, private operators were charging up to Rs. 2,500 an hour. However, only eight machines were available under the Yantradhara scheme across the district. A day before, farmers organised a protest in Brahmavar demanding, among other things, an increase in minimum support price for paddy to Rs. 2,500 a qunital and reduction in rental for private harvesters. Uday Bangera, a farmer in Mattu village, said that exorbitant rental charged by private operators was dissuading farmers from taking up paddy cultivation. “I am worried over continuing cultivation,” he said. Santhosh Mattu, another farmer, said that the government should not stop at fixing rentals for machines at farmers service centres but it should deploy more machines. Bharatiya Kisan Sangha Udupi district general secretary Japthi Sathyanarayana Udupa told The Hindu that farmers had been demanding maximum of Rs. 2,300 rental before the reduction in diesel price. Now, with diesel price getting reduced to Rs. 84.49 a litre from Rs. 103.91, they want further reduction. Negotiations were on with private operators, he said, hoping for a positive outcome. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Y. Naveen Bhat said that the administration cannot fix rental of private operators since it was a free market. Nevertheless, the administration has asked them to fix the rental on a par with government rates. SKDRDP has deployed 45 additional machines from neighbouring districts and this should bring down rentals, he said. SKDRDP Chief Operating Officer S. Anil Kumar said that deploying additional machines by SKDRDP in the district should bring down private harvesters rentals because of more competition. “We have been providing services at operational cost and even suffered losses,” he said. Joint Director of Agriculture H. Kempe Gowda said that the administration has asked farmers to negotiate the prices with private operators. Untimely rain has affected harvesting and the situation can improve as the forecast does not predict rain in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rentals-for-private-paddy-harvesters-may-come-down-as-diesel-price-falls/article37389859.ece
09 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP to support demand to name Surathkal Junction after Savarkar||BJP Dakshina Kannada unit president Sudharshan Moodbidri said here on Monday that the party will support the demand made by Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharat Shetty to name Surathkal Junction after Vinayak Damodar Savarkar. To a question at a press conference here on the growing opposition to name the traffic circle after Veer Savarkar, he said that Savarkar was a well-known freedom fighter. He underwent the most rigorous punishment at Kala Pani or the Cellular Jail in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands for his fight against the British rule. He was involved in the nationalist movement. The BJP also stresses on nationalist values and agenda. What is wrong in naming the traffic circle after Veer Savarkar, he asked. Mr. Moodbidri said that those who are opposing Savarkar have not read India’s history properly. They have not understood the role of Savarkar in the freedom movement. It is not correct to oppose the move to name the traffic circle after Savarkar. He said that many road junctions, circles and roads in the country have been named after foreigners and invaders who have not contributed anything to the welfare of the country. Those who are opposing naming the junction after Savarkar are not raising any voice against such names. Mr. Moodbidri said that many roads and circles in the city have been named after local leaders or those who have made significant contribution to the region. This tradition can also continue. It may be mentioned here that the MLA [Mr. Bharat Shetty] had recently written to the corporation requesting it to name Surathkal Junction after Veer Savarkar. The council of the corporation in its meeting last month referred the matter to the Standing Committee on Town Planning and Improvement to take a decision in the matter. The council is yet to take any decision on naming the junction as the committee’s decision is awaited.  ‘Veer Savarkar was a well-known freedom fighter; he underwent the most rigorous punishment at Kala Pani or the Cellular Jail in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands for his fight against the British rule and he was involved in the nationalist movement’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-to-support-demand-to-name-surathkal-junction-after-savarkar/article37389849.ece
09 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Harekala Hajabba receives Padma Shri award||Students of the government school promoted by Harekala Hajabba at New Padpu in Harekala rejoiced as they watched him receiving Padma Shri award from President Ram Nath Kovind live from Delhi on Monday. The school had made the arrangement to enable students and teachers to watch the live programme of presenting of the national civil awards. The students clapped and shared the enjoyment. Mr. Hajabba, in his 60s, had been eking out a living by selling oranges at Central Market in the city. One day, a foreigner asked him the price of a kg of oranges. He could not answer as he did not know English. Mr. Hajabba did not want the children of his Harekala village, on the outskirts of Mangaluru, to face a similar situation and decided to open a primary school. The school began in a madrasa on June 17, 2000. Later, it became a government school and the high school section was opened in 2007. Mr. Hajabba built the school with grants from the government, companies and from donors. Initially, he contributed Rs. 5,000, which was his savings from selling oranges. Now, it boasts Classes I to X. Mr. Hajabba’s achievement has become a subject of study in undergraduate courses in Mangaluru, Davangere and Kuvempu universities. In addition, Kannada-medium schools in Kerala have been teaching about him to Class VIII and Class X students. He has won various awards and used the money he won for the school itself. Padma Vibhushan Meanwhile, seer of Udupi Pejawar Mutt Vishwaprasanna Tirtha received the Padma Vibhushan award from Mr. Kovind, posthumously given to his senior Vishwesha Tirtha. The seer received the award in honour of the senior seer. Sri Vishwesha Tirtha Swamiji passed away on December 29, 2019. The 88- year-old seer was chosen for the award for his service in the field of spiritualism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/harekala-hajabba-receives-padma-shri-award/article37389864.ece
09 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||This hotelier is passing on his passion for surfing, kayaking||Hotelier Anish Panambur, 34, hits sea, practically everyday, around 6.30 a.m. at Tannirbhavi for a two-hour long surfing session. It is during this time that he trains students in surfing and stand-up paddling, and then holds kayaking sessions on the Phalguni river popularly called as Gurupura river. Mr. Panambur has been doing this for the past year as part of his Waves Surf School and Cafe, located off the Fathima Church Road that connects Tannirbhavi ferry point and the Tannirbhavi 2nd beach. “Hotelling is my main occupation. It is a passion for surfing and other water sports that has made me take up these activities by taking few minutes off from my main task,” he told The Hindu.  Humble beginning Mr. Panambur’s love affair with the sea started during from his childhood when he ventured into deep sea fishing in his father’s boat. During one of his visits to Panambur beach from his house in Meenakaliya, he witnessed a surfing session by swimming coach Partha Varnasi and picked up surfing nine years ago. Following the death of his father, it became his responsibility to manage the family comprising of his mother and three younger brothers. Among the jobs he took up included working as a lifeguard at Panambur beach where his surfing skills, and his traditional knowledge of waves, helped in saving many lives during his four years at the beach. Two years ago, Mr. Panambur opened the cafe near the Tannirbhavi second beach. He worked for few days with Mangalore Surf Club and conducted several water sports activities around the city before starting water sports and other allied activities from his cafe. As part of his training sessions, Mr. Panambur has been holding free classes for several local children in surfing, slaklining and skateboarding. “During surfing, I try to make students understand waves and enjoy the activity without getting panicked,” he says. Mr. Panambur has been holding one hour kayaking sessions, especially during high tide. Among those who have undertaken session, include a couple from the city who used it for their pre-wedding shoot. “People call me a day early and I assign the session by observing the condition of the river,” he says and adds that good number of people kayak to de-stress and also as a weekly fitness activity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/this-hotelier-is-passing-on-his-passion-for-surfing-kayaking/article37389854.ece
09 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Complete work on Kadri Market building by February next: Mayor||Mayor Premananda Shetty on Monday instructed Mangaluru City Corporation officials to ensure that the new Kadri market building under construction is completed at the earliest and put into use by end of February 2022. At a meeting to review the progress of three market building projects he said that the new Kankanady market building has been partially completed. The pending works should be completed by December end. The traders shifted from the old building and temporarily housed in Kankanady could be accommodated in the partially completed structure. The officials were instructed to open the link road to the market building at the earliest and shift the traders there. The Mayor said that a Rs. 1.50 crore estimate has been prepared to take up additional works at Krishnapura market building. It will be approved soon.Deputy Mayor Sumangala Rao and the Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complete-work-on-kadri-market-building-by-february-next-mayor/article37389861.ece
09 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP State-level workshop in city from Friday||The BJP will hold a State-level workshop of all 24 Prakostas (cells) for two days from Friday in the city, according to president of Dakshina Kannada unit of the party Sudarshan Moodbidri. Addressing presspersons here on Monday, Mr. Moodbidri said that each cell has 11 members. Hence, 264 delegates will attend the workshop which will discuss organisation matters of the party. Of the delegates, 230 have confirmed their participation now. He said that the State-level workshop of the cells is being held after two years due to the pandemic. State president of the party Nalin Kumar Kateel will inaugurate it. National general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh will deliver the valedictory address on Saturday. Party in-charge (Karnataka) Arun Singh and youth wing president Tejaswi Surya will address sessions during the workshop. Mr. Moodbidri said that the workshop will also discuss on strengthening the party further. It will devise ways to reach the ideology of the party to the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-state-level-workshop-in-city-from-friday/article37389848.ece
09 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Door-to-door second dose from tomorrow||The Health and Family Welfare Department in association with Mangaluru City Corporation and National Service Scheme will launch Lasika Mitra campaign to administer the second dose of COVID-19 vaccine to people from Wednesday. Chairing a meeting at the COVID-19 war room in the corporation here, district health officer Kishore Kumar said that the district administration, the corporation and Mangalore University’s NSS would join hands with the department in this initiative. Awareness He said NSS volunteers would visit houses of beneficiaries who were yet to receive the second dose to create awareness and coax them to get it. In the first phase, the campaign would be launched in the corporation limits through all urban health centres and subsequently would be extended across the district. Training given NSS volunteers participating in the training were given necessary training in this regard. Dr. Kumar urged people to cooperate with the volunteers and make the campaign a success. District COVID-19 nodal officer Ashok Kumar, corporation COVID-19 nodal officer Annayya Kulal and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-door-to-door-second-dose-from-tomorrow/article37389860.ece
09 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Pre-schools also resume physical classes||Kindergartens reopened on Monday in Mysuru after a gap of nearly 20 months for resuming offline classes for LKG and UKG children. The government permitted pre-schools and anganwadi centres to reopen as part of its phased reopening of schools with the drop in COVID-19 cases. Wearing face covers, the children smilingly returned to school and they were warmly welcomed by their teachers with sweets, chocolates and balloons. Most schools were colourfully decorated to greet the children. The schools have been asked to strictly comply with the guidelines issued by the government on COVID-19. Two doses of vaccination of teachers and the school staff has been made compulsory. Some schools had erected welcome arches to greet children who were dropped by their parents. Vaccination status The schools have also collected details on the vaccination status of parents as a precaution. Consent letter from the parents is a must to attend physical classes and the schools in Mysuru ensured the parents submitted letters before the physical classes commenced. Mysuru has 1,046 government primary schools with 43 of them having kindergarten sections. Also, the district has 132 private aided schools and nearly 586 unaided schools running kindergarten classes. Barring a few, most of them resumed physical classes from Monday, after sanitising and cleaning their premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pre-schools-also-resume-physical-classes/article37389775.ece
09 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah lashes out at BJP||Siddaramaiah, former Chief Minister, on Monday hit out at the BJP for allegedly distorting his statements on certain Dalit leaders joining the BJP with the intention of maligning him. Speaking after inaugurating the Sri Varasiddhi Vinayaka Temple and Guest House constructed in Kanaka Bhavan premises in Mandya, Mr. Siddaramaiah said he had pointed out that certain Dalit leaders like Ramesh Jigajinagi, Govind Karjol and Narayanaswamy had joined the BJP for ‘selfish reasons’ as the saffron party through its leaders like Ananthkumar Hegde had proclaimed that the party had come to power to change the Constitution given by B.R. Ambedkar. But, the BJP leaders allegedly twisted his statement on the Dalit leaders joining the saffron party with the intention to malign him. Referring to the protests organised by the BJP against him, where his effigy was set on fire, Mr. Siddaramaiah said neither he nor the people, who followed him, will be affected by such protests. Cautioning the people against BJP, he said the saffron partymen were the most ‘casteist’ people, yet they falsely accused him of being casteist, and sought to remind the gathering that it was he who had begun organising the Jayanti programmes of Kempe Gowda, Kittur Rani Chennamma, Tipu, Bhageeratha, Krishna, etc. He said the BJP was targeting him out of ‘jealousy’ as he was the only Chief Minister after D. Devaraj Urs to complete a full term of 5 years. Referring to the questions raised by certain people on his contribution to the Kuruba community to which he belonged, Mr. Siddaramaiah said there were poor and underprivileged people in all castes and sections of the society. “Did I become the Chief Minister to serve only one caste? All poor people in the society should be given justice,” he said, while adding that the welfare programmes implemented during his tenure at the helm had helped the poor people from all castes and communities. “I have worked for the welfare of people, who had been denied of opportunities in the society,” he said. The former Chief Minister accused the BJP of practising ‘anti-backward classes’ policies while claiming that the Congress provided political reservation to backward classes in 1994 after which several leaders from the backward classes were winning elections to local bodies in the categories reserved for them. He said the BJP had moved the court against the political reservation extended by the Congress to the backward classes, but the Supreme Court upheld the reservation. He claimed that the political situation in the State was conducive for the Congress to return to power and called upon the people to bring the party back to power so that pro-poor programmes are implemented in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-lashes-out-at-bjp/article37389610.ece
09 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Birth certificates to be issued at Lok Adalat||A birth certificate issuing programme has been included in the Lok Adalat scheduled to be held in Mysuru on December 18. At a press conference in Mysuru on Monday, Principal District and Sessions Court Judge M.L. Raghunath said the Mysuru District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) had found that thousands of children studying in schools in the district did not possess birth certificates. The DLSA through its panel of advocates and legal volunteers had already begun distributing application forms for issue of birth certificates in schools, mostly in rural areas. The school authorities will have to give the application forms to the parents and have them filled up. The application forms will be registered and notices will be issued to the jurisdictional births and deaths registration officer, who will come to the Lok Adalat and take steps to issue the birth certificates. The Lok Adalat, to be held at Malalavadi court complex, is part of the national Lok Adalat programme to be held all across the country. The District Principal and Sessions Court judge also said that DLSA had set a target of resolving 40,000 cases during the event by identifying motor vehicle accident cases, cheque bounce cases registered under the Negotiable Instruments Act, land acquisition cases, marital and domestic dispute cases, compoundable criminal cases and other civil cases like partition suits, injunction suits etc. More than one lakh cases were pending in Mysuru and all pending cases as well as pre-litigation cases will be taken up, the judge said while calling up upon the litigants to resolve their disputes through mediation, counselling and conciliation at the Lok Adalat. The DLSA, as part of the Pan India Outreach programme, had launched a legal awareness programme in all the villages of the district and covered about 80 per cent of the district. The remaining 20 per cent will be covered this week. The last Lok Adalat saw about 19,500 disputes being resolved. During the previous three Lok Adalats, about 80 couples, who had applied for divorce, were re-united and the DLSA was hoping to resolve 20 more such cases this time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/birth-certificates-to-be-issued-at-lok-adalat/article37389771.ece
09 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rangoli tribute to Puneeth||An artist in Mysuru has paid homage to Puneeth Rajkumar by sketching the latter’s portrait using rangoli art, on the occasion of the late actor’s 11th day death ceremony. Raghavendra Rao, drawing teacher at Kala Prapancha, has outlined the late actor’s image using various rangoli colours. He took almost 24 hours to complete the work. Mr. Rao, who is also a purohit, started sketching on Sunday and finished on Monday evening. “The colours that I have used were procured from Nashik and Pune. The rangoli appears like a portrait painting,” he said. The fans of the late actor can watch the rangoli art at Kala Prapancha, an art school, located near Gana Bharati in Kuvempunagar. “I will keep the work for at least two to three days for the fans to see it and pay their tribute,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rangoli-tribute-to-puneeth/article37389600.ece
09 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||TP status sought||Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Bagadi Gautham has urged the government to upgrade Saligrama gram panchayat to a town panchayat. His letter to the Director of Municipal Administration Directorate in Bengaluru follows the carving out of Saligrama taluk from K.R. Nagar taluk recently. The proposal was accompanied by a map of Saligrama, its population, density, expansion and other details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tp-status-sought/article37389772.ece
09 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Hemavati water to fill up 11 lakes in Mandya||The project of drawing Hemavati water for filling up 11 lakes of K.R. Pet taluk in Mandya has been approved at a cost of Rs. 22.50 crore. This is expected to irrigate 5,000-6,000 acres of farmland in the area. In total, irrigation projects costing nearly Rs. 33 crore have been cleared for Mandya. Minister in charge of Mandya district K.C. Narayana Gowda said in a press release on Monday that the project of drawing Hemavati river water to Bevinahalli in K.R. Pet taluk (for Rangenahalli drinking water phase-II project) and filling up 11 lakes received administrative approval at Monday’s Cabinet meeting. The lakes are Geddehosur, Honnenahalli, Muddanahalli, Kyathanahalli, Chowdasamudra, Biruvalli, Hangara Muddanahalli, Beekanahalli, Arenahalli, Gubballi and Sakshibeedu. The project of constructing check dams across a stream at Kanaganahalli in Pandavapura taluk has also received administrative approval. The work on drawing water for filling up 32 lakes taken up in the first phase was under progress. In the second phase, Hemavati water will be filled up in 11 lakes. Besides helping in irrigating farmlands, the lakes would largely benefit the residents of nearby villages and also their livestock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hemavati-water-to-fill-up-11-lakes-in-mandya/article37389773.ece
09 November 2021||Udupi,KARNATAKA||Anganwadis resume physical classes||Tiny tots were extended a warm welcome at anganwadi centres in Udupi district as physical classes for pre-primary kids resumed following a government order on Monday. Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao visited the Anganwadi Centre at Kadiyali in Udupi city and welcomed the kids with chocolates. The centre was decorated with balloons, flowers and other decorative items. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Rao expressed happiness over the preparations to welcome kids back to anganwadis and the safety measures undertaken. He said parents were bringing kids to the centres with enthusiasm. All the 1,191 anganwadi centres in the district have resumed operation from Monday by taking abundant care about the safety of kids. He urged parents to send their wards to the centres without any hesitation. Kids arriving at the Kajaraguthu Anganwadi centre in the district were welcomed with Aarathi and flowers. Zilla Panchayat CEO Y. Naveen Bhat, Women and Child Development deputy director Sheshappa, Kodibettu Gram Panchayat President Asha Rai and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anganwadis-resume-physical-classes/article37389857.ece
09 November 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Two couples, fans of Puneeth, pledge their bodies to RIMS||Emulating Puneeth Rajkumar’s gesture in donating his eyes, two couples have pledged to donate their bodies and 52 people their eyes, while 80 donated blood in Yadgir. Fans of the late actor in Yadgir district recently signed agreements stating that they will donate their bodies and eyes to contribute to society as Puneeth did. Among them were two couples who have donated their bodies to the Raichur Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Raichur. And, 52 people have donated their eyes to Meenakshi Netralaya in Yadgir. The two couples Hanumayya Nidajinthi, a teacher in a government school in Mundargi, and his wife, Vijayalakshmi, and Mallikarjun Kalal and his wife, Ashwini Kalal, have donated their bodies to RIMS. “Our bodies will be cremated after death as per ritual. Instead of letting our bodies go waste, we decided to donate them and hence, signed an agreement with RIMS. Now-a-days, the percentage of those donating bodies to medical colleges for study has reduced. We are fans of Appu (Puneeth Rajkumar) and have followed in his footsteps to contribute to society,” Mr. Nidajinthi and Mr. Kalal said. The deceased actor had emulated his late father and actor Rajkumar by donating his eyes and doctors have transplanted them giving a new lease of life to four people. Of the 52 who have donated their eyes were 15 women, all fans of the late actor. They are Balaji Police, Shivaraj, Vijay Dasanakeri, Vishwanath Nayak, Nagappa Ashanal, Mallappa, Venkatesh Pujari, Devindrappa Kalal, Jayashree Kalal, Anjaneya, Khandappa, Harsha Shahabadkar, Bhimayya Kalal, Ramesh, Devappagouda, Parvathi, Bhimanna Anpur, Rekha Police, Beerappa Pujari, Sangeetha, Roopa, Sathish, Revanna, Basavaraj, Mallikarjun Nayak, Rashmi Varad, Jayashree Varad, Danappa, Vasanth Reddy, Shivaraj, Totendra, Badrinath, Lakshmi, Bharathi, Shivakumar, Shankrappa, Guru, Rajnikanth, Venkatesh Badiger, Rachamma, Anitha Masan, Ajay Masan, Sharanu, Chandrakanth Hadapad, Eshappa, Ramesh, Ambika, Rajalakshmi, Bhagyashree, Sneha, Hanumanth and Mallayya Kalal. And, 80 fans of Puneeth donated their blood to help needy patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-couples-fans-of-puneeth-pledge-their-bodies-to-rims/article37389590.ece
09 November 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Two die after touching live wire||Two youth from Gurmitkal in Yadgir district died after they came in contact with a live electricity cable at Singaram Cross in Narayanpet Town of Telangana State recently. Sources gave the names of the deceased as Vamsiraj Patti (21) and Ravi Hugar (22). The incident occurred when the two were having dinner on the terrace of a building. A friend of theirs suffered burns when he tried to rescue them. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-die-after-touching-live-wire/article37389595.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Welcome back||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/welcome-back/article37389598.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Gloomy weather||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gloomy-weather/article37389353.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||National honour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/national-honour/article37389373.ece
09 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||One injured as DYFI, SDPI activists clash||A tense situation prevails in and around Mankamkuzhy near Mavelikara following clashes between Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) and Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) activists. According to the police, at least one person sustained serious injuries in a clash between the two groups at Mambra Colony at Mankamkuzhy on Sunday night. Arunkumar, 21, of Vettiyar, a DYFI activist, who sustained serious stab injuries on his chest was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam. Following the incident, two houses in the area came under attack. A two-wheeler belonging to an SDPI leader was found torched in a field on Monday morning. The police said that Arun was going to meet a friend of his at the colony when his motorbike collided with a two-wheeler of an SDPI activist. A war of words ensued. After the initial altercation, the two parties exchanged words over the phone. As per the statement of Arun, he was invited to the house of an SDPI activist identified as Shameer on the pretext of settling the issue amicably. On reaching the house, Arun and two other DYFI activists accompanying him were attacked by a gang. The Kurathikad police have arrested five SDPI activists in connection with the attack on the DYFI member. They have been identified as Shameer, Aji, Noushad, Shamnas and Shahnaz. Officials said that the arrested were booked for attempt to murder. Security has been beefed up in the area in view of the volatile situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-injured-as-dyfi-sdpi-activists-clash/article37389752.ece
09 November 2021||DAteline,KERALA||Elderly man found dead in canal||An elderly man was found dead in a canal near his house at Kannamaly on Monday morning. The deceased was identified as George, 92, of Kattiparamabu, Kannamaly. Though there were initial reports that he died following a fall after stepping on garbage dumped in the area, the police dispelled it based on a medical examination, which attributed the death to natural causes. The man reportedly had health issues and neither did he have external injuries suggesting a fall, prompting doctors to rule out the possibility of foul play. An autopsy report is awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elderly-man-found-dead-in-canal/article37389710.ece
09 November 2021||KAKINADA,KERALA||A.P. police seize 1,000 kg of ganja||The Chintoor Division police on Sunday arrested a five-member inter-State gang and seized 1,000 kg of ganja at Gollagudem junction under Mothugudem police limits in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district. The gang was produced before the media on Monday. The contraband was seized while it was being allegedly transported from Odisha Agency to Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh via Chintoor Agency. The accused have been identified as Manmohan Patel and Mohammad Haran of Madhya Pradesh and Robin Mandal, Amrutha Biswas, and Basudev Mandal of Odisha’s Malkangiri district. Speaking to newsmen here on Monday, East Godavari SP M. Raveendranath Babu said the gang was allegedly transporting ganja in a lorry that was loaded with cattle feed. The total worth of ganja is estimated at Rs. 1 crore. The gang was caught during the regular vehicle check. The police have registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1000-kg-ganja-seized-in-ap/article37389261.ece
09 November 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Four-year-old girl falls into septic tank, dies||A four-year-old girl who accidentally fell into an under-construction septic tank, which was covered with water, died on Sunday evening. The deceased has been identified as Sanvya, daughter of Shamal Krisnan, who is a resident of Payyanur. The accident took place at 11 a.m. on Sunday when Sanvya went to play in the field with two other children. She accidentally fell into the septic tank, which was under construction in a field near her house. The other children did not initially notice the girl had fallen into the tank. However, later while searching for Sanvya, they noticed her slipper near the tank and called for help. People rushed to the spot and immediately brought her out. The child was alive then. She was rushed to a private hospital in Payyanur and later to Kannur Government Medical College and Hospital in Pariyaram. But the child failed to respond to the treatment and died at 9 p.m. on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-year-old-girl-falls-into-septic-tank-dies/article37389676.ece
09 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||‘Every govt official should be human rights defender’||K. Baijunath, judicial member of the State Human Rights Commission, said here on Monday that the aim of all laws was to protect human rights and every government official should be a defener of human rights. He was speaking after inaugurating an awareness programme organised jointly by the State Human Rights Commission and Kannur District Police for police officers at the City Police Hall here. Complaints against police officers could end if they treated properly those who came before them with complaints. He said that all laws were subject to abuse. Police stations should be places where anyone could approach for help and they should be centres of human rights protection. Courts’ power Mr. Baijunath said the police should never be violators of human rights. The police had the power only to investigate and prevent crime. Only the courts had the power to punish. “We need to make the next generation aware of what human rights are and they need to have the wisdom not to break the law,” he said. Everyone should have the mindset not to violate others’ rights, Mr. Baijunath said. District Police Chief R. Ilango addressed the gathering. Rural SP Navneet Sharma presided over the event. Additional SP Prince Abraham and others also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/every-govt-official-should-be-human-rights-defender/article37389679.ece
09 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Burning of refuse in public places to be banned in Kochi||Burning of refuse in open places, streets, and public roads will soon be legally banned in Kochi. There will also be a ban on storage, packing and distribution of food materials in recycled carry bags, containers, and utensils. The proposals are part of the Plastic, Solid, Liquid and E-Waste Handling Rules 2021, which will soon come up before the Kochi Corporation Council for approval. Hotels, restaurants, catering units, and fish and meat processing units operating within the Corporation limits should set up their own solid and liquid waste treatment facilities. The setting up and running of such facilities will soon be made part of their licence, according to the draft bylaw of the civic body. The legislation will have a bearing on all public places, private holdings, residential units, and trade and business centres located within the Corporation limits. Marriage halls, hospitals, canteens, and private markets too will have to set up their own treatment facilities. The treatment plants shall be set up on holdings owned by them. However, the Corporation shall collect refuse from those who cannot set up plants due to space constraints. They will have to pay the user fee fixed by the civic body, according to the draft legislation. Plastic carry bags The draft bylaw reinforces the ban on use of plastic carry bags within the city limits in accordance with the provisions of the Plastic Waste Management Handling Rules, 2016. All traders should prominently display boards in English and the regional language on the ban on use of plastic carry bags, it says. A technical officer, to be authorised by the Corporation Secretary, will be responsible for implementing the bylaw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/burning-of-refuse-in-public-places-to-be-banned-in-kochi/article37389705.ece
09 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Dysfunctional street lights give jitters to motorists||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Kochi Corporation are facing flak for dysfunctional street lights and blinker lights at U-turns on the accident-prone Vyttila-Edappally NH Bypass. This has resulted in both pedestrians and motorists standing a high risk of meeting with accidents on the 6-km corridor which is used by an estimated 80,000 passenger car units (PCUs) every day. The traffic police said overspeeding and dysfunctional street lights could be the reasons for last week’s car accident near Palarivattom that claimed the life of Miss Kerala 2019, the runner-up title holder, and a co-passenger. The darkness that engulfs the NH Bypass has made it tough for pedestrians to safely cross over to the other side and to even walk along service roads. NHAI officials said instructions had been issued to the firm that was entrusted with the operation, maintenance, and toll collection (OMT) on the Edappally-Aroor NH Bypass stretch, to ensure that blinkers were operational at all U-turns and to prune branches of trees that hampered lights. Sources in the Kochi Corporation, which is vested with the responsibility of funding the installation of street lights and their upkeep, said the annual maintenance contract (AMC) mode might have to be adopted to ensure that street lights were in working condition, since damage to cables and other systems often resulted in street lights in the entire road corridor and high-mast lights at junctions becoming dysfunctional. “On its part, the NHAI’s patrol team ought to report such instances to the agency concerned. This is most often not done. They are keen only on toll collection,” they added. Meanwhile, KSEB sources said its responsibility was mainly to switch on and off lights and ensure power supply up to the control points. The onus of their upkeep is with the civic agencies. Faced with a similar situation beneath the Palarivattom-Ernakulam North Bridge metro corridor, officials of the KSEB and KMRL (which resurfaced the road) did a joint inspection, and defects like faulty cabling were rectified, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dysfunctional-street-lights-give-jitters-to-motorists/article37389702.ece
09 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A mission to turn KSRTC’s wheel of fortune||The financially distressed Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has embarked on a ‘change-management’ drive to change its much-criticised work culture. The agency has tied up with institutions that impart training in management studies to motivate its employees. Around 700 employees, including bus crew and supervisory staff, attended a five-day workshop at SCMS, Kochi, recently to help increase ticketing and non-ticketing revenue of the RTC. The change-management drive is being implemented with the help of Rs. 1 crore provided by the State Government. For most employees, it was the first time in their careers that they are being formally trained on a host of productivity-related areas. The agency KSRTC-SWIFT was constituted with the aim of ushering in a new work culture, said Biju Prabhakar, Chairman and Managing Director, KSRTC. Stakeholders associated with the initiative said the work culture in the KSRTC would hopefully change for the better in another three years, once all the 26,000-odd employees attended such training programmes. The KSRTC has been facing flak for low productivity, low fuel efficiency and high operational expense of buses, vis a vis most other RTCs in the country. This has been attributed to appointments made through the backdoor and with political considerations. Enthusiastic response The training focussed on mobilising revenue by route rationalisation and scientific scheduling of bus trips so that it is a win-win situation for passengers and the KSRTC. Different ways of garnering non-ticketing revenue, like those being done by Kochi Metro to reduce the revenue-expenditure gap, too were discussed. “Contrary to the perception that most KSRTC staff were reluctant to change, over 80% were enthusiastic about the sessions. They cited a host of factors, including unhealthy trade unionism and depressing work culture, for the agency’s predicament. Put short, every employee, from bus crew to the top management, ought to get their act together to rescue the agency. Also, employees who perform should be provided incentives. This is any day better than a general salary hike,” official sources said. They said that archaic practices such as double duty, which have a direct bearing on road safety, should be scrapped as part of the turnaround strategy. In addition, driver-cum-conductor system should be introduced in point-to-point buses. The mechanical wing too needed a revamp. Public-outreach initiatives and a revamp of the website were expected to do wonders, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-mission-to-turn-ksrtcs-wheel-of-fortune/article37389713.ece
09 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC seeks reasons for not including fuel under GST||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday directed the Union Government and the Goods and Service Tax (GST) Council to explain the reasons for not including petrol and diesel within the ambit of the Goods and Service Tax. The Bench, led by Chief Justice S. Manikumar, passed the directive on a writ petition filed by the Kerala Pradesh Gandhi Darshanavedi, Thiruvananthapuram, challenging the GST Council's decision not to include petroleum products under GST. The petitioner pointed out that the council meeting had recently decided it was not appropriate to include petrol and diesel under GST at this stage. The council had met to consider a representation given by the petitioner seeking to bring the products under GST following the High Court directive. When the petition came up for hearing, counsel for the petitioner, Arun B. Varghese, argued that that the council had not given any proper reasons for rejecting the petitioner’s request. There was no application of mind by the council. The present situation was ripe enough to take a decision in this regard as the price of petrol and diesel was surging on a day-to-day basis and had a crippling effect on the economy. In fact, those who did not even use petrol and diesel were also equally affected by the price rise, it was argued. Different rates The petitioner pointed out that different prices were being charged for petrol and diesel in various States in the country due to different rates of tax levied by State Governments. In fact, it was an impediment to achieving harmonised national market as contemplated under Article 279A (6) of the Constitution. Cascading effect The rise in price of petroleum products had a cascading effect on all commodities, including essential ones, leading to an increase in the cost of living, both in rural and urban areas. In fact, the prices of fuel need to be rationalised, said the petitioner. The Centre and the GST Council could not content that if the fuel was included in GST, it would have implications on revenue generation. A constitutional duty was cast upon the GST Council to make a recommendation to include petrol and diesel under the GST regime. If it was brought under GST, the maximum tax rate would be 28%, the petitioner said. Though oil companies had no choice but to fix the prices as per the global market rate for crude oil, the higher rate of tax levied by the Centre and the State Government was impacting fuel prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-seeks-reasons-for-not-including-fuel-under-gst/article37389714.ece
09 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Infoparks to woo back companies||Infoparks Kerala is planning elaborate digital campaigns to bring back companies and restore campus life at Infoparks post-COVID. The digital video campaigns will be organised with the participation of companies, which, on their part, are making arrangements to bring back employees in a phased manner in the next three months. Entertainment programmes like band performances, which used to be a common feature at IT parks, will also be organised as and when the Government permits such events as an additional lure to woo back employees. “We are expecting to get a clear picture of the return of employees to the parks by January, as companies make arrangements for the phased return in view of school reopening and the near universal vaccination of the IT community. Unlike speculations during the first wave of the pandemic that Work From Home (WFH) would become the new norm, companies are increasingly swaying towards the many advantages of working from IT parks,” said Arun Rajeevan, Manager (Marketing), Infoparks Kerala. He added that very few companies had surrendered space in the parks. But, except for some big companies reducing their presence in multiple buildings for logistical reasons and relatively small companies, which were unstable even before the pandemic, there has been no large-scale surrender of space. In fact, there have been instances where companies, which surrendered space had returned for that space. Less than 10 companies have surrendered space, while around 75 new firms, both big and small, have started operations at Infopark Kochi since March last year. Companies will always have WFH as a tried and tested option that could kick in during an emergency now that they have implemented it and found ways to surmount its many shortcomings. But working from IT parks is cited to have definite advantages over WFH. “There is the guarantee of uninterrupted power supply and adequate bandwidth not to mention the sense of community and socialising that comes with working from under the same roof. Besides, there is a definite difference in mentality towards work between WFH and work from office. While team meetings can be held online, they definitely lack the same spirit as when held in person,” said Mr. Rajeevan.  Unlike speculations during the first wave of the pandemic that WFH would be the new norm, companies are increasingly swaying towards the many advantages of working from IT parks Arun Rajeevan Manager (Marketing) Infoparks Kerala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/infoparks-to-woo-back-companies/article37389707.ece
09 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Road accident survivor arrested on the charge of drunk driving||The Palarivattom police have arrested the sole survivor of the tragic car accident on the Vyttila-Palarivattom NH Bypass last week that killed two promising models, on the charge of drunk driving. Abdul Rahman, 25, of Mala in Thrissur was admitted to a private hospital following the accident and was eventually shifted out of the intensive care unit (ICU) after his condition stabilised. The police took him into custody and recorded his arrest shortly after he was discharged on Monday. He was booked under IPC Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and Section 185 (driving under the influence of alcohol or drug) of the Motor Vehicles Act. “Our investigation has proved it to be a case of drunk driving,” the Palarivattom police said. He was produced in court. One more dead Meanwhile, one more person succumbed to injuries sustained in the accident, on Sunday night. The deceased was identified as Mohammad Ashiq, 25, of Vemballur in Thrissur. He had been on ventilator support after suffering multiple fractures. The body was handed over to relatives on Monday after post-mortem. He was working with a Thrissur-based advertising firm and reportedly assisted several ad filmmakers. The accident had claimed the lives of Miss South India 2021, Ansi Kabeer, and Miss Kerala first runner-up 2019, Anjana Shajan. They were returning after a late evening event at a hotel in Fort Kochi and were travelling to Thrissur. According to a preliminary assessment by the police and the Motor Vehicles Department, overspeeding caused the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-accident-survivor-arrested-on-the-charge-of-drunk-driving/article37389711.ece
09 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Pennezhuthu to present poems of rural women||Little known talents among women in rural hinterlands with even little opportunities to exhibit their writing prowess now have something to look forward to. The Ernakulam district panchayat proposes to publish the selected poems of such women under a programme, Pennezhuthu, which is open to women living within grama panchayat limits. Women aged above 15 years can send their poems not exceeding 42 lines either by post or turn them in by hand at the district panchayat office or the District Women and Child Development Office on or before November 15. “This is an experiment of sorts and depending on the response we are prepared to expand it. Though it is now restricted to poems, we may think of content beyond it later if need be” said Ullas Thomas, district panchayat president. Though the opportunity is available to all women, preference will be given to those from the marginalised sections. The entry should be submitted in a prescribed form, which is available at all panchayat offices. The applicant should surface her name, address, and phone numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pennezhuthu-to-present-poems-of-rural-women/article37389700.ece
09 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||HC dismisses Anupama’s petition as withdrawn||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday dismissed as withdrawn a habeas corpus petition filed by Anupama S. Chandran, former SFI leader and daughter of a CPI(M) leader in Thiruvananthapuram, seeking to hand over to her the child given up for adoption by her parents. When the petition came up before the Bench comprising Justice K. Vinod Chandran and Justice C. Jayachandran, the counsel submitted that the petitioner wanted to withdraw the petition. The court then allowed the plea. Last week, when it was taken up for hearing, the court while declining to entertain the petition told the counsel for the petitioner that there were no reasons for the court to be proactive as the child was not in any illegal custody. The court noted that as per an order of the Child Welfare Committee, the child was in the custody of a couple in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-dismisses-anupamas-petition-as-withdrawn/article37389682.ece
09 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Chammany, three others surrender in Joju case||Four more Congress and Youth Congress activists accused of vandalising actor Joju George’s car during a blockade of the Edappally-Vytilla national highway last week in protest against the surging fuel prices surrendered before the Maradu police on Monday. Those surrendered are Tony Chammany, former Kochi Mayor; Manu Jacob, Youth Congress (YC) State general secretary; Jerges Jacob, president, YC Thammanam mandalam; and Joseph Maliyekkal, secretary, Congress Vytilla mandalam. P.Y. Shajah, State Secretary, YC, and Arun Varghese, Ernakulam block secretary, YC, are reportedly on their way to surrender before the police. Facebook post Mr. Chammany posted on Facebook that he was surrendering to the police as a law-abiding citizen and that he was confident of proving his innocence. The accused came in a procession of party leaders and activists led by District Congress Committee president Muhammed Shiyas. The police stopped the procession. The police had registered a case against eight activists on the charge of vandalising the actor’s car invoking IPC Sections 142 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 149 (offence committed by a member of an unlawful assembly in prosecution of common object), 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation), 341 (wrongful restraint), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 294(b) (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place). They were also charged under the Kerala Prevention of Damage to Private Property and Payment of Compensation Act. The police had already arrested Joseph George, convener of Indian National Trade Union Congress autorickshaw stand, Vytilla; and Shereef Buhari, former president, Congress Thrikkakara mandalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chammany-three-others-surrender-in-joju-case/article37389717.ece
09 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ganja seized||In a joint operation, the Ernakulam Rural police and the District Anti-Narcotic Special Action Force arrested three persons, including a couple, with around 225 kg of ganja worth nearly Rs. 5,62,500, on the national highway at Karukutty near Angamaly on Monday. Kalapurakkal Anas, 41, of Perumbavoor, Faisal, 35, of Okkal, and wife Varsha, 22, of Shankumukham were intercepted while they were smuggling in the narcotic in two separate cars reportedly from Andhra Pradesh to Perumbavoor around 7 a.m. on the day. Anas is an accused in several criminal cases, including ganja smuggling. The gang was reportedly under surveillance based on a tip-off received by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. The contraband was found hidden in tightly sealed packets of 2 kg each in the boot and under the seats. The accused allegedly attempted to flee by attacking the team, which intercepted them. They are suspected to have smuggled in the narcotic in the past too. The modus operandi was that the gang handed over the vehicles to agents along an isolated stretch of the national highway in Andhra Pradesh, and the latter delivered the vehicles back stuffed with ganja. The plan was that even if one of the vehicles was intercepted, the other could try to evade it with the contraband. They had reportedly bought ganja at anything between Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 3,000 to make a windfall back here by selling it at seven- to eight-fold of that price. The Rural police limits have emerged as a major transit point for ganja smuggling, mostly from the Andhra Pradesh-Odisha belt. In the last two-and-a-half years alone, the police have seized 260-odd kg of ganja, and the latest seizure has almost doubled it in a single go.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ganja-worth-rs-6-lakh-seized-three-arrested/article37389708.ece
09 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Transport 4 All Challenge’ task force||A kick-off meeting of “Transport 4 All Challenge” was set in motion here on Monday under the chairmanship of Shanavas S., the CEO of Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML). The Transport 4 All Challenge is an initiative of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs that aims to bring together cities, citizens and start-ups to develop digital solutions that improve public transport systems to better serve the needs of all citizens. “The task force will spearhead the integration of different transport initiatives of the government. If Kochi wins the challenge, the solution will be scaled up to build people’s trust in public transport systems,” Mr. Shanavas said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/transport-4-all-challenge-task-force/article37389703.ece
09 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Governor takes metro ride||Governor Arif Mohammad Khan took a ride in Kochi Metro from the Cusat station to the Maharaja’s ground station, on Monday. He was accompanied by Loknath Behera, MD of KMRL, and Aiswarya Dongre, DCP (Law and Order, Traffic) of Kochi. Speaking of the metro ride, Mr. Khan said he enjoyed the ride that passed through well-maintained stations. He had a special word of praise for Kudumbashree personnel, who helped maintain the metro stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/governor-takes-metro-ride/article37389709.ece
09 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Probe on into NEET complaint, HC told||The National Testing Agency (NTA) on Monday submitted before the Kerala High Court that the investigation into the allegations of manipulation raised by a candidate in her Optical Mark Recognition (OMR) sheet of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) was under way and a report would soon be filed before the court. When the petition filed by Rithu Sibi of Thrissur came up for hearing, the NTA counsel informed the court that a committee had been constituted under the joint director to conduct an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-on-into-neet-complaint-hc-told/article37389715.ece
09 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Road blockade: HC asks Govt. to file statement||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed the State Government to file a statement in response to a writ petition seeking a directive to political parties and religious and social organisations not to conduct demonstrations, meetings and festivals on public roads obstructing traffic. In his petition, K.O. Johny of Ernakulam sought to cancel the registration or affiliation of parties who organised demonstrations and meetings on public roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/road-blockade-hc-asks-govt-to-file-statement/article37389716.ece
09 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KPAC Lalitha in hospital, stable||The condition of actor KPAC Lalitha, who was admitted to a private hospital in Kochi with health complications, is stated to be stable. She was shifted from a hospital in Thrissur on Sunday and was admitted to the intensive care unit at the Kochi hospital. However, her condition has improved during the day, said Edavela Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kpac-lalitha-in-hospital-stable/article37389726.ece
09 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Four of a family found dead||In a suspected case of multiple murders and suicide, four members of a family were found dead at their house in Kottarakraa here on Monday. The victims have been identified as Rajendran (55), his wife Anitha (50), son Aditya Raj (24) and daughter Amrita Raj (21). Reportedly, Rajendran, an autorickshaw driver with mental health issues, hacked his family to death before committing suicide. While Rajendran was found hanging, the bodies of his wife and two children were found in the hall and bedroom. When Aditya Raj failed to turn up for work, his friends came looking for him and later contacted the police. The police recovered a machete from the house, allegedly the murder weapon, which was wiped clean. The Kottarakara police have registered a case in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-of-a-family-found-dead/article37389747.ece
09 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Battle over Pala’s legacy rages on||While debates over the political affiliation of Pala appeared to have settled temporarily after an acrimonious assembly election in April this year, the battle for this high-profile segment appears never-ending. Charged atmosphere The charged political atmosphere of Pala, which remains divided between the United Democratic Front legislator Mani C. Kappen and the Kerala Congress (M) led municipality, has been in the focus once again with the two sides locking horns over yet another development project - the Pala bypass. Setting the stage for this round of battle is the inauguration of works to complete remaining portion of the road, which was stonewalled by a dispute over land acquisition. While the UDF has highlighted the resumption of works as yet another feather in the cap of Mr.Kappen, the Left Democratic Front, especially the KC(M), has termed it as an act of self-approbation. The sparring sides, at the same time, are also seen vying with each other to hog the credit of the project. Inaugurating the function on Monday, Mr.Kappen pointed out that the LDF government had allotted Rs. 10.1 crore towards up-gradation of the bypass much before the Jose K Mani-led side joined the LDF. “The people of Pala are convinced about who actually attempted to scuttle the project by disrupting the price assessment process for land acquisition. The KC(M) chairman, who looks more concerned about the development of potholes on the roads of Pala, is least bothered about the damaged roads of Poonjar, which has his own party member as its legislator,” noted Mr.Kappen, in a veiled reference to Mr.Mani. He also challenged Mr.Mani to exhibit his competence by completing the stalled projects under the Ministry of Water Resources, which was headed by his own party leader. The LDF, on the other hand, has always sought to attribute implementation of the project to the will power of the Pinarayi Vijayan Government, while also maintaining that tender proceedings for land acquisition were yet to be completed. According to Anto Jose Padinjarekkara, KC(M) leader and chairman of the Pala municipality, the approved alignment of the bypass road required acquisition of more land while the case over a property at the Arunapuram junction was yet to be settled. “The project was designed during the tenure of K.M. Mani as the Finance Minister in the previous UDF Cabinet and to enable its implementation, he even gave away his own land. The LDF government, in consideration of the leader's contributions in realizing the project, hence decided to name it after him,” pointed out a senior KC(M) leader. Naming of road The naming of the road after the late leader, according to observers, has been integral to a plan by the CPI(M) to firm up its association with the regional party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/battle-over-palas-legacy-rages-on/article37389749.ece
09 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Man held for defaming KC(M)||The Pala police on Monday arrested Sanjay Sakkariya, a native of Panthrandam Mile near here, on charges of defaming Jose K. Mani, chairman of the Kerala Congress (M) and his party through social media. Officials said the accused, who had been absconding, surrendered before the police after his attempts to obtain anticipatory bail did not yield results. The police had booked a case against the person under various IPC provisions and sections 67 and 67A of the Information Technology Act. The case followed a complaint lodged by the KC(M) general secretary Stephen George. The case against Mr.Sakkariya, director of an automation company in Kochi, had sparked a major controversy with Mani C. Kappen observing a satyagraha on the previous Thiruvonam day in protest against an alleged attempt by the KC(M) to fabricate criminal cases against its detractors. The accused will be produced in court on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-defaming-kcm/article37389750.ece
09 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Dalit PhD student calls off hunger protest||Eleven days after she launched a hunger strike at the entrance of Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, against alleged caste discrimination, the Dalit PhD student on Monday called off her protest. The decision to call off the protest followed her meeting with a varsity delegation led by Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas in the evening. Based on a demand raised by the student, the varsity has agreed to remove Nandakumar Kalarikkal, the accused teacher, completely from holding the charge of its International and Inter-University Centre for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (IIUCNN). The accused teacher, according to the varsity, will not be holding any responsibilities with regard to the research programme pursued by the student. A decision with regard to ousting M. Charles Sebastian, a temporary employee of the varsity centre, too was made. The varsity has also assured to extend the deadline for completing her research by four years from March 23 last year, a date set by the Kerala High Court for the same. Besides ensuring infrastructure for research, including laboratory, hostel and library facilities, she will be also awarded the University Research Fellowship for two years. The university will also take necessary steps to clear the arrears due to the researcher as e-grant. A three-member committee comprising M.H. Ilyas, Dean of the School of Gandhian Thought and Development Studies, and Syndicate members Shajila Beevi and Anitha. R has been constituted to look into other complaints raised by the researcher. This is in addition to a panel to evaluate and oversee the facilities provided by the university to the researcher. The committee comprises Mr. Ilyas, Robinet Jacob, Dean of the School of Tourism Studies, Saritha Mohan of the School of Pure and Applied Sciences, Sambavi K.P. — mother of the researcher, M.N. Sajeesh Kumar, and Anuraji P.R.  Research guides E.K. Radhakrishnan will continue as her research guide while the Vice Chancellor and Beena Mathew of the School of Chemical Sciences will be the co-guides. The student, who had joined for PhD in 2014, launched the hunger strike on October 29 alleging that she was not allowed to enter the laboratory and faced casteist abuses from Mr. Kalarikkal. During the course of the strike, she also raised sexual harassment charges against one of her fellow researchers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dalit-phd-student-calls-off-hunger-protest/article37389718.ece
09 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||One injured in clash||An argument between two teenage girls snowballed into a major clash between two groups, injuring a 55-year-old man. The police took into custody four persons, including one of the girls, a Plus Two student The incident was reported at Mangad in Kaduthuruthy on Sunday night. According to police, the girls hailing from Mangad and Kappumthala had been friends for long but picked up an argument over phone reportedly over a love affair. Following this, the girl from Kappumthala, along with her lover and a few others persons reached the house of the other girl for talks. The compromise discussion, however, gave way for a heated argument between the two sides and eventually escalated into a scuffle. Ashokan, a local resident, was hacked by one of the accused while attempting to settle the dispute.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-injured-in-clash/article37389751.ece
09 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Project for adolescents to be launched on Nov.14||CHANK (Campaign for Healthy Adolescence Nurturing, Kozhikode), a programme of the Kozhikode District Panchayat to address the issues faced by teenagers, will be launched on November 14, Children’s Day. The programme is part of the Educare project of the district panchayat and aims at creating awareness among children, teachers and parents about the issues of adolescence, health education and cyber security. The programme is being implemented in 114 schools in the district, including government and aided schools. Doctors, counsellors and psychologists will carry out the programme in each school from November 14 to January 31, 2022. Besides equipping children as well as parents to identify regular behavioural problems and solving them, CHANK is designed to help students get the required skills for a safe adolescence. Their diet, daily routine, exercise and other health-related habits will be monitored. The programme will also help students and parents cope with the change from online education to offline and will also give them tips to deal with the difficulties related to exams and studies. CHANK was formed as a step to counter the mental stress that the children faced when they were restricted to their homes and computer/mobile phone screens owing to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/project-for-adolescents-to-be-launched-on-nov14/article37389671.ece
09 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||New OMR pattern baffles CBSE students||Delay in taking decisions by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) seems to be taking a toll on the mental health of students appearing for the exams of Class X and Class XII. The latest is the newly released sample Optical Mark Recognition (OMR) sheet for Class X and Class XII term-I examinations beginning next week. “I am totally confused with the new instructions of darkening the circles but again compulsorily writing the chosen response in another box. Also, we have to darken another circle if we want to skip a question,” M. Mariyam of Class X says. If the box is empty and the response is marked in the circle, it will be considered that the question has not been attempted. However, if the response is given in the box and the circle is left blank, it will be considered that the question has been attempted. The CBSE says that candidates have to respond both in a circle and box. Likewise, if all the three — four circles, box and last circle — are left blank, it will be considered that the question has not been attempted. “Already, many schools have completed two model exams in standard OMR sheets. Now, we will have to organise practice sessions for students in the newly released format within a limited time-frame,” O. Rajalekshmi, a teacher, says. In the wake of the pandemic, the CBSE is using the 90-minute Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs) form of assessment for the first time. The OMR sheets will be evaluated on the same day of the examinations. “The decision to use OMR sheets for Term- I examinations should have been taken at an earlier stage. So also, rationalising the syllabus owing to the pandemic,” Ms. Rajalekshmi adds. However, Thara Krishnan, Principal of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, feels that teachers can guide students with the new OMR format in the next couple of days. “The OMR initiative is good for students to develop logical thinking instead of the rote system of learning. We had conducted the model examination earlier in the old format. But now we will switch to a new OMR. Only a few students would need extra guidance,” Ms. Krishnan says.  I am totally confused with the new instructions of darkening circles and again writing the response in another box A student||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-omr-pattern-baffles-cbse-students/article37389681.ece
09 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut varsity to file appeal on teacher education centres||The University of Calicut will file an appeal within a week with the National Council for Teachers Education (NCTE) over the lose of recognition of 11 teacher education centres directly run by it. This was decided at a Syndicate meeting held here on Monday, which also discussed the steps being taken for a self-study report for National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). The NCTE recently cancelled the recognition for these centres while pointing out that they did not follow guidelines or instructions of the council. Their immediate closure was sought. Though these centres are supposed to have their own land and buildings, those run by the university are working out of rented premises. The duration of B.Ed. courses were increased from one year to two years according to an amendment in NCTE regulations in 2014 and the centres were asked to file an affidavit about this. However, the university teacher education centres did not do so. The centres which lost recognition are at Chakkittapara, Kallayi, and Vadakara in Kozhikode, Manjeri and Malappuram in Malappuram, Valappad, Aranattukara, and Chalakkudi in Thrissur, Sulthan Bathery and Kaniyambetta in Wayanad, and Koduvayoor in Palakkad. The academic future of many students are now in peril as classes have started for the first-year students after the first allotment. The NCTE has categorically said that these people would not be eligible to teach in any institution. The University authorities, however, allayed the fears and said admissions would continue. Documents proving the ownership of buildings and qualification of teachers would be presented to the NCTE soon, they said. Meanwhile, the Syndicate decided to institute post-doctoral fellowships to promote research works. Cash awards would be given to best research papers. Expert teachers from abroad would be invited to the university departments as visiting professors. The 22 projects submitted by the Internal Quality Assurance Cell were approved by the Syndicate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nod-for-teacher-education-centres-varsity-to-file-appeal/article37389672.ece
09 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Congress stages road blockade||The Indian National Congress (INC) workers resorted to a road blockade in the city on Monday as part of their State-wide protests against the fuel price hike. Though there were isolated attempts of resistance by some motorists who were stranded in the middle of the 15-minute strike, the majority stood by the protesters, expressing their solidarity with the cause. Parliament Member and former Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Muraleedharan, who opened the district-level protest, alleged that the State government was trying to scuttle the ongoing public protests against the petrol and diesel price hike by sending influential persons to the spots of agitation. This should be opposed by all means, he said. According to Mr. Muraleedharan, the Kerala Government was refusing to waive the fuel tax when many other States had adopted a pro-people stance on the issue. “If the government is planning to continue this apathetic approach, we will be compelled to launch long hours of road blockade for a favourable decision,” he warned. Congress leaders, who organised the road blockade, said all efforts were in place to ensure the uninterrupted movement of emergency vehicles in the city during the protest. All vehicles had been allowed to resume the journey ahead of the public meeting as part of the protest, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-stages-road-blockade/article37389675.ece
09 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Excise may order CB probe into detection of hooch in bar||The Department of Excise is likely to order a Crime Branch investigation into the incident in which a bar hotel manager at Kodenchery in Kozhikode district was arrested on the charge of procuring and selling a huge quantity of illicit liquor using old bottles of cheap brands. As part of the follow-up investigation, the hotel has been sealed by the officials, who have also carried out flash inspections in other parts of the district to check the quality of the existing stock. The district-level special squad that exposed the fraud by seizing 650 bottles of liquor from the bar on Sunday is now on a task to track the exact source of the adulterated product which was distilled and packaged following no government-approved quality parameters or safety regulations. In the checking, it was found that the poor quality liquor was purchased by the bar hotel management to escape from a number of tax payment liabilities and to net a higher retail margin by cheating the customers. “It was a clear case of illicit liquor trade where the brand names of some of the cheapest products were misused to cheat the customers. The liquor was brought to the spot in barrels and it was later filled into the used bottles of three commonly available cheap brands,” said Deputy Excise Commissioner K. Jayapalan. The main intention of using such stock was to avoid an accurate purchase record at the office and evade a number of tax liabilities, he told The Hindu . Excise Department officials, who were part of the raid, said it was the first such major incident reported in Kozhikode district where a licensed trader kept a huge stock of illicit liquor for resale. They also said a thorough inspection was currently underway covering all the 35 bar hotels in the district to verify all the sales records and check the quality of the stock. Shadow squads were also posted in some locations on Monday to monitor the business activities and stock management in suspected areas, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-may-order-cb-probe-into-detection-of-hooch-in-bar/article37389678.ece
09 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rural innovators’ meet||The regional Rural Innovators’ Meet featuring rural innovators from Kozhikode and Wayanad districts will be held at the Science Centre on the Beach Campus of the Malabar Botanical Garden in Kozhikode on Thursday. Qualifier The meet is a qualifier for the State level meet organised annually by the Kerala State Council for Science Technology and Environment for the unorganised researchers of the rural sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rural-innovators-meet/article37389677.ece
09 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Cong. stir leads to scuffle with police||A march taken out by Congress workers in protest against the State Government’s refusal to slash tax on petrol and diesel resulted in a scuffle with the police here on Monday. The stand-off between the police and the Congress workers took place when the former stopped the protesters at Sultanpet Junction. V.K. Sreekandan, MP, argued that the protest had been planned well in advance and that the police had been informed of the route. However, the police insisted that vehicles should be allowed to pass through the road and the protesters should not be allowed to occupy the road. When the protesters pushed from behind, a Congress local leader and a police inspector fell on the ground causing tension for a brief while. Strong agitation Inaugurating the protest, Mr. Sreekandan said that the Congress had succeeded in forcing Prime Minister Narendra Modi to slash the petrol-diesel prices. “If the Pinarayi Government is not ready to reduce the tax it levies on petrol and diesel, it will have to face a strong agitation,” he said. District Congress Committee (DCC) president A. Thankappan presided over the protest meeting. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) general secretaries C. Chandran and K.A. Thulasi, KPCC executive committee member C.V. Balachandran, Ramya Haridas, MP, United Democratic Front convener P. Balagopal, and DCC vice president Sumesh Achuthan were among those who led the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-stir-leads-to-scuffle-with-police/article37389801.ece
09 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Police trace missing kids to Coimbatore||Four schoolchildren who had gone missing from Alathur a few days ago were found at the Coimbatore railway station on Monday. The 14-year-old children, two of them twin sisters and two boys studying in Class IX, were missing since November 3. A police investigation soon extended to Tamil Nadu. Surveillance camera The children were caught in a surveillance camera at Pollachi and the search was intensified with the help of the Tamil Nadu Police. However, by the time the police reached Pollachi, the children had left the town. The police circulated the photographs of the children in Tamil Nadu. They were finally found waiting for a train at the Coimbatore railway station. The police said they were yet to confirm the motive behind the children’s decampment. It is suspected that the children had fallen prey to an internet game, and their escape from home was part of that game. However, the police did not confirm this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-trace-missing-kids-to-coimbatore/article37389457.ece
09 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Yuva Morcha agitation turns violent, six injured||A demonstration taken out by Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha activists to the Assembly here on Monday turned violent. Six people, including a senior police officer, sustained injuries in the clash that unfolded. The agitation was organised to protest against the State government’s refusal to slash excise duty imposed on petroleum products. While the march was blocked en route the Assembly using barricades, the protesters refused to disperse despite water being sprayed on them seven times. Barricades Soon, the protesters attempted to topple the barricades. This prompted the police to adopt forceful measures including lathi charge to clear the roads. G.L. Ajith Kumar, Assistant Commissioner, Cantonment, and five Yuva Morcha activists were injured in the melee. BJP State general secretary P. Sudheer inaugurated the agitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yuva-morcha-agitation-turns-violent-six-injured/article37389868.ece
09 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala and Vietnam to firm up ties, says CM||Kerala aims to strengthen industrial and commercial cooperation with Vietnam, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He met a delegation from the southeast Asian country led by its Ambassador to India, Pham Sanh Chau, on Monday. Workshop Mr. Vijayan, who addressed a workshop on Vietnam-Kerala cooperation here, said the proposed collaboration would open up ample opportunities in the farm and fisheries sectors. Kerala could learn valuable lessons from Vietnam in both sectors, he said. Vietnam had developed good practices and high productivity in the cultivation of crops such as paddy, pepper, rubber, and cashew. The country also maintained excellence in seafood processing and value-addition. In return, Kerala could offer good support to the country in higher education, professional training, information technology and online education, he said. Ample opportunities of cooperation existed for Vietnam and Kerala, Mr. Chau said. Joint working groups The formation of joint working groups would set the stage of cooperation between the two regions in agriculture and fisheries, the Ambassador said. Vietnam could also make use of Kerala’s progress in education and culture, he said. Exchange of climate resilient paddy varieties, integrated farming techniques, technologies in value-addition, and high-yield rubber varieties were possible through this collaboration, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad said. Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian, Industries Minister P. Rajeeve, Chief Secretary V.P. Joy, Planning Board vice chairman V.K. Ramachandran, Officer on Special Duty (Foreign Affairs) Venu Rajamony, and the Chief Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, K.M. Abraham, attended the workshop. The delegation also called on Health Minister Veena George after visiting the family health centre at Amachal and a COVID-19 frontline treatment centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-and-vietnam-to-strengthen-cooperation-cm/article37389755.ece
09 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ensure quality of TV serials, Minister tells channels||The Minister for Cultural Affairs, Saji Cherian, has urged television channels to ensure the quality of TV serials. The Minister was speaking after distributing the television awards at the Nishagandhi Auditorium here on Monday. Channels should display a sense of responsibility on the standards of serials that are aimed at the family audience. He also called for “moral censoring” on the part of the people responsible for such programmes. The Minister lauded TV channels for the responsible handling of news during the 2018 floods. During the COVID-19 pandemic, when cinema theatres and cultural centres had to be closed down, the television provided a certain amount of relief. The Minister for Food and Civil Supplies, G.R. Anil, presided. Transport Minister Antony Raju released the awards book by handing over a copy to V.K. Prasanth, MLA. District panchayat president D. Suresh Kumar, Kerala State Chalachitra Academy chairman Kamal, secretary C. Ajoy, and other Academy officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensure-quality-of-tv-serials-minister-tells-channels/article37389870.ece
09 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation publishes pending tax payments list||The city Corporation has published the ward-wise list of those who have pending building tax payments in Thiruvallam zone. The lists are available in the Corporation’s website, the Sanchaya website and at the zonal office. In a press release, Mayor Arya Rajendran said that similar lists for all the zones would be published before November 20. The adalats for sorting out the issues faced by those whose tax payments had not been recorded would be held from November 22. The Sanchaya online system has been plagued with issues including database discrepancies. Some of the payments made offline as well as online were not getting reflected in the system. These technical issues are being corrected and the database cleaned up for each ward. The software issues were revealed at a time when a controversy over fund misappropriation by some officials at the zonal offices was raging at the Corporation. The opposition parties staged protests for several days over the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-publishes-pending-tax-payments-list/article37389869.ece
09 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LuLu Mall to open to public on Dec. 17||The LuLu Mall that has come up along the side of the National Highway 66 bypass at Akkulam will be thrown open for the public on December 17. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will formally inaugurate the shopping mall on December 16 at 11.30 a.m. Leader of Opposition V.D. Satheesan will preside over the function. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, Shashi Tharoor, MP, Deputy Leader of Opposition P.K. Kunhalikutty, State Ministers and those from Middle East countries and prominent industrialists will also be in attendance, LuLu Group chairman M.A. Yusuff Ali said in a press release. LuLu Mall is spread over an area of nearly 20 lakh sq.ft. It will also include outlets of around 200 international shopping brands, 12 cinema screens, an entertainment centre for children, and a food court that can accommodate 2,500 people. The shopping mall also has an eight-storied multi-level parking centre that can accommodate 3,500 vehicles. Besides, around 1,000 vehicles can be parked in the mall basement. An open parking area that can accommodate 500 vehicles has also been reserved on the premises. An intelligent parking guidance system and parking management system has been set up in the facility to effectively streamline vehicular flow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lulu-mall-to-open-to-public-on-dec-17/article37389754.ece
09 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Yellow alert in 11 Kerala districts today||Several districts of Kerala are likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall till November 12, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) indicated on Monday. All districts, except Alappuzha, Kannur and Kasaragod, are on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall on Tuesday. The cyclonic circulation persisting over southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining Andaman Sea area is likely to develop into a low pressure area by Tuesday, the IMD said. It will then move in a west-northwestward direction, concentrating into a depression near north Tamil Nadu coast by November 11 morning. Meanwhile, the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services warned that high waves in the range of 2.5-3.3 metres are likely along the Kerala coast till Tuesday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alert-in-11-kerala-districts-today/article37389683.ece
09 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State logs 5,404 cases||The State registered 5,404 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday when 52,862 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden ever since the pandemic began now stands at 50,20,909 cases. The official cumulative case fatality in the State now stands at 33,978, with Kerala adding 262 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on the day. These include 80 deaths that occurred in the past few days and 182 that have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following appeals filed by bereaved families. The State’s active case pool had 71,316 patients on Monday, with 6,136 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-logs-5404-cases/article37389723.ece
09 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Private bus strike called off||Private bus owners have called off the indefinite strike announced from Tuesday, with Transport Minister Antony Raju assuring the co-ordination committee of bus owners' unions that the Government would consider all the demands and take a decision before November 18. Speaking to presspersons after a meeting with the unions in Kottayam on Monday night, Mr. Raju said there would be continued discussions to sort out the issues. The committee had called for an indefinite strike demanding an increase in the minimum charge of tickets to Rs. 12 and the rate for students to Rs. 6. Another demand was permission to charge Rs. 1 for every additional kilometre and a diesel subsidy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/private-bus-strike-called-off/article37389724.ece
09 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Food safety||The Food Safety Commissionerate has urged traders to use good-quality ice for the preservation, storage and transportation of fish. The Commissionerate on Monday also urged vendors to stop sprinkling sand on fish kept for sale as this is harmful to health. For lodging complaints, dial 1800 425 1125.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-safety/article37389759.ece
09 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tvm COVID-19 roundup||The district recorded 777 fresh COVID-19 cases and 905 recoveries as the active caseload fell to 10046 on Monday. The test positivity rate stood at 13.4%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tvm-covid-19-roundup/article37389867.ece
09 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Embracing a colourful world through art||Vattam, a painting exhibition held at Kerala Lalithakala Akademi recently, was truly special. The exhibition had around 50 paintings by Manikandan of Puranattukara, an artist suffering from Down syndrome. Manikandan, 22, fondly called Mani, who has been fighting diseases discovered a world beyond his physical limitations during his frequent hospital stays. Doctors advised his parents to overcome his disabilities through art and music. He started identifying objects around him through drawings. Drawing and painting boosted his confidence. When he proudly shows you his works, his eyes sparkle like the bright colours of his work. “Mani joined my art school around one and half years ago. Initially he could only colour pictures in the drawing book. But he showed amazing improvement in just two months. He started drawing things, which we showed him. He later joined my online class too with the support of his mother. Slowly he started watercolour paintings and making portraits,” says Niranjana Varma, his painting teacher. Themes Birds, trees, house, chenda, festival at the temple near his house and caparisoned elephants become topics for his paintings. From a stage when he had trouble picking up a pencil, he has improved to do watercolour paintings. The exhibition comes as an encouragement for special children and their parents who think their lives are limited to the four walls of their houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/embracing-a-colourful-world-through-art/article37389803.ece
09 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Report sought on student’s death||Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has sought an urgent report from the Kerala Agriculture University Vice Chancellor on the death of a student in the college hostel. There were allegations that the student committed suicide following ragging. Mahesh V. of Chittur, a BSc Agriculture student, was found dead in his room at the hostel on Sunday. The Students Federation of India had alleged that his death was due to ragging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/report-sought-on-students-death/article37389804.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For easing fuel prices||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-easing-fuel-prices/article37389757.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Assessing progress||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assessing-progress/article37389808.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Wet spell continues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wet-spell-continues/article37389873.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||High alert||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-alert/article37389269.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Process to cut trees was on||But, Forest officials cite a 1997 communication from the Deputy Inspector General of Forests and an opinion given by then Attorney General to argue that no clearances are required under the Forest Conservation Act of 1980 for undertaking activities on forestland leased before October 25, 1980. “The Periyar Lake Lease Agreement enjoys this exemption and the chief wildlife warden’s grant of permission is in order,” said a senior Forest official on condition of anonymity. According to this 1997 legal opinion, permission under the Forest Conservation Act is not required to carry out any activity that does not involve breaking up or clearing of forestland. The minutes of the SC-appointed Supervisory Committee’s October 26 meeting show that Kerala agreed to expedite all the pending forest clearances and “carrying out balance strengthening measures of the baby dam” by Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/process-to-cut-trees-was-on/article37389719.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Driving home a point||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/driving-home-a-point/article37389721.ece
09 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||High drama in Kerala court as 3 accused threaten to kill APP||The Alappuzha Additional District Court-II on Monday sentenced three persons to life term for the murder of a youth. Amid high drama, soon after the verdict, the accused threatened to kill Additional Public Prosecutor (APP) P.K. Ramesan who appeared for the prosecution side. Those awarded life sentence were Sajan, 31 of Aryad, Nandu, 36 of Aryad, and Janeesh, 38 of Kainakary. Judge A. Ijaz ordered them to pay a fine of Rs. 1 lakh each. The court also sentenced two other accused — Santhosh and Kunjumon, both hailing from Kainakary, to two years in prison. They were ordered to pay a fine of Rs. 50,000 each. Abhilash of Punnamada, the prime accused, was murdered earlier this year. The prosecution case was that Jayesh, 26 of Kainakary, was murdered by a gang in 2014. According to the prosecution, the gang attacked the victim’s house on March 28. Jayesh, who sustained serious injuries after being hacked, died on March 29. He was attacked as retribution for stabbing the prime accused Abhilash earlier. The court last week acquitted four persons in the case. Bid to attack police Soon after the judge pronounced the punishment, the court witnessed unruly scenes. The accused, who threatened to murder the Additional Public Prosecutor, also tried to attack police personnel. More police personnel were rushed to the court and the trio was later escorted out of the court. The police resorted to lathi charge to disperse members of rival gangs on the court premises. Two persons who entered the court were taken into preventive custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-drama-in-kerala-court-as-accused-threaten-to-kill-app/article37389266.ece
09 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will work to strengthen CPI(M): Sudhakaran||Accepting the disciplinary action initiated by the party against him, former Minister and senior Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] leader G. Sudhakaran has said that he intends to get involved in party activities more. ‘A more active role’ Speaking to reporters on Monday, Mr. Sudhakaran termed a closed chapter his public censure by the the party following the recommendations of a panel that looked into the complaints about electioneering in the Ambalappuzha Assembly constituency. Mr. Sudhakaran, a CPI(M) State committee member, said that the party’s politburo members Pinarayi Vijayan and Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had asked him to play a more active role in the party in view of the ongoing party conferences. He said there were no major organisational issues in the CPI(M) in Alappuzha and he would work hard to strengthen the party. The CPI(M) State committee on Saturday publicly censured Mr. Sudhakaran noting that he behaved in a manner unbecoming of a party State committee member during candidate selection and campaign for the Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-work-to-strengthen-cpim-sudhakaran/article37389265.ece
09 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Student injured in lathi-charge in Anantapur||A girl student of the Sri Sai Baba National Degree College here was injured on Monday when the police allegedly resorted to lathi-charge to disperse a gathering of students and student union leaders protesting against the reported option given by the college management to give up its “aided” status. About 500 students, supported by the Students Federation of India, were protesting at the college against the privatisation of the aided sections, and claimed that it would increase the fees enormously. When the police took students into custody questioning as to why they were agitating while no G.O. was issued to that effect, a clash allegedly ensued between the police and the students. In the melee, Jayalaskhmi, a final year B.A. student, suffered injuries after she allegedly received a lathi blow on her head. The police shifted her to hospital . The students criticised III Town Circle Inspector Reddappa for resorting to the lathi-charge which resulted in injury to two other students, while they were agitating peacefully. Some mediapersons videographing the incident were also stopped by the police, the mediapersons alleged. The State government on September 24 given the option to the aided colleges to surrender their posts and get derecognised and continue as private colleges. The student leaders demanded that the management hand over of the college to the government so that the purpose of setting up such a college by philanthropist Sirivaram Adinarayana Rao was served. They opposed the decision of PLN Reddy, the current chairman of the college, to privatise the college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/student-injured-in-lathi-charge-in-anantapur/article37389789.ece
09 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leaders flay police ‘action’||TDP ledaer N. Lokesh criticised the police action against the SSBN College students . He demanded withdrawal of all the G.O. with regard to the aided college/educational institutions. CPI leader K. Ramakrishna criticised the “unwarranted” action of the police at a time when the students were exercising their democratic right. BJP leader S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy termed it as an ‘anti-democratic’ move.   The Anantapur district police in a statement claimed that they had not resorted to lathi-charge and that the girl student, who received minor injury was the result of stone-pelting by the protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/leaders-flay-police-action/article37389790.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||New order to give promotion benefit for more SC/ST staff||In what is being described as having far-reaching consequences for those from the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, and Backward Classes in the bureaucracy, the State Government has said that people from these communities, appointed to State jobs on merit, should not be considered part of the reservation matrix for promotions. What this means is that more officers and employees from the SC/ST/OBC communities will now have opportunities to receive reservation benefits for promotions during their careers under the Karnataka Consequential Seniority Act. As per the Karnataka Civil Services Rules, 15% and 3% of promotions in departmental cadres are currently reserved for SCs and STs, respectively, that are calculated based on their population, and promotions are affected based on a reservation roster. A Government circular, issued by the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms on Saturday, clarified that those from SC/ST/OBC communities appointed directly through merit or those who have had promotions subsequently, based on merit, should not be considered part of the reservation matrix. “They should be considered general candidates and they should not be counted in the reservation matrix while calculating the cadre strength,” it added. The appointing authorities have been directed to identify merit candidates in the selection lists announced. “This circular has solved a 20-year-old problem. In a 1999 order, general merit, general seniority, and backlog were considered based on the current working strength of the cadre. Meritorious candidates were brought under the reserved category, which has now been changed,” said D. Chandrashekaraiah, president of the Karnataka State Government SC/ST Employees’ Association. He pointed out that the Karnataka Consequential Seniority Act, 2017, had also clarified on this issue, following which the Government has issued the circular. “The circular addresses confusions that persisted since then.” Correction sought Mr. Chandrashekaraiah, however, said that the circular was erroneous, since it had said that it would come with prospective effect. The association has written to the Chief Secretary seeking correction. Further, the circular has clarified that only those SC/ST/OBC candidates, who have not received any benefits except for fee waiver during appointments, are to be considered as general candidates. “In case if a candidate receives any other benefits, apart from fee, he/she will be considered as part of the reservation matrix fixed for these communities.” The Government has also provided options for the meritorious candidates from these communities to choose reservation in promotion during their career. However, if such a candidate chooses to seek reservation, such employees will be removed from the general list. Further, the circular clarifies that the reservation matrix cannot be stopped from implementation even if the 15% and 3% reservation of the cadre strength is completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-order-to-give-promotion-benefit-for-more-scst-staff/article37389253.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka Cabinet nod for new sand rules||The State Cabinet on Monday approved the Karnataka Minor Minerals Concessions Rules, 2021, and fixed the sand price at Rs. 300 per tonne at the gram panchayat (GP) level. Similarly, price of sand extracted from riverbeds and streams and sold in urban areas/towns/cities has been fixed at Rs. 700 per tonne.  A 25% of the royalty collected from the sale of sand will have to be provided to the GP concerned through an appropriate Budget provision, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy told presspersons after the Cabinet meeting. In coastal regulation zone (CRZ) areas of coastal districts, the Minister said, the Government has permitted extraction of sand by using traditional practices. It banned the use of machinery in extraction of sand in CRZ areas. Under the new rules, sand extracted from local streams, tanks and lakes will be permitted to be utilised for local community works, low-housing construction works or government works. Sand for government construction works will be sold at concessional rates, the Minister said. Extraction of sand from patta lands has been banned. Only the district sand committee will take a decision on granting permission to extract sand from patta lands. As per the new rules, a person who holds a licence for extraction and stocking of sand should establish an office, computer facility, close-circuit television cameras, weigh bridge, security at the dump yard or stock yard of the sand. Sand extracted from streams or rivers should be transported anywhere in the State. The period of extraction would be five years or exhaustion of permitted quantity, whichever is earlier, the rules specify. The rules have envisaged constitution of the district sand committee headed by the Deputy Commissioner. The members of the 11-member committee include the ZP CEO, the SP, officials of the Water Resources, PWD, Forest, and other departments. The committee will meet once in two months and take decisions on granting lease or working permission for quarrying of sand or removal of silt, inspection of sand bearing areas of dam, reservoir or barrage, reserve the sand block for Central or State Government development works. The committee also has powers to set up an independent committee of experts to assess the damage caused to the environment owing to illegal mining and sand extraction. The committee has been empowered to establish check posts for regulation of transport of sand and control illegal transport of sand. The committee will also punish in case of violation of norms by permit holders. Under the rules, the taluk sand monitoring committee, headed by the Assistant Commissioner and other department members, will meet once in a month and take decisions on allocation of areas for sand extraction in taluks. Under the rules, permit or leaseholder have to pay 10% of the royalty to the District Mineral Foundation Trust and the fund will be used for the rehabilitation and reclamation or any other environmental safeguards. A committee headed by the Chief Secretary and other government officials would monitor the policy at the State level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-cabinet-nod-for-new-sand-rules/article37389254.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Relief teams, helipads and relief camps readied’||Rescue teams, helipads, relief equipment and camps have been readied in Tamil Nadu in view of the forecast of a low-pressure area that could bring rain from Tuesday, the Tamil Nadu Revenue and Disaster Management Department said on Monday. Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran held a review meeting with officials on the state of preparedness. First responders and rescue teams are on standby to engage in rescue and relief operations. In the coastal districts, 121 safety camps and 5,105 relief camps have been set up. As many as 3,915 tree cutters, 2,897 JCBs, 2,115 generators and 483 high-power motor equipment have been kept ready. A total of 87 helipads for using helicopters for rescue operations have also been readied, an official release said. Satellite phones Fishermen have been provided 21,000 high-VHF equipment, 600 satellite phones and 296 NAVTEX and NAVIC equipment. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea from Tuesday to Friday (November 9 to 12). The Minister said 169 relief camps had been set up in Chennai and 889 people accommodated in 48 of them. A total of 1.52 lakh food packets have been distributed, he said. At the meeting, Mr. Ramachandran said 12 districts — Ariyalur, Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Erode, Karur, Namakkal, Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Tirunelveli, Tiruvarur, Tiruchi and Villupuram — had recorded 60% more rain than the average.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/relief-teams-camps-and-helipads-readied-minister/article37389395.ece
09 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reservoirs register good inflows as heavy rains lash Chittoor||Heavy rain continued to lash several parts of Chittoor district on Monday resulting in constant inflows in reservoirs of Araniyar, Kalyani Dam, Pedderu and Krishnapuram. In the rural side, 40% of the irrigation tanks reported full inflows in SR Puram, Puthalapattu, Irala, Tavanampalle, Karveti Nagaram and mandals in the eastern belt, which recorded heavy rainfall. The Aragonda-Kanipakam road was submerged under water, after the bund of Muttarapalle tank had breached on Sunday night. The Nagalapuram-Chinna Pandur road was reportedly damaged due to the incessant rain. On the brighter side, the municipal authorities expressed happiness that the situation would help overcome the drinking water crisis in the municipal corporation for the next one year. A total rainfall of 2,146.8 mm was recorded in 64 mandals out of 66 on Monday, as against 1,847 mm on Sunday. As per the latest statistics, as many as 38 mandals received excess rainfall. The NTR Jalasayam on the Chittoor outskirts was in spate with heavy inflows from the surrounding hillocks. ‘Crop damage minimal’ Joint Director (Agriculture) S. Dorasani said that the crop damage was minimal in Chittoor district due to the current rains. “Paddy suffered lodging (tilting of the strands) in 167 acres, which is mostly felt in Palamaner division. Coming to the Srikalahasti belt, the sowing of the paddy is yet to begin there. As such, the question of crop damage does not arise. The groundnut crop was also completely harvested,” she said. Meanwhile, District Collector M. Hari Narayanan instructed the revenue and police personnel in all mandals, vulnerable to heavy rainfall, to remain alert to the damages to the causeways and water-logging in low-lying areas. In view of the recent incident at Tirupati where a woman was killed after a car ventured into the waters beneath a railway under bridge, the official instructed deploying of the police at all causeways and regularly-used rural roads. Vigil at forest-fringe areas The police have also mounted vigil at the forest-fringe areas in several parts of Chittoor district, known for the scenic waterfalls such as Ubbalamadugu, Nagalapuram falls, Kailasanatha Kona and Mulakona in the eastern mandals. A police team was deployed to prevent public movement towards Kaigal waterfalls, near Baireddipalle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reservoirs-register-good-inflows-as-heavy-rain-continues-in-chittoor/article37389305.ece
09 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||PD Act mooted to check ganja smuggling in Chittoor||Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar on Monday said that in order to tackle the menace of ganja smuggling, the Preventive Detention Act (PD Act) would be invoked against the accused and their names and photographs would be displayed in police stations. The SP initiated the first phase of the “Operation Parivartana” (a counselling session for alleged ganja smugglers and users) at the One Town police station here. Speaking to the target group, Mr. Kumar said ganja peddling had been ruining several families and spoiling the future of the youth, mostly students. He said ganja smuggling was on the rise, using Chittoor district as a transit route to reach Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. “The ganja peddlers are targeting innocent youth and students. A number of special police teams are now working to take on the ganja peddlers,” he said. The SP said that so far 136 persons had been identified as actively involved in ganja trade, with links to the neighboring States. Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy said that during the last three months, several accused were nabbed in various parts of the district, and the contraband stocks were also seized in a big way. “Random checks on the highways, and intensified vigil at the border check posts are under way,” he said. Operation Parivartana would be held in a phased manner at Palamaner, Madanapalle, Puttur and Sri City sub-divisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pd-act-mooted-to-check-ganja-smuggling-in-chittoor/article37389781.ece
09 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tomato at Rs. 80 a kg unnerves public as yields plummet||Damage to the crop due to the inclement weather since a week, and plummeting yields led to a sudden spike in the price of tomato to Rs. 80 a kg in Chittoor district on Monday. Several vegetable markets saw no takers for tomatoes. According to information, the tomato market at Madanapalle, the largest in Asia, received 419 tonnes of tomato on Monday. While the first grade was sold at Rs. 58 a kg, the second variety was priced at Rs. 29.6 a kg in the wholesale. The market officials said that with the start of winter months, arrivals generally remain low. However, the climatic conditions in Madanapalle division led to crop damage in some stretches, leading to a slump in the arrivals. Vegetable merchants in Chittoor said that last year, the tomato prices slipped to below Rs. 10 a kg in November, with the business suffering under the impact of COVID first wave. While bulk stocks of the first variety were transported to Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad and other cities in the neighbouring States, the domestic markets in Chittoor, Nellore and Madanapalle were receiving the second and third grade varieties, which get damaged quickly. The skyrocketing of petrol prices had its impact on the tomato trade this year. The third grade tomato prices between June and October stood between Rs. 20 and Rs. 40 a kg in the retail market, but the tag was doubled from November 1 onwards. Prices likely to increase further An official at tomato market at Madanapalle said the prices were expected to go further up, and may cross Rs. 100 by the month-end as the arrivals had already shown signs of plummeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tomato-at-rs-80-a-kg-unnerves-public/article37389307.ece
09 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan discusses agenda for meet with Odisha CM today||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is leaving for Bhubaneswar to meet his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday. Both the Chief Ministers will discuss a host of issues including construction of the Neradi barrage over the Vamsadhara river, disputed Kotia cluster of villages and the Janjhavathi project. Mr. Reddy held a meeting with the officials at his camp office here on Monday on the agenda to be discussed with Mr. Patnaik. Neradi barrage The officials informed the Chief Minister that 103 acres of land was needed from Odisha for the construction of the Neradi barrage, of which 67 acres were riverbed area. The barrage would provide immediate irrigation facilities to around 6,000 acres in Odisha. With regard to the Janjavathi project, the officials told the Chief Minister that water for cultivation was being provided only to 5,000 acres of 24,640 acres through a rubber dam and completion of the project would benefit farmers. The completion of the project would leave four villages completely and six villages partially flooded. Nearly 1,174 acres, including 875 acres of Government land in Odisha, will be inundated. The Chief Minister will seek the co-operation of Odisha for the implementation of the R&R scheme. Kotia cluster The officials explained to the Chief Minister the recent developments in the disputed Kotia cluster of villages. Vizianagaram Collector A. Suryakumari said 16 out of 21 villages in the Kotia cluster had decided to be under the purview of Andhra Pradesh, adding that elections were also held in those villages. They said 87% people in the Kotia cluster of villages were tribals and there should be no hindrances in providing services to them. Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma, DGP Gautam Sawang, Home Secretary Kumara Vishwajit, Water Resources Secretary J. Shyamala Rao, Water Resources Department ENC Narayana Reddy and other officials were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-discusses-agenda-for-meeting-with-patnaik/article37389255.ece
09 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two centres of excellence at SRM University inaugurated||Member, Niti Aayog, V.K. Saraswat has said that India is going through a pedagogical shift in terms of policy and implementation and the National Education Policy-2020 has replaced the age-old redundant policies in education. Dr. Saraswat inaugurated two Centres of Excellence that SRM University-AP recently established to promote translational research. SRM Amara Raja Centre for Energy Storage Devices has been set up in collaboration with Amara Raja Batteries Limited, Tirupati, with a commitment to application-oriented research in the renewable energy and e-mobility. The Centre for Pioneering Studies in Gold & Silver will be working on flagship project with Titan Company Ltd (Tanishq) to develop novel gold alloy for contemporary jewellery design. The centre aims to work on projects in collaboration with Waman Hari Pethe & Sons, Mumbai, and other jewellery manufacturers to produce high strength 22 Karat gold and develop tarnish free silver alloys. At the University Research Advisory Council Meeting of SRM University, Dr. Saraswat said the NEP-2020 had provided opportunities to make the best use of human and natural resources in terms of education and research. “NEP-2020 focusses on making India self-reliant as a nation. Hence NEP-2020 is to create job providers, no more job seekers,” Dr. Saraswat said. Stating that the suggestions and recommendations of NEP-2020 had been curated to facilitate innovation and brilliance, he said that the universities and educational institutions were the core of knowledge creation and dissemination and they should be trusted with this responsibility of creating the future leaders. Dr. Saraswat proposed to develop Value Addition Centre in SRM University-AP to promote translational research. The centre would be strengthening the relationship between industry and academia to work on product engineering to deliver market relevant products. “For any country that aspires to be among the best globally, knowledge generation should be given importance. For a country like India, with a population of 130 crores, unemployability is a curse. Following the recommendations of NEP-2020, focus should be put on vocational courses,” he said. P. Sathyanarayanan, president, SRM University-AP, shared his vision to make the university a new-age world-class research university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-centres-of-excellence-at-srm-university-inaugurated/article37389308.ece
09 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition misleading people over fuel prices, claims Sajjala||Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that the YSRCP government is revealing the facts to avoid the misconception among people over the slash in fuel prices. Addressing a press conference at the party central office here, Mr. Reddy said that it was not fair to demand the State to slash the fuel prices, as it was the Centre that increased petrol and diesel prices. Escalating fuel prices had resulted in drastic increase in prices of essential commodities, which resulted in burning the pockets of common people. He said that the Union government had been receiving over Rs. 3,35,000 crore every year through various cess and surcharges. The excise duty was only Rs. 47,500 crore of which Rs. 19,475 crore went to States and the remaining Rs. 3,15,525 crore went directly to the Centre. He criticised the BJP leaders for taking up a “malicious campaign” hampering the State’s image, and trying to mislead people. He said that the government had already made a public statement exposing the facts related to the fuel prices and stated that the Centre was responsible for increasing fuel prices, therefore it is the Centre’s responsibility to reduce it. Solar power He highlighted that the loans taken by the Centre had increased from Rs. 57,94,533 crore to Rs. 116,21,780 crore from 2014-15 to 2020-21, which amounted to almost 60% of GDP. On the solar power purchase from SECI, Mr. Reddy criticised TDP leaders for drawing flak over the issue, and criticised them for purchasing solar power at Rs. 7 per unit and wind power of Rs. 5 per unit during the TDP rule, despite having a surplus power across the country. He alleged that N. Chandrababu Naidu looted the State, but the current government was moving ahead with transparent measures. He said that purchasing power from Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) would cost Rs. 2.49 per unit which was a better, cost-effective option to the State when compared to the projects proposed to set up by the A.P. Green Energy Corporation Limited. Mr. Reddy said the State would be buying power at a cheaper rate than Tamil Nadu, which purchased at Rs. 2.69 per unit, and said it would be more affordable to provide free agriculture power for nine hours in the day time for the next 25 years. He said the land sanctioned for solar plant could be used for other purposes and the initiative would save infrastructure cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/opposition-misleading-people-over-fuel-price/article37389876.ece
09 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Number of liquor outlets enhanced by little over 400 in Telangana||The number of liquor outlets across the State increased by more than 400. The total liquor outlets in different parts of the State now stands at 2,620 up from 2,216 existing so far. Excise Minister V. Srinivas Goud said the government had provided reservations to Goud community, scheduled castes and scheduled tribes as assured by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Accordingly, 756 outlets out of the 2,620 had been allotted to these communities while 1,864 had been allotted under the open category. The government had allotted 363 outlets for those hailing from the Goud community, 262 for SCs and the balance to ST community people and the allotment had been made following lottery system. The Minister participated in the draw of lots for liquor outlets in Mahabubnagar and Narayanpet districts held at Mahabubnagar collectorate on Monday. Mr. Srinivas Goud said the State government had introduced first-of-its-kind system to allot shops to the three communities with a view to improving their financial conditions. This was preceded by the Neera policy for the empowerment of Goud community people. In addition to giving priority to these communities, the government had relaxed the policy for allotment of outlets. Prospective licence holders should not furnish bank guarantee from one bank in place of obtaining guarantees from two banks till now. The application and licence fee had also been kept unchanged while there was minimal increase in the number of outlets which were much lower as compared with neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. Relaxation was also given in terms of bidding for more number of shops and licence fee slabs had been increased from the existing 8 to 12. The government had simultaneously taken steps to curb sale of arrack and steps had been initiated to check the cultivation and sale of ganja with an iron hand. Cases under the provisions of PD Act would be registered against those engaged in cultivation and sale of ganja and the government was committed to control sale of illicit liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-of-liquor-outlets-enhanced-by-over-400-in-ts/article37389646.ece
09 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||KCR dares Centre to take action against him||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has dared the BJP led Central government to initiate any kind of action against him as he was clean in public life. “I am offering myself for any inquiry. You can do nothing to us. We will not be scared of your tricks. We will fight with anyone for any length of time. It will only boomerang on you if you try to do something. It will only backlash”, he said responding to threats of BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar earlier in the day. Asked if he anticipated some action, Mr. Rao referred to the BJP leader’s claims that they would take place against leaders of rival parties and not that of the latter’s own. He said it had become a habit with the BJP to deploy Central investigating agencies to probe the assets of Opposition leaders in a bid to intimidate them. “But, there is no one here to be scared. We know our limits. Does it amount to crossing limits if we ask them to lift paddy from the State”. The BJP was also invoking sedition laws against rivals on charges of being anti-national. It was in this context Mr. Sanjay referred to him as anti-national when he spoke about Chinese headway on Arunachal Pradesh. Mr. Rao also said his property holdings were transparent and the hundred acre agricultural land at Gajwel where he owned a house was bought out of proceeds from thousands of acres that his family lost in construction of Upper Manair and mid-Manair dams. His house at Siddipet which he sold fetched him Rs. 16 crore but he paid an income-tax of Rs. 3.70 crore. The BJP targeted whoever questioned the undemocratic ways of the party. It was evident when Prime Minister Narendra Modi questioned him for calling him (Mr. Modi) a fascist when seven mandals of Khammam were merged with AP. “I admitted I called him fascist because we were not consulted when the merger took place”. Mr. Rao criticised the personalised attacks against him by the BJP. He had observed restraint throughout and carried on with his development agenda for the State. But, what had BJP done to the State. It was spectator to water wars in the country. What prevented the Centre from referring Telangana’s demand for reallocation of Krishna river water with AP to the water disputes tribunal. The TRS constructed Kaleswaram project in a record three-and-half years and won place in the famed Time Square in New York and also featured in Discovery Channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kcr-dares-centre-to-take-action-against-him/article37389257.ece
09 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘COVID third wave is here’||Over 20 months since the COVID-19 outbreak upended our lives, many have managed to return to normal life. But the fear of a third wave lurks. According to actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood, the third wave is here since people are still suffering the devastating consequences of the pandemic. “People who have suffered because of COVID, those who have lost their jobs, those who are not able to send their kids for education are suffering every day. Our job [of helping those in distress] does not end. It has to continue,” he said. Addressing volunteers from Telangana who have put in efforts to help people during the first and second waves, Mr Sood detailed the kind of obstructions that one could face while working for the welfare of people. He listed four obstacles that volunteers often face as ‘weapons’ — their motive is questioned and their work is seen as a stepping stone to enter politics; they are demoralised through criticism; they are physically harmed or maligned; and lastly, they themselves get a superiority complex. “The third weapon is murder — someone will be shot, or be subjected to character assassination. Some thing or the other will be done to stop you from reaching your goals. The final weapon is shradha (admiration). People start treating you as God. When you start thinking that ‘I am god, I will only preach and not do anything’, the work stops. Don’t let the sin win. We have to cross all those stages,” added Mr Sood. The actor added the work should not stop regardless of COVID situation as people are always in need of help. ‘Raids done out of fear’ Referring to these four ‘weapons’, Telangana Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao said there will always be attempts to character-assassinate like it happened to Mr Sood, and added that IT raids and ED raids were conducted on the actor out of fear that he may foray into politics. “But Sonu, don’t be scared of anyone. Life is short. We should do whatever is possible at an individual/ celebrity level as you have shown. You should not be deterred. We are all with you,” said Mr Rama Rao.  Sonu, don’t be scared of anyone. Life is short. We should do whatever is possible at an individual/ celebrity level as you have shown. K.T. Rama Rao, IT Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-third-wave-is-here-sonu-sood/article37389629.ece
09 November 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Process of nod to cut trees was already on||The process of granting the now-frozen permission to Tamil Nadu to fell 15 trees in a 40-cent area near the Mullaperiyar dam site to facilitate Tamil Nadu to strengthen the baby dam was going on for some time, suggest a set of documents accessed by The Hindu . Records of the third secretary-level meeting between Kerala and Tamil Nadu to review the Parambikulam-Aliyar agreement, Pandiyar-Punnapuzha scheme, Mullaperiyar dam and other inter-State matters on September 17 indicate that Kerala’s Principal Secretary for Forest and Wildlife told the meeting that “permission for cutting down the identified 15 trees is being processed”. This was also mentioned in the written submission made by Kerala before the Supreme Court in October. “It was agreed at the secretary-level meeting held on 17.9.2021 to give permission for transportation of materials to carry out balance strengthening measures of the Baby Dam by the Govt of Tamil Nadu and also cutting and removal of few trees. GoTN was asked to submit an application for tree cutting in proper format, but the same has not been submitted... (sic),” reads the note. While the November 7 order issued by the Principal Secretary freezing the Chief Wildlife Warden’s permission to cut the trees cites the need for clearances from the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and the standing committee of the National Wildlife Board, forest officials cite a 1997 communication from the Deputy Inspector General of Forests and an opinion given by then Attorney General to argue that no clearances are required under the Forest Conservation Act of 1980 for undertaking activities on forestland leased before October 25, 1980. “The Periyar Lake Lease Agreement, originally executed in 1886 and marginally amended in 1970, therefore enjoys this exemption and the Chief Wildlife Warden’s grant of permission is in order,” said a senior official. According to this 1997 legal opinion, permission under the Forest Conservation Act is not required to carry out any activity that does not involve breaking up or clearing of forestland. Kerala’s consent Further, the minutes of the Supreme Court-appointed three-member Supervisory Committee’s October 26 meeting show that Kerala agreed to expedite all pending forest clearances for maintenance of approach road and “carrying out balance strengthening measures of the baby dam” by Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/process-of-nod-to-cut-trees-was-already-on/article37389259.ece
09 November 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teacher sacked for joining with fake certificate||A teaching assistant in the Department of Management Studies, Shaik Rubeena, was dismissed from service in Dr. Abdul Haq Urdu University, Kurnool, on Monday after it emerged that she joined the university with a fake APSET-2015 certificate. University Registrar Byneni Srinivasulu began verifying credentials of all teaching and non-teaching staff who had joined the university after a similar case was detected in September this year. The Registrar wrote to the Osmania University, convener of AP-TS SET, seeking veracity of the certificate along with the hall ticket no. etc, after which Osmania University said the hall ticket number did not match with the name or marks purportedly obtained by Ms. Rubeena and declared it as not issued by the university. The roll number actually belonged to another candidate from AP-TS SET-2014 for the Management subject. Either a Ph.D. or pass in APSET is compulsory as per the UGC norms for appointment as assistant professor or teaching assistant in any State university even on a contract basis. Salary to be taken back The Registrar asked Ms. Rubeena to pay back Rs. 4.57 lakh drawn as salary for the past 19 months and dismissed her from service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teacher-sacked-for-joining-with-fake-certificate/article37389303.ece
09 November 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patrolling stepped up to tackle menace||Nellore police in coordination with sleuths of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) stepped up patrolling across the district on Monday in the wake of the seizure of 200 kg ganja and arrest of 20 peddlers last week. SPSR Nellore Superintendent of Police Ch.Vijaya Rao led the personnel in checking buses, courier service offices in and around the bus station, toll plazas, railway stations and godowns in remote places to check smuggling of the contraband, including ganja and illicit liquor. Bomb disposal squad roped in The services of bomb disposal squad as also dog squad were used for the purpose. Police found that the State-owned buses were mostly used by miscreants to smuggle contraband items, including gutkha. In Ongole, 500 grams of ganja was seized with the arrest of one person from Vengamukkapalem on Monday during the extensive raids conducted across Prakasam district to curb sale, storage and transportation of cannabis and illicit tobacco products as part of Operation Parivarthana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/patrolling-stepped-up-to-tackle-menace/article37389782.ece
09 November 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||35 police teams formed to curb ganja smuggling||The Rajamahendravaram Urban police have constituted 35 teams to put check the transportation of ganja and other contraband across the city. Rajamahendravaram Urban SP Aiswarya Rastogi inspected parcel service offices and public places including bus stations and inquired about the details of the parcels. Speaking to reporters during the inspection, Mr. Rastogi appealed to all the parcel service firms to install CCTV cameras at their offices and store the data for a month. The SP said that sniffer dog squads and other necessary logistics support would be provided to the 35 teams to track and monitor the illegal transportation of ganja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/35-police-teams-formed-to-curb-ganja-smuggling/article37389827.ece
09 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. conspiring to help T.N., says Opposition UDF||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition walked out of the Assembly on Monday, accusing the Government of conspiring to advantage Tamil Nadu in the Mullaperiyar dam dispute. Congress legislator Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan, who moved an adjournment motion to debate the matter, said the Forest Department had covertly allowed Tamil Nadu to cut 15 trees to strengthen the baby dam at Mullaperiyar. The “dubious” order paved the way for Tamil Nadu to counter Kerala’s demand for a new dam at Mullaperiyar. It also aided Tamil Nadu’s case for raising the water level in the 126-year-old dam to a perilous 152 ft by claiming that it had fortified the baby dam. Without clearance Mr. Radhakrishnan said the Forest Department had promulgated the “pro-Tamil Nadu” order without the mandatory clearance of the State and Central Wildlife Board and the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests. The whole affair smacked of a well-entrenched plot against Kerala’s interests, he said. The government had imperilled 40 lakh citizens living in five districts downstream from “seismically unstable” Mullaperiyar to aid Tamil Nadu’s interests. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the political executive was involved in the conspiracy to jeopardise Kerala’s aspirations for a new dam at Mullaperiyar. ‘Thanksgiving’ message The controversial order enabling Tamil Nadu to fell trees to strengthen the baby dam had emerged in the public domain after Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu M.K. Stalin announced it in a “thanksgiving” message to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Mr. Vijayan and Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran feigned surprise. They scrambled to “freeze” the order when the scale of the deceit dawned on the public. “No official would dare issue such an order that runs against the grain of Kerala’s stance on Mullaperiyar in the Supreme Court without the consent of the political executive. Only a judicial inquiry will detect the truth,” he said. Mr. Saseendran said IFS and IAS officials were involved in the faux pas. An investigation was on to fix responsibility. The order was against Kerala’s stance on Mullaperiyar and the guilty would face legal retribution. Freeze on order “No directive that runs against Kerala’s stance on Mullaperiyar would pass muster, whoever issues it,” he said. The government has frozen the order. Mr. Saseendran said IFS and IAS officials were involved in the issue. The Government had to follow a process before holding them to account, he said. Speaker M.B. Rajesh rejected the motion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-conspiring-to-aid-tn-in-mullaperiyar-row/article37389262.ece
09 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crest gates of four reservoirs partially lifted at Tirumala||All the drinking water projects at Tirumala are brimming to their full capacity, thanks to the incessant rain that has pounded Chittoor district during the past one week. The rain-fed hill town has five major reservoirs to meet its daily water requirements. Crest gates of four of them were partially lifted on Sunday afternoon allowing excess water to flow downstream. While the storage reserves in Papavinasanam dam, the major source of drinking water to the temple town, is put at 5,144 lakh gallons, the reserves in Kumaradhara dam is put at 4,245.86 lakh gallons, Gogarbham (2,663 LG) Pasupudhara (1,287.63 LG) and the reserves in Akasa Ganga dam is put around 685 lakh gallons. The gross water reserves in all the dams is put around 14,016.49 lakh gallons while their combined full storage capacity is 14,304 lakh gallons. According to Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) Chief Engineer Nageswara Rao, the present reserves are sufficient to meet the requirements of the temple town for around 353 days if the water is drawn at 14 million litres a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enough-water-in-tirumala-for-one-year/article37389310.ece
09 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees can sing bhajans at TTD temples||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Monday asked the officials to come up with an action plan to provide an opportunity to the interested devotees to render bhajans at all the TTD-run temples. At a meeting at TTD administrative buildings in Tirupati, Mr. Jawahar Reddy also instructed officials to develop an exclusive software application for the benefit of bhajan mandalis and artists. Those who did not get an opportunity to perform at Nada Neerajana mandapam also can apply, he said. Plans are also afoot to organise Sri Venkateswara puja and Bhagawad Gita parayanam at all TTD temples in the State on every Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotees-can-sing-bhajans-at-ttd-temples/article37389309.ece
09 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Olectra, EVEY to supply 100 e-buses to APSRTC||The Olectra Greentech Limited (Olectra) and the Evey Trans Private Limited (EVEY), leaders in electric mobility and manufacturing of electric buses (e-buses), received a letter of award from the Andhra Padesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) for supply of 100 e-buses under the Government of India’s FAME-II scheme. Plans are afoot to ply 50 e-buses on the Tirumala-Tirupati ghat road and the rest as intercity buses between Tirupati and Nellore, Kadapa and Madanapalle in Chittoor district. These vehicles will be provided on a gross cost contract / operating expenses model basis for 12 years, a press release said on Monday. It said the value of the contract is approximately Rs. 140 crore and the buses would be delivered over 12 months. During the contract period, the Olectra would look after the maintenance of the buses, which would be deployed at Alipiri (Tirupathi) depot. With this new order, the total order book of the Olectra reached around 1,450 buses, its chairman and managing director K.V. Pradeep said. He said the e-buses would contribute to preserving the ecology of the Seshachalam forests and the Tirumala hills. These zero-emission and noiseless buses are successfully running in Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Hyderabad, Surat, Dehradun, Silvassa, Goa, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/olectra-evey-to-supply-100-e-buses-to-apsrtc/article37389787.ece
09 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Buggana urges Centre to clear pending dues||Andhra Pradesh Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy discussed the pending dues from the Central government to Andhra Pradesh with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in New Delhi on Monday. According to a press release, Mr. Rajendranath Reddy wanted the Centre to release the pending dues at the earliest. Referring to Anrak Aluminium Limited, Mr. Rajendranath Reddy said that the second phase of the international arbitration with the company was coming up for hearing in London this month. The first phase of the arbitration was completed last month. However, details of the response from the Union Finance Minister were not disclosed. It may be recalled that Ras-Al-Khaimah Investment Authority (RAKIA) raised an international arbitration over the cancellation of the bauxite supply agreement (BSA) signed between Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation (APMDC) and ANRAK Aluminium Limited. The State government has reportedly approached the RAKIA with the hope of reaching an out-of-court settlement. Mr. Rajendranath Reddy told the media that the State government needed resources to run the show. “Taxes on petroleum and liquor are the only direct sources of revenue for the State. The remaining are under the purview of the Goods and Services Tax (GST). The State government cannot take decisions on the close heels of the Centre. We need to take decisions cautiously. The situation is no different with other States. Only the BJP-ruled states have undertaken a commensurate reduction of the Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel. No other State has taken the decision,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/buggana-urges-centre-to-clear-pending-dues/article37389793.ece
09 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu demands cancellation of poll to Nellore civic body||Alleging irregularities and deliberate manipulation of final lists of contesting candidates, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu said that the State Election Commissioner (SEC) must order cancellation of the election to the Nellore Municipal Corporation (NMC) . Addressing the media in virtual mode on Monday, Mr. Naidu urged the SEC to order fresh elections to the NMC to ‘protect democracy and win the confidence of the people’. “The officials have breached the election conduct by causing inordinate delay in releasing the final lists of contestants after withdrawal of nominations at 3 p.m.,” the TDP president said. The TDP president alleged that a conspiracy was hatched to use forged signatures to announce voluntary withdrawal of the opponents of the ruling YSRCP. “Some unscrupulous officials are conniving with the YSRCP leaders. They are making a mockery of elections by favouring the ruling party. Some officials rushed for unanimous declaration forms in about eight wards before the final lists were published. The election authorities of the NMC announced unanimous election in wards 7, 8,12, 20, 24, 37, 38, and 40 on the basis of the manipulated list of candidates,” alleged Mr. Naidu Accusing the authority concerned of rejecting nominations filed by the candidates of the opposition parties on flimsy grounds, Mr. Naidu demanded that all the relevant documents be made public. Letter to SEC Mr. Naidu also dashed a letter to the SEC, alleging that there was delay to facilitate manipulation of the final list of candidates. “This is clearly an attempt to remove the TDP candidates from the fray through forged signatures, foul play and forced withdrawals of nominations. This is nothing but an intentional manipulation of the electoral processes, a repeat of what happened previously during the local body elections conducted in the State in March 2020 and 2021,” Mr. Naidu alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-demands-cancellation-of-poll-to-nellore-civic-body/article37389795.ece
09 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC orders status quo in Andhra Sugars land case||Justice C. Praveen Kumar of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Monday ordered status quo on the proposed cancellation of 42.28 acres of land allotted to Andhra Sugars Limited in Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City (JNPC) in Parawada Mandal of Visakhapatnam district in 2008 for setting up a bulk drug and fine chemicals manufacturing unit, on the ground that it could not complete the project. ‘Infra not provided’ Blaming various external factors, the company argued in its petition that Ramky Pharma City (India) Ltd (RPCIL) and Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) had failed in providing the requisite infrastructure and facilities as promised by them and they had also reneged on their commitments. It further said that in the absence of a conducive environment and requisite facilities in an industrial area, the establishment of a large industrial unit became an uphill task. Besides, the company stated that a continuous agitation by the land losers due to the non-payment of compensation/enhanced compensation had been a constant deterrent to it in executing civil and mechanical works on the allotted land. Also, it insisted that there were disputes between the developer (RPCIL) and some pharma units that existed in the JNPC which resulted in the filing of a slew of writ petitions in the High Court. Further, Andhra Sugars said it faced repeated obstacles and recurrent hardships in proceeding with the project in spite of taking the same to the notice of RPCIL and APIIC and that made substantial investments in the land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-orders-status-quo-in-andhra-sugars-land-case/article37389785.ece
09 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nagula Chavithi, Karthika Somavaram celebrated||Temples in the city witnessed heavy rush on the first Monday of Karthika Maasam, a month in Telugu calendar which is considered auspicious. Nagula Chavithi was also celebrated on Monday. Several devotees offered milk, sweetmeats, etc., to the snake pits in the temples. Devotees took a holy dip in river Krishna before heading to Siva temples. Temples, including Sivalayam atop Indrakeeladri, Patha Sivalayam in One Town, Governorpet Kasi Visweswara Swamy temple, Ramalingeswara Swamy temple in Yanamalakuduru, Rama Koti temple at Satyanarayana Puram and Sivalayam temple at Ramavarappadu were tastefully decorated. Women lit the Karthika deepams at the temples. Special pujas Priests at the temples performed special pujas on the occasion of Karthika Somavaram. Akasa deepam was lit on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nagula-chavithi-karthika-somavaram-celebrated/article37389878.ece
09 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre urged to help A.P. recover dues from TS||Energy secretary N. Srikant apprised Alok Kumar, Secretary of the Union Ministry of Power, of the dues from Telangana power utilities to Andhra Pradesh amounting to approximately Rs. 6,111.88 crore and the power procurement being made by A.P. from the exchanges to reduce the costs. In a high-level meeting with the officials of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana utilities organised by the Union Ministry of Power in New Delhi on Monday to sort out the issues arising from the Andhra Pradesh State Reorganisation Act, 2014, Mr. Srikant said the Central government should help Andhra Pradesh recover the dues from Telangana utilities. He informed Mr. Kumar that Rs. 2,300 crore had been saved in the last two years by purchasing power from the exchanges and spot markets. He pointed out that even the NITI Aayog had appreciated the Andhra Pradesh utilities for saving huge amounts through various cost-cutting measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-urged-to-help-ap-recover-dues-from-ts/article37389644.ece
09 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Implement 11th PRC suggestions: staff JAC||The Employees’ Joint Action Committee (JAC), JAC Amaravati representatives met Chief Secretary Sameer Sarma on Monday and discussed the implementation of the recommendations made by the 11th Pay Revision Commission (PRC). Disclosing the details, Bopparaju Venkateswarlu said that the Chief Secretary entrusted the matter to the GAD Secretary. The employees were assured that Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would be apprised of the matter for suitable decision. The employees would wait till Wednesday. They would announce their future course of action if there was no positive response, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/implement-11th-prc-suggestions-staff-jac/article37389796.ece
09 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||30% COVID deaths due to renal failure: experts||While the second wave of COVID-19 is still to subside fully, experts from the medical field say that nearly 30% of the mortalities caused by the pandemic can be attributed to renal failure or acute kidney injury (AKI). Speaking at the 95th conference on COVID-19 organised by Andhra Medical College, Vasishta Tatapudi, assistant professor of medicine, division of nephrology, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, USA, said, “Based on research and autopsies conducted on bodies, it is seen that the virus can either directly attack the kidneys, whether the patient has prior kidney disease or not, or kidneys may have been affected due to the release of toxic substance as a result of cytokine storm.” According to Dr. P.V. Sudhakar, principal of Andhra Medical College, more than 50% of the patients suffered some impact to their kidneys and a large number of them needed dialysis. This is immaterial of past history of kidney-related disease, he said. According to Dr. Vasishta, a study on around 5,400 patients revealed that 36.6% had sufferred AKI and out them about 14.3% required kidney replacement therapy. “Sub-clinical inflammation and injury may persist for many months, resulting in progressive decline in kidney function, which may lead to chronic kidney disease,” he said. On the way forward, Dr. Sudhakar said that vaccination and maintaining COVID-19 protocols sincerely is the only way to keep COVID-19 at bay and safeguard our kidneys. Daily count Meanwhile, the district recorded 29 COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours ending Monday morning, taking the cumulative count to 1,58,460. Altogether 36 patients undergoing treatment have recovered, taking the total discharges to 1,56,647. The district also recorded one death, taking the toll to 1,099. Active cases further dropped to 714.  Virus can either directly attack kidneys or they could be affected due to release of toxic substance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nearly-30-of-covid-deaths-due-to-renal-failure-say-experts/article37389837.ece
09 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Initial survey for ‘One-Time Settlement’ done: Collector||Collector A. Mallikarjuna said that the first round survey for a ‘One Time Settlement’ (OTS) under Jagananna Sampoorna Gruha Hakku Padhakam was done in a transparent manner. Mr. Mallikarjuna on Monday said that those who had taken loans long ago and were not in a position to pay high interest were being given an interest waiver and loan waiver under OTS. In the first phase, 1,80,000 beneficiaries were identified. Those getting the original allotment letters would be given the ‘clear title’, if they pay Rs. 10,000 at the village-level, Rs. 15,000 in municipalities and Rs. 20,000 in municipal corporations. A door-to-door survey would be conducted and the clear title would be given after completion of the social audit. The clear title would give full rights to the beneficiary on the land allotted and there would be no problems under 22 A. The beneficiaries would be exempted from payment of registration charges. The loan and interest on it would be waived under OTS, he said. The details of the beneficiaries would be posted online after the survey, as per the guidelines of the government. The first round survey was completed with the field-level cooperation of village/ward volunteers, surveyors and engineering assistants. Dr. Mallikarjuna said that there were a total of 4,30,411 beneficiaries in the district. Joint Collector (Housing) Kalpana Kumari, Joint Collector P. Arun Babu and Housing PD Srinivasa Rao attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/initial-survey-for-loan-waiver-done-collector/article37389834.ece
09 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meet on Intellectual Property Rights gets under way at AU||A five-day Faculty Development Program (FDP) on Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) in Academia: Creation, Protection and Commercialisation, being organised by the DPIIT-IPR Chair Centre for Intellectual Property Rights along with the Institution’s Innovation Council, Andhra University, began here on Monday. The FDP is sponsored by AICTE, Atal Teaching And Learning Academy (ATAL) and Ministry of Education, Government of India. Coordinator of the FDP Hanumanthu Purushotham said that 15 eminent experts from industry, government and academia, mainly from CSIR, DRDO, IIT, DBT, DST, DPIIT, MSME, University of Hyderabad, Patent Attorneys, Patent Examiners, Senior Controllers from Indian Patent Offices, CII and AP State Council for Higher Education were participating as resource persons. He said about 100 faculty members from different universities from 19 States have registered for the FDP. Prof. Purushotham highlighted the need to create awareness about IPRs among the faculty and students as IP plays a key role in building global competitiveness, bringing prosperity to the nation. Andhra University Registrar V. Krishna Mohan emphasised the importance of teaching IPRs in academics to meet the requirements of knowledge economy and to create more IP assets so that India gets its right share and he hoped this type of FDPs would build an IP ecosystem in the academia. Andhra Pradesh State Council for Higher Education vice chairman K. Ramamohana Rao appreciated the initiatives taken by Andhra University to promote IP culture in the university through the FDP on IPRs, introduction of IPR as a mandatory skill development credit course and bringing out a University IPR Policy for the first time in A.P. AU Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy, who inaugurated the programme, said organising FDPs on IPR would go a long way towards creating awareness among the faculty and students about the benefits of IP creation, protection and commercialisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/meet-on-intellectual-property-rights-gets-under-way-at-au/article37389886.ece
09 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four of family drown in GK Veedhi canal||Four members of a family, including two children, allegedly drowned in a canal at Peddavalasa panchayat, an interior tribal area under GK Veedhi police station limits, in the Agency area of the district on Sunday evening. The incident came to light after police registered a case on Monday morning. The deceased were identified as G. Nookaraju (35), his daughters Tulasi (7) and Lasya (4), and a relative named P. Ramana (25). Circle Inspector Ashok Kumar said that the four persons were fishing in the canal when they were swept away. While the bodies of Nookaraju and his two daughters were traced on Sunday night itself, the body of Ramana was traced early on Monday morning, Mr. Ashok Kumar said. Case registered “It is an interior area, 38 km from the mandal headquarters. The incident came to light at around 7.30 p.m. on Sunday when a few locals found fishing nets. We received information late at night and registered a case on Monday morning,” he said. The bodies will be sent for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-of-family-drown-in-canal-at-gk-veedhi/article37389835.ece
09 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police continue crackdown against ganja in Agency areas||The District Police destroyed ganja crop in 53 acres under the purview of Chintapalli and Paderu sub-division in the Agency areas of the district, as part of the ongoing Operation Parivartan — the special drive launched against ganja cultivation. CI Ashok Kumar and his team went to the Maoist-affected, interior villages of Kumumapudi village of GK Veedhi mandal. The police said in a statement that the tribal people destroyed ganja crops in five acres of the village. SI Ali Sharif and his team destroyed ganja in 20 acres at Gadigoya village of Chintapalli mandal. Ganja crop in 16 acres in various villages under Paderu mandal and in 12 acres at Beddaguda village of Dumbriguda mandal was also destroyed by the police. In the city, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha supervised the checking of luggage at the railway station on Monday evening as part of the anti-narcotics drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-continue-crackdown-against-ganja-in-agency-areas/article37389889.ece
09 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Septuagenarian recollects horrors of firing during VSP stir in 1967||Boyapalli Sankara Rao (75), who retired as a senior engineer from Hindustan Shipyard Limited, is still unable to breathe, drink or eat as a normal person, as he suffered a bullet injury in his lower neck about 54 years ago. The septuagenarian suffered the bullet injury on November 1, 1967, when he was in the forefront of the steel plant agitation that rocked the State and the country under the call ‘Visakha Ukku - Andhrula Hakku’. He was among the many injured on that day and about nine had fallen to the bullets fired by the police. Recollecting the horrors of that day, Mr. Rao said that he was among the first to be hit in the police firing. “I and my cousin Vijaya Kumar and a few friends had assembled at my father B. Rama Rao’s clinic (homeopathy) near Police Barracks around 8.30 a.m. on that day. We decided to check the enforcement of the bandh and went to the FCI godowns, after learning that workers had been held back from the night shift to continue with the work. On reaching the godowns near the port area, we were confronted by the CRPF and police, but we convinced them that it was a peaceful protest and they allowed us to talk to the workers, who walked out with us,” he said. ‘Unprovoked firing’ “Around 9 a.m., we walked up to the Main Post Office at Velampeta, as a similar thing was going on there. We were again confronted by the police, but this time the officers were determined not to allow us inside the office nor give permission to the workers to come out. This led to an argument and jostling and a police officer’s cap was dislodged from his head which angered him. Without any warning, he took out his service revolver from the holster and fired in the air and at the same time commanded the other personnel to open fire on us,” he recollected. According to him, the protesters were not prepared, as they expected only a lathi-charge. “But when I saw a person falling down clutching his chest, we realised that we were being fired upon. We fell back and to escape the hail of bullets my cousin jumped into a drain and I was hit by a bullet in the neck. At that moment, I did not feel any pain but only warm blood gushing out from the neck area. I ran for some distance towards CBM School and on the way I saw three persons falling down, including a nine-year-old and another person who tried to give me some water,” he said. “I saw people running helter-skelter and could hear the cracking sound of rifles. Soon after, I lost my consciousness, only to regain it after 19 days in KGH,” Mr. Sankara Rao said. Lucky to be saved According to him, someone put him and a couple of others in a rickshaw and brought them to KGH. “A doctor operated upon me and inserted a pipe in my throat for breathing. But since I was unconscious, the ward boys and my family members thought I was dead and sent me to the mortuary. It was only after the doctor had come back for rounds and enquired about me that they realised that I was alive, he said. According to Mr. Sankara Rao, he was fortunate that someone had rushed him to the hospital. Many had bled to death, as the police did not allow the shifting of the bodies or injured till about 2 p.m. “It was only after the intervention of Tenneti and others that things moved,” he said. The bullets were fired at the chest level and not at the legs of the protestors, he said. Joins protest Stating that the agitation then was led by students, he said the present students should realise that the agitation was primarily for employment generation and at no cost Visakhapatnam Steel Plant should be allowed to be privatised, as much sacrifice had gone into it. Despite not being in the pink of health, Mr. Sankara Rao continues to be part of the present agitation and goes to the camp set up by the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee on a regular basis. He feels that VSP had a big role in the development of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/septuagenarian-recollects-horrors-of-firing-during-vsp-stir-in-1967/article37389798.ece
09 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APFERWAS marks five years of existence||The Andhra Pradesh Federation of Residents Welfare Association (APFERWAS) has completed five years this November. To mark the occasion, a 50-page booklet titled ‘Sustainable Urban Environment – RWA Approach’ was released by Uday Shirname, president, APFERWAS, on Sunday. The booklet describes the mission, objectives and the achievements of the federation in the last five years. The federation was inaugurated in November 2016 by the then Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs M. Venkaiah Naidu.  Today, there are nearly 150 RWAs in the city alone, apart from others Vijayawada, Nellore and Kakinada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apferwas-marks-five-years-of-existence/article37389881.ece
09 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor fire breaks out at five-star hotel||A fire occurred at a star hotel on Beach Road here on Monday morning. According to District Fire Officer B. Ram Prakash, the fire occurred at a location in the hotel that consisted of a thatched hut very close on the beach front. The entire thatched roof was gutted and as per initial estimates, the damage could run into Rs. 5 to 6 lakh. There were no reports of any injuries, he said. The fire could have occurred from the sparks of some firecrackers, as a few people were lighting firecrackers close the boundary wall of the hotel on the occasion of Nagula Chavithi celebrations, Mr. Ram Prakash said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-breaks-out-at-five-star-hotel-in-visakhapatnam/article37389836.ece
09 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP protests ‘quarrying’ at Rushikonda||Peethala Murthy Yadav, floor leader of the Jana Sena Party in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) council, on Monday lodged a complaint with the Centre and State governments alleging that illegal quarrying was being done on the Rushikonda hill under the pretext of constructing an APTDC resort. Mr. Yadav said that in the process of dismantling the existing resort and building a new one in its place, the ecology of the hill and its surroundings is being destroyed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-protests-quarrying-at-rushikonda/article37389882.ece
09 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister grills officials over lack of facilities at school||Minister for Backward Classes Welfare Chelluboyana Venu Gopalakrishna visited the Mahatma Jyothiba Phule AP Weaker Sections Welfare Gurukul School at Simhachalam and inspected the facilities, on Monday. The Minister interacted with the schoolchildren and enquired with them about the quality of food being served at the school. Mr. Venu Gopalakrishna expressed his ire at the officials concerned over the dilapidated condition of the hostel building and directed that the 300 children who are being accommodated at the building be shifted to another hostel at the earliest.  Earlier, the Minister visited Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Simhachalam. He was received with temple honours by the Assistant EO Raghava Kumar and the priests. The Minister expressed satisfaction over the amenities for devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-grills-officials-over-lack-of-facilities-at-school/article37389887.ece
09 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spectacles distributed||An eye screening camp was conducted by the Regional Eye Hospital (REH), attached to Andhra Medical College(AMC), to mark World Sight Day on Monday. A total of 380 inmates of Central Prison were examined and were given spectacles free of cost. The camp was conducted under the Dr. YSR Kanti Velugu programme. Dr. P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, AMC, distributed the spectacles. Senior health officials and prison officials took part in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spectacles-distributed/article37389833.ece
09 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Award for Srikakulam Rotary Club||Srikakulam Rotary Club (3020) past president M.R.K. Das, regional secretary C.V. Rajulu, and assistant governor D. Shivasankar received the Best Services Award from club governor M. Satish Babu at a function organised in Vijayawada on Sunday night. In a press release on Monday, Mr. Das said that the awards were presented for developing the Rotary Vanam Park and for undertaking COVID-19 relief efforts, polio awareness programmes and medical camps in rural areas. He said that the club was planning to conduct more medical, dental and eye camps in the next few months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/award-for-srikakulam-rotary-club/article37389829.ece
09 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rudrabhishekam draws hundreds of devotees||Hundreds of devotees participated in a Rudrabhisekham performed at Aparna Devi Sameta Sri Pashupatinatheswara Swamy temple located on Ring Road in Vizianagaram. The temple witnessed a huge rush of devotees from the early hours on the auspicious first Monday of Karteeka masam. They offered abhishekam to replicas of Dwadasa Jyotirlingams. Special arrangements Sarada Seva Sangham representatives made special arrangements for the prayers. Many temples such as Umarudra Koteswara Alayam near Seven Roads Junction and Shiva Balaji temple at Bankers’ Colony in Srikakulam also witnessed a large rush of devotees. Temple authorities said COVID-19 protocols were adhered to.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rudrabhishekam-draws-hundreds-of-devotees/article37389831.ece
09 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Help from neighbouring State sought to end border dispute||Several people’s representatives including Vizianagaram Zilla Parishad Chairperson Majji Srinivasa Rao, Parvatipuram MLA Alajangi Jogarao and Saluru legislator Peedika Rajannadora on Monday urged Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaiak to co-operate with the Government of Andhra Pradesh to ensure amicable solutions to the border dispute of the Kotia villages and pending irrigation projects such as Janjavati, Vamsadhara Phase-II. Addressing the media, Mr.Srinivasa Rao said Odisha’s cooperation was needed to put an end to the problems of the Kotia villages as a majority of the residents there wanted to be under the administration of Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Jogarao said construction of Jhanjavati project would assure irrigation facilities to thousands of acres in Parvatipuram, Kurupam and other mandals. He hailed Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy’s initiative of meeting Mr. Naveen Patnaik. Security arrangement Meanwhile, the Srikakulam administration is taking all care for security arrangements for the Chief Minister who is scheduled to attend a marriage function in Pathpatnam on November 9. The leaders of CPI(M) reportedly have planned to meet the Chief Minister, seeking justice for the evacuees of the Vamsadhara||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/help-from-neighbouring-state-sought-to-end-border-dispute/article37389791.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Annual tradition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/annual-tradition/article37389885.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wheels on wheels!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wheels-on-wheels/article37389880.ece
09 November 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||NBVL gets gold trophy for ‘Best CSR Practices’||Nava Bharat Ventures Limited (NBVL), Paloncha, has been awarded a gold trophy in ‘Best CSR Practices’ category of Industry Awards-2021 in recognition of its outstanding contribution during COVID-19 pandemic. Minister for Industries, IT, Municipal Administration and Urban Development K T Rama Rao presented the award to NBVL Managing Director P Trivikrama Prasad, CEO Ashwin Devineni and vice-president Y Srinivasa Murthy at a ceremony held at ITC Kakatiya in Hyderabad on Monday, according to a press release. Principal Secretary of the Industries & Commerce and Information Technology Departments Jayesh Ranjan among others were present. The NBVL, Paloncha, also bagged a bronze medal in ‘Best Export Performance’ category. The company operates in the business verticals of power generation and operation & maintenance services for power plants, mining, Ferro alloys, healthcare services and agri-business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nbvl-gets-gold-trophy-for-best-csr-practices/article37389651.ece
09 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||District-level committees to verify COVID death notified||Telangana government has issued orders notifying district-level COVID-19 Death Ascertaining Committee (CDAC) for issuing ‘Official document for COVID-19 Death’. An order issued on Monday has detailed the procedure to be followed by kin of the deceased to get the document. According to orders, the next of kin shall submit an application through Mee Seva centre to get the ‘Official Document for COVID-19 Death’. Health department officials have also communicated the ‘Guidelines for Ex-gratia assistance to next of kin of the deceased by COVID-19’ issued by National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). The authority has recommended an amount of Rs. 50,000 per deceased person including those involved in relief operations or associated in preparedness activities subject to cause of death being certified as COVID-19 as per the guidelines. After the NDMA recommendations in September, questions were raised about the accuracy of COVID death count in Telangana. As per the bulletin issued by the State Health department on Monday, a total of 3,967 COVID deaths have been recorded between March 2 last year and November 8 this year. Panel constitution The CDAC will have District Collector as chairman, District Medical Health Officer as member-convener and the Superintendent of headquarters hospital as a member. The committee will examine grievances of the next of kin of the deceased, and propose necessary remedial measures, including issuance of amended ‘Official Document for COVID-19 Death’ after verifying facts in accordance with the guidelines. The application for the document and grievance redressal have to be disposed of within three days of submission of the application or registering of the grievance. Exceptions Officials from the Health department have also communicated ‘Guidelines for officials document for COVID 19 death’ issued by Ministry of Health. The guiding principles state that deaths occurring due to poisoning, suicide, homicide, deaths due to accidents etc. will not be considered as a COVID death even if COVID-19 is an accompanying condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/district-level-committees-to-verify-covid-death-notified/article37389635.ece
09 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revised market values applicable to TDRs||The government has recently issued a clarification applying the revised market values to the transferable development rights (TDRs) issued by GHMC in lieu of monetary compensation during property acquisition for various development works. As per the memo, market values indicated in any TDR certificate are not static, but dependent on the same prevailing at the time of redemption of the TDRs. This applies not only to the transactions henceforth, but also to the previously held unsold certificates, as per the orders. According to GHMC officials, the decision to apply prevailing rates will retrospectively benefit the unutilised TDRs already issued, by enhancing their collective value by Rs. 100 crore. TDRs are the rights for sale or development issued to property owners whose land is acquired as part of the city’s infrastructural development projects, including road widening, construction of flyovers, elevated corridors, underpasses, and other structures. They allow relaxation in permissible built-up area in lieu of property acquired for public purpose. The rights may be sold or utilised at the same place or elsewhere. Relaxation of built-up space admissible under TDRs has been enhanced to 400% of the plot surrendered, from the earlier 250% in 2018. The objective was to avoid monetary compensation in the times of fund shortage in GHMC vis-a-vis the development projects lined up for the city. Owing to the fast paced development in city’s realty, demand for TDRs has grown by leaps and bounds, with GHMC issuing TDRs worth Rs. 3,500 crore so far, and saving up Rs. 1,700 crore funds in the bargain. Demand for TDRs is especially high from builders who wish to build additional floors in the same setback spaces, officials informed. Web portal GHMC has also launched a web portal for the transactions in TDRs where sellers and buyers may register for carrying out profitable business. Recently after revision of market values of land, several TDR holders have reportedly approached the GHMC higher authorities seeking revision in TDR values, as the certificates were showing older prices. A letter was addressed to the Municipal Administration and Urban Development department seeking clarification on their request, and taking their concerns into account, the government has issued a memo clarifying that the revised market values may be applied to the TDRs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revised-market-values-applicable-to-tdrs/article37389648.ece
09 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP demands KCR’s resignation, apology||Bharatiya Janata Party State president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of making “anti-national” statements “supporting” China on the border fracas, thereby “insulting and demoralising” the Indian Army. "Mr. Rao should be within his limits, resign forthwith and apologise for making such statements for uttering lies and falsehoods on Centre on the issue of paddy procurement, farm laws and taxes on fuel," he said at a press conference on Monday. The BJP president demanded the Chief Minister to clarify whether it was the Centre or the State which has been procuring paddy in the last seven years. This was in response to the Chief Minister's tirade against the Centre on Sunday's press meet. Clarification sought "Mr. Rao claimed the Centre had no role in paddy procurement and that Telangana had spent Rs. 1.5 lakh crore. Did he not announce that every single grain will be purchased by his government? Therefore, we need clarification on this aspect," he said. Mr. Sanjay Kumar claimed that the Food Corporation of India (FCI) had communicated to Telangana about its willingness to purchase paddy till January 2022 on August 31 itself. "This boiled rice issue is a big scam of the TRS government in cahoots with a few rice millers for recycling ration rice," he charged. The BJP had doubts about the extent of paddy cultivation and called for a drone survey to ascertain facts. "Mr. Rao is known for shifting stance and confusing farmers on raising fine rice varieties, maize, cotton, chillies and so on," the BJP leader claimed. The Centre's proposed farm laws have no mention of removing procurement centres and agriculture market committees as was claimed by Mr. Rao. "What is he going to protest in Delhi when the Supreme Court has stayed the farm laws? He threatened to do the same few months ago but returned empty handed," he ridiculed. The Telangana government raised VAT by 4% for petrol and 5% diesel for 2015 so it has to reduce like 22 other States and cannot lie about not increasing the tax. "Centre gets Rs. 27 and gives Rs. 12 to Telangana, whereas the latter gets Rs. 28 from VAT. Why cannot Mr. Rao reduce the same? Why did he not support the inclusion of fuel prices in GST?," asked Mr. Sanjay Kumar. The BJP leader charged Mr. Rao of "mortgaging" the interests of Telangana by keeping "silent" on projects across rivers Krishna and Godavari in Andhra Pradesh; dragging the issue of withdrawing pending case in apex court preventing the formation of a tribunal and accepting 299 TMC when rightful share was 570 TMC.  Did he (Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao) not announce that every single grain will be purchased by his government? Bandi Sanjay Kumar, State Bharatiya Janata Party president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-demands-kcrs-resignation-apology/article37389661.ece
09 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NGO clocks 10 lakh low-priced dialysis cycles in 12 years||City-based NGO Bhagwan Mahavir Jain Relief Foundation Trust (BMJRFT) has clocked 10 lakh dialysis cycles in a span of 12 years, with each cycle offered at just Rs. 300 against the usual rate of Rs. 1,500-2,500 or more charged by private hospitals. What’s more, the service is offered free of cost to patients enrolled under Aarogyasri health scheme. The trust was founded by 16 like-minded Jain friends here in 2009. Speaking on the sidelines of a press conference on Monday to mark the achievement, Chairman of the trust, P.C. Parakh said the efforts began by helping five people with dialysis. Gradually, they wanted to open a dialysis centre. They approached the government to provide space at a government hospital to open the centre. A portion of the District Hospital building in King Koti was allotted. The trust spent Rs. 1.5 crore to refurbish it and began offering the services. Now, the dialysis is offered at seven locations in the city and one in Aler, Yadadri. Around 500 dialysis cycles are offered everyday using 189 dialysis machines. Till October 14 this year, they had recorded 10 lakh dialysis cycles. The 16 friends are P.C. Parakh, Gautam Chand Chordia, Satish Khivsara, Inder Chand Jain, Rikab Parak, Rajender Kumar Dugur, Swaroop Chand Khotari, Ashok Kothari, Sunil Pahade, Suresh Surana, Vinod Kimtee, Shanti Bhai Shah, Prashant Shrimal, Hanumanmal Nakhat, Mahavir Kumar Patny and Sushil Kapadia. Subsidised injections Besides dialysis, the trust also provides injections required to maintain haemoglobin and iron levels at affordable prices. “It has been supplying 14,000 injections a month. These essential injections include Erythropoietin, Iron Sucrose, Levocarnitine and dialysis kit. Erythropoietin 4K is provided at Rs. 160 against the MRP of Rs. 1,890, offering 91% subsidy, and Erythropoietin 10K at Rs. 520 at 75% subsidy; its MRP is Rs. 2,167. Iron Sucrose is given at Rs. 50 against MRP of Rs. 301 at 85% subsidised price, Levocarnitine at Rs. 50 as against Rs. 159, which is 69% subsidy,” a press release stated. Mr Parakh said patients from other States also visit their dialysis wing at the District Hospital in King Koti, the trust’s headquarters, to collect the medicines issued on the last Saturday and Sunday of a month. The trust has saved over Rs. 125 crore by reducing financial burden on the patients. The locations where subsidised dialysis is offered include District Hospital, King Koti, Mahavir Hospital, AC Guards Masab Tank, Ramdev Rao Memorial Hospital, Kukatpally, Gurunanak Medical Centre, Gurudwara, Secunderabad, Zoi Hospital, Attapur, Challa Hospital, Ameerpet, Indo American Hospital, Malakpet, and Community Health Center, Aler. An event will be held on November 13 to express gratitude to hundreds of people who have donated for the cause.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-ngo-clocks-10-lakh-low-priced-dialysis-cycles-in-12-years/article37389633.ece
09 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Conspiracy to oust UPA-II govt. exposed with Vinod Rai affidavit’||Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjuna Kharge has alleged that the deep-rooted conspiracy to destabilise and oust Dr. Manmohan Singh government in the garb of 2G spectrum scam stands exposed now following the deposition by former Comptroller and Auditor General Vinod Rai in the form of an affidavit recently. He demanded an unconditional apology from Mr. Vinod Rai, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and others to the nation alleging that they tried to malign the UPA-II government through an orchestrated criminal conspiracy. He also reminded them about a special court judgment of December 2017 in which it was held that “the prosecution has miserably failed to prove any charge against any of the accused made in the well-choreographed charge sheet filed by the CBI.” Addressing a press conference here on Monday, Mr. Kharge said conspiracies to destabilise the UPA government were being exposed one-by-one now. He noted that Mr. Rai in his recent affidavit had admitted that he had inadvertently and wrongly mentioned the name of Sanjay Nirupam as one of the MPs who pressurised him to keep the then Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh’s name out of the CAG report on the 2G spectrum allocations, in interviews given to a television channel and a few newspapers in September 2014. Stating that the statements made by him against Mr. Nirupam were factually incorrect, Mr. Rai had tendered and unconditional apology to the former. As CAG, Mr. Rao had prepared a report in which he had estimated the notional loss to the treasures with the irregularities in the 2G spectrum allocations at Rs. 1.76 lakh crore. However, the then Director General of Audit in CAG R.P. Singh had deposed before the Joint Parliamentary Committee that there was no loss to the treasury with the 2G spectrum allocations. Mr. Kharge alleged that General V.K. Singh, Kiran Bedi, Baba Ramdev, Anna Hazare, Arvind Kejriwal and BJP-RSS were part of the conspiracy to malign and destabilise the UPA government. However, the none of the above had spoken about the corruption during the last seven years or agitated for Jan Lokpal bill and Mr. Rao was silent on the Rs. 13,500 crore PNB scam and other banking scams although he was the chairman of the banking recruitment board, Mr. Kharge pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/conspiracy-to-oust-upa-ii-govt-exposed-with-vinod-rai-affidavit/article37389656.ece
09 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bhatti Vikramarka flays TRS, BJP||Congress party has alleged that the Central and State governments were playing with paddy farmers of Telangana by not giving clarity on the procurement of rice and making confusing statements on the issue. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka said the farming community of Telangana, particularly those cultivating paddy, were in total confusion as the views/statements of the Centre, State BJP and State government were divergent. While the Centre (FCI) had written to the State Government (Civil Supplies Corporation) earlier this year making it clear that it would not procure boiled rice in Telangana henceforth, the State government had been asking farmers not to go for paddy cultivation, particularly in Rabi (Yasangi) season as there would be no procurement of boiled rice, which is produced in the season, and that it would not procure paddy produced this Rabi. On the other hand, the State BJP leadership had been asking farmers to cultivate paddy and that it would fight with the State government and make it purchase every grain produced in the State. Instead of making plans to purchase paddy produced in the State, the State government was washing its hands off from the responsibility by blaming it completely on the Centre. He suggested the State government take up an awareness campaign on crop (paddy) change and going for other suitable alternative crops for couple of seasons before asking them to stop cultivating the cereal crop for the reasons being cited by the Centre. Asking them to go for other crops all of a sudden would push the farming community into utter confusion. On the issue of river water disputes, the Congress leader said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao could not bring clarity on the issue in spite of his several visits to New Delhi and the injustice continues to be heaped on Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bhatti-vikramarka-flays-trs-bjp/article37389666.ece
09 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Army recruitment rally from Nov. 29 to Jan. 30||An army recruitment rally under unit headquarters quota will be held at ABC Track, AOC Centre, Secunderabad, from November 29 to January 30 for enrolment of Soldier Tech (AE), Soldier General Duty, Soldier Tradesmen, Outstanding Sportsmen (Open Category) and Sol Clk/SKT (AOC ward only) categories. Outstanding Sportsmen (open category) are required to report at Thapar stadium, AOC Centre-Secunderabad, at 8 a.m. on November 26 for sports trial. Sportsmen who have represented in the fields of boxing, football, volleyball, basketball, handball, hockey, swimming, wrestling, athletics, kabbadi and cricket can participate by furnishing their respective certificates. They should have had represented a state or the country in national or international competitions either at senior or junior level. The certificate should not be more than two years old on the date of screening. Age limit is between 17.5 years to 21/23. For other details, candidates can contact Headquarters AOC centre, East Marredpally, Trimulgherry, Secunderabad or check www.joinindianarmy @nic.in for more information about the recruitment rally, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/army-recruitment-rally-from-nov-29-to-jan-30/article37389636.ece
09 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC grants bail to Teenmaar Mallanna||Justice G. Sridevi of Telangana High Court on Monday granted bail to Teenmaar Mallanna, a journalist who had been jailed for over past nine weeks in different cases. The cases were registered against him on different charges, including usage of foul language against Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Mr. Mallanna, whose original name is Chintapandu Naveen, known for being highly critical of Mr. Rao, was first arrested this August 28. By then, five First Information Reports (FIRs) were issued against him on charge of abusing Mr. Rao. Three more FIRs were issued for allegedly using derogatory language against Chilakalaguda inspector. A separate case under sections of Prevention of Atrocities Against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes was registered against him by Medipally police of Rachakonda commissionerate. He got bails in other cases and moved the HC seeking bail in the case booked by Medipally police. He was in judicial custody from September 9 in this case. The judge said Mr. Mallanna should furnish a personal bond of Rs. 15,000 along with two sureties each of similar amount in the trial court at L.B. Nagar. He should appear before the investigators every second Saturday between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. till completion of the probe and filing of charge-sheet, the order said. The judge made it clear that Mr. Mallanna should not indulge in similar offences in future and his bail gets cancelled if he does so. He was instructed not to interfere with the investigation, and must co-operate with the investigators. He should personally appear before the court concerned on each date of hearing till completion of the trial. Mr. Mallanna was released later in the evening from prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-grants-bail-to-teenmaar-mallanna/article37389667.ece
09 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Awards for coronavirus warriors, voluntary groups||Individuals, NGOs, and companies in Telangana who went the extra mile to help the COVID-affected population during the first and second waves were conferred awards on Monday at ‘T-SIG COVID-19 Warriors Recognition Event’. The event was hosted by Telangana Social Impact Group (T-SIG), at HICC, Hyderabad. Established in 2018, T-SIG is the State’s official corporate social responsibility (CSR) platform. The venue of the awards ceremony was lit up with excitement as most volunteers had hitherto interacted with each other only through social media. Monday was the first time that they met each other in person. Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao, actor-philanthropist Sonu Sood, Principal Secretary of the IT and Industries department Jayesh Ranjan honoured 29 exceptional individuals, 26 NGOs, 12 corporates, and six others at the event. Besides, 850 entities and individuals will also be acknowledged through e-certificates. The individuals and the organisations provided relief in the form of cooked food, dry ration, and also ensured migrant labourers get government benefits apart from helping people with COVID-19 medical resources such as hospital beds, oxygen cylinders and concentrators, and in conducting funerals of COVID and non-COVID patients during the peak of the coronavirus waves, among other work. Speaking on the occasion, Mr Rama Rao said many of the volunteers have expressed their wish to continue with social service and that the State government will work with them. Those interested can reach out to T-SIG, Mr Ranjan added. The Minister also said that it is easy to criticise the government and individuals who are trying to do something good. “It is difficult to come out of one’s comfort zone and do good work. And that is exactly what you guys did,” said Mr Rama Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/awards-for-coronavirus-warriors-voluntary-groups/article37389631.ece
09 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘60,000 to 70,000 jobs under new zonal system’||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said that about 60,000 to 70,000 job vacancies will arise shortly after the existing State government employees were adjusted in their native districts according to the new zonal system. He was due to hold a meeting with employees’ leaders shortly after which the job notifications will be rolled out, Mr. Rao said at a press conference on Monday. He said the government will release employment calender every year from 2022 with specific details of jobs to be filled. But, before that the zonal system will be stabilised with focus on giving jobs to locals. There will be 95 % reservation for locals in jobs in every district. The gazetted posts will no longer be State level but zonal posts. Mr. Rao said the government had given 1.35 lakh jobs so far and another 80,000 were in the offing. He accused the Centre of keeping the State government waiting for approval for seven to eight months after it mooted amendments to Presidential Order to introduce the new zonal system. Quoting findings, he said the unemployment rate in the State was the lowest in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/60000-to-70000-jobs-under-new-zonal-system/article37389663.ece
09 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||2 held for cheating ex-MP’s wife||Directors of Champion Finsec Limited (CFL) were arrested by the Hyderabad Central Crime Station police for cheating former Rajya Sabha member and film producer T. Subbarami Reddy’s wife T. Indira Reddy by selling her pledged shares (32,50,000) in the open market without her knowledge. The accused persons, Chetan Balubai Patel (48) and Harshawardhan Avinash Pradhan (40) were arrested from their residences in Mumbai. Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said that on July 20, they received a complaint from Ms. Reddy stating that the accused persons approached their firm involved in infrastructure and highway development, and informed to arrange a loan. As per agreement, the loan amount in proportion to the shares pledged was to be transferred to the firm’s account on or before July 12. But CFL has not even transferred any money of the loan amount to the GPL account and further it was found that on July 8, the CFL illegally invoked the pledged shares and sold them in the open market, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2-held-for-cheating-ex-mps-wife/article37389650.ece
09 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||161 new cases of coronavirus recorded in TS||The State logged 161 fresh cases of coronavirus on Monday, taking the virus tally to 6,72,650. Only one death was recorded on the day as per a bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare. The death count now stands at 3,967. Only 37,844 samples were tested on Monday, and the results of 978 were awaited. The Greater Hyderabad region led the daily infection total with 50 cases followed by Medchal-Malkajgiri with 12 cases. Nine districts recorded zero cases for the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/161-new-cases-of-coronavirus-in-the-state/article37389641.ece
09 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Foreign currency seized at RGIA||A Dubai-bound passenger who was trying to smuggle foreign currency equivalent to Rs. 13 lakh was apprehended by the sleuths of Central Industrial Security Force at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad, on Monday morning . Acting on the suspicious movement, around 7 a.m. the intelligence officials of CISF apprehended Syed Khalid (36) and screened his baggage at the international departure. They identified suspicious images and upon physical check, they found 65,000 Saudi Riyals concealed between the clothes of his cabin luggage. Syed Khalid was scheduled to fly on FlyDubai flight no. FZ-440 at 10:20 a.m. At 7:30 a.m., the accused passenger along with the detected foreign currency and his belongings was handed over to RGIA Customs officials for further investigation. “After a detailed enquiry, a case was booked against Khalid, and he was released at about 9.30 a.m,” a source informed The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/foreign-currency-seized-at-rgia/article37389842.ece
09 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Dalit Bandhu will benefit 5 lakh people’||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said that every family of SCs in Huzurabad Assembly constituency, four mandals of as many select constituencies and one hundred families in each constituency elsewhere in the State will be extended Dalit Bandhu this financial year. A budget of Rs. 20,000 crore will be allocated in the budget next year to benefit two lakh families. Overall, four to five lakh families will get the benefit by next elections. Mr. Rao spoke about the resolve of the government to make the scheme success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dalit-bandhu-will-benefit-5-lakh-people/article37389664.ece
09 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR accuses Centre of cold-shouldering Telangana||Industries Minister K.T.Rama Rao on Monday lashed out at the Centre for not responding to Telangana’s pleas seeking support for mega industrial parks such as Pharma City, proposed on 18,000 acres near Hyderabad, and Kakatiya Textile Park, launched on 1,200 acres in Warangal. Besides on such parks, there has been no response from the Centre to the State mooting industrial corridors from Hyderabad to Bengaluru; Vijayawada; Nagpur and Warangal as well as for an IIM, National Institute of Design, IIIT, medical colleges and tribal university in the State. Noting that mega industrial parks were conceived to enable industries benefit from economies of scale, he said support for the projects would help ensure the Centre’s Make in India, self-reliant campaigns do not remain a slogan. “Unfortunately, the Centre does not want to believe that a State like Telangana, which has come up with many pioneering, progressive policies, can also lead the country in such important industrial initiatives,” the Minister said. Mr. Rama Rao, who was addressing a Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) event here, said it was saddening the Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR) project proposed during the previous UPA regime, has been scrapped. Calling for a re-look, he said “in spite of all these Telangana continues to do very well. But if the government of India is serious about Make in India, self reliant campaign, I think they have to encourage States like Telangana which are progressive and continue to punch above their weight”. Highlighting the initiatives of Telangana government, he said the TS-iPASS policy, which over seven years helped attract Rs. 2.20 lakh crore investment, is to replicated by the Centre as part of the emphasis on single window clearance. CII Telangana in a release said the day-long conference on Manufacturing Excellence (Man’Exe–2021) was addressed by several leaders of industry. The Industry Awards were also presented, under six categories – Best Export performance, Best Innovation, Best Sustainability practices, Best Startup, Best CSR Practices, Special Contribution (IT Services) – at the event by the Minister and Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan. The Minister also presented the Telangana State Intellectual Property Awards (TSIPA), released a report jointly prepared by CII and Ernst & Young on Future of manufacturing in a post-pandemic world as well as and inaugurated the Made in Telangana mall – madeintelangana.linker.store. A CII release said the mall will support and encourage entrepreneurs in the State by providing commission-free services to the sellers, thus allowing them to access more customers and grow their businesses through increased outreach.  Unfortunately, the Centre does not want to believe that a State like Telangana can lead the country in important industrial initiatives. K.T. Rama Rao, Industries and IT Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-accuses-centre-of-cold-shouldering-telangana/article37389639.ece
09 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Garage Sale||6/3 size wooden bed cot pair in good condition - Rs. 16,000 pair, 6.5 kg fully automatic Whirlpool washing machine Rs. 10,000. Contact: Balaji on 93910 98484.   Sony blue ray disk player with 10 English disks for Rs. 3,000, recliner single sofa for Rs. 3,500. Contact: MSS Rao on 866670442   One 3 +1+1 seater wooden cushion sofa set Rs. 20,000, one 4-seater glass top dining table with 4 chairs Rs. 10,000, one Golden white 6 speed bicycle Rs. 5000, one 26LH20R LG TV with remote Rs. 7,500. All for Rs. 40,000. Contact: P.N. Prakash on 9989125024.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/garage-sale/article37389637.ece
09 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Foreign currency seized at Shamshabad airport||A Dubai-bound passenger who was trying to smuggle foreign currency equivalent to Rs. 13 lakh was apprehended by the sleuths of Central Industrial Security Force at Shamshabad airport on Monday morning. Suspicious of his movements, around 7 a.m. the intelligence officials of CISF apprehended Syed Khalid (36).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/foreign-currency-seized-at-shamshabad-airport/article37389653.ece
09 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Construction of BC Atmagaurava Bhavans soon||A meeting of the State-level registered Backward Classes (BC) community associations’ leaders chaired by Ministers Gangula Kamalakar, V. Srinivas Goud and Talasani Srinivas Yadav has asked the asked them to form into community-wise single associations by November 17 so that documents of land allotment for construction of ‘Atmagaurava Bhavans’ are handed over. The Ministers stated that it was being planned to get the land documents handed over to the associations at the hands of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on November 21 or 22 so that construction of the buildings could be take up in January in February. In case some community associations fail to form into single association, buildings for such communities would be constructed by the government itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/construction-of-bc-atmagaurava-bhavans-soon/article37389654.ece
09 November 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||60 teak logs worth Rs. 1.50 lakh seized||Sleuths of the task force on Monday seized teak logs worth Rs. 1.50 lakh while being illegally transported in a tractor-trolley near Mallapur village in Timmapur mandal. Acting on a tip off, the Police Commissioner’s task force intercepted the vehicle carrying about 60 teak logs on the outskirts of Mallapur and detained three persons allegedly involved in the transportation. One of them hails from Mallapur in Timmapur mandal while two others belong to Ippalapally village in Shankarapatnam mandal. They were handed over to the Forest Department along with the seized illegal consignment for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/60-teak-logs-worth-rs-150-lakh-seized/article37389669.ece
09 November 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Constable held for smuggling ganja||Two more accused, including an armed reserve constable of Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, wanted in connection with a ganja smuggling case were arrested by the Khammam urban police here on Monday. The arrested duo was identified as Anubattula Venkateshwarlu, an AR constable, and his close relative B Vishwatej of Karepalli mandal in Khammam district. Two packets of ganja, two mobile phones and a bike were seized from their possession, police said. The ganja smuggling racket was unearthed by the Khammam urban police, who arrested two alleged members of the gang including Konda Sateesh, an AR constable of Cheruvubazar area in the town and Venkateshwarlu of Konijerla mandal here last week. The prime accused in the case were allegedly running what appears to be a well-organised network involving suspected ganja peddlers of both Telangana and AP., sources added. Four police teams have been pressed into service to apprehend the remaining accused in the ganja smuggling case including a jail warder of Khammam district and a suspected ganja peddler of Sileru area in AP’s Visakhapatnam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/constable-held-for-smuggling-ganja/article37389841.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||KCR dares Centre to take action against him||“I admitted I called him fascist because we were not consulted when the merger took place”. Mr. Rao criticised the personalised attacks against him by the BJP. He had observed restraint throughout and carried on with his development agenda for the State. But, what had BJP done to the State. It was spectator to water wars in the country. What prevented the Centre from referring Telangana’s demand for reallocation of Krishna river water with AP to the water disputes tribunal. The TRS constructed Kaleswaram project in a record three-and-half years and won place in the famed Time Square in New York and also featured in Discovery Channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-dares-centre-to-take-action-against-him/article37389645.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Talking ‘net’ worth||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/talking-net-worth/article37389643.ece
09 November 2021||New Delhi,||City sees 3 more dengue deaths as total cases cross 2,500 mark||The Capital reported 1,171 cases of dengue and three deaths over the past week (till November 6), a civic report said on Monday. While the fatality toll for the season has reached nine, the caseload stands at 2,708 — the highest since 2017. The total cases for November remain at 1,171, which is the highest for the month since 2018. According to a civic official, the three deceased were a 63-year-old man from Rohini, a 12-year-old boy from Durga Vihar, and a three-year-old girl from Saurabh Vihar. “They were admitted to private hospitals in the city,” the official said. However, three deaths at the Central Government-run Safdarjung Hospital, which was reported by The Hindu on November 7, have not been added to the official death count. Most cases in south Delhi South Delhi recorded the highest dengue cases last week at 404, followed by North Delhi with 394. In the previous week, north Delhi had reported 134 cases, followed by south Delhi with 127 cases. Till October 30, Delhi had reported 1,537 cases of dengue and six deaths, which was the highest for the season since 2018. “The Delhi Government on October 14 declared dengue, malaria and chikungunya as notifiable diseases under the Epidemic Diseases Act. This led to addition of backlog cases from hospitals, which had not shared them until then. Previously, there were 60-70 hospitals reporting cases of vector-borne diseases. But now, the number has gone up,” a civic official, who did not wish to be named, said. Another reason for the spread of dengue, the official said, is the influx of patients from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. “Prolonged rain in the city has also contributed to the rise in cases.” Delhi had recorded 1,072 cases and one death in 2020, 2,036 cases and two deaths in 2019, and 2,798 cases and four deaths in 2018. “Almost every doctor sees 3-5 patients with dengue-related symptoms every day, which puts the total at 50-70. We are yet to see a dip in the number of cases,” a doctor at Ganga Ram Hospital said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-sees-3-more-dengue-deaths-as-total-cases-cross-2500-mark/article37389491.ece
09 November 2021||New Delhi,||Govt., Oppn. play blame game over Chhath Puja arrangements||Accusations of negligence and lack of adequate arrangements flew thick and fast on Monday as lakhs of residents in the Capital observed the first day of Chhath Puja. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the Delhi Government was the “only one in the country to have earmarked 800 ghats for the puja” even as North East Delhi BJP MP Manoj Tiwari argued that devotees were forced to take a dip in toxic Yamuna water because of lack of proper arrangements. Revolving around the cultural sensitivities of Delhi’s Purvanchali population — which numbers upwards of 20 lakh — the observance of Chhath Puja first became a political hot potato when the DDMA denied approval to the residents to perform the rituals at public places due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The issue snowballed into a full-blown controversy after the DDMA allowed the devotees to perform the puja at public places but prohibited them from doing so on the banks of the Yamuna where it has traditionally been observed for decades. “Despite all the hurdles, the Delhi Government had decided to celebrate the Chhath Puja in a grand manner. The way the celebrations started today, I can certainly say that our efforts for a grand celebration have borne fruit,” Mr. Sisodia said. However, Mr. Tiwari, who visited the locations where the puja was allowed, accused the Delhi Government of neglecting not just the arrangements but also the health of devotees who were forced to take a dip in toxic foam. He added that the abysmal condition of the Yamuna was fit to be taken suo motu cognisance by the Supreme Court to dismiss the Delhi Government for “lying” regarding its condition and promising to clean it over the last seven years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-oppn-play-blame-game-over-chhath-puja-arrangements/article37389494.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Woman attacked with acid for refusing marriage proposal||A 26-year-old woman’s hands were tied and acid was thrown at her face by a man she refused to marry, the police said, adding that the accused has been arrested. The incident was reported from the Bawana area. DCP (Outer North) Brijendra Kumar Yadav said the accused has been identified as Montu, who was arrested from his home town in Bihar. The woman has suffered third-degree burns, he said. The police said on November 3, they received a call that a woman had been attacked with acid and admitted to a hospital in Bawana. The victim — who is said to be critical — managed to give her statement to the police. She said she is married but Montu was pressuring her to marry him. The woman said she refused his proposal and started living with her husband in the Pooth Khurd area, where the accused followed her and started living in the neighbourhood. “On November 3, Montu called the woman to his room on some pretext and asked her to leave her husband for him but the woman refused. Reacting to this, Montu tied both her hands and threw acid on her and ran away,” Mr. Yadav said. Based on the victim’s statement, the police registered a case and arrested the accused from Bihar on November 6. “Montu had a countrymade pistol which he said he had planned to use on the woman’s husband. He whipped out the pistol and attacked the police party. The police fired in retaliation and a bullet hit his leg. He has been admitted to a hospital and is stable,” Mr. Yadav said, adding that a separate case has been registered in this incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-attacked-with-acid-for-refusing-marriage-proposal/article37389493.ece
09 November 2021||New Delhi,||High Court orders fresh probe into assault of two men at police station||The Delhi High Court has said that no one should have to repeat the tragic words of George Perry Floyd Jr. — ‘I can’t breathe’, while initiating a fresh inquiry into the alleged beating and assault of two men in the precincts of a police station. Justice Najmi Waziri made the remarks while hearing a plea by two men, who claimed that they had been illegally detained and beaten up by officials of Police Post Turkman Gate police station, Chandni Mahal, seeking a fresh preliminary inquiry by a senior police officer into the incident. Justice Waziri perused various photographs which showed the two men being assaulted by persons in police uniform on January 25. “The said assault is questionable, as the law does not permit people to be beaten up in police custody even during interrogation,” Justice Waziri said, adding, “punishment for an assault or a criminal act is to be determined by a court of law. The police cannot be a judge in its own cause”. Justice Waziri said, “Let no one have to repeat the tragic last words of George Perry Floyd Jr.: ‘I can’t breathe’.” The Delhi Government’s counsel argued that there was an immediately preceding occurrence, which led to the strict action being taken against the two petitioners. While an initial inquiry was conducted by the inspector (vigilance), the two persons said they were neither called for any inquiry nor were the injuries examined. “To inspire confidence in an inquiry, fairness of the procedure adopted and examination of the substantive issues must be apparent,” the High Court said, while ordering a fresh inquiry by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Vigilance).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/high-court-orders-fresh-probe-into-assault-of-two-men-at-police-station/article37389492.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Woman raped, locked up inside hotel in Dwarka||A 22-year-old woman accused a man of raping her inside a hotel room in Dwarka, the police said. The hotel manager has been arrested while the prime accused is on the run. A senior police officer said a call was received at Dwarka South police station wherein the caller said that her eye had been injured at Dwarka Sector 9 metro station. On reaching the location shared on WhatsApp, the police found it to be a hotel, which was locked from inside and the woman was seen crying in a second-floor balcony. The police said they had to break the glass door of the hotel to rescue the woman who had an injury on her face. No manager or owner was present at the hotel. The woman told the police that one Ankit Sehrawat had contacted her on the pretext of giving her a job. He picked her around 8 p.m. on Saturday and brought her to this hotel. “Inside the room, the woman said, the man forced her to drink and then raped her. He also beat her with his wrist band and locked her inside the room,” the officer said. Based on the woman’s statement, the police registered a rape case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/woman-raped-locked-up-inside-hotel-in-dwarka/article37389497.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Air quality improves marginally||Delhi’s air quality improved marginally to the ‘very poor’ level on Monday, after remaining in the ‘severe’ category for three consecutive days post-Deepavali, with an average AQI of 390, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4 p.m. bulletin. Increase in wind speed has been attributed by forecasting agencies as the reason behind the improvement in the air quality. Government-run monitoring agency SAFAR said 5,450 farm fires were recorded in neighbouring States on Sunday, which is the highest this season, but the share of farm fires in the city’s air pollution reduced to 30% on Monday from 48% on Sunday. According to the forecast, Delhi’s AQI is likely to remain in the ‘very poor’ category on November 9 and 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/air-quality-improves-marginally/article37389498.ece
09 November 2021||HONG KONG,||Communist Party plenum opens in China||China’s Communist Party on Monday began a key four-day conclave in Beijing, which is expected to pass a resolution this week that will further tighten General Secretary and President Xi Jinping’s grip on power and likely ensure his dominance remains unchallenged as he begins a third term next year. The 370 members of the Central Committee gathered in Beijing on Monday, and Mr. Xi “delivered a work report” and “made explanations on a draft resolution on the major achievements and historical experience of the CPC’s 100 years of endeavours”, the official Xinhua news agency said. The focus of the gathering this week, an annual meeting called a plenum, is passing what will be only the third such resolution on the party’s history in the past 100 years, following those passed by Mao Zedong in 1945 and Deng Xiaoping in 1981. The resolution, expected to be made public on Thursday, is likely to largely hail the party’s achievements. It, is, however, not only about questions of history. It will likely emphasise Mr. Xi’s contributions and establish his status in the party as a “core” leader on a par with Mao and Deng. This will translate into even greater political control for Mr. Xi in the months ahead, and leave his position unchallenged ahead of next October’s once-in-five-year party congress, where he is expected to begin a third five-year term and appoint new officials to replace those retiring. A meeting last month that announced the plenum noted that “Chinese Communists, with Mao Zedong, Deng Xiaoping, Jiang Zemin, and Hu Jintao as chief representatives, led the whole Party and people of all ethnic groups in achieving vital progress in the revolution, construction and reform, with precious experience accumulated”. At the core “Since the 18th CPC National Congress in 2012,” the announcement said, “the CPC Central Committee with Xi Jinping at the core has led the whole Party and people of all ethnic groups in making new notable achievements and accumulating new precious experience”. Mr. Xi, who took over in 2012, has abolished term limits and ended the collective leadership model, and has declared the start of a “new era” for China, which the resolution will also likely mention, marking a phase of the country’s “rejuvenation”. The document will “look back at key events in the Party’s 100-year history, reinforce unity among the Party and strengthen the authority and leadership of the CPC Central Committee with Xi at its core, as well as determine the Party’s direction for the next few decades”, the Party-run Global Times reported on Monday. Wang Junwei, a research fellow at the Institute of Party History and Literature of the CPC Central Committee, told the paper the two previous resolutions on history in 1945 and 1981 had “profound and long-term effects on unifying the thoughts and concentrating the strengths of the whole Party”, adding that this resolution would have a similar effect. The 1945 resolution established Mao’s ideology as the party’s dominant guiding philosophy, while Deng’s in 1981 launched China’s reform era. “The third one will be similar in its significance and functions — to have a clear and authoritative conclusion on a series of questions or issues in history, and pave the way for the 20th CPC National Congress next year,” Wu Xinwen of Fudan University in Shanghai told the paper, adding that “this one will cover more content compared to the previous two, as it aims to review and sum up the Party’s 100-year history”. He added it would provide an “authoritative conclusion” on debates about the party’s history. Mr. Xi has sought to clamp down on precisely such debates during his term, for instance between neo-Maoists and those favouring greater reforms. Party scholars have recently called for putting an end to debates that contested the legacies of Mao and Deng, with the current emphasis firmly on party unity, ideological discipline, and, not to mention, unquestioningly following the current “core” leader at the helm, Mr. Xi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/communist-party-plenum-opens-in-china/article37389206.ece
09 November 2021||Managua,||Nicaragua’s Ortega wins new term after opponents jailed||Daniel Ortega won a fourth consecutive presidential term on Monday in elections denounced by the U.S. as a “sham,” with the long-term Nicaraguan leader deriding his opponents — most of them jailed or in exile — as “terrorists.” With ballots in 49% of polling stations counted, Mr. Ortega had 75% of votes, according to official partial results from the country’s Supreme Electoral Council. With seven would-be presidential challengers detained since June, the 75-year-old was assured a fourth consecutive five-year term — his fifth overall. The five contenders he did face have been dismissed by critics as regime loyalists. Late on Sunday night, some of Mr. Ortega’s followers began to celebrate on the streets of the capital Managua even before the final result. “Yes we did it, Daniel, Daniel!” they shouted in several neighbourhoods as fireworks went off. Biden denounces poll U.S. President Joe Biden said in a statement on Sunday that the outcome was “rigged” long before the “sham” election. “What Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega and his wife, Vice-President Rosario Murillo, orchestrated today was a pantomime election that was neither free nor fair, and most certainly not democratic,” the president said, adding the pair now run Nicaragua “as autocrats.” Mr. Ortega, a former guerilla hero, launched a new attack on his opponents on Sunday, saying: “This day we are standing up to those who promote terrorism, finance war, to those who sow terror, death.” He was referring to Nicaraguans who took part in massive protests against his government in 2018, which were met with a violent crackdown that claimed over 300 lives in Central America’s poorest country. Some 150 people have been jailed since then, including 39 opposition figures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nicaraguas-ortega-wins-new-term-after-opponents-jailed/article37389201.ece
09 November 2021||Colombo,||Fertilizer row: Chinese firm asks Sri Lanka to pay for ‘negligence’||A Chinese firm has demanded $8 million from Sri Lanka for “negligence” in testing its fertilizer sample, escalating tensions persisting for weeks since Sri Lankan authorities rejected a “contaminated” consignment from the firm. Further, Chinese diplomats are scheduled to meet Sri Lankan authorities on Monday [November 8], The Morning newspaper here reported, over the controversy that appears to be straining bilateral ties. In a Letter of Demand to the National Plant Quarantine Service of Sri Lanka’s Department of Agriculture, the Chinese firm accused authorities of making an “erroneous conclusion” in its test. In October, Sri Lanka barred a Chinese ship carrying organic fertilizer, after the National Plant Quarantine Service tested samples and confirmed presence of “organisms, including certain types of harmful bacteria”. China has reacted strongly to the development, even banning a top public sector bank in Sri Lanka that held back payment to the company, after a court order restraining it. In a tweet with “clarifications” on behalf of Chinese company Qingdao Seawin, the Chinese Embassy on Sunday said the Ceylon Fertilizer Company, which received the fertiliser sample on July 28, should have tested it before giving the bid, signing the contract and getting the import permit. The fertilizer row involving the Chinese firm comes months after Sri Lanka abruptly switched to an “organic fertilizer only” policy, widely criticised by farmers and experts as “short-sighted” and “ill-timed”. Soil scientists have warned that the country’s agricuture sector is heading towards a “catastrophe”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-firm-wants-sri-lanka-to-pay-8-million-for-negligence/article37389204.ece
09 November 2021||Paris,||French bishops agree to compensate victims||France’s Catholic Church agreed on Monday to financially compensate sex abuse victims in what the president of the country’s Bishop Conference hailed as a “decisive step.” Conference President Eric de Moulins-Beaufort said that the Church has recognised its “institutional responsibility” and decided to go “on a path of recognition and reparation that paves the way for victims to get the possibility of a mediation and a compensation.” The Bishops Conference held its annual meeting a month after a report estimated that some 3,30,000 children were sexually abused over 70 years by priests or other church-related figures. “We felt disgust and horror inside us when we realised how much suffering so many people had lived and were still living,” he said. The Bishop did not provide details about the amount of the compensation and how the church intends to pay. The report also described “systemic” cover-up by the Catholic Church, and urged the church to respect the rule of law in France.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/french-bishops-agree-to-compensate-victims/article37389199.ece
09 November 2021||Islamabad,||Ban on radical party lifted||Pakistan’s government has lifted a ban on a radical party that staged massive anti-France protests, after striking a deal with the group which ended the latest rounds of deadly protests. In a notification published late on Sunday, the government said the move was in the “national interest”, coming after seven police officers were killed in clashes during a days-long rally that began last month. The Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) has staged a series of disruptive protests over the past several years linked to the flash-point issue of blasphemy in Muslim-majority Pakistan. “The Federal government is pleased to remove the name of the Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan as proscribed organisation,” the government said in a statement. It added the decision was made after assurances from the group — which has three members in the nation’s Parliament — that it would abide by the law. Cadres released Hundreds of TLP supporters were also released from detention earlier this month as part of the deal. “This label has been a source of major concern for us as all our activists were being booked under anti-terrorism act. We were told last night about the decision,” TLP spokesman Sajjad Saifi said on Monday. But TLP leader Saad Rizvi, who was arrested in April when the group was first banned, remains in detention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-lifts-ban-on-radical-party-tehreek-e-labbaik/article37389202.ece
09 November 2021||Jerusalem,||‘NSO spyware used to target Palestinians’||Security researchers disclosed on Monday that spyware from the notorious Israeli hacker-for-hire company NSO Group was detected on the cellphones of six Palestinian human rights activists, half affiliated with groups that Israel’s Defence Minister Benny Gantz controversially claimed were involved in terrorism. The revelation marks the first known instance of Palestinian activists being targeted by the military-grade Pegasus spyware.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nso-spyware-used-to-target-palestinians/article37389208.ece
09 November 2021||Nairobi,||Leader of Ethiopia's Oromo rebels predicts victory 'very soon'||A rebel leader fighting Ethiopia's government said his troops are near the capital and preparing another attack, as diplomats rush to negotiate a ceasefire. Jaal Marroo, commander of the Oromo Liberation Army, warned Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed that the rebels were very close to victory.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/leader-of-ethiopias-oromo-rebels-predicts-victory-very-soon/article37389207.ece
09 November 2021||Paris,||US--Virus Outbreak||The U.S. lifted restrictions on Monday on travel from a long list of countries, including Mexico, Canada and most of Europe, allowing tourists to make long-delayed trips and family members to reconnect with loved ones after more than a year and a half apart because of the COVID-19 pandemic.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-virus-outbreak/article37389210.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Breaking down the hype around Metaverse||The race between technology companies to build the ‘metaverse’ has officially started. On October 28, 2021, Facebook Inc. announced that it was restructuring and assuming the corporate name, Meta Platforms Inc., announcing that ‘from now on, we’re going to be metaverse-first, not Facebook-first’. ‘Metaverse’ is a broad term encompassing interconnected 3D virtual worlds made possible through advancements in technologies such as augmented reality (AR)/virtual reality (VR), artificial intelligence (AI) and blockchains, originating from Neal Stephenson’s 1992 speculative science fiction novel, Snow Crash . The metaverse space Web 3.0 is the name given to the next generation of Internet architecture that will supposedly be free from the centralisation that is a part of today’s Web 2.0 Internet systems, which are largely controlled by tech giants such as Google, Facebook and Amazon. Web 3.0 proponents advocate the use of technologies such as blockchains and tokens to create a decentralised Internet for online interaction and online payments, and a hypothetical metaverse run on these platforms could be a good example of what an ideal future digital environment could look like; hence the push for an ‘Open Metaverse’ by some organisations. In an ideal world, the metaverse would be a truly open and inclusive space for empowerment, expression and exploration. However, these are not likely to be the corporation’s goals in the world we live in. If the corporation’s previous products are anything to go by, the aim is likely to get to the next level of commodification of human interaction, where every single action, down to the tiniest levels, is tracked and surveilled for profits, and designed in a way to maximise data collection and keep the user coming back for more. Facebook/Meta is not the only company that has been pushing for the idea of the metaverse to become a reality lately; although the branding exercise that has just begun will likely make millions believe so. The chosen name reflects an attempt to associate the idea of the metaverse with one particular corporation and turn it into a household name. Other companies that have similar metaverse-building goals, such as Epic Games, now face a huge disadvantage. However, the metaverse in the hands of one corporation would surely be detrimental to the entire Web 3.0 decentralisation movement. Competitors are likely to pop up with their own versions of the technology, leading to a number of ‘Closed’ metaverses, which would basically be the Web 2.0 system all over again. Oligopolies or monopolies in something as revolutionary as the metaverse space is a cause for concern and competition law regulators might have to look into them someday. What could be on offer What kind of economic systems would exist in Facebook/Meta’s metaverse? Interoperability, or the ability to seamlessly transfer data between different virtual worlds is being promised, which allows for rich social and economic possibilities. One phrase that has been regularly coming up is the ‘creator economy’ that will become a reality in the metaverse thanks to the popularity of NFTs (non-fungible tokens) over the past year. NFTs will allow proof of ownership of digital assets, for example, virtual goods, paintings and memorabilia. However, the most common criticism of NFTs is that they are an attempt to create value and scarcity where there should not be — that they are nothing more than another new avenue for capitalist expansion. The arguments are that nothing in the virtual world is actually scarce, and any scarcity is actually by design. Artificially created scarcity helps drive profits and money-making. The debate continues. Metaverses have great potential to revolutionise fields such as education and health care, but as long as they are run purely from a profit motive, the benefits would likely be lesser. Virtual economies might also develop around the customisation of metaverse ‘avatars’. Recent whistle-blower revelations have unveiled that the corporation was well aware of the psychological effects Instagram was having on teenagers. One can therefore assume that metaverse ‘avatars’ will be the new version of showing off glamorous social media profiles — both masking who the person really is behind-the-scenes, perpetuating narcissism, mental health issues and insecurities. Regulatory concerns Privacy and security are, of course, significant concerns, and indeed, Facebook/Meta has acknowledged this, declaring its commitment to creating secure platforms. Yet, rampant health and biometric data collection are expected to continue in the metaverse, as real world identities will be more connected to the system than ever before. Data breaches and theft, thus, could prove even costlier. While Web 3.0 systems are supposed to give more power to users over their personal data, it still remains to be seen if corporations such as Facebook/Meta will follow Web 3.0 standards or come up with their own standards in closed corporate metaverses. Cybercrimes could also take on new forms in these new virtual worlds. Facebook’s role in promoting violent and hateful content to drive user engagement has been well documented. If left unregulated, something similar could happen on an even larger scale in immersive virtual worlds, through targeted advertising and propaganda. The corporation cannot be trusted to moderate its platforms properly if it goes against their economic incentives, as has been proven time and time again. Regulators need to step in right from the start when it comes to the metaverse, following a precautionary rather than a permissive approach instead of taking too long and allowing certain problematic and dangerous practices to get entrenched and difficult to deal with. The tussle between lawmakers around the world and Facebook still continues today. Finally, metaverses will bring up challenging questions of jurisdiction and governance. In the distant future, virtual worlds could even someday grow into alternatives to the nation state itself, as the rise of blockchain-based DAOs (decentralized autonomous organisations) seems to suggest. Big Tech firms already have GDPs higher than several small countries — if they all get to operate full virtual worlds of their own, it could necessitate large-scale rethinking of the very foundations of technology law. Real world costs, impact The metaverse, as it is promised, will combine the technologies of cloud computing, big data, advanced AI systems, AR/VR, blockchains, NFTs and much more. Each of these technologies requires tremendous processing power and, consequently, would lead to a great cost in terms of the environment. The level of resource extraction required to run such a huge system smoothly is too gigantic to comprehend. And that is not even taking into account the exploitation of millions of underpaid workers upon which a lot of the critical infrastructure and supply chains of Big Tech depend. This stark reality behind our everyday conveniences is unknown to many, and this could only intensify with a corporate project as huge as the metaverse. Ultimately, a corporation is beholden to its investors and not to the public at large. With the metaverse, possibilities are aplenty. But so are the dangers. Kaif Siddiqui is an LLM (Law and Technology) student at the West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences, Kolkata. Shifa Qureshi is a B.A. LL.B (Hons.) student at the Faculty of Law, Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/breaking-down-the-hype-around-metaverse/article37389068.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||No quota without quantifiable data||The Madras High Court’s recent verdict of quashing the 10.5% special reservation for Vanniyakula Kshatriyas within the overall 20% quota for Most Backward Classes (MBC) and Denotified Communities (DNC) has again highlighted the importance of quantifiable data as a prerequisite for reservation in education and employment. Adopted on the last day of the previous State Assembly in February when the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) was in power, the special quota law, which envisaged 10.5% special reservation for the Vanniyakula Kshatriyas comprising seven sub-castes; 7% for 25 MBCs and 68 DNCs; and 2.5% for 22 MBCs, triggered controversy from the word go. Expectedly, the legislation was challenged before the High Court, which held it unconstitutional for a host of reasons. Even though the Court described the submission that the law was enacted only on the basis of “adequate authenticated data on population” of the MBCs and DNCs enumerated by the second Backward Classes (BC) Commission as the “main thrust” of arguments of Tamil Nadu’s Advocate General, it concluded that “there is no data, much less quantifiable data, available with the State government before the introduction” of the law. No exhaustive study It is a fact that no exhaustive study has been done to collect quantifiable data on the representation of different communities in education and employment since the second BC Commission, popularly known after its chairman, J.A. Ambasankar, carried out one during its existence (1982-1985). Even the State BC Commission, in its report of July 2011 to the State government in justification of 69% reservation for BC, MBC/DNCs and Scheduled Castes (SC)/Scheduled Tribes (ST) under the 1994 Act, did not give any community-wise break up of representation in government services. It furnished only the numbers of candidates belonging to the BCs and MBC/DNCs, who were chosen for the State Services and Subordinate Services during 2005-09, quoting the data furnished by the Tamil Nadu Public Services Commission, apart from those from SC/ST and Other Backward Classes selected by the Railway Recruitment Board, Chennai. Even though the mandate given to the BC panel was to come out with its defence of the 69% quota, the Commission could have provided the community-wise break up of recruitments made by the State government. At least, now, with the High Court pointing to the absence of data as a reason to annul the 10.5% quota law, the State government should commission a study to compile the data on the way the benefits of reservation got distributed among BCs, MBCs and the DNCs. The study can be carried out either by the present BC Commission or by an exclusive panel, as decided by the previous AIADMK government in December 2020. When the existing BC Commission was set up in July 2020, one of the terms of reference was to examine the demand for internal reservation within the reservation provided for MBCs and make a recommendation on the matter. As made clear by the Court, the quantifiable data are required for providing any form of quota in favour of any community because the Constitutional stipulation of adequate representation in the services has to be met along with that of social and educational backwardness for any community to become eligible for reservation in employment. Internal reservation The need for internal reservation has been felt for more than one reason. Even in the 1970s and 1980s, two BC Commissions found certain sections of the communities more backward than others. The situation has got compounded in the absence of application of the creamy layer rule in reservation, a concept that is being opposed by political parties including the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the AIADMK. Ironically, the first BC Commission (1969-70), headed by A.N. Sattanathan, talked of having a device for “skimming off periodically” top layers of the communities. The Ambasankar Commission advocated compartmental reservation, by grouping the BCs on the basis of backwardness. It went to the extent of saying that the words, “any backward class of citizens” in Article 16(4) of the Constitution “contemplates [sic] a plurality of backward classes and consequent separate reservation for these classes.” The concept of quota within quota is nothing new to Tamil Nadu. In March 1989, a new category — Most Backward Classes and De-notified Communities — was carved out of the BCs and given 20% exclusively from the then quantum of 50%. In September 2007, Muslims in the BCs were provided with 3.5% and in January 2009, 3% for Arunthathiyars out of 18% quota for the SCs. ramakrishnan.t@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/no-quota-without-quantifiable-data/article37389077.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||A vital cog in Bongaigaon’s response to malnutrition||‘Let food be thy medicine and medicine be thy food’. This statement is often attributed to Hippocrates, the Father of Medicine, and quite literally sums up Project Sampoorna which was conceptualised and successfully implemented in Bongaigaon district of Assam. An interlink The project has resulted in the reduction of malnutrition in children using near zero economic investment. Sampoorna is in tandem with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals and those set by the UN Secretary General António Guterres in the Food Systems Summit (September 2021) including the need to have food systems and social protection that support resilience and food security. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also had identified health and nutrition as priority areas and reiterated the need for a ‘Kuposhan mukt Bharat’ (Malnutrition Free India) while launching the Prime Minister’s Overarching Scheme for Holistic Nourishment (POSHAN Abhiyaan) (National Nutrition Mission) in 2017-18. It was during Poshan Maah (Nutrition Month) in September 2020 that 2,416 children were identified to be malnourished in the lush green Brahmaputra valley district of Bongaigaon. The National Family Health Survey (NHFS)-5) has documented that the number of children under five who are stunted, wasted, underweight and the number of anaemic women and children in the district are higher than the national average — anaemia being a major determinant of maternal and child health. These were corroborated by Project Saubhagya that was designed to reduce the maternal mortality rate and infant mortality rate of the district. A real time data sheet is updated by field-level doctors as and when a high risk pregnancy is identified, which is then followed up till safe delivery. The project has yielded encouraging results; maternal deaths for six months (April 1, 2020 to September 30, 2020 compared to April 1, 2021 to September 30, 2021) have fallen from 16 to three and infant deaths from 130 to 63. Addressing child nutrition The highest risk factor for high risk pregnancy is anaemia which is usually nutritional. The vicious cycle of a malnourished child growing into an unhealthy adolescent, and then further into an anaemic pregnant young woman giving birth to an asphyxiated low birth weight baby; this baby then facing possible developmental delays, only to grow into a malnourished child; and this child who struggles further for nutrition and appropriate care while the world around her barely makes ends meet is the one that sucks in all possibilities of a healthy society. This portrays the worst-case scenarios, but truth is indeed stranger than fiction. In order to break out of this vicious cycle, the low-hanging fruit had to be targeted — children’s nutrition. Malnutrition, patriarchy Bongaigaon has 1,116 Anganwadis with a total of 63,041 children below five. The massive exercise of plotting their weights and heights in World Health Organization growth charts revealed a total of 2,416 malnourished children; 246 cases of Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM) and 2,170 instances of Moderate Acute Malnutrition (MAM). District Nutritional Rehabilitation Centres, or NRCs, usually have up to 20 beds; and a monthly intake of 200 SAM children is not practical. Also, parents of the children who are admitted forgo their daily wages (which to an extent is compensated by the Government) and abandon their farmlands for 10 days. Back home, siblings of the SAM child are not taken care of and may become malnourished. The treated child could also slip back to a SAM state after being discharged and if not cared for. We needed to innovate now. Based on the success of the community-based COVID-19 management model (Project Mili Juli), we launched Project Sampoorna targeting the mothers of SAM/MAM children, the tagline being ‘Empowered Mothers, Healthy Children’. In addition, we identified the mother of a healthy child of the same Anganwadi Centre (AWC) and paired her with the target mother; they would be ‘Buddy Mothers’ (2,416 pairs). They were usually neighbours and shared similar socio-economic backgrounds. The pairs were given diet charts to indicate the daily food intake of their children; they would have discussions about this on all Tuesdays at the AWC. Local practices related to nutrition would also be discussed. The major hindrance to the project was patriarchy. Mothers had to be empowered financially for sustained results. Therefore, they were enrolled in Self Help Groups (SHGs) under the National Rural Livelihoods Mission (NRLM). By the end of three months, 74.3% of mothers were enrolled in SHGs; by the end of six months, enrollment went up to 75.6% and by the end of a year, it was 90%. Meanwhile, we arranged for 100 millilitres of milk and an egg on alternate days for all 2,416 children for the first three months, giving time for their mothers to stabilise themselves in the newly found jobs. The large hearted people of Bongaigaon adopted Anganwadis and filled the tiny stomachs with the much needed proteins and their hearts with love. A sea change After three months of Project Sampoorna, out of 246 SAM children, 27 (11%) continued to be SAM, 28 (11.4%) improved to MAM and a whooping 189 (76.8%) became normal. Out of 2,170 MAM children, 12 (0.6%) deteriorated to SAM, 132 (6.08%) stayed MAM and an unbelievable 2,015 (92.8%) became normal. The best was yet to come. Milk and eggs were stopped after three months but we continued to follow up to see how our Buddy Mothers Model and Women Empowerment Model were working. Mothers had done what institutions could not do for years. By March 2021, 84.96% of SAM children and 97.3% MAM children were normal; and by September 2021, 92.3% SAM and 98.9% MAM children were normal. Project Sampoorna had stood the test of time. Children who had not improved were checked and treated by doctors under the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK). UNICEF, IIT Guwahati, Tezpur University and the Social Welfare Department lent their support in periodic course correction. Project Sampoorna had prevented at least 1,200 children from becoming malnourished over the last year. The National Nutrition Mission and the State government recognised our project in the ‘Innovation Category’. The Chief Minister of Assam, Himanta Biswa Sharma, has written an encouraging message for the project report which will be released soon. The model can easily be implemented anywhere in the world. We believe children everywhere have the right to stay healthy, and hope that the vicious cycle is broken sooner rather than later. Dr. M.S. Lakshmi Priya, District Collector, Bongaigaon district, Assam, is a medical doctor turned IAS officer (2014 batch), from Kerala. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-vital-cog-in-bongaigaons-response-to-malnutrition/article37389071.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||It’s time to engage in ‘lawfare’||Military experts, international relations academics, and practitioners like retired diplomats dominate the debates on global security in India. International lawyers are largely absent in these debates despite security issues being placed within the framework of international law. Today, international law covers a wide array of security issues ranging from terrorism to maritime security. Article 1(1) of the UN Charter recognises the maintenance of “international peace and security” as a principal objective of the UN. Notwithstanding the central role that international law plays in security matters, India has failed to fully appreciate the usage of international law to advance its national security interests. Several misses In recent times, several examples demonstrate India’s failure to use an international law-friendly vocabulary to articulate its security interests. First, India struck the terror camps in Pakistan in February 2019, days after a dastardly act of terrorism in Pulwama was carried out by a Pakistan-based terror outfit. In justifying the use of force, India did not invoke the right to self-defence since Pakistan was unable or unwilling to act against the terrorist groups operating from its soil; rather, it relied on a contested doctrine of ‘non-military pre-emptive action’. Second, after the Pulwama attack, India decided to suspend the most favoured nation (MFN) status of Pakistan. Under international law contained in the General Agreements on Tariffs and Trade, countries can deviate from their MFN obligations on grounds of national security. Instead of suspending the MFN obligation towards Pakistan along these lines, India used Section 8A(1) of the Customs Tariff Act, 1975, to increase customs duties on all Pakistani products to 200%. The notification on this decision did not even mention ‘national security’. Third, India wishes to deport the Rohingya refugees who, it argues, pose a security threat. However, India’s argument to justify this deportation is that it is not a signatory to the Refugee Convention. This is a weak argument since India is bound by the principle of non-refoulment (a customary international law principle that prohibits a country from returning refugees to countries where they face a clear threat of persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion, among others). National security is one of the exceptions to the non-refoulment principle in international refugee law. If India wishes to deport the Rohingya, it should develop a case on these lines showing how they constitute a national security threat. Fourth, to put pressure on the Taliban regime to serve India’s interest, India has rarely used international law. For instance, India could have made a case for the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) using its implied powers under international law to temporarily suspend Afghanistan from SAARC’s membership. That being said, there have been some instances where India has ably used international law for its national security objectives, such as in the Kulbhushan Jadhav case when it dragged Pakistan to the International Court of Justice and also in developing international law to counter terrorism. At the margins There are several reasons for international law remaining at the margins of foreign policymaking in India. First, there is marginal involvement of international lawyers in foreign policymaking. B.S. Chimni, a leading Indian international lawyer, argues, “the Legal and Treaties Division of the Ministry of External Affairs, which advises the government on international law matters, is both understaffed and largely ignored on policy matters”. Moreover, an international law expert has far greater incentive to join the government as a generalist diplomat than as an international lawyer. Second, apart from the External Affairs Ministry, there are several other Ministries like Commerce and Finance that also deal with different facets of international law. They have negligible expertise in international law. Third, there has been systemic neglect of the study of international law. Institutions created to undertake cutting-edge research in this discipline have institutionalised mediocrity and university centres mandated to develop the stream suffer from uninspiring leadership and systemic apathy. Fourth, many of the outstanding international law scholars that India has produced prefer to converse with domain experts only. Thus, they have failed in popularising international law among the larger public. If India wishes to emerge as a global power, it has to make use of ‘lawfare’ i.e., use law as a weapon of national security. To mainstream international law in foreign policymaking, India should invest massively in building its capacity on international law. Prabhash Ranjan is Professor and Vice Dean, Jindal Global Law School, OP Jindal Global University. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/its-time-to-engage-in-lawfare/article37389198.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Optimising the fall||There is reason for optimism in India’s battle against the COVID-19 pandemic. Daily new coronavirus cases have dipped to a nine-month low. There were 10,929 new cases reported in the previous 24 hours on Saturday morning. Though the latest numbers on Monday show a slight rise at 11,451, the key cause for optimism is that the country’s active case load stood at 1,46,950 cases which was a 262-day low, according to the Health Ministry. The active cases were 0.43% of the total caseload and the lowest since the pandemic began in March 2020. The last few times daily cases went below 10,000 were on February 8, February 1, and before that on the January 25. Saturday’s numbers bring the country’s overall tally to 3.37 crore. Optimism however is a double-edged sword. The numbers may be at February levels but it should not be forgotten that India was hit by a lethal second wave — led by a dominating Delta variant — that saw daily cases climb to as many as 4,00,000 a day and excess deaths in several States many multiples of what was being reported by the Government. Globally too, infections have not plateaued. The daily caseload has fallen by nearly a third since September but the virus continues to infect 50 million people every three months. On Monday, the world crossed a milestone of 25 crore cases since the pandemic began. However, the major difference between February and November is vaccination. About 74 crore first doses of the vaccine have been administered, which translates to 56% of the population. Close to 34 crore second doses have been administered which works out to a quarter of the population being fully inoculated. Coupled with results from serology surveys from States that show that many more have been exposed to the virus than official numbers indicate, this gives confidence that while the virus will continue to spread and infect, a smaller proportion of those infected will be seriously ill. The future demand for vaccination may depend more on adoption in children, or on the demand for booster shots from people worried about waning immunity. That the pall of fear has dimmed is apparent in the queues in airports, the crowds in tourist destinations and the rejuvenation in several indices of trade and economic activity. Whether all this socialisation — and the opening of schools in-person — will mean a surge in the coming months remains to be seen. The Government, while continuing to improve the last mile delivery of vaccines must not let up on advocating caution to avoid another wave of infections. It must continue to facilitate the upgrade of hospital infrastructure in every district; it should also shore up stocks of promising antivirals and ensure that vaccine companies increase supplies in line with their commitments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/optimising-the-fall/article37389062.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The wall in front||Rahul Dravid’s appointment as coach of the senior men’s Indian cricket team had an air of inevitability about it. This was a natural progression for the former India captain, who, after his retirement in 2012, dabbled in commentary before slipping into the mentor-cum-coach template. He guided the India under-19 squad, the ‘A’ team and helmed the National Cricket Academy in his hometown Bengaluru. It was all building up to the Indian squad’s coach’s seat, which was falling vacant following incumbent Ravi Shastri’s contract winding to a close at the culmination of the current ICC Twenty20 World Cup in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). However, much like his steady batting that earned him the moniker ‘The Wall’, Dravid was in no hurry. He prefers the measured step and it is a trait that defined him right from his school days to the time he became one among the sport’s greatest batters, putting a heavy price on his wicket. A rounded personality, equally at ease on the ground or in the company of books, Dravid was always the team-man. He even donned wicket-keeping gloves in One Day Internationals just to lend balance to the playing eleven. He comes with the weight of great stature, the warmth of goodwill, and the pressure of expectations. This is not an easy position in a country where everyone has an opinion on everything about cricket. Dravid the player batted with an in-the-trenches resolve defining his forays on the pitch. He was a remarkable close-in fielder too, an attribute that gets lost under his avalanche of runs. He remained an assertive captain and his act of declaring the Indian innings during the 2004 Multan Test against Pakistan, while Sachin Tendulkar neared his double century, remains one of the strongest team-first-records-later diktat ever issued in the annals of Indian cricketing history. But back then as a player or captain, Dravid was in control, but as a coach, his role is about getting the present skipper and the outfit ready for a contest besides finessing strategy. This is about transferring knowledge and hoping that his wards would deliver. It is tough, and in the past, men of pedigree such as Kapil Dev, Greg Chappell and Anil Kumble had a mixed run while evolving as the coach. India may have suffered a blip during the ICC T20 World Cup in the UAE, and yet this is a core-unit that has done well in the previous months, both at home and overseas. Seen in that light, Dravid inherits the right mix. Yet, there are missing links. Recently, India has not won any significant ICC silverware while the triumphs in 1983, 2007 and 2011 seem distant. This should offer enough food for thought while the 48-year-old dons the coach’s hat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-wall-in-front/article37389063.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||A message from Hangal and Sindgi||The results of the just-concluded bypolls to two Assembly seats in Karnataka have exposed chinks in the BJP’s armour and show what challenges lie ahead for the principal opposition party, the Congress, and the Janata Dal (Secular) ahead of the Assembly elections in 2023. In particular, the new Chief Minister, Basavaraj Bommai, has faced a setback as the BJP lost the Hangal seat located in his home district of Haveri. Bypolls to the Hangal and Sindgi Assembly constituencies were necessitated by the death of the MLAs in these areas. While Hangal had earlier been represented by veteran leader C.M. Udasi, a close aide of former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, the Sindgi seat was held by the JD(S). A mixed bag The BJP, which is in the process of building a second line of leadership in Karnataka by replacing Mr. Yediyurappa with his own protégé, Mr. Bommai, as Chief Minister, had taken the decision not to give ticket to Udasi’s family members. This was seen in political circles as an attempt by the BJP to loosen the Yediyurappa camp’s hold over the party. In a balancing act, the party fielded a supporter of Mr. Yediyurappa from Hangal. The bypolls, though numerically insignificant, saw a high-decibel campaign with the Chief Minister himself leading from the front along with a battalion of his ministerial colleagues. Mr. Yediyurappa and his son B.Y. Vijayendra, who is keen to enter politics, also campaigned in both the constituencies. But the results were a mixed bag: the BJP lost Hangal to Congress candidate Srinivas Mane while it managed to wrest Sindgi from the JD(S) with a sizeable margin. Though a defeat in one seat can in no way be a pointer to the mandate in the next Assembly elections, the ruling BJP and the Chief Minister appear to be concerned as the Hangal results have indicated that the party has to take delicate measures to ensure that the supporters of Mr. Yediyurappa, who has considerable influence over the dominant community of Lingayats, wholeheartedly back the party. Some leaders have also said that the Hangal results could point to the possible impact of the BJP’s turn to hardcore Hindutva politics on voters in a seat that has a sizeable number of minorities, Other Backward Classes and Dalits. On his part, Mr. Bommai has said that he and the party will introspect on the reasons behind the defeat and take corrective measures. He also admitted that the Congress candidate in Hangal had “earned the goodwill” of the people in the constituency by helping them during the pandemic. BJP National General Secretary and State in-charge Arun Singh is visiting Karnataka to analyse the reasons for the defeat and to incorporate the lessons from these bypolls into the party’s strategy for 2023. Lessons for Opposition These results have certainly boosted the morale of the Congress that has won Hangal. However, the party is not devoid of problems as its strategy of importing the candidate from the rival JD(S) camp in Sindgi backfired. Admitting this, the Leader of the Opposition, Siddaramaiah, has said that there was an absence of co-ordination in the party as the candidate was a recent entrant. For the JD(S), whose candidates lost deposit in both the seats, the bypolls have shown that the absence of a firm political stand and strategies by its leaders are leading to constant erosion of its vote share. The party’s efforts to expand base beyond the Old Mysuru region of south Karnataka did not get a positive response from the people as its tally in north Karnataka has reduced further to five seats now. The bypolls have come as a warning ahead of the 2023 elections and all the three political parties are expected to rework their strategies. satishkumar.bs@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-message-from-hangal-and-sindgi/article37389074.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Borlaug defends use of DDT||Dr. Norman Borlaug, U.S. winner of the Nobel Peace Prize last year for his work in developing high-yield cereals, to-day [Rome, November 8] denounced “hysterical environmentalists” for attempting to block the use of chemicals such as D.D.T. in agriculture. In a lecture at the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organisation here, Dr. Borlaug warned that fertlisers and chemicals like D.D.T. were vital for adequate food production. “If agriculture is denied their use because of unwise legislation that is now being promoted by a powerful group of hysterical lobbyists, who are provoking fear by predicting doom for the world through chemical poisoning, then the world will be doomed not by chemical poisoning but by starvation,” he said. Dr. Borlaug’s 18,000-word lecture at the opening meeting of the FAO’s 16th Governing Conference was expected to initiate a major battle in the organisation over the use of D.D.T., FAO sources said. Opposition to his views may come on Tuesday when Dr. Sicco Mansholt of Holland, chief architect of the European Common Market’s agricultural policies, is expected to call for a phasing out of D.D.T. and its replacement by pesticides which do less damage to the environment. Referring to the so-called “Green Revolution” in agriculture for which he won his Nobel Prize, Dr. Borlaug said the use of heavy doses of fertilisers played an important part in creating the high-yielding cereals which had raised hopes of solving the world’s food problem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/borlaug-defends-use-of-ddt/article37389072.ece
09 November 2021||MUMBAI,||‘India now ahead of China in financial inclusion metrics’||India is now ahead of China in financial inclusion metrics, with mobile and Internet banking transactions rising to 13,615 per 1,000 adults in 2020 from 183 in 2015 and the number of bank branches inching up to 14.7 per 1 lakh adults in 2020 from 13.6 in 2015, which is higher than in Germany, China and South Africa, as per a report. States with higher financial inclusion / more bank accounts have also seen a perceptible decline in crime along with a meaningful drop in consumption of alcohol and tobaccos, according to the report pencilled by Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser at State Bank of India (SBI), on the fifth anniversary of the note ban. Under the no-frills accounts scheme, the number of persons with deposit accounts at banks has significantly increased, becoming comparable with emerging economy peers and even some of the advanced economies, he said. In the use of digital payments also, there has been noteworthy progress. The number of no-frills bank accounts opened has reached 43.7 crore with Rs. 1.46 lakh crore in deposits as of October 20, 2021. Of these, almost two-thirds are operational in rural and semi-urban areas and more than 78% of these accounts are with state-owned banks, 18.2% with regional rural banks, and 3% are opened by private sector banks. Mr. Ghosh called for fine-tuning the banking correspondent (BC) model by making it uniform across all banks for, there is a need to make the BCs interoperable. The number of banking outlets in villages / BCs had risen from 34,174 in March 2010 to 12.4 lakh in December 2020, the report showed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-now-ahead-of-china-in-financial-inclusion-metrics/article37389048.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Pharma study to help CCI take steps to raise drug affordability’||Fair trade regulator CCI will identify measures to enhance competition in the country’s pharmaceutical sector for ensuring affordability of drugs after analysing findings of its market study, which is likely to be completed within a month, according to its chief Ashok Kumar Gupta. The Competition Commission of India (CCI), which keeps a tab on unfair, initiated the study after observing issues such as lack of “effective consumer choice”. “Currently, it appears that, when it comes to medicines, competition is primarily on the basis of brands and not prices. The study will identify measures to increase competition for ensuring affordability of drugs,” the CCI chairperson said. Market studies had been initiated in pharmaceuticals and telecom, given their significance in the “new COVID-19-induced socio-economic milieu”. Mr. Gupta noted that the pharma sector study was initiated “because of observable demand-side issues, such as lack of effective consumer choice”. ‘Imbalance in e-com’ In 2020, the CCI study of the e-commerce space revealed bargaining power imbalance and information asymmetry between platforms and their businesses as emerging issues. “Exercising the advocacy mandate, CCI nudged e-commerce platforms to institute a set of self-regulatory measures over certain areas such as search ranking, collection/ use / sharing of data, user preview mechanisms, revision of contract terms and discount policy,” Mr. Gupta said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pharma-study-to-help-cci-take-steps-to-raise-drug-affordability/article37389056.ece
09 November 2021||MUMBAI,||‘FPIs can invest in debt issued by InvITs, REITS’||The Reserve Bank on Monday said FPIs had been permitted to invest in debt securities issued by Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) and Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs). Necessary amendments to Foreign Exchange Management (Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2019, had been notified in October. An announcement was made in the Union Budget 2021-22 that debt financing of InvITs and REITs by Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs) will be enabled by making suitable amendments in the relevant legislations. Accordingly, it has been decided to permit FPIs to invest in debt securities issued by InvITs and REITs, the RBI said in a circular. “FPIs can acquire debt securities issued by InvITs and REITs under the Medium-Term Framework (MTF) or the Voluntary Retention Route (VRR),” it said. Such investments shall be reckoned within the limits and shall be subject to the terms and conditions for investments by FPIs in debt securities under the respective regulations.  Amendments to Foreign Exchange Management (Debt Instruments) Regulations, 2019, have been notified||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fpis-can-invest-in-debt-issued-by-invits-reits/article37389046.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Sundaram Finance Q2 net profit rises 10%||Sundaram Finance Ltd.’s standalone net profit for the second quarter ended September 30, rose 10% to Rs. 211 crore from the year-earlier period. Total revenue increased to Rs. 1,022 crore from Rs. 993 crore, while other income contracted to Rs. 3.35 crore from Rs. 4.90 crore, the firm said in a regulatory filing. Gross and net NPAs rose to 3.85% (2.44%) and 2.48% (1.44%) respectively. Disbursements were up 14% at Rs. 3,621 crore. The company reported a capital adequacy ratio of 23.4%. Executive vice chairman Harsha Viji said that the second quarter saw improvement on both business growth and collections. However, overall recovery to a new normal would take time, he pointed out. Customer sentiment had significantly improved, and the second half of the year would likely see broad-based recovery, he added. “While stress continues in COVID-impacted sub-sectors, we remain focused on supporting our customers in resuming their business activity. Despite supply challenges due to the chip shortage, demand is improving across asset classes,” said MD Rajiv Lochan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sundaram-finance-q2-net-profit-rises-10/article37389051.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||High double-digit sales growth likely: Hyundai||Hyundai Motor India said it expects to log high double-digit sales growth this year compared with 2020 and remains hopeful of repeating the performance next year as well, riding on the back of strong demand for personal mobility, a senior company official said. The firm is counting on various positive factors such as the rapid pace of COVID-19 vaccination and improvement in the economy to achieve its business goals. It, however, cautioned that it remain wary of a resurgence in COVID cases in Europe, and high fuel costs, which it said could offset business outcomes going ahead. “When you compare with last year, obviously the numbers look much more positive. A high double-digit growth is round the corner. The shift towards personal mobility has really helped,” Hyundai Motor India Ltd. director (sales, marketing, service) Tarun Garg said. The firm has a customer booking backlog of almost 95,000 units, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/high-double-digit-sales-growth-likely-hyundai/article37389058.ece
09 November 2021||MUMBAI,||Reliance exits shale gas in N. America||Reliance Eagleford Upstream Holding LP, a wholly owned step-down arm of Reliance Industries Ltd., has signed agreements with Ensign Operating III LLC to divest its interest in certain upstream assets in the Eagleford shale play of Texas, USA. With this transaction, Reliance has divested all its shale gas assets and has exited from the shale gas business in North America. “A purchase and sale Agreement has been signed between REUHLP and Ensign. The sale is at a consideration higher than current carrying value of the assets,” Reliance Industries said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reliance-exits-shale-gas-in-n-america/article37389041.ece
09 November 2021||MUMBAI,||Muthoot Finance Q2 net rises 11%||Muthoot Finance Ltd. reported standalone net profit rose 11% to Rs. 994 crore in the quarter ended September, compared with a year earlier. “Loan assets stood at Rs. 55,147 crore compared to Rs. 47,016 crore in the same period last year, registering a growth of 17% YoY. Gold loan assets increased 5% to Rs. 2,613 crore,” the firm said. “We were able to maintain growth momentum... with all of our branches now open for business,” said George Jacob Muthoot, Chairman, Muthoot Group. “We are witnessing improved collections across micro finance, vehicle finance and home loans,” Mr. Muthoot added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/muthoot-finance-q2-net-rises-11/article37389043.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,||EID Parry Q2 net profit contracts 17%||EID Parry India Ltd.’s standalone net profit for the second quarter ended September contracted 17% to Rs. 73 crore on account of reduced export sales and lower release order quota allocation. Total revenue from operations saw a 17% de-growth to Rs. 438 crore. The company also received final dividend of Rs. 99 crore from subsidiary firm Coromandel International Ltd., EID Parry said in a filing. On Monday, the board approved an interim dividend of Rs. 5.50 for FY22. Standalone Nutraceuticals registered a reduction in profit from Rs. 4 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous year to Rs. 2 crore in the current quarter on increased raw material cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/eid-parry-q2-net-profit-contracts-17/article37389052.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||BNY Mellon cuts ties with Adani mine||Bank of New York Mellon Corp has pulled out of providing financial services to Adani Group and its Carmichael coal mine in Australia, saying the venture is incompatible with its environmental, social and governance rules. The U.S. investment bank is the latest global financial institution to distance itself from the project after a campaign by local indigenous people. BNY Mellon said it had reviewed its relationship with the Adani Group and “has decided to resign from all legacy transactions with Adani in Australia and will not pursue additional transactions”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bny-mellon-cuts-ties-with-adani-mine/article37389053.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indusind Bank shares tumble almost 11%||Shares of Indusind Bank on Monday tumbled almost 11% after the lender said it disbursed 84,000 loans without customer consent in May owing to a ‘technical glitch.’ The stock tanked 12.3% to Rs. 1,042.10 during the day on BSE. It settled at Rs. 1,061.45, lower by 10.7%. On NSE, it tumbled 10.5% to settle at Rs. 1,063.95. Indusind Bank was the biggest laggard on both the benchmarks. “The bank strongly denies the allegations of evergreening.’ All the loans originated and managed by BFIL are fully compliant with the regulatory guidelines,” the bank said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indusind-bank-shares-tumble-almost-11/article37389059.ece
09 November 2021||Mumbai,||UPS begins direct flight from India to Europe||UPS said it has started a Boeing 747 flight connecting India directly to Europe and then providing connectivity to customers to North and Latin American markets five days a week. This doubles its previous capacity for small and medium-sized business customers looking to grow their revenue base. The service will connect Delhi to UPS’s largest international hub at Cologne, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ups-begins-direct-flight-from-india-to-europe/article37389045.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Karur Vysya Q2||Karur Vysya Bank reported standalone Q2 net profit rose 43.5% to Rs. 165.45 crore from the year-earlier period on improved credit offtake in the retail and business segments. Net interest income improved 13.1% to Rs. 680 crore, net interest margin stood at 3.75%, and fee-based income (excluding treasury profit) rose to Rs. 144 crore from Rs. 119 crore, the private sector lender said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/karur-vysya-q2/article37389049.ece
09 November 2021||New Delhi,||Amazon infuses Rs 1,000 cr into India payments unit||Amazon has infused Rs. 1,000 crore into its payments unit in India, Amazon Pay, according to documents. The fresh infusion is expected to help the company compete more aggressively against rivals like PhonePe, Google Pay and Paytm. In a separate filing, Amazon Pay reported narrowing of loss to about Rs. 1,516.4 crore in FY21 from a loss of Rs. 1,868.5 crore in the preceding fiscal year.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amazon-infuses-rs-1000-cr-into-india-payments-unit/article37389054.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||M.P. and Gujarat improve their NRR||After posting resounding victories in the penultimate set of matches, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Kerala were left in the hunt for the two knockout spots available from Elite D in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament in New Delhi on Monday. On Tuesday, table-topper M.P. (12 points) plays Kerala (8) while second-placed Gujarat (12) takes on a far less formidable Bihar (4). Assam and Railways are out of reckoning for a place in the knockouts. It’s must-win match for Kerala as it has to triumph by a big margin for a better net run-rate (NRR) than M.P. Gujarat is widely expected to beat Bihar and qualify. As per NRR, M.P. (1.507) leads Gujarat (1.310) and Kerala (0.222). After the league, the group topper will move into the quarterfinals while the second-placed team will find a place in the pre-quarterfinals.  On Monday, M.P. displaced Gujarat at the top on superior run-rate after finishing a short run-chase in the PowerPlay against Bihar. Electing to bat at the Air Force ground, Bihar managed only 59 after losing the last five wickets for six runs. When M.P. batted, Venkatesh Iyer followed his dream spell (4-2-2-2) with an unbeaten 20-ball 36 (7x4) in 5.4 overs in M.P.’s nine-wicket win. A run-rate of 10.59 surely helped M.P.’s NRR. Gujarat also kept an eye on the NRR in beating Railways by eight wickets at the Ferozeshah Kotla ground. Urvil Patel (59, 29b, 8x4, 3x6) and skipper Priyank Panchal (43 n.o., 33b, 5x4, 1x6) hastened the end as Gujarat chased down a target of 133 with eight overs to spare. In contrast, Kerala did not help its NRR much in posting an eight-wicket win over Assam. After restricting Assam to 121 for eight, Kerala won in 18 overs. Rohan Kunnummal (56 n.o., 53b, 4x4, 1x6) top scored.   Drying up the runs  Akshay Karnewar’s spell of 4-4-0-2 for Vidarbha against Manipur is the most economical in men’s T20s He is the first bowler to not concede a run after delivering the full quota Venkatesh Iyer’s 4-2-2-2 (MP vs Bihar) is the fifth best spell in the shortest format||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mp-and-gujarat-improve-their-nrr/article37389689.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Tamil Nadu stumbles against Goa||Left-arm pacer Shrikant Wagh’s four-wicket haul and Shubham Ranjane’s unbeaten half-century (52, 42b, 3x4, 2x6) helped Goa stun Tamil Nadu by seven wickets in the Elite Group A Syed Mushtaq Ali match in Lucknow on Monday. Electing to bowl first, the Goa bowlers pegged TN back during the middle overs to ensure they restricted the defending champion to just 136/9. After Tamil Nadu reached 38/2 after the PowerPlay, Goa got three crucial wickets as TN slumped to 56/5 by the 11th over. Sanjay (39) and M. Shahrukh Khan (26) then came together for a 67-run stand for the sixth wicket. However, just when they were looking to accelerate, Wagh picked up three wickets in the 19th over to limit TN to a modest total. Goa’s innings started poorly when debutant pacer P. Saravana Kumar had opener Eknath Kerkar and Lakshay Garg bowled in the first over. But the other opener Aditya Kaushik played positively as he quickly found a few boundaries of Saravana Kumar in the following over. Ranjane too started strongly with a six down the ground and the duo added 66 for the third wicket. After Kaushik was dismissed, Suyash Prabhudessai built on the platform taking on the TN bowlers in his quickfire unbeaten knock of 43 (24b, 1x4, 3x6) to ensure Goa romped home in the 19th over. The loss was TN’s first in the competition since last season when it went unbeaten. TN missed three key players — B. Aparajith, Sandeep Warrier and T. Natarajan — due to niggles for the Goa game.   Drying up the runs  Akshay Karnewar’s spell of 4-4-0-2 for Vidarbha against Manipur is the most economical in men’s T20s He is the first bowler to not concede a run after delivering the full quota Venkatesh Iyer’s 4-2-2-2 (MP vs Bihar) is the fifth best spell in T20s||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tamil-nadu-stumbles-against-goa/article37389379.ece
09 November 2021||DUBAI,||India gives Shastri a perfect parting gift||India gave head coach Ravi Shastri a parting gift with a convincing victory against qualifier Namibia and end its disappointing ICC T20 World Cup campaign on a winning note. The nine-wicket triumph meant that Virat Kohli also ended his stint as the T20I captain with India finishing third in its six-team group. The victory was again set up by spin twins Ravindra Jadeja (three for 16) and R. Ashwin (three for 20). The experienced duo’s spells meant Namibia, despite adding 37 in the last four overs, could only manage 132 for eight after being put in by Kohli. Rohit to take over Rohit Sharma (56, 37b,7x4, 2x6), who was informally unveiled as the next T20I captain by Kohli during the post-toss chat, then made a mockery of the African bowling attack. Rohit and K.L. Rahul’s (54, 36b, 4x4, 2x6) 86-run partnership off just 59 balls meant India completed a crushing victory with 28 balls to spare. With Kohli sacrificing his No. 3 slot yet again, Suryakumar Yadav joined Rahul after Rohit’s attempted heave resulted in a top-edge to the wicketkeeper. Three balls after Rahul completed a classy half-century, the opener finished the game off with a four through mid-off off left-arm pacer Michael van Lingen. Had Rohit not been dropped at short fine-leg before opening his account, the loyal supporters who turned up at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium in numbers may well have had a glimpse of Kohli, the batter. Still, Ashwin and Jadeja showed their skills once again, despite Rahul Chahar, the leggie, going wicketless in his maiden appearance in the World Cup. Chahar replacing Varun Chakaravarthy was the only change in India’s line-up. Jasprit Bumrah was clinical as ever at the start and the death but Mohammed Shami faced a late charge from Jan Frylinck and Ruben Trumplemann at the end. Despite Rohit and Rahul combining their wristwork with raw power in plenty, the short of the day came from Namibia opener Stephen Baard. The right-hander walked down the pitch in the third over and whipped Bumrah over wide long-on for a six, a shot he will cherish life long. Once the spinners came on, Baard missed a sweep off Jadeja to be trapped lbw and Ashwin then broke the back of Namibia’s middle-order. Jadeja and Ashwin proved to be too good for the lesser experienced Namibians. The players wore black armbands in memory of noted cricket coach Tarak Sinha, who passed away on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/men-in-blue-give-head-coach-shastri-a-perfect-parting-gift/article37389272.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Karnataka posts yet another facile win||Karnataka defeated Baroda by seven wickets to record its fourth straight win in Elite Group ‘B’ of the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy at Guwahati on Monday. Karnataka (16 points) retained its place on top of the points table. After electing to bat, Baroda only managed a sub-par 134 for seven. Dhruv Patel (23), Bhanu Pania (36) and Parth Kohli (24) made minor contributions in an otherwise disappointing performance from Baroda. Pacer Vijaykumar Vyshak, who took three wickets in his T20 debut against Services a few days ago, had another successful outing. He was expensive, going for 34 runs in his four overs, but picked up two wickets. Offspinner K. Gowtham finished with tidy figures of two for 17. A 73-run opening partnership between Devdutt Padikkal (56, 47b, 5x4, 1x6) and Mayank Agarwal (28, 25b, 4x4) effectively sealed the game in Karnataka’s favour. In a big upset, Chhattisgarh edged out Mumbai by one run. Chhattisgarh opener Akhil Herwadkar made a steady 56-ball 53. Shashank Singh’s explosive 57 (28b, 4x4, 4x6) powered the unit to 157 for five. Captain Ajinkya Rahane (69, 55b, 6x4, 2x4), Siddhesh Lad (46, 35b, 3x4, 2x6) and Shivam Dube (22, 11b, 1x4, 2x6) got Mumbai on the right track, but the powerhouse side fell just short. Mumbai, with two wins in four matches, is in a tight spot in the race to qualify for the knockout rounds. Bengal rode on a 28-ball 50 from skipper Sudip Chatterjee to complete a nine-wicket win over Services. Bengal (12 points) will take on Karnataka in their last group match, on Tuesday, to decide the table topper.   Drying up the runs  Akshay Karnewar’s spell of 4-4-0-2 for Vidarbha against Manipur is the most economical in men’s T20s He is the first bowler to not concede a run after delivering the full quota Venkatesh Iyer’s 4-2-2-2 (MP vs Bihar) is the fifth best spell in the shortest format||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-posts-yet-another-facile-win/article37389333.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Bishnoi ’tricks as Rajasthan edges Andhra||Ravi Bishnoi’s hat-trick guided Rajasthan to its fourth successive win in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, as it defeated Andhra by 11 runs in a thrilling Elite Group C encounter at Vadodara on Monday. Defending 149, Bishnoi appeared on the scene after Andhra had lost captain K.S. Bharat early. The leg-spinner cleaned up Ashwin Hebbar (15, 16b, 2x4) and Ricky Bhui (0) before trapping Pinninit Tapaswi in front to complete his hat-trick. Andhra was left reeling at 25 for four in 4.4 overs. With Bishnoi and left-arm spinner Shubham Sharma (three for 16) running through the middle-order, Andhra lost seven wickets for just 65. K.V. Sasikanth (47 n.o., 24b, 3x4, 4x6) and K. Nithish Kumar Reddy (38, 43b, 1x4, 2x6) got the innings back on track with a fighting 65-run partnership.  However Andhra’s hopes of pulling it off ended when Kamlesh Nagarkoti dismissed Nithish off the final delivery of the penultimate over. Andhra finished at 138 for eight. Earlier, Rajasthan opted to bat but quickly lost Aditya Garhwal (0) and captain Ashok Menaria (4). Mahipal Lomror (69, 45b, 6x4, 2x6) and Yash Kothari (25, 24b, 3x4) revived Rajasthan’s hopes with a 50-run stand. Lomror then forged a crucial 49-run partnership with Deepak Hooda (21, 16b, 3x4) before the middle-order fell apart. However, the total of 149 proved adequate once Bishnoi got into the act. In the day’s other matches, Ishank Jaggi’s 51 and Saurabh Tiwary’s unbeaten 58 set up Jharkhand’s 16-run win against Haryana while Himachal Pradesh rode on Rishi Dhawan’s allround performance (45 n.o. & six for 23) to pip Jammu and Kashmir by four runs. After Raghav Dhawan (47) and Rishi took Himachal to 157 for eight, the latter derailed J&K’s chase despite a battling knock by (Abdul Samad (55).   Drying up the runs  Akshay Karnewar’s spell of 4-4-0-2 for Vidarbha against Manipur is the most economical in men’s T20s He is the first bowler to not concede a run after delivering the full quota Venkatesh Iyer’s 4-2-2-2 (MP vs Bihar) is the fifth best spell in the shortest format||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bishnoi-tricks-as-rajasthan-edges-andhra/article37389780.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Hyderabad pips Delhi, goes top||Hyderabad overcame a middle-order slump to beat Delhi by three wickets in a nail-biting clash of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy at Sultanpur on Monday. With Hyderabad struggling at 138 for seven chasing a target of 171, Tanay Thyagarajan (17 n.o., 10b, 2x6) and Chama Milind (14 n.o., 8b, 1x4, 1x6) added 33 off 17 deliveries to take the team home off the final ball. Hyderabad had slipped to 53 for six after Tanmay Agarwal (54, 34b, 6x4, 2x6) and Tilak Varma(37, 32b, 2x4, 2x6) had provided a solid foundation. Fast bowler Pradeep Sangwan and off-spinner Shivank Vashisth claimed two wickets each between overs 11 and 18, with the former adding one more to his tally by getting rid of Hanuma Vihari. Earlier, Anuj Rawat registered his third 40-plus score in three innings, top-scoring for Delhi even as the rest of the top-order batters fell after playing cameos. Milind took two wickets but gave away 49 runs in his four overs; however, he made amends with the bat. The result meant Hyderabad was at the top of the table with four wins in four games. Delhi and Saurashtra, which beat Chandigarh, have three wins each. At Rohtak, Arpit Vasavada (72, 47b, 8x4, 3x6), Sheldon Jackson (70, 40b, 4x4, 5x6) and Chetan Sakariya (3 for 25) were the chief architects of Saurashtra’s 42-run win. The 104-run partnership between Vasavada and Jackson took Saurashtra to 209 for four. Medium-pacer Jaskarandeep Singh and left-arm spinner Bhagmender Lather proved expensive, conceding 87 runs in their seven overs combined. Manan Vohra, the century-maker on Saturday, fell in the first over of the chase. Arjit Singh (44, 32b, 3x4, 3x6) and Gaurav Puri (35, 16b, 4x4, 2x6) provided some resistance, but it wasn’t enough. Like Chandigarh, Uttarakhand fell to its fourth defeat in four matches, losing to Uttar Pradesh by seven wickets.   Drying up the runs  Akshay Karnewar’s spell of 4-4-0-2 for Vidarbha against Manipur is the most economical in men’s T20s He is the first bowler to not concede a run after delivering the full quota Venkatesh Iyer’s 4-2-2-2 (MP vs Bihar) is the fifth best spell in the shortest format||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hyderabad-pips-delhi-goes-top/article37389485.ece
09 November 2021||Madrid,||Barcelona welcomes Xavi with special reception||Thousands of fans arrived at the Camp Nou to welcome Xavi Hernández as Barcelona’s new coach on Monday, hoping he can turn the club’s fortunes around after a dismal start to its first season post-Lionel Messi. Xavi, who thrived in Barcelona’s side for several years was officially introduced at a reception usually offered only to top players. Supporters chanted his name and waved club flags in the stands. The 41-year-old Xavi, who has signed a contract until June 2024, waved back and sent kisses to the crowd after entering the field alongside president Joan Laporta. Best in the world “I am very excited,” Xavi told the fans. We are the best club in the world and we will work hard to be successful. Barça can’t be satisfied with draws or losses. We have to win every match.” He said he was moved by the welcome and chanted along with the crowd. Some of his relatives were also on the field during his presentation. “We need you,” Xavi told the fans. “Especially during the bad moments. We are in a difficult situation as a club. We need you more than ever.” Xavi was hired last week to replace Ronald Koeman, who couldn’t get the squad going this season amid one of its worst-ever crises on and off the field. He takes over with the club in ninth place in the Spanish league and second in its Champions League group. “It’s a dream come true,” Xavi told the Barcelona website earlier on Monday. “I know the club is going through a difficult moment but I feel like I’m prepared.” Ansu Fati and Eric Garcia are the latest players to be added to the club’s injury list, joining Sergio Aguero and Gerard Piqué among others. Xavi faces a tough schedule, with his first match in charge being the league derby against Espanyol on Nov. 20 at the Camp Nou. The club next hosts Benfica in a match that could decide its fate in the Champions League, a competition in which it hasn’t failed to advance past the group stage in nearly two decades.  Xavi will lead the squad in training for the first time on Tuesday, though most of the team’s top players will be on international duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barcelona-welcomes-xavi-with-special-reception/article37389499.ece
09 November 2021||Paris,||Fans will accept Djokovic’s greatness eventually: Medvedev||The tide is turning in tennis legend Novak Djokovic’s favour in gaining the respect he deserves from followers of the sport but he may have to wait for years post-retirement to be fully appreciated, says Daniil Medvedev. World No. 2 Medvedev was speaking after Djokovic had come back from a set down to beat him 4-6, 6-3, 6-3 in the final in Paris for a record-breaking 37th Masters 1000 title on Sunday. Milestone This came a day after the 34-year-old Serbian won his semifinal to assure himself of another milestone — season-ending World No. 1 for a seventh time. In doing so he ended Medvedev’s slim hopes of toppling him, two months after the Russian dashed Djokovic’s dreams of a Grand Slam sweep in the US Open final. Djokovic has spoken of the love he felt from the US Open crowd that day which has not always been the case elsewhere — in the Wimbledon final this year he was riled on several occasions by spectators siding with opponent Matteo Berrettini. For many years too he has been seen as the odd one out of the three great rivals who have won 20 Grand Slams apiece. Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal are generally loved but the intense, deep-thinking Serbian provokes lukewarm sentiments. Medvedev, though, believes the man he calls “his friend” will eventually get the recognition he deserves for his achievements. “I have the feeling that people will start more and more to respect what he has done in tennis,” said Medvedev. “Because, well, he continues to beat the records. I feel like unless they are real haters, which are not real fans, people start to see what he’s done and to see that he’s able to do more.” Medvedev says this comprehension of just how great a player Djokovic is will not reach full bloom quickly. “I think that maybe 10 years after he retires, because there is going to be people who will start watching tennis who will not have seen him play,” said Medvedev. When records speak “Just like me, I didn’t see (Pete) Sampras play, I was too young but I heard he was amazing — it’s going to be the same. There are going to be new people coming to tennis who are just going to read in Wikipedia what were the results. “Who was the World No. 1 for most weeks, for most times in the end, and they are going to see Novak everywhere. “That’s when people are going to start to understand, Okay, that’s amazing what he has done,” Medvedev said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fans-will-accept-djokovics-greatness-eventually-medvedev/article37389501.ece
09 November 2021||Paris,||US Open champion Raducanu breaks into world top 20||US Open champion Emma Raducanu moved into the top 20 of the world rankings for the first time on Monday. The 18-year-old Briton, who is ranked 20th after reaching the quarterfinals of the Transylvania Open in October, became the first qualifier to win a Grand Slam when she triumphed in New York in September. This week, Raducanu is top seed for the Linz Open in Austria and has a bye into Tuesday’s second round. Australian Ashleigh Barty remains number one after a week of the Billie Jean Cup, formerly known as the Fed Cup, but the competition’s results do not count toward the rankings system.  The rankings: 1. Ashleigh Barty (Aus) 7582 pts, 2. Aryna Sabalenka (Blr) 6130, 3. Barbora Krejcikova (Cze) 4708, 4. Karolina Pliskova (Cze) 4510, 5. Garbine Muguruza (Esp) 4310, 6. Maria Sakkari (Gre) 3760, 7. Ons Jabeur (Tun) 3455, 8. Anett Kontaveit (Est) 3396, 9. Iga Swiatek (Pol) 3286 (+1), 10. Paula Badosa (Esp) 3224 (+1). 11. Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova (Rus) 3076 (+1), 12. Sofia Kenin (USA) 2971 (+3), 13. Naomi Osaka (Jpn) 2956, 14. Elena Rybakina (Kaz) 2855 (+2).   15. Elina Svitolina (Ukr) 2726 (-1), 16. Elise Mertens (Bel) 2690 (+2), 17. Angelique Kerber (Ger) 2671 (-8), 18. Petra Kvitova (Cze) 2660 (+1).   19. Jessica Pegula (USA) 2650 (+1), 20. Emma Raducanu (GBR) 2627 (+1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/us-open-champion-raducanu-breaks-into-world-top-20/article37389502.ece
09 November 2021||Madrid,||‘Don’t want to get too emotional, but we are the best in the world’||Xavi Hernandez was unveiled as Barcelona’s new coach on Monday as thousands of fans welcomed the debt-ridden club’s legendary former midfielder back to Camp Nou. Xavi walked out to chants of “Xavi, Xavi” before signing his contract on the pitch, alongside his family and Barca president Joan Laporta. “I don’t want to get too emotional so I will just tell you one thing — we are the best club in the world,” Xavi told the crowd of around 10,000 fans. Win every game “And we will work to the highest standards to have success. We cannot accept defeats or draws, we have to win every game.” Laporta said: “Today will be an historic day for Barca.” Xavi is the first Barca coach to be presented on the pitch in front of fans at the 99,000-capacity stadium, with the routine usually only reserved for the club’s biggest signings. The return of the 41-year-old as coach, six years after he left Barcelona to play in Qatar, has generated huge excitement and raised hopes the club can begin a return to Europe’s elite. Xavi’s appointment was confirmed in the early hours of Saturday and he flew out of Doha a few hours later, before watching Barcelona at a distance as it threw away a three-goal lead away at Celta Vigo to draw 3-3. Xavi’s first training session in charge will be on Tuesday, although the squad is depleted by injuries and absentees away on international duty. Barcelona’s first game with Xavi in the dug-out will be at home to local rival Espanyol on Nov. 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dont-want-to-get-too-emotional-but-we-are-the-best-in-the-world/article37389504.ece
09 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Unbeaten Nihal and Harika impress||The unbeaten duo of Nihal Sarin and D. Harika emerged as the strongest Indian performers in their sections as 18-year-old Alireza Firouzja deservedly won the $425,000 FIDE Chess.com Grand Swiss chess tournament in Riga, Latvia, on Sunday. Firouzja (France) collected $70,000 for scoring 8 points from 11 rounds after drawing with Grigoriy Oparin (Russia). Fabiano Caruana (USA) was runner-up with 7 points after a draw with Alexandr Predke (Russia). Firouzja and Caruana qualified for next year’s Candidates tournament. Among the Indians, 41st-ranked Nihal finished a creditable 18th, worth $5,000, with 6.5 points. Seventh seed P. Harikrishna also scored 6.5 points but was placed 30th, one ahead of K. Sasikiran, who finished with six points after his third loss in four games. Fourth seed Harika (7 points) held the fifth spot, worth $10,000 in the women’s section where China’s Lei Tingjie won with 9 points.  The results: 11th round: (Involving Indians):   Open: P. Harikrishna (6.5) drew with Yuriy Kuzubov (Ukr, 6.5); Nihal Sarin (6.5) drew with Daniil Dubov (Rus, 6.5); K. Sasikiran (6) lost to Anton Korobov (Ukr, 7); Radoslaw Wojtaszek (Pol, 5.5) drew with Arjun Erigaisi (5.5); Raunak Sadhwani (5.5) drew with Hans Moke Niemann (USA, 5.5).   S. P. Sethuraman (4.5) lost to Alksandr Rakhmanov (Rus, 5.5); D. Gukesh (5) drew with R. Praggnanandhaa (5); Surya Shekhar Ganguly (4.5) lost to Maksim Chigaev (5.5); B. Adhiban (4.5) bt Normunds Miezis (Lat, 3.5).   Women: Mariya Muzychuk (Ukr, 6.5) drew with D. Harika (7); Vantika Agrawal (6.5) drew with Natalija Pogonina (Rus, 6.5); Alina Kashlinskaya (Rus, 6) bt R. Vaishali (5.5); Elina Danielian (Arm, 5) bt Divya Deshmukh (4); Padmini Rout (4) lost to Meri Arabidze (Geo, 5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nihal-harika-impress/article37389312.ece
09 November 2021||DUBAI,||‘I didn’t have the belief I could do it’||Minutes after the Indian players bid an emotional farewell to Ravi Shastri, the head coach thanked former BCCI president N. Srinivasan for convincing him to take up the job as Team Director in 2014. “It’s been one heck of a journey for me. I know it is my last day in the dressing room, I just spoke to the boys... I would like to thank the BCCI for giving me this opportunity believing that I could do the job. I wish the coach coming after me [Rahul Dravid] all the luck,” Shastri said. Thanking “all the committees, including Vinod Rai and his team” which appointed him, Shastri singled out Srinivasan for praise. “One man I would like to give special mention — his name is N. Srinivasan. He was the man who insisted in 2014 that I do this job. In fact, I didn’t have the belief I could do it. But he seemed to have more belief in my ability than I had. “I hope I haven’t let him down... so, sir, if you are listening, I got the opportunity and I did my work without any agenda.” Despite India achieving a lot of success in Tests, particularly overseas, Shastri’s tenure ended with India failing to make the semifinal of the ICC T20 World Cup. “We were disappointed with the result in the first two games. Let’s be honest here, I am not here to make any excuses,” he said. “We lacked the daring in the second game against New Zealand. It’s something for the boys to learn and they will get a chance again next year. Not often you have two World Cups in 12 months... I hope they go out there and fire.” Earlier in the day, Shastri, in a chat with former West Indies player Ian Bishop on Star Sports, had admitted that the players were “mentally and physically drained” during the World Cup and didn’t even “try to win” as they weren’t switched on during pressure situations in big games. “Six months in a bubble... what we would have ideally liked was a bigger gap between the IPL and T20 World Cup... (because) when the big games come, when pressure hits you, you are not that switched on as you should be. “We are not scared of losing. In trying to win, you will lose a game but here we didn't try to win because that X-factor was missing.”    When I took up this job, I wanted to make a difference and I think I have. Sometimes in life it's not what you accomplish but what you overcome||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-didnt-have-the-belief-i-could-do-it/article37389289.ece
09 November 2021||Mexico City,||Verstappen cruises to victory||Max Verstappen cruised to victory at the Mexico Grand Prix on Sunday leaving defending champion Lewis Hamilton to admit the Red Bull car “is far superior”. Hamilton clung on to finish second in his Mercedes holding off a late charge from Red Bull’s Mexican driver Sergio Perez. Verstappen, who grabbed the lead on the first corner, finished 16.555s ahead of Hamilton with Perez just over a second further back.  The resul ts: 1. Max Verstappen (Red Bull) 1:38:39.086s; 2. Lewis Hamilton (Mercedes) at 16.555s; 3. Sergio Perez (Red Bull) 17.752; 4. Pierre Gasly (AlphaTauri) 1:03.845; 5. Charles Leclerc (Ferrari) 1:21.037; 6. Carlos Sainz (Ferrari) 1 lap; 7. Sebastian Vettel (Aston Martin) 1 lap; 8. Kimi Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo) 1 lap; 9. Fernando Alonso (Alpine) 1 lap; 10. Lando Norris (McLaren) 1 lap.   Drivers standings: 1. Verstappen (Ned) 312.5 pts, 2. Hamilton (GBR) 293.5, 3. Bottas (Fin) 185, 4. Perez (Mex) 165, 5. Norris (GBR) 150, 6. Leclerc (Mon) 138, 7. Sainz (Esp) 130.5, 8. Ricciardo (Aus) 105, 9. Gasly (Fra) 86, 10. Alonso (Esp) 60, 11. Ocon (Fra) 46, 12. Vettel (Ger) 42, 13. Stroll (Can) 26, 14. Tsunoda (Jpn) 20, 15. Russell (GBR) 16, 16. Raikkonen (Fin) 10, 17. Latifi (Can) 7, 18. Giovinazzi (Ita) 1, 19. Schumacher (Ger) 0, 20. Kubica (Pol) 0, 21. Mazepin (Rus) 0.   Constructors standings: 1. Mercedes 478.5 pts, 2. Red Bull-Honda 477.5, 3. Ferrari 268.5, 4. McLaren 255, 5. AlphaTauri 106, 6. Alpine 106, 7. Aston Martin 68, 8. Williams 23, 9. Alfa Romeo Racing 11, 10. Haas 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/verstappen-cruises-to-win/article37389313.ece
09 November 2021||MILAN,||Milan miss out on top spot with derby draw||AC Milan missed the chance to go top of Serie A on Sunday after a 1-1 derby draw with Inter Milan which allowed Napoli to stay at the summit. Stefano Pioli’s unbeaten side is level with Napoli after a Stefan de Vrij own goal cancelled out Milan old boy Hakan Calhanoglu’s 11th-minute penalty for Inter. As it is Simone Inzaghi’s Inter stays seven points behind the league’s two front-runners in third place. In the LaLiga, Real Sociedad reclaimed top spot with a 2-0 win away at Osasuna after Atletico Madrid conceded late to draw at Valencia. In Pamplona, Mikel Merino’s opener and an Adnan Januzaj penalty in the last 20 minutes sealed victory for Sociedad. It moved a point ahead of Real Madrid at the top of the table, albeit having played one game more.  The results: Serie A: Lazio 3 (Immobile 31, Pedro 36, Luis Alberto 69) bt Salernitana 0; AC Milan 1 (De Vrij 17-og) drew with Inter Milan 1 (Calhanoglu 11-pen); Napoli 1 (Di Lorenzo 18) drew with Hellas Verona 1 (Simeone 13).   LaLiga: Real Mallorca 2 (Salva Sevilla 72-pen, Maffeo 90+5) drew with Elche 2 (Boye 68, 75); Osasuna 0 lost to Real Sociedad 2 (Merino 72, Januzaj 82-pen); Real Betis 0 lost to Sevilla 2 (Acuna 55, Bellerin 81-og).   Bundesliga: Cologne 2 (Modeste 7, 86) drew with Union Berlin 2 (Ryerson 9, Proemel 45+1); Greuther Fuerth 1 (Itten 90+1) lost to Eintracht Frankfurt 2 (Rode 75, Borre 90+4) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milan-miss-out-on-top-spot-with-derby-draw/article37389314.ece
09 November 2021||Hyderabad:,||New Look wins the Telangana Cup||New Look, ridden by apprentice jockey Gaurav Singh, won the Telangana Cup, the feature event of the opening day’s races here on Monday (Nov. 8). The winner is owned by Kunwar Digvijay Singh Shekhawat and trained by N. Ravinder Singh. Jockey Akshay Kumar rode three winners.  1. OWN OPINION PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated upto 25 (Cat. III): FURIOUS FUN (Santosh Raj) 1, Golden Forza (R. Ajinkya) 2, My Master (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Turf Monarch (Surya Prakash) 4. 5, 1-1/2 and 1/2. 1m, 13.43s. Rs. 38 (w), 14, 25 and 15 (p). SHP: 109, THP: 38, SHW: 24 and 47, FP: 538, Q: 277, Tanala: 1,604. Favourite: Amalfitana. Owners: Mr. K.S.V. Prasad Raju, Mr. Sheshadri Reddy Pochana, Mr. Mohit Jaju & Mr. Giri Prathamesh Mahadev. Trainer: K.S.V. Prasad Raju.  2. TENACITY PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): SHOW ME YOUR WALK (Akshay Kumar) 1, Sweet Melody (C.P. Bopanna) 2, Muaser (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Ashwa Migsun (Koushik) 4. 3/4, 1/2 and 2. 1m, 26.78s. Rs. 17 (w), 11, 132 and 41 (p). SHP: 829, THP: 95, SHW: 10 and 309, FP: 1,337, Q: 1,182, Tanala: 18, 027. Favourite: Show Me Your Walk. Owners: Mr. Peddi Reddy Prabhakar Reddy & Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  3. SRISAILAM PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): UNSUNG HERO (Akshay Kumar) 1, By The Bay (Mukesh Kumar) 2, N R I Sport (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Narakamicie (C.S. Jodha) 4. Nose, 1-1/2 and Sh. 1m, 13.35s. Rs. 27 (w), 11, 15 and 18 (p). SHP: 38, THP: 37, SHW: 14 and 17, FP: 170, Q: 93, Tanala: 891. Favourite: Narakamicie. Owner: Mr. Syed Abul Hasan Razvi. Trainer: Mir Faiyaz Ali Khan.  4. TENACITY PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): BLUE ORIGIN (Akshay Kumar) 1, Red Snaper (Nikhil Naidu) 2, Nightmare (Mukesh Kumar) 3 and Morior Invictus (Ajeeth Kumar) 4. Not run: Pacific Command. 2-3/4, 3/4 and 1/2. 1m, 26.56s. Rs. 23 (w), 12, 108 and 23 (p). SHP: 317, THP: 38, SHW: 14 and 230 (p), FP: 1,753, Q: 961, Tanala: 6,701. Favourite: Flying Scotsman. Owners: Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Ms. Simone Z. Poonawalla & Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Limited, Mr. Rishad N. Pandole, Mr. Prabhakar Reddy & Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  5. AMARNATH GUPTA MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): MARKET KING (C.S. Jodha) 1, Watch My Stride (Akshay Kumar) 2, Kingston (Nakhat Singh) 3 and N R I Elegance (Mukesh Kumar) 4. 4, 2 and 2. 1m, 11.21s. Rs. 17 (w), 14, 12 and 14 (p). SHP: 30, THP: 37, SHW: 13 and 23 (p). FP: 53, Q: 36, Tanala: 137. Favourite: Market King. Owner: Mr. Jatin L. Trivedi, Mr. Nitin H. Jain, Mr. Aneil V. Lala & Mrs. K.N. Sunderji. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  6. SRISAILAM PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): BRILLIANT VIEW (Mukesh Kumar) 1, Angelita (Ajeeth Kumar) 2, Thanks (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Rising Queen (B. Nikhil) 4. Nose, 2-1/4 and Nk. 1m, 12.79s. Rs. 19 (w), 11, 68 and 16 (p). SHP: 150, THP: 46, SHW: 13 and 149, FP: 583, Q: 337, Tanala: 6,096. Favourite: Brilliant View. Owner: Mr. Teja Gollapudi. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  7. TELANGANA CUP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): NEW LOOK (Gaurav Singh) 1, Southern Princess (Mukesh Kumar) 2, Soloist (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Fire Power (Antony Raj) 4. 1/2, 2-1/2 and 3/4. 1m, 25.59s. Rs. 88 (w), 22, 23 and 17 (p). SHP: 46, THP: 55, SHW: 46 and 43, FP: 1,351, Q: 687, Tanala: 9, 238. Favourite: Fire Power. Owner: Kunwar Digvijay Singh Shekhawat. Trainer: N. Ravinder Singh.  8. OWN OPINION PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III): QUEEN BLOSSOM (Rohit Kumar) 1, Grand Duke (R.S. Jodha) 2, Winning Player (Ashad Asbar) 3 and Star Cruise (R. Ajinkya) 4. 3/4, 2 and 1/2. 1m, 14.02s. Rs. 186 (w), 51, 19 and 19 (p). SHP: 75, THP: 65, SHW: 47 and 27, FP: 4,093, Q: 1,088, Tanala: 44,088. Favourite: Thunder Road. Owner: Mr. Rakesh Reddy Kondakalla. Trainer: Robin Reddy Kondakalla.  Note: Thunder Road (Mukesh Kumar up) who was leading the field in the last 150m of the race, suddenly shifted out and dislodged the rider. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 4,88,734 (c/o) & 30%: 1,517 (138 tkts.); Treble: (i) 405 (116 tkts.), (ii) 249 (125 tkts.), (iii) 11,844 (6 tkts.); Mini Jackpot: (i) 88 (467 tkts.), (ii) 42, 750 (2 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-look-wins-the-telangana-cup/article37389330.ece
09 November 2021||Abu Dhabi,||Injured Roy out of T20 WC||Opening batsman Jason Roy has been ruled out of the rest of the T20 World Cup, the England and Wales Cricket Board announced on Monday. Roy, 31, suffered a calf injury and collapsed to the ground while chasing a quick single in Saturday’s 10-run loss to South Africa. Roy will be replaced in the squad by James Vince ahead of England’s last-four match against New Zealand in Abu Dhabi on Wednesday. Roy has joined left-arm fast bowler Tymal Mills on the injured list in another blow to England.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/injured-roy-out-of-t20-wc/article37389500.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Recognising excellence||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/recognising-excellence/article37389329.ece
09 November 2021||Chennai,||Manush, Reeth win titles||India’s Manush Shah and T. Reeth Rishya bagged the men’s and women’s singles titles in the ITTF Ecuador International Open table tennis tournament held in Cuenca recently. Manush beat Juan Jesus Gomez of Mexico 11-7, 11-9, 11-13, 11-7, 11-9 in the men’s final. Reeth, seeded fourth, became the first Indian woman to win a singles crown on the pro-tour when she beat compatriot Ankita Das 6-11, 11-4, 11-6, 16-18, 11-1, 11-6 in the women’s final. The pair of Sanil Shetty and Manush lost to Dario Arce and Juan Jesus Gomes of Mexico 7-11, 11-4, 11-3, 9-11, 8-11 in the men’s doubles final. The women’s pair of Reeth and Ankita lost to Arantxa Cossio and Clio Barcenas of Mexico 4-11, 11-6, 7-11, 13-15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manush-reeth-win-titles/article37389335.ece
09 November 2021||Chennai,||India signs off with four titles||India won four singles titles — three boys’ and one girls’— at the World Table Tennis Youth Contender, which concluded in Szombathely, Hungary on Sunday.  The results (finals):   Girls: U -19: Yangzi Liu (Aus) bt Lakshita Narang 9-11, 7-11, 11-8, 11-7, 11-8.   U -17: Zihou Jingyi (Sgp) bt Yashaswini Deepak Ghorpade 11-7, 8-11, 12-10, 11-9.   U-15: Suhana Saini bt Veranika Varabyova (Blr) 11-8, 11-9, 11-5; U-13: Prisha Goel bt Theresa Faltermaier (Ger) 11-2, 5-11, 9-11, 11-6, 13-11.   U-11: Dhaani Jain bt Maria Lytvyn (Ukr) 11-7, 13-11, 11-6.   Boys: u -13: Atherva Gupta bt Pavol Kokavec (Svk) 11-3, 11-7, 8-11, 11-8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-signs-off-with-four-titles/article37389336.ece
09 November 2021||Bengaluru:,||Jhunjunwala shows off his jumping skills||Shlok Jhunjunwala of Embassy International Riding School (EIRS) won the 100-105cm show jumping event in the Equestrian Premier League 2021, held in celebration of the silver jubilee of EIRS here. Pranay Khare won the 4 Bar show jumping event, while Sanyogeeta Kadu of EIRS took the top spot in the Open Category (130cm show jumping and novice dressage). To mark the occasion, EIRS released a special documentary on its journey. EIRS counts many international equestrians among its wards, including Tokyo Olympian and 2018 Asian Games double medallist Fouaad Mirza.   Ravi Reddy (88) and Aadesh Urs (73) starred in Vice President’s XI’s win over Raichur Zone in the KSCA inter-zonal u-16 tournament.  The scores: Vice President’s XI 277/5 in 50 overs (Ravi Reddy 88, Aadesh Urs 73, Mayur Reddy 31, Ansh Aima 69 n.o.) bt Raichur Zone 124/4 in 32.4 overs (Suhas Malipatil 41, Harsh Jain 31, Abhay Bambki 3/26) (on better run rate; match stopped due to rain).   Secretary XI 121/3 in 26 overs (Mohammed Qureshi 32) bt Shimoga Zone 107/8 in 26 overs (S. Nihar 43, S. Monish 4/20) (overs reduced due to rain).   Bangalore Zone 98/7 in 20 overs drew with Mysore Zone 81/5 in 16.3 overs (M.C. Samarth 25) (match abandoned due to rain).    Left-arm spinner K.M. Sharath (five for 14) bowled Mysore Underwriters SC to a 63-run win over SKRSC in the KSCA Mysore Zone second division league match at the Gangotri grounds recently.  The scores: II division: Mysore Underwriters SC 146 in 25.3 overs (S. Suprith 46, Imran Khan 37, Srinivas 4/29) bt SKRSC 83 in 24.2 overs (Poorna Chandra 39, K.M. Sharath 5/14).   Navajyoti CC 116 in 21.1 overs (Mustaffa 30, H.R. Kiran 29) lost to Bellur CC 119/4 in 22.1 overs (V. Chiranth 53 n.o.).   Star Cricketers 106 in 23.3 overs (Naveen Kumar 41, Ramesh 27, Chethan Kumara 5/29) lost to Yuvaraja’s College 109/6 in 22.3 overs (Ravi Kiran M. Patil 80 n.o.).   IV division: Garner CC 191/9 in 30 overs (G. Pavan 47, C.M. Kiran 33, S.R. Chiranth 3/46) bt Jayanagar CC 82 in 24 overs (K.M.Sachin 25, T.P. Sharbin 4/30, G. Pavan 3/six) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jhunjunwala-shows-off-his-jumping-skills/article37389316.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Eight share lead||IM Gusain Himal, IM Ratnakaran, IM Saravana Krishnan, Kaustuv Kundu, Dhananjay, Arpan Das, Harsh Suresh and Avhad Prajwal shared the lead at the end of fifth round in the third Hyderabad all-India Open FIDE-rated chess tournament.  Important results (fifth round): R.R. Laxman (4.5) drew with Arnav Maheswari (TN) (4.5); Harshit Pawar (4) lost to Gusain Himal (5); Shivansh Tiwari (4) lost to Ratnakaran (5); Saravan Krishnan (5) bt M. Divyabharathi (4); Joy Antony (4) lost to Kaustuv Kundu (5) .    Rakesh Yadav’s century for Sporting XI (143 n.o., 143b, 13x4, 4x6) was one of the highlights of the HCA A1-Division knockout tournament here. Chaitanya Reddy (147 n.o., 71b, 11x4, 11x6) for Central Excise and Mickil Jaiswal of MP Colts (115, 94b, 9x4, 3x6) also scored centuries.  The scores: Budding Stars 191 in 43.4 overs (K. Nitesh Reddy 45, Wasil Sartaj 31, Saketh Dhatrak 3/28, Mohd Omer 3/27) lost to India Cements 192/6 in 40 overs (Shreyas Vala 62, Khaled Quraishi 45, K. Nitesh Reddy 3/25); Combined District 183 in 43.4 overs (G. Ganesh 65, B. Thejoudhar 5/37) lost to BDL 184/2 in 27.1 overs (B. Revanth 61, M.S.R. Charan 42, K. Himateja 57 n.o.); Mahmood 181 in 49.2 overs (Y.S. Varun 35, T. Aaron Paul 41, Shaik Zaheer Abbas 4/29, N. Kanthi Kiran 4/17) bt Apex 107 in 33.4 overs (Anirudh Yadav 45, T. Aaron Paul 5/20, S. Nikhil 3/36); Sporting XI 338/4 in 50 overs (Rakesh Yadav 143 n.o., Syed Askari 52, Mir Jaweed Ali 33, Prateek Raman 65) bt EMCC 160 in 33.1 overs (Sachiet 36, C.P. Venkatesh 38, Mohd Saif 5/46); Central Excise 341/3 in 40 overs (Ibrahim Siddiqui 48, M. Pratyush 79, Chaitanya Reddy 147 n.o., Y. Chaitanya Krishna 30) bt MP Colts 317/9 in 40 overs (Mickil Jaiswal 115, Rahul Radhesh 38, A. Vaishnav Reddy 60, Sireesh Goud 33, B. Ranganath 3/42); Continental 157 in 38.5 overs (A. Vinay 37, Shaunak Kulkarni 7/26) lost to Baalaji 158/3 in 33.5 overs (Paras Raj 72, Geeta Krishna 53 n.o.); SBI 180 in 37.1 overs (Anirudh Singh 61, K.S.K. Chaitanya 35, Anoop Pai 42, E. Vidyananda Reddy 5/21) lost to Jai Hanuman 181/1 in 24.5 overs (Vittal Anurag 99 n.o., A. Prateek Reddy 62).     M. Sai Nikhil and G. Ambicaclinched the foil honours in the boys’ and girls’ categories at the fifth Telangana inter-district fencing here.  The results: Seniors:Boys: Foil: 1. M. Sai Nikhil (Hyd), 2. Manideep (Med), 3. R. Rohith (RR). Epee: 1. K. Satish (Hyd), 2. Raghavendra (Hyd), 3. Shyam Sundhar Reddy (Mbnr). Sabre: 1. K. Rakesh (Gaurav Singh (Hyd), 2. Veer Singh (Hyd), 3. Dinesh Singh (Hyd).   Juniors: Foil: 1. Gaurav Singh (Hyd), 2. K. Nishanth (Med), 3. Akshay Kirthan (Hyd), 4. P. Prashanth (Med). Epee: 1. Dheeraj Sai (Nlg), 2. Ravi Teja (Hyd), 3. T. Sreeshanth (Med), 4. M. Vipin (Hyd).   Girls: Foil: 1. G. Ambica (Hyd), 2. Uma Devi (RR) 3. R. Sandhya (Wgl). Epee: 1. A. Mounika (Nlg), 2. G. Spandana (Wgl), 3. Keerthi Prasanna (Nlg). Sabre: 1. Pranitha (Hyd), 2. Simran Kalyani (Hyd), 3. Sravani (RR) .    Challengers XI won the Diwali Premier League T20 cricket tournament, organised by V-6 Sports Academy here.  The scores (final): Challengers X1 112/4 in 20 overs (Krishna Goyal 31) bt Royal Strikers XI 62 in 13 overs (Krishna Goyal 3/19, Sk. Arhaan 4/2) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eight-share-lead/article37389613.ece
09 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Sankalp Gupta is India’s 71st GM||Sankalp Gupta has become India’s 71st Grandmaster by scoring 6.5 points and finishing second in the GM Ask 3 round-robin event in Arandjelovac, Serbia. The 18-year-old secured the three required GM norms in just 24 days by playing three tournaments on the trot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sankalp-gupta-is-indias-71st-gm/article37389375.ece
09 November 2021||Pune,||Strike by transport corporation workers paralyses Maharashtra||The strike by the staff members of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) over a number of grievances paralysed commute across the State on Monday, leaving thousands of travellers stranded at bus depots. Operations at more than 220 of the 250 MSRTC depots remained closed since morning, with not a single bus stirring out of the depots. Till Sunday, 120 depots were shut across Maharashtra, but the number shot to 223 after midnight, with more staff members joining the agitation. The main demands of the striking employees are the merger of the cash-strapped corporation with the State Government and the payment of their long-delayed salaries. Although the demand for the merger is not new, the delay in payment of salaries due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown and the suicides of over 30 employees since March 2020 triggered a spontaneous agitation last week. While the State government and the MSRTC did accept most of the demands following which many workers resumed work, a sticking point turned to be the merger issue, which resulted in an unannounced strike at some depots last week. The intensity of today’s strike was particularly felt in Pune and other districts including the Nashik division and Marathwada.The employees’ unions have repeatedly complained about the mismanagement on part of the Maharashtra government despite Transport Minister Anil Parab having announced a financial package in November last year. Bus operations from all the four stations in Pune — Wakdewadi, Swargate, Chinchwad, Pune Station — remained suspended, affecting thousands of commuters who had booked return tickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/strike-by-transport-corporation-workers-paralyses-maharashtra/article37389511.ece
09 November 2021||New Delhi,||AAMSU holds protest against ‘selective eviction’ in Assam||The All Assam Minorities Students’ Union (AAMSU) on Monday held a two-hour-long demonstration at Jantar Mantar in protest against the “selective evictions” and “religious atrocities” being carried out against the State’s minorities, who, they said, are being deprived of basic amenities. The protesters said the evictions carried out by the government have rendered thousands of Indian citizens homeless, “forcing them to lead a nomadic life in this pandemic situation”. The students’ body said a large section of the religious minority community has settled on the banks of the river Brahmaputra and its tributaries and made use of the fertile soil, “however, they also face the wrath of the Brahmaputra as hundreds of hectares of land gets submerged every year due to devastating flood and erosion leading to frequent migration of the minority community to habitable lands”. Referring to a recent eviction in Garukhuti of Darrang district, the students’ union said: “Such actions of the state without proper rehabilitation of its citizens has infringed the basic human rights of its citizens and more specifically have jeapordisd women and child rights.” ‘Speed up NRC’ Mohd. Imtiaz, AAMSU general secretary, said the process of the NRC preparation has been put in cold storage and needs to be speeded up in order to ensure that those who have been excluded can avail the opportunity to appeal against their exclusions as per the rules. He added the State’s minorities have been deprived of basic amenities due to the non-availability of Aadhaar cards. “It is a matter of concern that a large number of people have not yet been provided with Aadhaar cards in Assam under one pretext or another by depriving them of various benefits,” he said. The students’ body has also demanded a university in the name of the 16th Century saint and cultural icon, Azan Pir, a sainik school in the name of Ahom General Bagh Hazarika and a campus of Aligarh Muslim University in Assam. The association has also submitted a 12-point memorandum to the Prime Minister, seeking proper rehabilitation of the displaced persons, speeding up of the NRC process and an end to the atrocities on the religious minorities in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aamsu-holds-protest-against-selective-eviction-in-assam/article37389508.ece
09 November 2021||Mumbai,||Set up panel: HC to Govt.||The Bombay HC on Monday directed the Maharashtra Government to constitute a high-level committee to address the issues raised by the MSRTC workers seeking to be treated as government employees. A Vacation Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and S.P. Tavade ordered the government to set up the committee to submit recommendations to the CM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/set-up-panel-hc-to-govt/article37389507.ece
09 November 2021||Mumbai,||Security increased outside Mukesh Ambani’s residence||Security was beefed up on Monday outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence after a taxi driver informed the police that two suspected passengers carrying bags with them had asked him about the location of Antilia, an officer said. He said more barricades are being put by the police outside Antilia, a 27-storey building located on Altamout Road. The police are scanning the CCTV footage. The officer said the taxi driver was standing near Killa court in south Mumbai when a car pulled over and its occupants asked him about the location of the Ambani residence. The two passengers in the car were speaking in Urdu and carrying two bags with them, the officer said quoting the taxi driver who called up the police control room. Azad Maidan police are recording the statement of the taxi driver, the officer said, adding that the police are also verifying the claim and that a senior officer is monitoring the situation. In February this year, an explosives-laden SUV was found parked outside Antilia. The National Investigative Agency is probing the role of the then Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/security-increased-outside-mukesh-ambanis-residence/article37389509.ece
09 November 2021||Farrukhabad,||Prisoner’s autopsy shows bullet injury||A post-mortem report on Monday confirmed that the man allegedly killed in a clash between the police and the prisoners at the district jail here had suffered a bullet injury. The police had claimed that Shivam was suffering from an ailment and died while being taken to a hospital on Sunday. But in a purported video which surfaced on social media, Shivam claimed before his death that he suffered a bullet injury. District Magistrate Sanjay Kumar Singh told PTI that the report confirmed that a bullet hit the prisoner. The clash had erupted on Sunday following the death of a prisoner at Saifai Medical College due to dengue. About 30 policemen were also injured. Kanpur Division Commissioner Raj Shekhar said the government is being briefed about the issue. Meanwhile, heavy police force brought the body of Shivam to his native Jainapur village after the post-mortem examination. Initially, his family members wanted to immerse the body in water but later agreed for cremation, Rajepur SHO Dinesh Gautam said. In another development, the jailor of the district jail lodged a complaint in connection with the violence against 27 inmates, including the deceased, Shivam. Jailor Akhilesh Kumar said in the complaint that on Sunday at 8 a.m., Deputy Jailor Shailesh Kumar Singh Sonkar was sitting at his office when a “rumour was spread that inmate Sandeep Yadav had died in Saifai following laxity in treatment”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/prisoners-autopsy-shows-bullet-injury/article37389506.ece
09 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan restarts power generation||The power situation in Rajastan has improved with the electricity generation restarting in several closed thermal units. The biggest among them is the 660 MW supercritical unit at Chhabra thermal power station in Baran district, which has become functional after remaining shut for two months because of shortage of coal. While the demand had increased by an average 7 crore units, the public sector power discoms were buying electricity from the Power Exchange to meet the requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-restarts-power-generation/article37389732.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Flags are unique symbols used to identify nations, sports teams, political parties, etc. A quiz on the national flags to test the vexillologist in you!||Previous day’s answers:1.Ajanta and Ellora Caves, 2. Khangchendzonga National Park, 3. Darjeeling Himalayan Railway, Nilgiri Mountain Railway and the Kalka-Shimla Railway, 4. Rock Shelters of Bhimbetka, 5. Ahmedabad, 6. Keoladeo (Ghana) National Park, 7. Group of monuments at Pattadakal in northern Karnataka    Early birds Anandhu M |Aditya Pratap Singh| Ranjan Anilkumar |Manind Kumar| Abhishek Depawat  1 In which country would one be if the flag had an AK-47 featured on it? 2 This European country's flag is said to have its genesis in the flag that fell from heaven in 1219 and hence holds the Guinness World Record for the oldest continuously used national flag. Name the country and what is the flag called? 3 Which natural feature appears on the flags of Bangladesh, Kiribati, and Niger? 4 In the 'Stars and Stripes', the stars represent the 50 States of the union. What do the 13 stripes stand for? 5 This country's flag has equal bands of blue and red. During peacetime, the blue is on top but when the country is at war, the bands are reversed. Name this Asian nation. 6 Name the only UN-member nation to have a map of the country in the national flag. 7 In what way is the Nepal flag different from other national flags? Please send your answers to dailyquiz@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/flags-are-unique-symbols-used-to-identify-nations-sports-teams-political-parties-etc-a-quiz-on-the-national-flags-to-test-the-vexillologist-in-you/article37389275.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Aparna Sen asks tough questions||‘Why does a man become a rapist?’ The question has been fermenting in filmmaker Aparna Sen’s mind for close to a decade. “The idea came to me first as a germ [she can’t remember if it was before or after Nirbhaya, the 2012 Delhi gang-rape and murder case]. Then it gradually got fleshed out into a story with characters and setting,” she says. Now, with The Rapist , Sen has posed the question to the world. A very matter-of-fact film — or as Variety magazine calls it, a “richly-layered discussion starter” — it takes no sides. It follows Naina, played by Konkona Sen Sharma, a criminology professor in Delhi who survives a brutal rape and assault, while putting forward various points of view and also questioning the validity of the carceral state and the death sentence. In early October, The Rapist premiered at the Busan International Film Festival, and won the prestigious Kim Jiseok Award and numerous accolades. The actor-auteur’s 16th film, it was shot in 27 days in Delhi, in the slim window between the first and the lethal second COVID-19 waves. They finished shooting on April 6; the lockdown was announced on the 8th. “Actually, it was supposed to be a couple of days longer. We finished ahead of schedule thanks to our DOP [director of photography] Ayanaka Bose, who was extremely fast,” she says, recalling how they all stayed at The Leela Palace in Chanakyapuri. “We used to go down to breakfast along with the other guests staying at the hotel. So, it was not as though we were living in a bubble. We also shot in a real slum for four or five days. We were extremely lucky that [through the entire shoot] no one got sick.” At 76, Sen is still raring to go, with more ideas, including a memoir, germinating. In an email interview, she looks back at her 40-year career as a director, and what prompted her to take on the subject of The Rapist . Edited excerpts:  The title is a forceful one.  Yes, it is. We didn’t want to hide behind a more innocuous-sounding title. However, the theme is not about whether rapists should be given the death penalty, though that question is likely to come to mind when one watches the film. The theme is about what happens to three people whose lives are changed overnight after a horrific incident. Yes, it is also an exploration of what turns a person into a rapist because nobody is born as one. Is it genetics? Is it his environment? Or both? What is it about our society that turns such a large number of men into rapists? Social inequality? Ingrained patriarchy? Envy of the new, successful woman, and the desire to put her in her place? Or is it a combination of all these factors? It is an extremely complex issue that is addressed in the film, though not in an obvious or underlined way.  Whom did you consult while writing the script?  I talked to lawyers and activists, but not to rape survivors. I had a gut feeling that they would not wish to relive the experience by talking about it. Two of my feminist friends, who head organisations to help abused women, gave me important insights. Anuradha Kapoor, who runs Swayam — of which I, too, am a member — gave me a lot of material to read about rape survivors and details about the procedures immediately after a rape is reported. Shamita Dasgupta, who heads an organisation called Manavi in the U.S., told me about a new approach to crime called Restorative Justice where the victim and the perpetrator meet and talk about the reasons that made the latter act in the way he/she did. Restorative Justice isn’t mentioned in my film, but the knowledge was useful when I was writing certain scenes. For the most part though, I relied on my intuition and observations, which have served me well in the past.  This is the sixth film you have worked on with your daughter, Konkona — from Picnic (1989), when she was around 10, to The Rapist. How has your artistic collaboration evolved?   There is implicit trust on both sides. We have the same mindset and value systems. This makes it easier for her to understand what I am saying, right from the script stage. And, on my part, I know that Konkona has a very fine sense of balance, that she knows where to draw the line and will never go over the top. She has had tremendous screen presence from a very early age. It is difficult to delineate exactly how our relationship has evolved — I think she used to be very obedient earlier and listened to me much more than she does now! But then, she is much more mature as a person now and also far more proficient as an actor. I hardly ever have to direct her now. The only problem I had with her earlier was that she was rather uncomfortable doing intimate scenes. This time, I told her right at the beginning that she will have to get rid of those qualms. She looked at me with a wicked glint in her eye and said, ‘Okay, you just watch me!’ And I have to say, she delivered perfectly.  Tell us about the unusual casting of Arjun Rampal as Naina’s husband.   Why unusual? You know, the problem is that everyone just gapes at Arjun’s good looks and is unable to see beyond that! I had seen him in only two films before this, Rock On!! and Rajneeti , and I liked him very much in both. But for this film, I chose him because his appearance, or maybe his persona, exudes a certain nobility. This was necessary for the character. Also, I had noticed that he tends to underact. That was perfect for the role of Aftab. Despite all this, I was not entirely certain that he would be able to deliver and hold his own alongside Konkona. But I have to say I was in for a very pleasant surprise. Arjun is an extremely sensitive, finely-tuned actor underneath that gorgeous exterior. He and Konkona exuded the most wonderful chemistry together. He was quite a revelation as the understated, intellectual, highly-principled but emotionally-torn Aftab Malik.  In Mr and Mrs Iyer, you’d said that the characters were not supposed to be Muslim and Hindu — it was an organic development. Was it the same with The Rapist? Or was the love angle a reaction to the current climate?   No, it was not. At least, not consciously so. I had reasoned that having a couple who were Hindu and Muslim, where neither had the slightest desire to convert the other, would be the most economical way of imparting the information that they were truly liberal and secular. Aftab’s one line to the officer in charge immediately after the rape sequence, ‘ Meri biwi Hindu hain . Koi problem hai aapko ?’ [My wife is Hindu. Do you have a problem with that?] says it all!  Delhi looks dingy and grey in the film, almost like all the colour has been sucked out.   Yes. [DOP] Bose and I decided to go for a desaturated look. As if the colour is being drained away from the lives of the characters. It starts brightly enough when Naina and Aftab are leading a happy, normal life. But after the rape incident, as the mood of the film gets darker, we gradually remove the colour. In fact, both Bose and I would have been very happy if we could have shot the film in black and white, but other considerations prevailed.  How would you describe your artistic vision? How has it evolved from the ’80s to the digital and OTT space we are living in now?   I make neither experimental cinema nor so-called formula films. I make films about human beings — tell their stories, bring their joys and sorrows, desires and frustrations to the fore. Even in films like The Rapist or Mr and Mrs Iyer , which deal with issues of national importance, it is the individuals who matter and who the audience identifies with. Digitisation, or the OTT space, has never really bothered me too much. It is true that initially I resisted the transition from celluloid to digi-tapes. They seemed to have a more brittle quality and lacked the softness of colour and detail that we could get in celluloid. But science does not sit still. The quality of the digital medium has been improving so fast and giving such brilliant results, that one does not miss celluloid any more except for nostalgic reasons. As far as the OTT platform is concerned, it is something we have had to accept with a shrug, particularly after the onset of the pandemic. But there are merits too. We get to see the best of international cinema on OTT platforms. I saw films like Roma , The Ballad of Buster Scruggs , Capernaum sitting right in front of my TV. Of course, nothing compares to the experience of sitting in a darkened auditorium and watching a film with a room full of people with no doorbell, no telephones, no sudden guests to disturb you! As far as my films are concerned, most of them have been intimate stories about individuals, not elaborate spectacles. So the OTT platforms are not unsuited for viewing them.  A career spanning over 40 years, and yet you’ve noted that when you look back at your old films you only see mistakes. Is there one you’ve wished more people would have seen and talked about?   It is true that glaring mistakes are all I see when I review my films. But this is mostly with the recent ones. When I watch an old film like 36 Chowringhee Lane or Paromitar Ek Din , I often find myself thinking, ‘Well, that’s not too bad after all!’ I wish more people could have seen Yugant , which was somehow neglected outside Bengal. I wish I could have made it now with all the computer graphics available to us today, because there is an apocalyptic scene at the end with the sea breaking into flames. Yugant should really have been my swan song. The other film that I feel didn’t get its due is The Japanese Wife . It should be on one of the OTT platforms at least, so that more people can watch it. But it was marketed very badly at the time and few people outside of Bengal got to see it.  The Indian theatrical/OTT release of The Rapist is yet to be confirmed.  Continued on page 5||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aparna-sen-asks-tough-questions/article37389727.ece
09 November 2021||November 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Aparna Sen asks tough questions||‘Why does a man become a rapist?’ The question has been fermenting in filmmaker Aparna Sen’s mind for close to a decade. “The idea came to me first as a germ [she can’t remember if it was before or after Nirbhaya, the 2012 Delhi gang-rape and murder case]. Then it gradually got fleshed out into a story with characters and setting,” she says. Now, with The Rapist , Sen has posed the question to the world. A very matter-of-fact film — or as Variety magazine calls it, a “richly-layered discussion starter” — it takes no sides. It follows Naina, played by Konkona Sen Sharma, a criminology professor in Delhi who survives a brutal rape and assault, while putting forward various points of view and also questioning the validity of the carceral state and the death sentence. In early October, The Rapist premiered at the Busan International Film Festival, and won the prestigious Kim Jiseok Award and numerous accolades. The actor-auteur’s 16th film, it was shot in 27 days in Delhi, in the slim window between the first and the lethal second COVID-19 waves. They finished shooting on April 6; the lockdown was announced on the 8th. “Actually, it was supposed to be a couple of days longer. We finished ahead of schedule thanks to our DOP [director of photography] Ayanaka Bose, who was extremely fast,” she says, recalling how they all stayed at The Leela Palace in Chanakyapuri. “We used to go down to breakfast along with the other guests staying at the hotel. So, it was not as though we were living in a bubble. We also shot in a real slum for four or five days. We were extremely lucky that [through the entire shoot] no one got sick.” At 76, Sen is still raring to go, with more ideas, including a memoir, germinating. In an email interview, she looks back at her 40-year career as a director, and what prompted her to take on the subject of The Rapist . Edited excerpts:  The title is a forceful one.  Yes, it is. We didn’t want to hide behind a more innocuous-sounding title. However, the theme is not about whether rapists should be given the death penalty, though that question is likely to come to mind when one watches the film. The theme is about what happens to three people whose lives are changed overnight after a horrific incident. Yes, it is also an exploration of what turns a person into a rapist because nobody is born as one. Is it genetics? Is it his environment? Or both? What is it about our society that turns such a large number of men into rapists? Social inequality? Ingrained patriarchy? Envy of the new, successful woman, and the desire to put her in her place? Or is it a combination of all these factors? It is an extremely complex issue that is addressed in the film, though not in an obvious or underlined way.  Whom did you consult while writing the script?  I talked to lawyers and activists, but not to rape survivors. I had a gut feeling that they would not wish to relive the experience by talking about it. Two of my feminist friends, who head organisations to help abused women, gave me important insights. Anuradha Kapoor, who runs Swayam — of which I, too, am a member — gave me a lot of material to read about rape survivors and details about the procedures immediately after a rape is reported. Shamita Dasgupta, who heads an organisation called Manavi in the U.S., told me about a new approach to crime called Restorative Justice where the victim and the perpetrator meet and talk about the reasons that made the latter act in the way he/she did. Restorative Justice isn’t mentioned in my film, but the knowledge was useful when I was writing certain scenes. For the most part though, I relied on my intuition and observations, which have served me well in the past.  This is the sixth film you have worked on with your daughter, Konkona — from Picnic (1989), when she was around 10, to The Rapist. How has your artistic collaboration evolved?   There is implicit trust on both sides. We have the same mindset and value systems. This makes it easier for her to understand what I am saying, right from the script stage. And, on my part, I know that Konkona has a very fine sense of balance, that she knows where to draw the line and will never go over the top. She has had tremendous screen presence from a very early age. It is difficult to delineate exactly how our relationship has evolved — I think she used to be very obedient earlier and listened to me much more than she does now! But then, she is much more mature as a person now and also far more proficient as an actor. I hardly ever have to direct her now. The only problem I had with her earlier was that she was rather uncomfortable doing intimate scenes. This time, I told her right at the beginning that she will have to get rid of those qualms. She looked at me with a wicked glint in her eye and said, ‘Okay, you just watch me!’ And I have to say, she delivered perfectly.  Tell us about the unusual casting of Arjun Rampal as Naina’s husband.   Why unusual? You know, the problem is that everyone just gapes at Arjun’s good looks and is unable to see beyond that! I had seen him in only two films before this, Rock On!! and Rajneeti , and I liked him very much in both. But for this film, I chose him because his appearance, or maybe his persona, exudes a certain nobility. This was necessary for the character. Also, I had noticed that he tends to underact. That was perfect for the role of Aftab. Despite all this, I was not entirely certain that he would be able to deliver and hold his own alongside Konkona. But I have to say I was in for a very pleasant surprise. Arjun is an extremely sensitive, finely-tuned actor underneath that gorgeous exterior. He and Konkona exuded the most wonderful chemistry together. He was quite a revelation as the understated, intellectual, highly-principled but emotionally-torn Aftab Malik.  In Mr and Mrs Iyer, you’d said that the characters were not supposed to be Muslim and Hindu — it was an organic development. Was it the same with The Rapist? Or was the love angle a reaction to the current climate?   No, it was not. At least, not consciously so. I had reasoned that having a couple who were Hindu and Muslim, where neither had the slightest desire to convert the other, would be the most economical way of imparting the information that they were truly liberal and secular. Aftab’s one line to the officer in charge immediately after the rape sequence, ‘ Meri biwi Hindu hain . Koi problem hai aapko ?’ [My wife is Hindu. Do you have a problem with that?] says it all!  Delhi looks dingy and grey in the film, almost like all the colour has been sucked out.   Yes. [DOP] Bose and I decided to go for a desaturated look. As if the colour is being drained away from the lives of the characters. It starts brightly enough when Naina and Aftab are leading a happy, normal life. But after the rape incident, as the mood of the film gets darker, we gradually remove the colour. In fact, both Bose and I would have been very happy if we could have shot the film in black and white, but other considerations prevailed.  How would you describe your artistic vision? How has it evolved from the ’80s to the digital and OTT space we are living in now?   I make neither experimental cinema nor so-called formula films. I make films about human beings — tell their stories, bring their joys and sorrows, desires and frustrations to the fore. Even in films like The Rapist or Mr and Mrs Iyer , which deal with issues of national importance, it is the individuals who matter and who the audience identifies with. Digitisation, or the OTT space, has never really bothered me too much. It is true that initially I resisted the transition from celluloid to digi-tapes. They seemed to have a more brittle quality and lacked the softness of colour and detail that we could get in celluloid. But science does not sit still. The quality of the digital medium has been improving so fast and giving such brilliant results, that one does not miss celluloid any more except for nostalgic reasons. As far as the OTT platform is concerned, it is something we have had to accept with a shrug, particularly after the onset of the pandemic. But there are merits too. We get to see the best of international cinema on OTT platforms. I saw films like Roma , The Ballad of Buster Scruggs , Capernaum sitting right in front of my TV. Of course, nothing compares to the experience of sitting in a darkened auditorium and watching a film with a room full of people with no doorbell, no telephones, no sudden guests to disturb you! As far as my films are concerned, most of them have been intimate stories about individuals, not elaborate spectacles. So the OTT platforms are not unsuited for viewing them.  A career spanning over 40 years, and yet you’ve noted that when you look back at your old films you only see mistakes. Is there one you’ve wished more people would have seen and talked about?   It is true that glaring mistakes are all I see when I review my films. But this is mostly with the recent ones. When I watch an old film like 36 Chowringhee Lane or Paromitar Ek Din , I often find myself thinking, ‘Well, that’s not too bad after all!’ I wish more people could have seen Yugant , which was somehow neglected outside Bengal. I wish I could have made it now with all the computer graphics available to us today, because there is an apocalyptic scene at the end with the sea breaking into flames. Yugant should really have been my swan song. The other film that I feel didn’t get its due is The Japanese Wife . It should be on one of the OTT platforms at least, so that more people can watch it. But it was marketed very badly at the time and few people outside of Bengal got to see it.  The Indian theatrical/OTT release of The Rapist is yet to be confirmed.  Continued on page 5||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aparna-sen-asks-tough-questions/article37389728.ece
