10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Why is MHA tasked to monitor foreign funds for NGOs, asks SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the government why the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has been tasked to keep an eye on the inflow and subsequent outflow of foreign funds to NGOs under the foreign contributions regulations law. “Why has the whole operation been brought under the Ministry of Home Affairs and not under the finance department?,” Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, heading a three-judge Bench, asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The question was posed during the hearing of petitions challenging the amendments to the Foreign Contributions Regulations law in 2020. The petitions argued that the amendments severely restricted the use of foreign funds by NGOs for their activities and transfer to other philanthropic organisations within the country. IB inputs Mr. Mehta said Intelligence Bureau (IB) inputs have shown that foreign funds entering India were used to fund activities that destabilise national peace and security. The inputs even indicated that the money was used to train naxals. “There is an element of national security, integrity of the nation involved here. Why should someone sitting in some foreign country pay... Every transaction is watched by the Ministry of Home Affairs, from the very beginning… Money has come to fund naxal activities,” Mr. Mehta responded to the court’s query.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/why-is-mha-tasked-to-monitor-foreign-funds-for-ngos-asks-sc/article37410047.ece
10 November 2021||Belagavi,||Women’s university to set up more regional, extension and PG centres||Vijayapura-based Karnataka State Akka Mahadevi Women’s University will expand its presence across the State by setting up regional centres, extension centres and post-graduate centres, Vice-Chancellor B.K. Tulasimala has said. She was speaking at the 12th convocation of the university in Vijayapura on Tuesday. “We are focussing on providing higher education to girls across the State, especially in rural areas. Now that our scope has expanded to the whole State, we will try to reach out to all corners of the State,” she said. The State Government has sanctioned 4 acres of land at Addiganahalli near Bengaluru. The university proposes to establish a regional centre there and run a KAS-cum-IAS coaching centre for aspiring women graduates. The university will start a post-graduate centre in Udutadi village, the birthplace of Akka Mahadevi, 12th century saint, after whom the university is named. The government has sanctioned around 10 acres of land in the village. The Member of Parliament concerned has assured of help to the university in the construction of various buildings, hostels and other infrastructure required to start various Skill Development programmes and courses at theUdutadi PG Centre. The university has completed the construction of buildings in post-graduate centres at Mandya and Sindhanur. All offices have been shifted to the new buildings at these places. It is resolved to establish an Extension Centre of the university in Bidar district, she said. “Akka TV, university’s news channel, has over 22,000 active subscribers on YouTube. It has posted over 500 videos and has won over $200 in advertisement revenue. This is the only university video channel in the State to have a viewership of over 10 lakh,’’ she said. “The university has begun translating textbooks for bachelor programmes in Indian languages, as per the New Education Policy requirements. Faculty members are engaged in research projects funded by Central agencies. They have published 216 research papers that include 2,402 citations. They have a total of Rs. 18 lakh in research grants. Teachers have published 18 books. Some teachers have won national and State-level awards,’’ she said. Governor and Chancellor of the university Thawarchand Gehlot gave away the awards and certificates. On Tuesday, the university awarded graduate, post-graduate degrees and post-graduate diplomas to 11,208 students. As many as 48 students received their Ph.Ds, 19 students their M.Phils, while 76 students won prizes — 65 gold medals and 11 cash prizes. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, only a few received degrees in person. The Governor also presented honorary doctorates to three achievers, writer Janaki Srinivasmurthy, who is known by her pen name Vaidehi, musician Suma Sudheendra and entrepreneur Kalpana Saroj. Established in 2003, Karnataka State Akka Mahadevi Women’s University has been accredited with Grade B by NAAC. It has also been recognized with four stars from KSURF. The university has 32 post-graduate departments and 172 colleges (including 13 post-graduate colleges) affiliated to it. Over 37,478 students are studying under the aegis of the university. An average of 11,000 students graduate from the university every year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/womens-university-to-set-up-more-regional-extension-and-pg-centres/article37410265.ece
10 November 2021||HUBBALLI,||Priority is for giving quality justice to people, says judge||Judge of the High Court of Karnataka S. Sunil Dutt Yadav has said that priority is being given to provide quality justice to all eligible, financially backward and those seeking justice, through the Legal Services Authority. He was inaugurating a legal awareness programme organised as part of the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence and Legal Services Day in Dharwad on Tuesday. The programme was jointly organised by the District Legal Services Authority, the district administration, the Dharwad Bar Association, the Department of Health and Family Welfare and the Department of Information and Public Relations. Mr. Yadav said that the Constitution has made provisions for extending legal assistance to the feeble and also create legal awareness among them. “The judiciary has, through the National Legal Services Authority, initiated steps for extending free legal aid and for creating legal awareness. Advocates joining hands with the judiciary in this endeavour will make the programme more meaningful,” he said. He said that all the financially backward and those in need of legal aid can get free legal assistance from the Legal Services Authority. The district administration should extend necessary cooperation in fulfilling the objectives of the judiciary. Various programmes for creating legal awareness and extending legal aid will be conducted throughout the year. he said. Making the introductory remarks, Principal District and Sessions Judge Umesh M. Adiga spoke about the legal awareness initiatives being taken up through the Legal Services Authority. “Since October 2, various legal awareness programmes are being conducted. They will go on till November 14. At least three legal awareness programmes will be conducted in each village of Dharwad district. Already 600 awareness programmes, three webinars and six jathas have been conducted,” he said. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that the people have responded well to the legal awareness programmes and apart from taluk headquarters, the awareness programmes are being conducted at the village level. This apart, a legal awareness session will be planned for the general public participating in government programmes, he said. Member of the Karnataka Bar Association and senior counsel V.D. Kamaraddi spoke. Senior Civil Judge and Member Secretary of District Legal Services Authority C.M. Pushpalatha, Assistant Commissioner of Police R.B. Basaragi and District Health Officer Yashwanth Madeenkar were present. Dharwad Bar Association president B.S. Godse presided over the function. Several district judges participated. Flagged off Earlier, Mr. Yadav and Mr. Umesh Adiga flagged off a motorcycle rally of advocates and a mobile awareness unit of the Legal Services Authority. Subsequently, Mr. Adiga and Mr. Nitesh Patil inaugurated a voluntary blood donation camp and a health check-up camp. Judge S. Nagashree, Sanjay Gudagudi and various other judges and advocates donated blood. In Hubballi As part of the Legal Services Day, a blood donation and health check-up camp was organised in Hubballi on Tuesday. District Judge Maruti Bagade, Principal Civil Judge Ravindra D. Ari, judges Devendrappa N. Biradar, K.N. Gangadhar and other judges, president of Hubballi Bar Association C.R. Patil and others were present. Judges Rajashekhar M. Tilaganji, Police Inspector Jagadish Hanchinal and various advocates, judicial and police staff donated blood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/priority-is-for-giving-quality-justice-to-people-says-judge/article37410267.ece
10 November 2021||MANGALURU,||CM asks Tourism Dept. to prepare report for developing two beaches||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday directed the Tourism Department to prepare detailed project reports for development of tourism infrastructure on Someshwara Beach and Maravanthe Beach in Byndoor Assembly Constituency. He was chairing a review meeting of Shivamogga Lok Sabha constituency that includes Byndoor Assembly segment, attended among others by Shivamogga MP B.Y. Raghavendra in Bengaluru. A press release here said that the Tourism Department was directed to complete the report at the earliest and undertake development works forthwith. Mr. Bommai directed the Forest Department to finalise the Coastal Regulation Zone notification intended to facilitate speedy execution of tourism projects in the coastal region by this month-end. He also directed the Tourism Department to prepare a proposal for the execution of the ropeway project between Kollur and Kodachadri under public-private partnership and call for tenders at the earliest. Mr. Bommai further directed the Irrigation Department to release funds forthwith to complete the Soukur Lift Irrigation Project. Chief Minister’s Principal Secretary N. Manjunath Prasad, Secretary V. Ponnuraj and other senior officials attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-asks-tourism-dept-to-prepare-report-for-developing-two-beaches/article37410426.ece
10 November 2021||MYSURU,||MBBS seats may go up to 250 at MMCRI||The number of MBBS seats in Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI), one of the oldest colleges in the country which is in the forefront of COVID-19 fight, is expected to go up by 100 in June next year with the institute seeking increase in intake of seats from 150 to 250 to add up more medical professionals. In view of MMCRI’s proposal, a delegation from the National Medical Commission (NMC) inspected the institute recently and reviewed its infrastructure. In the hope of getting a nod from the NMC for increasing the intake, the MMCRI has taken up various works, including construction of two new boys and girls hostels besides a lecture complex with each classroom accommodating 300 students and an examination hall accommodating 500 students. “We are confident of getting the NMC nod as whatever is required for increasing the intake is being done. The new hostels, lecture halls and other necessary infrastructure is being developed. Some facilities will be ready by December-end and a few others in January and by April before the next year’s admissions commence,” said MMCRI Dean and Director C.P. Nanjaraj. He told The Hindu that the two hostels with 150 rooms each are being constructed on the campus of PKTB Hospital on KRS Road. The ground plus five floor buildings can accommodate 900 students. The PG students and interns of MMCRI will be moved to the old hostels located in the city and all MBBS students will be accommodated in the new hostels once they are ready. “We need junior doctors for handling emergencies and therefore they will get accommodation in hostels within the city,” he said. Dr. Nanjaraj said the lecture complex is coming up at the old exhibition building next near MMCRI main building. Three classrooms that can each accommodate 300 students and an examination hall that can accommodate 500 students are being developed to improve the chances of getting the nod for increasing the MBBS seats’ intake. The UG and PG libraries are also coming up on the same campus, he added. The dean said the boy’s hostel is expected to be ready in January next year while the lecture hall would be ready for use in December. The erstwhile Medical Council of India (MCI) did not increase the seat intake. A reason for this was that the MMCRI lacked bigger classrooms that could accommodate 250 students if the permission was granted. Another reason was that the number of outpatients treated at K.R. Hospital, the teaching hospital of MMCRI, was less than 3,000 daily. The OPD numbers were actually around 3,000 previously but the number dropped after the Jayadeva Hospital moved to its new campus on KRS Road from K.R. Hospital premises. The Jayadeva outpatients were added to the hospitals’ outpatients’ list. The rooms in the new hostels come with attached restrooms, with better facilities for students. And each room can comfortably accommodate three students. There is no provision for two-sharing. Either it is single or three-sharing. In these hostels, the rooms come with three-sharing accommodation. The guidelines for increasing the MBBS seats had been revised with the coming up of the NMC and the MMCRI is hoping to get the approval for 250 intake since the hospitals attached to the college were attending to nearly 2,300 outpatients daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mbbs-seats-may-go-up-to-250-at-mmcri/article37410444.ece
10 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Harekala Hajabba reiterates demand for government pre-university college||Harekala Hajabba, the wayside orange seller who contributed his earnings to promote a government school in his Harekala village on the outskirts of the city, continues to think of expanding the horizons of the school after he received the Padma Shri award from President Ram Nath Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan in Delhi on Monday. He wants the government to open a pre-university college on the premises of the government school at Newpadpu in Harekala village. It is his a long-standing demand. The school now boasts classes from I to X. “There is nothing more I can ask the government,” Mr. Hajabba told reporters after receiving felicitations by Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on behalf of the Dakshina Kannada district administration at the latter’s office here on Tuesday. “Recognising an orange seller like me by conferring Padma Shri is really a great thing. I had never ever dreamt that a poor person like me will be honoured in the Rashtrapati Bhavan. I cannot ask anything more for myself. I don’t have any personal demand except for a pre-university college for my village,” he said and added: “I was overwhelmed when the Prime Minister shook hands with me during the banquet by recognising me as an orange seller.” Mr. Hajabba was among others from the State who received the Padma awards on Tuesday. He left for Delhi on Sunday with his brother’s son Ashraf. Mr. Hajabba returned to the city on Tuesday morning via Bengaluru. Mangaluru Tahsildar T.G. Guruprasad gave him a warm welcome at the airport. A large number of people, including several from Hajabba’s village, were also present at the airport. Mr. Hajabba, who was overwhelmed, shook hands with everybody and politely refused any felicitation. He was brought in the car of the district administration to the office of the Deputy Commissioner where he was felicitated. Responding to the demand of Mr. Hajabba, Dr. Rajendra said that a proposal will be sent to the State Government shortly. The Deputy Commissioner said that a formal function to felicitate Mr. Hajabba will be held. With an intention to make children of his village interact in English, Mr. Hajabba used a portion of his earnings to start a school in a madrasa on June 17, 2000. Later, it became a government school. And, the high school section was opened in 2007. Mr. Hajabba built the school with grants from the government, companies and from donors. Initially, he contributed Rs. 5,000, which was his savings from selling oranges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/harekala-hajabba-reiterates-demand-for-government-pre-university-college/article37410430.ece
10 November 2021||MANGALURU,||CAMPCO condemns demand to prohibit use of arecanut||Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative Ltd. (CAMPCO), Mangaluru, has taken a strong exception to the reported demand by the Member of Parliament from Godda constituency in Jharkhand Nihikant Dubey to prohibit the use of arecanut for human consumption claiming that it caused deadly diseases like cancer. CAMPCO said in a media statement here on Tuesday that a section of the media reported on Monday that Mr. Dubey, representing the BJP, wrote to the Prime Minister sometime ago listing out a number of harmful effects consumption of arecanut caused on human health and urged to prohibit its use. He, however, has said that it can be allowed for use in religious ceremonies. President of the cooperative A. Kishore Kumar Kodgi and managing director H.M. Krishna Kumar said that arecanut has a plethora of medicinal properties both for human beings and livestock. “CAMPCO stands firm in protecting the interests of the arecanut farmers and condemns the demand by Mr. Dubey,” they said. “CAMPCO will appeal to the Prime Minister for issuing instructions to the offices concerned for conducting a thorough scientific research on the health benefits of arecanut,” the statement said. “Arecanut is useful for decreasing diabetes, cholesterol and Alzheimer’s disease. It has properties to kill several pathogenic bacteria, fungi and protozoan parasites. It helps in reducing pain and curing wounds and ulcers. It has good anti-venom properties too,” they said in the statement. “It is shocking to note that Mr. Dubey, without any proven scientific evidences, has listed out the harmful effects of betelnut on human health which is not only misleading but also is hurting the sentiments of arecanut farmers. Arecanut finds a very significant place in all religious, social and cultural functions and has a long history in Ayurvedic medicine dating to as far back as the Charaka Samhita,” the statement said. CAMPCO said that time and again it has been proved that arecanut alone is not at all carcinogenic. Recent researches conducted by competent research institutes, both within the country and outside, have proved positive results. Scientists from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, reported in 1974 that arecanut has a property to cure cancer. This has also been substantiated by a group of eminent scientists in the Winship Cancer Institute of Emory University, Atlanta, U.S. The Supreme Court too has ruled that arecanut is food within the meaning of Section 2 (v) of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/campco-condemns-demand-to-prohibit-use-of-arecanut/article37410431.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,||HC gives go-ahead for KVPY exams in English and Hindi alone this year||The Madras High Court on Tuesday said it shall permit the conduct of Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana (KVPY), a national talent search examination conducted by the Centre for fellowship in basic sciences, this year in English and Hindi alone if the Centre gives a firm commitment to conduct it in all scheduled Indian languages from next year. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu granted time till November 15 for Additional Solicitor General R Sankaranarayanan to file an affidavit that the exam would be conducted in all scheduled languages from next year. They said final orders on the issue would be passed after the filing of the affidavit. The observations were made during the hearing of a public interest litigation petition which insisted upon conducting KVPY examination in regional languages too. Representing the Centre, the ASG told the court that the examination was conducted only in English from 1999 to 2009. Hindi was introduced only in 2009, he said. Appreciating the conduct of the exam at least in one of the Indian languages, the judges said it was essential to conduct it in other scheduled Indian languages too so that language does not end up as a barrier in spotting bright young minds spread across the country and granting them fellowships to pursue higher education. Lengthy process To this, the ASG replied that it would take a minimum of five to six months to prepare question papers and answer keys in all scheduled Indian languages. If such a course had to be resorted to for this year, it wouldn't be possible to conduct the KVPY examination and it would have to be cancelled, he told the court. At this point of time, the judges said their intention was not to put spokes on the examinations this year if the Centre could give a firm commitment to the court that the process for conducting next year's KVPY exam, in all scheduled Indian languages, would begin immediately. The ASG sought time till Monday to file such an affidavit and it was granted. The KVPY examination this year was scheduled to be held across the country on November 7. However, it had to be postponed due to the case pending in the Madras High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-gives-conditional-nod-for-kvpy-examinations/article37410134.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Covaxin added to UK’s list of vaccines||Starting with November 22, Indian travellers fully vaccinated with Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin will be able to travel to the U.K. without the requirement of mandatory self-isolation, British High Commissioner Alex Ellis said on Tuesday. The announcement came soon after Foreign Secretary of the U.K. Elizabeth Truss said that her country has “expanded” the list of recognised vaccines for “inbound travel” indicating that Covaxin is part of the revised list. “From 4 a.m. on Monday, 22 November, the government will recognise vaccines on the World Health Organisation’s Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL). As a result, Sinovac, Sinopharm Beijing, and Covaxin will be added to our list of approved vaccines for inbound travel, benefiting more fully vaccinated people from countries such as the United Arab Emirates, Malaysia and India,” announced a travel update from the Government of the United Kingdom. New Delhi had been demanding recognition of India-made vaccines with senior officials of the British government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covaxin-added-to-uks-list-of-vaccines/article37410043.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Congress, BJP trade charges after new report on Rafale||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress traded charges on Tuesday, a day after fresh revelations by French investigative portal Mediapart indicated that kickbacks of at least €7.5 million were paid in the Rafale deal between 2007 and 2012. The BJP said the Indian National Congress should be renamed “I Need Commission” and alleged that the failed negotiations for the aircraft, when the Congress was in power, was because of the latter’s dissatisfaction with the “cut”. The Congress, on the other hand, accused the Narendra Modi government of a “cover up” in the scam and shying away from registering an FIR even 36 months after evidence emerged on middleman Sushen Gupta’s role in the deal. At a press conference, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said the government is busy “burying the black melting pot of corruption, kickbacks and collusion”. And in doing so, it has undermined national security, jeopardised the interests of the armed forces and caused a loss of Rs. 41,000 crore to the exchequer, he alleged. “The corruption can be tracked to PM Modi’s own doorstep,” he said. The evidence in this case, he added, had first came up on October 4, 2018, when two former Union Ministers of BJP — Arun Shourie and Yashwant Sinha — submitted a file to then CBI Director Alok Verma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-bjp-trade-charges-after-new-report-on-rafale/article37410036.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Yellow alert for Bengaluru, SIK||Rainy days may not be over yet as the India Meteorological Department has issued a yellow alert (heavy rainfall) for all of South Interior Karnataka (SIK) over the next few days, including Bengaluru Urban. According to Tuesday’s forecast. Bengaluru Urban and Rural are expected to receive heavy rainfall on November 12 and 14. Similar conditions have been predicted for almost all other districts in the region during the same period. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre has also said that the cyclonic circulation over the southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining south Andaman Sea now lies over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood. “Under its influence, a low pressure area is very likely to form over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood during the next 12 hours. It is likely to move west-northwestwards, concentrate into a depression and reach near north Tamil Nadu coast by the early morning of November 11.” Evening rains are likely to increase over the city as the system is moving close to Tamil Nadu coast on November 10, and from November 11 to 15, complete cloudy conditions with continuous rains are likely over the city, the centre has said. “There will be enhancement in the rains over city from November 10 night or from November 11,” officials added. The coming system is likely to influence North Interior Karnataka districts from November 12 or 13, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-rain-expected-yellow-alert-for-city/article37410066.ece
10 November 2021||SALEM,||Mettur water level touches 119 feet||With water level at Stanley Reservoir in Mettur touching 119 feet and the discharge at 20,000 cusecs, the Water Resources Department (WRD) on Tuesday issued a flood warning, asking people living in low-lying areas along the banks of the Cauvery to move to safer locations. At 8 a.m., the water level stood at 119 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 120 feet, while storage stood at 91.88 thousand million cubic feet (tmc) against a capacity of 93.47 tmc. Inflow The inflow stood at 26,440 cusecs and the discharge into the Cauvery at 20,000 cusecs and into the canal at 100 cusecs. A statement issued by the WRD said initially, 5,000 cusecs was discharged. It was stepped up to 20,000 cusecs at 6.30 a.m. on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mettur-water-level-touches-119-feet/article37410240.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||Metro rail services to start at 6 a.m. from today||Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) and L&T Metro Rail-Hyderabad (L&TMRH) have announced an early start to the metro rail operations in the morning by an hour from November 10. Trains will start at 6 a.m. from the originating stations of Raidurg, Nagole, Miyapur, L.B. Nagar, MGBS and JBS across the three routes instead of the usual 7 a.m. Frequency of these early morning operations is likely to be between 10-15 minutes to begin with and depending on the public patronage, the frequency of the trains will be increased gradually, informed HMR MD N.V.S. Reddy. The decision was taken following Minister for IT, Municipal Administration and Industries K.T. Rama Rao directing the metro rail authorities to consider starting the services early after requests were made by passengers on his Twitter post. However, the last services will continue to be at 10.15 p.m., meaning the last train will leave the respective terminal stations at this time to reach the respective destinations at around 11.15 p.m. Frequency of the trains from 7 a.m. till the last services will be more like in Corridor One or Red Line - Miyapur to L.B. Nagar trains will be running at 5-8 minute frequency so also in the Blue Line or Corridor Two - Nagole-Raidurg. Green Line or Corridor Three - Jubilee Bus Station (JBS) - Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station (MGBS) at Imlibun will be having trains at a frequency of about 10 minutes between 7 a.m. and 10.15 p.m. considering the current passenger footfalls. The COVID-19 lockdowns since March 2020 and restricted operations during the first and second waves till a few months ago has had an impact on the passenger footfalls. But, it has been gradually improving in recent times with more economic activity and offices opening up with about 2.5 lakh people commuting daily across the three traffic corridors during week days, said an official spokesperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/metro-rail-services-to-start-at-6-am-from-today/article37410292.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.K. includes Covaxin to its list of vaccines||Starting with November 22, Indian travellers fully vaccinated with Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin will be able to travel to the U.K. without the requirement of mandatory self-isolation, British High Commissioner Alex Ellis said on Tuesday. The announcement came soon after Foreign Secretary of the U.K. Elizabeth Truss said that her country has “expanded” the list of recognised vaccines for “inbound travel” indicating that Covaxin is part of the revised list. “From 4 a.m. on Monday, 22 November, the government will recognise vaccines on the World Health Organisation’s Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL). As a result, Sinovac, Sinopharm Beijing, and Covaxin will be added to our list of approved vaccines for inbound travel, benefiting more fully vaccinated people from countries such as the United Arab Emirates, Malaysia and India,” announced a travel update from the Government of the United Kingdom. New Delhi had been demanding recognition of India-made vaccines with senior officials of the British government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uk-includes-covaxin-to-its-list-of-vaccines/article37410554.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,||‘May have to send officers to jail for not obeying court orders’||It appears that one or two officers of the State Government will have to be sent to jail for not complying with the court’s repeated orders to set an example to others about the consequences, the High Court of Karnataka said on Tuesday. Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi, heading a Division Bench with Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum, made oral observations in this regard after noticing that the Chief Commissioner of the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike had not submitted a report on constructions put up in a park despite time granted by court at least three times since August. “We cannot tolerate non-compliance of court’s directions by the officers everyday. You [the officers] have started taking the court very lightly...You people won’t bother to comply unless we set an example. I think one or two examples have to be created by the court by sending officers to jail. This is the one case...” the Chief Justice observed orally. “The prestige of the court cannot be compromised. To uphold the dignity of the court, this practice of non-compliance of court’s orders should be deprecated,” the Bench orally told the BBMP counsel when he sought time to submit the report based on a completed survey. While giving the last opportunity to the Chief Commissioner of the BBMP and the State Government to file report on constructions in the park in Bengaluru city, the Bench adjourned further hearing till December 16 while deprecating the conduct of the BBMP in not adhering to the court’s earlier directions. The Bench on Monday had castigated two senior IAS officers of the rank of Principal Secretary for neither complying with the court’s direction nor personally being present in the court despite specific directions. The two officers later appeared before the Bench and apologised for their conduct after the Bench summoned the Advocate-General to express its displeasure over non-compliance of the court’s orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/may-have-to-send-officers-to-jail-for-not-obeying-court-orders/article37410070.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||Election schedule for 12 Council seats under LACs announced||As the process for election to vacant seats in the Legislative Council under the MLAs quota has started, the Election Commission has issued schedule for election of 12 members in nine districts under the Local Authorities’ Constituencies (LACs). The term of the members — Kalvakuntla Kavita from Nizamabad LAC, Puranam Satish from Adilabad LAC, Pochampally Srinivas Reddy from Warangal LAC, Tera Chinnapa Reddy (Nalgonda), V. Bhoopal Reddy (Medak), Balasani Lakshminarayana (Khammam) T. Bhanuprakash Rao and Naradasu Laxman Rao (both from Karimnagar), Kasireddy Narayan Reddy and K. Damoder Reddy (Mahabubnagar) and Patnam Mahender Reddy and Sunkari Raju (Rangareddy) — is set to expire on January 4 next year. The Election Commission has released the schedule for filling these seats ahead of the expiry of term of the sitting members. Accordingly, notification for the election will be issued on November 16 and the last date of filing nominations would be November 23. Nominations would be scrutinized on November 24 and November 26 is the last date for withdrawal of nominations. The election for these seats would be held on December 10. The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi which won all the zilla parishads across the State and with a majority of the electorate, including MPTCs, ZPTCs, ward members and others, under its fold is set to retain all these seats. Intense lobbying is already underway for securing tickets under the MLA quota and release of schedule for vacancies under the LAC quota is likely to increase it further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/election-schedule-for-12-council-seats-under-lacs-announced/article37410295.ece
10 November 2021||GUNTUR,||Panel to look into issues of A.P., Odisha||The cordial meeting between the two Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy and Naveen Patnaik, at Bhubaneswar set the tone for mutual cooperation and resolving several pending issues. A joint statement by the two Chief Ministers said that the two governments also decided to work closely on resolving the issues relating to jurisdiction of Kotia group of villages, Naredi Barrage, Janjhavati Reservoir, Polavaram, release of water for Bhahuda river and mutual NOC for the Balimela and Upper Sileru in the energy sector. A high-level committee headed by the two Chief Secretaries would look into all issues and solve them in a time-bound manner. Both the States resolved to extend support towards tackling the problem of left-wing extremism and ganja cultivation. “Both the states not only share borders but also a long and glorious history and heritage. At times of need, they have extended full cooperation and assistance, a fact borne out during the natural disasters in the past,” said the joint statement. Earlier in the day, Mr. Jagan attended the reception of the daughter of YSRCP MLA Reddy Shanti at Pathapatnam in Srikakulam district. The Chief Minister flew to Bhubaneswar and reached the State Guest House, where representatives of Telugu Association welcomed him. He reviewed the agenda for the meeting with his Odisha counterpart with senior revenue and irrigation officials. The other issues which came up for discussion include appointment of language teachers in border villages, distribution of textbooks. The BR Ambedkar University and Berhampur University will take measures to foster the spirit of brotherhood among people living in Andhra-Odisha border. Expressing his satisfaction over the discussion, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said: “I am happy that the first step towards solving many pending issues between the two States has been taken today. It is good that a high level committee headed by two Chief Secretaries will look into all pending issues.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-to-look-into-pending-issues-of-ap-and-odisha/article37410038.ece
10 November 2021||TIRUPATTUR,||SSI transferred over scuffle with bike rider in Tirupattur district||A Special Sub-Inspector (SSI), attached to Alangayam police station near Vaniyambadi in Tirupattur district, has been shifted to the Armed Reserve (AR) wing of the district police after a tussle between him and a motorcycle rider went viral on Tuesday. Police said, K. Umapathy, the SSI, was conducting a routine vehicular check along with a team of police personnel in Alangayam town and tried to stop S. Manikandan, 30, who went ahead without stopping. So, Mr. Umapathy chased and cornered Mr. Manikandan, and tried to confiscate his vehicle. When Mr. Manikandan prevented him from doing so, Mr. Umapathy hit him, which led to an exchange of blows between them.. Some onlookers took videos of the scuffle.. “We have secured the motorcycle rider. However, the SSI should not have behaved in such a manner .As a disciplinary action, we shifted him to the AR wing,” K. Balakrishnan, SP, Tirupattur, told The Hindu . A case was filed against the motorist for stopping a government officer on-duty from doing his work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ssi-transferred-over-scuffle-with-bike-rider-in-tirupattur-district/article37410405.ece
10 November 2021||PEDDAPALLI,||Spurned suitor kills woman in Godavarikhani||A 20-year-old woman was stabbed to death allegedly by a spurned suitor at K K Nagar in 8 Incline Colony under Godavarikhani two town police station limits on Tuesday afternoon. Sources said the accused, identified as 21-year-old tractor driver Chatla Raju, allegedly barged into the house of the woman late in the afternoon and attacked her with a kitchen knife before slitting her throat. He fled the scene leaving the grievously injured woman in a pool of blood. The young woman had bled to death a little later, sources added. The accused allegedly nursed a grudge against the woman for turning down his marriage proposal and killed her while she was alone at home. The victim’s family originally hails from Venkatraopally village in Ramagiri mandal, sources added. The gruesome murder sent shockwaves in K K Nagar. Poignant scenes were witnessed at the house of the deceased as her mother wailed inconsolably even as the relatives of the victim demanded harshest punishment to the accused expeditiously. The Godavarikhani two-town police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/spurned-suitor-kills-woman-in-godavarikhani/article37410296.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||Harish Rao given charge of Health portfolio||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has appointed Finance Minister T. Harish Rao as the Minister for Health and Family Welfare. “Under Clause (3) of Article 166 of the Constitution, the Governor of Telangana hereby allocates the portfolio of Medical & Health & Family Welfare to Sri T. Harish Rao, Hon'ble Minister for Finance, with effect from 09 November, 2021,” the Government Order issued late on Tuesday evening said. Mr. Harish Rao was the in-charge of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s campaign in the just concluded Huzurabad bypoll where former Minister Eatala Rajender who subsequently joined the BJP romped home with a huge majority. Victory of Mr. Rajender has come as a jolt to the ruling party amid allegations that the government did not monitor COVID-19 developments in the same way Mr. Rajender did when he was holding the Health portfolio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/harish-rao-given-charge-of-health-portfolio/article37410298.ece
10 November 2021||Dona Paula,||‘Monitoring Chinese assets in Indian Ocean’||Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh said the Navy was monitoring the Chinese naval and maritime assets deployed in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) for any activities “inimical to our interests.” In an exclusive interview to The Hindu on the sidelines of the Goa Maritime Conclave (GMC), Admiral Singh said the logistics deals and foundational agreements signed by India have helped the Navy achieve ‘Reach and Sustenance’. The third edition of GMC 2021, being hosted by the Indian Navy, has the participation of Navy Chiefs and heads of maritime forces from 12 Indian Ocean nations. Admiral Singh said that nine International Liaison Officers have reported at the IFC-IOR since GMC 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/monitoring-chinese-assets-in-indian-ocean/article37410048.ece
10 November 2021||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),||Seven booby traps laid by Maoists unearthed||Personnel of the the Anti Naxal Squad (ANS) and Central Reserve Police Force’s 141 and 42 battalions on Tuesday unearthed seven booby traps allegedly laid by Maoists in the Mallampeta forest cover that shares a border with Chhattisgarh’s Sukma district, in Chintoor Agency. None of the personnel who participated in the combing operation was hurt. On October 8, the ANS and CRPF personnel had unearthed 10 booby traps and recovered hundreds of bamboo arrows in the Mallampeeta forest cover. The Maoists recently adopted the traditional booby trap strategy, in which they dig trenches and plant bamboo arrows and later cover the trenches with the leaves to trap the security personnel. East Godavari SP M. Raveendranath Babu said that civilians including local tribal people and government staff could have been caught in the booby traps had they passed the forest cover for any purpose. “Our personnel have unearthed the booby traps without registering any untoward incident. Hundreds of bamboo arrows planted by the Maoists have been recovered from the traps”, said Mr. Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-booby-traps-found/article37410030.ece
10 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Minister ‘gheraoed’ on merger of aided colleges||Leaders of various student organisations on Tuesday barged into a venue where Education Minister A. Suresh was to address a press conference, and raised slogans against the Government’s decision to merge aided educational institutions with government-run institutions. Even as the Minister was addressing a press conference after releasing the results of the AP Post-Graduate Common Entrance Tests (AP PGCET-2021), leaders of the Telugu Nadu Students’ Federation (TNSF), the Progressive Democratic Students’ Union (PDSU) and the All India Students’ Federation (AISF) barged into the room and started raising slogans against the police lathi-charge on the students of Sri Sai Baba National (SSBN) Degree College in Anantapur on Monday and demanded that the Government drop its plan to merge aided institutions. The Minister tried to make his point that there was no compulsion from the Government’s side to surrender the staff or the schools and that it was being carried out only if the managements were willing to do so. “Let the SSBN College management say that they are not willing for the merger, I will immediately drop the merger proposal,” he said, but his voice drowned in the din as the student leaders questioned him about the lathi-charge on the students and alleged that the police was treating students like goons. They said that there was a sense of insecurity among all sections towards the police behaviour. As the police removed the protesters from the room, they squatted in the corridor and raised slogans for some time before they were bundled in a vehicle and taken away. A girl student of SSBN College was injured when the police resorted to a lathi-charge to disperse a large gathering of students and student union leaders protesting against the reported option given by the college management to give up its “aided’ status.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/student-leaders-gherao-minister-on-merger-of-aided-colleges/article37410042.ece
10 November 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata likely to take over Finance portfolio||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to take over the Finance department in a reshuffle of the Council of Ministers. And former Finance Minister Amit Mitra was on Tuesday appointed as Principal Chief Adviser to the Chief Minister and the Finance department. A notification issued by the government said Mr. Mitra shall be entitled to emoluments, allowances and perks as admissible to a Cabinet Minister. Over the past one year, Mr. Mitra, who held the Finance portfolio, has been largely working from home and he did not contest this year Assembly polls and the subsequent bypolls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-likely-to-take-over-finance-portfolio/article37410155.ece
10 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Officials told to visit border areas at least once a month||Karnataka Border Area Development Authority Chairman C. Somashekara on Tuesday said that assistant commissioners, tahsildars and executive engineers of Public Works Department should visit villages in the border areas at least once a month to understand problems being faced by people. Chairing a review meeting on border area development at the District Office here, Mr. Somashekara asked the Deputy Director of Public Instruction to submit a comprehensive report about educational infrastructure in border areas, including school buildings, compounds and libraries. The authority gives primacy to children’s education and provides up to Rs. 1 lakh grant to develop a smart class. He asked officials to give a list of four or five Kannada schools that need smart classes in Kasargod district of Kerala. He further said that documents and certificates, including RTC and caste certificate, necessary for Kannadiga residents in the neighbouring Kasargod district of Kerala should be made available in Kannada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/officials-told-to-visit-border-areas-at-least-once-a-month/article37410268.ece
10 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||LDF nod for bus charge hike||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has agreed in principle to hike the bus charge. Transport Minister Antony Raju had tabled the proposal at a LDF leadership conclave here on Tuesday. The coalition tasked the Minister to do the needful as per the recommendations of the Ramachandran commission report. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan would have the final say in the matter. Mr. Raju was likely to hold discussions with private bus operators and Kerala State Road Transport Corporation officials next week. Bus operators demand that the Government fix the minimum ticket charge at Rs. 12. They wanted to limit student concession to a minimum of Rs. 6. The Ramachandran commission had recommended raising the minimum charge for 2.5 km from Rs. 8 to Rs. 10. It had also suggested that the operators charge students 50% of the ticket fare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ldf-nod-for-bus-charge-hike/article37410333.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Angry over losing job, driver kills DU teacher’s wife||The wife of a Delhi University assistant professor was allegedly killed by a former employee who wanted to take revenge on her for losing his job, the police said on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Sagar Singh Kalsi said the accused has been identified as Rakesh, 31, a resident of Sant Nagar, who worked as a taxi driver. The victim, 32-year-old Pinki, was found dead in a flat on the fourth floor of a building in Sant Nagar. The police said that a constable posted at the Burari police station saw Rakesh “roaming around nervously” around 7 p.m. on Monday. On being questioned, he allegedly told the constable that he had killed his sister-in-law. A police team reached the flat and found Pinki’s body lying on the bed. A murder case was registered. During interrogation, Rakesh told the police that he knew the professor, Virender Kumar, for the past three years and considered him his elder brother. Prof. Kumar had given Rakesh a car to drive as a taxi and also offered his family a room to stay on the top floor of the building. Prof. Kumar got married to Pinky in February this year. She started having fights with Rakesh and his wife due to which they had to move out of the building. Rakesh also lost his job, the police said. Rakesh blamed Pinki for his condition. On Monday, he went to the professor’s residence in a drunken state and strangled his wife. He then electrocuted Pinki to ensure that she was dead, Rakesh allegedly told the police. Pinki’s family had submitted a police complaint regarding a threat to her life in August this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/angry-over-losing-job-driver-kills-du-teachers-wife/article37410162.ece
10 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Lookout notice for advocate||With advocate K.S.N. Rajesh, accused of sexually harassing an intern, still remaining at large, the police have issued lookout notices against him besides asking 12 branches of various banks to furnish transaction details of his accounts. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar said that Assistant Commissioner of Police (South) Ranjith Bandaru, who is the investigating officer in the case, has sought details from bank branches concerned. As many as four teams have been formed to trace the accused who is said to have sexually assaulted a law intern in his office. Ever since a first information report was registered against him in the women police station on October 18, Rajesh has been absconding. He said that two people, Pavithra Acharya and Ananth Bhat, have already been arrested in connection with two related cases of attempt to destroy evidence. Serious efforts are being made to trace the accused by issuing lookout notices through police forces of neighbouring States, including Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Goa. Mr. Kumar said that there is information that the accused is travelling in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Besides seeking the arrest of Rajesh, the police have sought the arrest of Achut K.B., resident of Uttarahalli in Bengaluru, on the charge of harbouring the main accused through a lookout notice sent to police forces of other States. Both of them are said to be using a multi-utility vehicle, the police said, providing relevant details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lookout-notice-for-advocate/article37410427.ece
10 November 2021||Mumbai,||Fadnavis says Malik has links with underworld||As the political battle between the BJP and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) Government in Maharashtra continues, former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday claimed that Minister Nawab Malik has relations with the underworld as he purchased land from them during 2003 to 2005. “Solidus investment is Nawab Malik’s company and land in Kurla was purchased from underworld criminals Sardar Shah Wali Khan and Mohd Salim Ishaq Patel during 2003 to 2005,” said Mr. Fadnavis. Sardar Shah Wali Khan is convicted in 2007 by a TADA court to life imprisonment in the 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts case. The Supreme Court confirmed the sentence in 2013. Ishaq Patel alias Salim Patel as he’s known is the front man of Haseena Parker. He was arrested in 2007 with Haseena Parkar in land grabbing and other fraud issues. Mr. Fadnavis said three acres were purchased at LBS road for only Rs. 20 lakh. “Why did you purchase land from criminals of Mumbai. In such a serious matter where the underworld and the blast convicts have connections with Minister Nawab Malik, I will submit the documents to appropriate agencies for further probe,” he said. In response, the Minister said he will bring forth evidence of the former CM’s relations with the underworld and expose how officials were working with a don sitting in Dubai. “It seems the person providing information to Fadnavis is an amateur. The said land known as Goawala compound was built in 1984 where a residential co-operative housing society exists even today,” said Mr. Malik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fadnavis-says-malik-has-links-with-underworld/article37410154.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Prayer time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prayer-time/article37410045.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Obavva Jayanti’ on Nov. 11||The Karnataka Government has decided to celebrate ‘Onake Obavva Jayanti’ on November 11 throughout the State The Government Order on Tuesday stated that the Kannada and Culture Department had proposed celebrating the birth anniversary of Onake Obavva, a brave woman-soldier who had fought the forces of Hyder Ali in Chitradurga in the 18th Century, as a State-sponsored event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/obavva-jayanti-on-nov-11/article37410432.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Conditional bail for ‘Sriki’||Software engineer and accused hacker Srikrishna, who is allegedly involved in a multi-crore bitcoin scam and drug peddling, was granted bail by the Metropolitan Magistrate court on Tuesday. He was fined Rs. 4,500 for consuming drugs, and released on conditional bail with Rs. 25,000 bail bond as surety, said his lawyer Dayanand Hiremath. Srikrishna or ‘Sriki’ and his associate Vishnu Bhat, a Bengaluru-based jeweller, were arrested by the J.B. Nagar Police on Saturday after they allegedly got into a drunken brawl at a star hotel on Old Airport Road on Saturday. According to the police, Sriki tested positive for drugs, following which he was booked under Section 27 (punishment for consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances ) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. He reportedly admitted to the magistrate that he had consumed drugs. Link with peddlers The police reportedly recovered drugs from Bhat and are questioning him to ascertain where he sourced them from. “We suspect that he has links with a few peddlers and investigations are on to track them down,” said a police officer, adding that Bhat along with other people would visit Sriki’s hotel room to party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hacker-srikrishna-granted-conditional-bail/article37410079.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.K. includes Covaxin to its list of vaccines||Starting with November 22, Indian travellers fully vaccinated with Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin will be able to travel to the U.K. without the requirement of mandatory self-isolation, British High Commissioner Alex Ellis said on Tuesday. The announcement came soon after Foreign Secretary of the U.K. Elizabeth Truss said that her country has “expanded” the list of recognised vaccines for “inbound travel” indicating that Covaxin is part of the revised list. “From 4 a.m. on Monday, 22 November, the government will recognise vaccines on the World Health Organisation’s Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL). As a result, Sinovac, Sinopharm Beijing, and Covaxin will be added to our list of approved vaccines for inbound travel, benefiting more fully vaccinated people from countries such as the United Arab Emirates, Malaysia and India,” announced a travel update from the Government of the United Kingdom. New Delhi had been demanding recognition of India-made vaccines with senior officials of the British government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uk-includes-covaxin-to-its-list-of-vaccines/article37410067.ece
10 November 2021||SRINAGAR,||J&K hospitals get faulty ventilators||J&K’s Health and Medical Education Department found itself in the dock after details obtained under the RTI Act suggested that at least 165 “faulty” ventilators were supplied to the Union Territory’s hospitals last year with PM CARES fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jk-hospitals-get-faulty-ventilators/article37410164.ece
10 November 2021||HUBBALLI,||Religious mutts have done govt.’s work: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that many of the mutts and religious institutions have done works which actually should have been done by the government. He was speaking at a Guru Vandane programme of Sri Abhinava Annadanishwara Swami and installation of Sri Muppina Basavalinga Devaru as successor to the Halakere Mutt in Ron taluk of Gadag district on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/religious-mutts-have-done-govts-work-cm/article37410270.ece
10 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Special voter enrolment campaign in colleges||Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao on Tuesday said that the administration will undertake a special campaign through colleges to enrol young voters during the summary revision of electoral rolls during this month. Speaking to reporters at Udupi, Mr. Rao said that as per the population estimate in the district, 27,000 new voters have to be added to the rolls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/special-voter-enrolment-campaign-in-colleges/article37410424.ece
10 November 2021||Pune,||Fire tragedy: civil surgeon among four suspended||Following the Ahmednagar hospital fire tragedy where 11 COVID-19 patients, mostly senior citizens, lost their lives, the Maharashtra Government has suspended the district civil surgeon along with three hospital staff, while terminating the services of two nurses. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope tweeted late on Monday that Ahmednagar District Civil Surgeon Sunil Pokharna had been suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fire-tragedy-civil-surgeon-among-four-suspended/article37410157.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||NSA Doval meets Tajik, Uzbek counterparts||Ahead of the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval met his counterparts from Tajikistan and Uzbekistan for separate bilateral meetings here on Tuesday where they discussed the terror threats from Afghanistan, the humanitarian crisis unfolding there and the need for an inclusive and “legitimate” Government in Kabul. Mr. Doval will join the NSAs and the security chiefs for an eight-nation conference on Wednesday morning, to discuss the issues further. “Afghanistan was the major focus of discussions. Both sides agreed that the future of Afghanistan must be decided by the people of Afghanistan themselves,” sources said after Mr. Doval’s meeting with Uzbekistan Secretary of the Security Council Lt. Gen. Victor Makhmudov in the South Block, adding that the question of legitimacy should be dealt with before discussing international recognition to the Government in Kabul. At present, no country has recognised the Taliban Interim Government and the Taliban has rejected calls for an electoral process to decide who will succeed the previous Ghani Government. Humanitarian crisis “Both sides emphasised the need for neighbours to ensure unhindered access of humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan. They also agreed that the neighbours must play a constructive role there,” sources said in comments that appeared to be aimed at Pakistan which has declined India’s request to send medical and wheat shipments as aid by road to Afghanistan. The U.N. had earlier warned that more than half the population of Afghanistan could face a crisis with food stocks running out. The comments come a week after Mr. Makhmudov was in Islamabad to establish a Joint Security Commission agreement with the Pakistan Government to strengthen strategic ties and connectivity. Deepening cooperation Tajikistan’s Secretary of the Security Council Nasrullo Rahmatjon also “highlighted the gravity of the situation in Afghanistan” from a “sharp increase” in terrorist threats during his meeting with Mr. Doval. Sources said both countries have a significant convergence of assessments on Afghanistan. Tajik President Emomali Rahmon has taken the toughest line amongst the Central Asian states on the Taliban for its “human rights violations” and the Government is believed to have hosted members of the anti-Taliban “National Resistance Front” led by Ahmed Masoud at various times in the past few months. Government sources privy to the conversation said Mr. Doval and Mr. Rahmatjon also spoke about deepening cooperation in areas like defence, border management and border infrastructure development. On Wednesday, Mr. Doval will host the plenary session of all the security chiefs attending the dialogue. In the afternoon, he will hold bilateral meetings with his counterparts from Russia, Iran and Kazakhstan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nsa-doval-meets-tajik-uzbek-counterparts/article37410023.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SKM takes its fight back to Parliament||One year after launching a mass protest against the three contentious farm reform laws, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha is taking its fight back to Parliament, with plans to hold daily tractor marches to Sansad Bhavan during the winter session. In a decision taken at a general body meeting of the SKM on Tuesday, farm unions said they would assert their right to protest within the national capital and send 500 selected volunteers in tractor trollies to Parliament every day from November 29 until the end of the session. They will move “peacefully and with full discipline,” it said. It said the move is to “increase the pressure manifold on this obstinate, insensitive, anti-people and pro-corporate BJP Central Government to force it to concede the demands for which farmers across the country have launched a historic struggle for one year”. The SKM’s protest on the outskirts of Delhi began on November 26. After two months camped on the city’s borders, farmers entered the capital with their tractors on Republic Day, with some groups clashing violently with police as they deviated from planned routes and headed towards the Red Fort and central Delhi. In July, during the monsoon session, the SKM was allowed to re-enter the city in groups of 200 farmers in buses heavily guarded by the police to hold a parallel Kisan Sansad just a kilometre away from the official proceedings. Govt.’s obstinance In the run-up to the first anniversary, several members of the SKM have expressed impatience with the Government’s intransigence, with popular Uttar Pradesh leader Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union giving an ultimatum that the agitation would be intensified if the demands were not met by November 26. Over the weekend, the Haryana unions met and decided to propose that the SKM either march to Parliament or gherao the Prime Minister’s residence to mark the occasion. Instead, the SKM has decided to mobilise farmers at the Delhi borders and State capitals for mahapanchayats on the day which is also observed as Constitution Day. The Centre says the three new laws, which have now been suspended from implementation by the Supreme Court, are essential to reform agricultural marketing and provide choices to farmers. Farmers’ demands Critics claim the laws will dilute the procurement of crops at minimum support prices and benefit large corporates to the detriment of small farmers. Apart from a full repeal of the laws, the SKM is demanding a legal guarantee of MSP for all farm produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/skm-takes-its-fight-back-to-parliament/article37409984.ece
10 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab AG Deol removed as Channi bows to Sidhu’s demand||Bowing to pressure from State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, the Punjab government led by Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday removed A.P.S. Deol as Advocate General. The move was a key pre-condition of Mr. Sidhu for resuming his duties as the Punjab Congress Committee chief, even as he withdrew his resignation last week. In an attempt to present a united face amid the ongoing crises in the party, Mr. Channi and Mr. Sidhu addressed a joint press conference in the State capital and announced that the resignation of Mr. Deol has been accepted among other Cabinet decisions. “Advocate General had resigned a few days ago. The Cabinet has accepted his (AG) resignation. We will send the resignation to the Governor and tomorrow we will appoint a new AG,” said Mr. Channi, after presiding over the Cabinet meeting. “As far as the appointment of new DGP is concerned, we have already forwarded the names to the Centre,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Sidhu, who had on September 28 quit from his post without assigning any reasons, had strong reservations over the appointments of Director General of Police Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, who was given additional charge as the DGP, and State’s Advocate General A.P.S. Deol. Mr. Sidhu, last week took back his resignation asserting that he would return to his duties the day the State got a new Advocate General and the DGP. The decision of removing the Advocate General is being seen as an attempt to placate Mr. Sidhu, who has been at attacking his own government on public platforms. Recently, Mr. Sidhu and Mr. Deol had exchanged sharp words. Mr. Deol in a statement had accused Mr. Sidhu of spreading misinformation for selfish political gain ahead of the Assembly election in Punjab. Mr. Sidhu had hit back at Mr. Deol, alleging that “earnest inaction” in the cases related to sacrilege and drugs was “subverting justice”. He added that a lawyer (Mr. Deol) who procured blanket protection for the police in the 2015 Kotkapura firing on a gathering of Sikh demonstrators did not have moral or ethical right to continue. Notably, Mr. Deol had represented former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in cases related to the 2015 police firing incident. In other decisions, the State Cabinet approved the Punjab State Sand and Gravel Mining Policy, 2021, to provide sand and gravel at Rs. 5.50 per cubic feet. Regularising the services of the employees working on contract, ad hoc, work charged, daily wages and temporary basis, the Cabinet approved ‘The Punjab Protection and Regularization of Contractual Employees Bill-2021’ to be introduced in the forthcoming session of the State Assembly. At the press conference, Mr. Sidhu congratulated the Chief Minister over the decision to fix the rate of sand-gravel. “...I have been saying this that the day the rates of sand are fixed, the ‘mafia’ will be finished. The State needs financial stability... the Chief Minister has climbed the first step today, history has been created as the rate of sand will be fixed, even though I want to take it much further, I want to make a stockyard. Everyone needs to understand that there is nothing called as sand mafia. It’s the transport mafia, if sand is transported from the government stockyard it can be checked and accounted for,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-ag-deol-removed-as-channi-bows-to-sidhus-demand/article37409960.ece
10 November 2021||SRINAGAR,||J&K hospitals get faulty ventilators||Jammu & Kashmir’s Health and Medical Education (H&ME) has found itself in the dock after details obtained under the Right to Information Act suggested that at least 165 “faulty” ventilators were supplied to the Union Territory’s hospitals last year with PM CARES fund. In a reply to an RTI application filed by activist Balvinder Singh, the department of the Anaesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine of the Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) Hospital has pointed out that 165 ventilators — 37 from the Bharat Ventilators, three from the Agva Ventilators and 125 from the Dhaman-III — were found to be faulty.  All machines from Bharat Ventilators were returned due to compressor and heat up problems, which resulted in their sudden shutdown, the department wrote in its reply. “These ventilators do not support patient care management.” It also pointed out that machines of the Agva Ventilators were “non-functional due to problems like display not working and problem in generating tidal volume”. Trial run of two ventilators out of 125 from Dhaman-III stationed at the DRDO Hospital, Khanmoh, Srinagar, found that the tidal volume had not generated required Flo2 and and thus could not be put to use for patient care. The ventilators stopped automatically, and put patients at risk, the Srinagar hospital pointed out. “Though officials of the H&ME Department in Jammu division also admit that the ventilators supplied to them are not of good quality and not functioning properly, they did not give exact details in response to my RTI query for reasons best known to them,” Mr. Singh said at a press conference in Jammu on Monday. He claimed that installation of these defective ventilators “could be one of the major reason for the high COVID-19 mortality rate in Jammu division as compared to Kashmir”. Meanwhile, sources said the H&ME department was likely to probe the procurement of these ventilators. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti termed the revelations a big scam. “The ventilators bought through the PM CARES fund are lying defunct in Srinagar. Nobody is answerable to the people,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-hospitals-get-faulty-ventilators/article37409981.ece
10 November 2021||Dona Paula,||‘GMC to forge solutions to key issues’||The Indian Navy is monitoring the Chinese Navy and its maritime assets deployed in the IOR, says Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh on the sidelines of the Goa Maritime Conclave. Excerpts:  The GMC has grown as a platform. In the backdrop of developments in the region, what is the focus of this edition and the forward? The aim of the conclave is to bring together a smaller group of navies in the immediate neighbourhood, look at the common challenges that we face and forge tangible solutions to key issues. We bring together practitioners and scholars to discuss these challenges. Thereafter, we have an exclusive session wherein the heads of navies will discuss one-on-one the way forward to these challenges. This year, the theme is ‘Maritime Security and Emerging Non Traditional Threats: The Case for Proactive Role for Indian Ocean Region Navies’. We will examine information-sharing, hydrographic cooperation, maritime law enforcement, training, opportunities in disaster response, crisis management etc. Each GMC is followed by a Goa Maritime Symposium (GMS). During the GMS, we follow up discussions that have happened during the GMC and work to bring them to fruition through an action plan that will be presented back again to the naval heads. And since we are a smaller grouping, it will be easier for us to do that. In addition to increased forays into the IOR (Indian Ocean Region), the PLA Navy now has a base in Djibouti and are building ships faster than anyone else. In this backdrop, how are you prioritising your modernisation as well as operational philosophy? As a Navy, we are monitoring the Chinese Navy and Chinese maritime assets that are deployed in the IOR, including Chinese research vessels to watch out for any activities inimical to our interests. It is true that the Chinese have a presence in the IOR. And whatever you said, bases and presence is a fact. What is the way forward for Quad as well the Malabar exercise, given the growing interest in the region? I think we need to differentiate between Malabar and the Quad. The former precedes the latter. It was in 1992 that we started Malabar with the U.S. Navy, and thereafter, it has grown over a period of time to include Japan and Australia. What we are achieving in Malabar is that we are continuously increasing the scope and complexity of the exercise so that we are able to seamlessly operate with each other. And if required, for any contingency or any challenge, we can easily come in a plug and play format and operate. As for the Quad, it is basically a Ministry of External Affairs’ (MEA) construct. India has signed all the foundational agreements with the U.S. and logistics support agreements with several countries, including Australia and Japan. How has the Navy benefited from these agreements? These are all important agreements that we’ve signed. When we sign these agreements, say LEMOA (Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement), and our ships are deployed off Guam, we are able to take fuel from their tankers. Or when we are operating off Australia, we will be able to take fuel from their tanker. The main thing that navies require is ‘Reach and Sustenance’. These are two very important principles on which any Navy operates. The agreements that we have, including the foundational agreements, have helped us in being able to achieve this ‘Reach and Sustenance’, which is very important for us. What were the top challenges during your tenure at the helm? Since the developments in Afghanistan, there have been apprehensions of possible smuggling of weapons via the sea route in addition to narcotics. What is your assessment? Narco-terrorism is a real threat that we envisage. There is a connection between drug trafficking and arms trafficking. Organisations like ISIS Khorasan depend a fair amount on the money that they make out of drugs. We have intelligence that indicates that there is a flow of drugs from the Makran coast, down to the East coast of Africa, from where it moves to the island nations, which are tourism dependent economies, and then to Sri Lanka and India and also across the world. This is a threat that we are aware of, and we have initiatives such as the Colombo Security Conclave, wherein we want to do certain Focused Operations with countries that are affected by challenges such as drug trafficking to put an end to this scourge. What is your assessment of the concept of Mission Based Deployments (MBD) that began five years back? Mission Based Deployments, which started in 2017, have been of significant utility to us. First, when ships are on regular deployment in key areas in the IOR, they increase their familiarity with the area of operation. We are also available for response in any situation... So that establishes our credibility and assures friendly nations that we are ready to assist anytime. Also, when we talk of our endeavour to be a Preferred Security Partner, we have to be around to come to assistance... MBD has actually transformed the Navy from a deployment ready Navy to a deployed Navy. The intention is to continue with this particular method of deployment.  (To read the full interview, log on to bit.ly/NavyChiefInterview)   The main thing that navies require is ‘Reach and Sustenance’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gmc-to-forge-solutions-to-key-issues/article37409964.ece
10 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘Chief Secretary should know Mizo’||Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga has asked the Centre to appoint a Chief Secretary with a working knowledge of the Mizo language as the Mizo people in general and his Cabinet Ministers do not know or are weak in Hindi. In a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah on October 29, the Chief Minister said the Ministry of Home Affairs appointed Renu Sharma as the State’s Chief Secretary when his Government wanted to promote Additional Chief Secretary J.C. Ramthanga to the post. Ms. Sharma assumed charge on November 1, succeeding Lalnunmawia Chuaungo, who took voluntary retirement. Unprecedented move “The Mizo people by and large generally do not understand Hindi. None of my Cabinet Ministers understands Hindi. Some of them even have a problem with English. With such a background, a Chief Secretary without the knowledge of a working standard Mizo language will never be effective and efficient,” Mr. Zoramthanga wrote. He said this was the reason why the Centre had never appointed a person who did not know Mizo as the State’s Chief Secretary earlier. “Whether it is the UPA (Congress-led United Progressive Alliance) Government or the NDA (BJP-led National Democratic Alliance Government at the Centre, this has been a practice since the creation of Mizoram State,” the Chief Minister wrote. Mr. Chuaungo had succeeded Arvind Ray, an IAS officer of the 1984 batch as the Chief Secretary. Whether or not Mr. Ray was familiar with the Mizo language could not be ascertained. It was a well-known fact that a Chief Secretary without the basic knowledge of the local language was never posted in other States in the country, Mr. Zoramthanga wrote and sought a Mizo in the post as a favour for his “loyalty” to the NDA. He said if his request was not accepted, the Opposition Congress would make a mockery of him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chief-secretary-should-know-mizo/article37409979.ece
10 November 2021||Patna,||Bihar BJP calls for rethink on prohibition after deaths||The prohibition laws which came into effect in Bihar in April 2016 have now caused a divide in the State BJP, a partner in the ruling coalition, after over a hundred people died from consuming spurious liquor — 90 of them this year alone. While one group of the State unit BJP leaders have demanded a serious review of theprohibitionlaws, another group has supported it. Cornered from all sides over the recurring hooch deaths, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has now called a high-level review of the prohibition policy on November 16. Mr. Kumar also said prohibition in the State was not his private concern but a public matter and people themselves should make it effective, adding that there were always some who indulge in “misdeeds”. In the last four days, over 40 people have died, and several others lost their vision in Gopalganj, West Champaran, Samastipur, Muzaffarpur, Siwan and Rohtas districts after consuming spurious liquor. The State’s BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal, who comes from West Champaran district where over 14 people died last week after consuming spurious liquor, said there was need for a serious review of the prohibition laws in the State. “I believe that this law has been enacted for about six years and the success and failures of it should be reconsidered,” Mr Jaiswal told presspersons. The State BJP president further said, “Police, liquor mafias and local administration nexus in the State has helped flourish the business of illegal liquor” and embarassed the Chief Minister and his Government. A group of State BJP leaders too supported Mr. Jaiswal and said “the time has come that the Government should rethink over prohibition laws in the State”. However, senior State BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi, who is said to be close to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, came out in support of prohibition in the State. “Since people have died by consuming spurious liquor, it does not mean that there will be an end to the prohibition in Bihar as the BJP was n favour of prohibition. The Nitish Kumar Government should take adequate steps to enforce prohibition more strictly in the State,” said Mr. Modi. After the recent hooch deaths, the local police in the affected districts arrested 568 people under new stringent prohibition laws. Ever since prohibition laws came into effect in April 2016, over 100 lakh litres of liquor — both Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and country made — and nearly 60,000 vehicles have been seized. Over four lakh arrests were made but only few hundred persons have been convicted. About 600 police and excise officials were suspended and dismissed for their connivance with the liquor mafia. “We’ll hold a review meeting on November 16 after Chhath and ensure that those involved in illegal or illicit trade of liquor are not spared,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-bjp-calls-for-rethink-on-prohibition-after-deaths/article37410190.ece
10 November 2021||New Delhi,||Padma Vibhushan goes to SPB||Legendary singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam was on Tuesday posthumously honoured with the Padma Vibhushan, the second highest civilian award of the country, at a ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi. Balasubrahmanyam’s son S.P. Charan received the award on his father’s behalf from President Ram Nath Kovind. Former Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan and the late Tarun Gogoi, former Chief Minister of Assam, were among the 118 prominent personalities who were given the Padma awards by the President at the Rashtrapati Bhavan here on Tuesday. Archaeologist B.B. Lal, who led an excavation at the Ram Janmabhoomi site in the mid-1970s, and Islamic scholar Maulana Wahiduddin Khan (posthumous) were also conferred the Padma Vibhushan. Veteran sculptor from Odisha Sudarshan Sahoo, renowned doctor and educationist from Karnataka Belle Monappa Hegde and U.S.-based scientist Narinder Singh Kapany (posthumous) were also given the Padma Vibhushan award at two Civil Investiture ceremonies. Japan’s longest-serving Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who was awarded with the Padma Vibhushan, was not present at the event to receive the award. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman were among those who were present on the occasion. Former principal secretary to PM Modi, Nripendra Misra, industrialist Rajnikant D. Shroff and former MP Tarlochan Singh were presented the Padma Bhushan for their contribution to public affairs and civil service. Former Gujarat chief minister Keshubhai Patel, former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan and Islamic scholar Syed Kalbe Sadiq were honoured with the Padma Bhushan posthumously. The award was received by their family members. Poet and playwright from Karnataka Chandrashekar Kambara and singer Chithra were also conferred the Padma Bhushan. Bharat Ratna, the country’s highest civilian award has not been given to anyone since 2019. 118 awards A total of seven individuals were given the Padma Vibhushan, 10 were given Padma Bhushan and 101 were given Padma Shri. Social worker from Assam Lakhimi Baruah; Jai Bhagwan Goyal, Hindi littérateur from Haryana’s Kurukshetra; Manganiyar folk singer from Rajasthan Lakha Khan; acclaimed Carnatic vocalist Bombay Jayashri; senior orthopaedic surgeon from Dehradun Bhupendra Kumar Singh Sanjay and noted Hindi professor and journalist from Srinagar Chaman Lal Sapru were among those who received the Padma Shri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/padma-vibhushan-goes-to-spb/article37410021.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||CPWD invites bids to build new PMO||The new Prime Minister’s Office, along with other facilities in an “executive enclave” on the south side of the South Block, was estimated to cost Rs. 1,171 crore and take two years to complete, according to the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) invitation for pre-qualification bids for the construction and maintenance project. The CPWD on Tuesday invited pre-qualification bids by November 24, making the executive enclave the latest of the Central Vista redevelopment projects to get under way. The enclave would house the PMO, a conference facility like the Hyderabad House called India House, the Cabinet Secretariat and the National Security Council (NSC) Secretariat. The buildings, with a plinth area of 87,915 square metres, would be constructed on the south of the South Block after demolishing the structures at the site, the bid document said. “The enclave will be designed to improve potency and functioning through carefully planned formation of different Departments with supporting facilities. This will ensure prime security and excellent interconnectivity within and with other offices. Relocating them will also ensure security protocols for VIPs and VVIPs without disturbing daily movement of the public in and around the Central Vista.” As proposed by the Centre’s consultant for the project, Ahmedabad-based HCP Design, Planning and Management, the PMO would be shifted from the South Block, which along with the North Block would be converted into national museums. The Prime Minister’s residence is also proposed to be shifted to a site near the Rashtrapati Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpwd-invites-bids-to-build-new-pmo/article37409816.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,||SC Collegium clears transfer of Madras HC CJ to Meghalaya||The Supreme Court collegium has recommended the transfer of Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee to the Meghalaya High Court. It also recommended the transfer of Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari from the Allahabad High Court to the Madras High Court. Resolutions for both the recommendations were passed by the Collegium on September 16 but were made public only on Tuesday. Chief Justice Banerjee, hailing from West Bengal, had assumed charge in the Madras High Court on January 4, 2021 and is due to retire from service on November 1, 2023. A similar recommendation made by the Supreme Court in 2019 to transfer the then Madras High Court Chief Justice Vijaya Kamlesh Tahilramani to the much smaller Meghalaya High Court had created a furore among the legal fraternity. When her plea for reconsideration was rejected, Justice Tahilramani chose to put in her papers. Justice Bhandari, who had been recommended to be transferred to the Madras High Court, hails from Rajasthan. He was transferred to the Allahabad High Court on March 15, 2019 and is due to retire from service on September 12, 2022. He is now the senior most judge of Allahabad High Court and had been its Acting Chief Justice too between June 26, 2021 and October 10, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-collegium-clears-transfer-of-madras-hc-cj-to-meghalaya/article37409817.ece
10 November 2021||Srinagar,||BSF, CRPF footprint to go up in Valley||Kashmir valley is all set to see the reinduction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in towns, increased footprint of the CRPF in the capital and scores of “surprise checkpoints” across the city to contain the growing targeted attacks on civilians by militants, especially on members of the minority community. The fresh security augmentation road map comes as the preliminary police investigation suggested that the Monday civilian killing of a salesman in Srinagar’s Bohri Kadal was “actually an attack on its Pandit owner who has been frequenting the shop”. J&K Lieutenant Governor on Monday chaired a security review meeting in Jammu. It was attended by all top officers of the multiple police wings and the CRPF. Sources said five additional CRPF companies, in addition to 25 companies (2,500 personnel) inducted earlier this month, would be deployed in Srinagar. Besides, 55 Central Armed Police Forces companies would also help man important installations. Sources said the process of reinduction of 25 BSF companies had started in towns in south Kashmir. This would be the first time since the 1990s that the BSF would be posted in towns to man installations and offices. The police have been asked to step up frisking of commuters and setting up surprise checkpoints in the city to break the movement of attackers. Police sources said checkpoints have been set up across the city that keep a vigil after the sundown at key points. Twelve civilians were killed by militants in the past two months. In the past 24 hours alone, militants killed a policeman and a salesman in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bsf-crpf-footprint-to-go-up-in-valley/article37409962.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Demand for portable oxygen cans on the rise in country||After oxygen cylinders, it’s everyday-use portable oxygen cans that are now witnessing brisk sales across the country, with escalating air pollution levels and increased travel and outdoor activities. It is also being used by those recovering from COVID-19. Sales of these portable oxygen cans, according to industry experts, have doubled post-Diwali, and going by the current trend they are expected to triple in the coming weeks. Delhi-NCR alone claims to bring in 65% of the sales, while Mumbai, Bengaluru and Pune also are witnessing a steady climb in demand for this product. This when medical doctors are not ready to give an all-clear for the product, stating that it can actually delay medical intervention and lead to a false sense of well-being. Spike post-Deepavali “Available for under Rs. 2,000 and sold as an over-the-counter product, these portable cans have seen an increased demand after Diwali. While sales have doubled recently, we are expecting the figure to further climb going by the trends,” said Alankar Saxena, co-founder and CEO, UCS Wellness, a company that makes portable cans. He added that the cans are safe for the older population, people with respiratory problems and fitness enthusiasts, and can be offered to children and pregnant women in consultation with doctors. “This is also used as a performance enhancer in most professional athletics competitions and is manufactured in a USFDA-registered manufacturing facility. Our portable oxygen can offers 900-950 inhalations and people can use a few puffs as required. Users just have to spray like a deodorant in front of the face and mouth and inhale it,” he said. Industry experts note that these portable oxygen cans are also being put to use while travelling, during outdoor sports and to combat the ill-effects of COVID-19. Not useful, say doctors However, doctors are not ready to give an all-clear for the product. “These cans are not useful and they should not be recommended,” said Dr. Mubasheer Ali, senior Internal Medicine consultant, Apollo TeleHealth. “Technically, a patient in need of oxygen will require at least 1 litre per minute. While these portable oxygen spray cans can have up to 12 litres of oxygen, they will last for about 10 minutes or even less. They shouldn’t be seen as a medical intervention.” Such products give only a wrong sense of security and may delay patients from seeking timely medical attention, Dr. Ali said. These oxygen spray cans will hardly help in times of acute respiratory failure. One requires a continuous, high flow of oxygen supply with a proper setting, he said. “These spray cans may only be used in areas with severe air pollution, for certain sports activities, high-altitude climbing and expeditions, mountaineering, sky expeditions etc. As oxygen supports combustion, storing these at homes is also hazardous. Use of oxygen at home has to be under the supervision of a medical doctor or a trained medical professional only,” he added. Recreational use Dr. Neetu Jain, senior consultant Pulmonology, PSRI Hospital, noted that oxygen cans are not meant for emergency use or for use by patients suffering from lung illnesses requiring oxygen. “These are meant for recreational oxygen use which is supposed to make you more alert and active, but there is no control on the amount of oxygen coming from cans. In short, these don’t work. They cannot cure hypoxia due to COVID-19 either. Relying on these oxygen cans for emergency use can even lead to loss of life. Oxygen can just have a placebo effect and is useful for only mountaineering. They are not really habit-forming, but there are no benefits.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/demand-for-portable-oxygen-cans-on-the-rise-in-country/article37409975.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||NHRC’s topic for debate raises a furore||The topic for the annual debate competition for the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), organised by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday, “are human rights a stumbling block in fighting evils like terrorism and Naxalism” succeeded in setting off a dialogue, with many activists and politicians questioning the choice of topic itself. The competition which, according to an official, has been going for the past 25 years, is co-hosted with one CAPF every year, but the topic of discussion is finalised by the NHRC. This year, the debate was co-hosted by the NHRC and the Assam Rifles, whose team won the “best team rolling trophy” after winning the final round, a statement from the NHRC said. Several Twitter users responded to the NHRC’s tweets about the competition with questions of their own. Activist and Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Polit Bureau member Kavita Krishnan said the NHRC would surely know that the Justice Upendra enquiry commission found Assam Rifles personnel gang-raped and killed Thangjam Manorama, a Manipuri woman, in 2004. “…For Assam Rifles to host a Human Rights event is a cruel joke!”, she stated. Responding to Ms. Krishnan’s tweet, senior advocate Indira Jaising said: “What do you expect from a man who organises a debate “are human rights a stumbling block on fighting evils like terrorism and Naxalism”. Rashtriya Janata Dal MP Manoj Kumar Jha remarked “what a shame”, citing the topic. The international director of the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, Sanjoy Hazarika, told The Hindu : “I really wish the topic had been framed in terms of upholding human rights in times of conflict and confrontation.” During the event, NHRC chairperson retired judge A.K. Mishra said the armed forces had protected the nation while facing stone-pelting and other attacks, but they “cannot adopt the same methods as these terrorists” in self-defence, the NHRC statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrcs-topic-for-debate-raises-a-furore/article37410028.ece
10 November 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata likely to take over Finance portfolio||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to take over the Finance department in a reshuffle of the Council of Ministers. And former Finance Minister Amit Mitra was on Tuesday appointed as Principal Chief Adviser to the Chief Minister and the Finance department. A notification issued by the government said Mr. Mitra shall be entitled to emoluments, allowances and perks as admissible to a Cabinet Minister. Over the past one year, Mr. Mitra, who held the Finance portfolio, has been largely working from home and he did not contest this year Assembly polls and the subsequent bypolls. The Chief Minister holds the key portfolios of Home and Hill Affairs, Health, Minority Affairs, Information and Cultural Affairs among others. While the government has not issued a formal notification about the reshuffle till Tuesday evening, sources in the government informed that no new Minister is likely to be been inducted in the Council of Ministers. Minister Pulak Roy, who holds Public Health Engineering, is likely to be given charge of the Panchayat department. Veteran TMC leader Subrata Mukherjee death on November 4 had resulted in the vacancy in the department. Senior TMC leader Manas Ranjan Bhuniya, who is in charge of Water Resources will be given the additional responsibility of Consumer Affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-likely-to-take-over-finance-portfolio/article37410195.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fire safety audit sought in children’s hospitals||National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) wrote to Chief Secretaries of all States and Union Territories on Tuesday asking for a fire safety audit of all medical facilities for children, in the wake of a fire accident at a Bhopal hospital that killed four infants. In a separate letter to Chief Secretary, Madhya Pradesh, Iqbal Singh Bains, the panel has demanded details of the last no-objection certificate and audit. It has also instructed that those children shifted out of Kamla Nehru Children’s Hospital be given special care in other hospitals. “NCPCR recommends that to prevent recurrence of fire incidents in hospitals, fire safety audits should be undertaken in all the hospitals/medical colleges/nursing homes having NICU (neo-natal intensive care unit), PICU (paediatric intensive care unit), SNCU (special newborn care units) and other medical facilities for children,” wrote its Chairperson, Priyank Kanoongo.  CM promises action Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday said the fire at the hospital in the State capital on Monday was a result of “criminal negligence”, and the guilty would not be spared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fire-safety-audit-sought-in-childrens-hospitals/article37409953.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Poll schedule for 12 MLC seats announced||Accordingly, notification for the election will be issued on November 16 and the last date of filing nominations for the elections would be November 23. Nominations for the elections would be scrutinized on November 24 and November 26 is the last date for withdrawal of nominations. The election for these seats would be held on December 10. The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi which won all the zilla parishads across the State and with a majority of the electorate, including mandal parishad territorial constituencies (MPTCs), zilla parishad territorial constituencies (ZPTCs), ward members and others, under its fold is set to retain all these seats. Lobbying Intense lobbying is already underway for securing tickets under the MLA quota and release of schedule for vacancies under the LAC quota is likely to increase it further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/poll-schedule-for-12-mlc-seats-announced/article37410299.ece
10 November 2021||Mumbai,||Fadnavis claims Malik has underworld links||As the political battle between the BJP and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) Government in Maharashtra continues, former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday claimed that Minister Nawab Malik has connections with the underworld as he purchased land from them during 2003 to 2005. “Solidus Investment is Nawab Malik’s company and land in Kurla was purchased from underworld criminals Sardar Shah Wali Khan and Mohd Salim Ishaq Patel during 2003 to 2005,” said Mr. Fadnavis. Sardar Shah Wali Khan is convicted in 2007 by a TADA court to life imprisonment in the 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts case. The Supreme Court confirmed the sentence in 2013. Ishaq Patel alias Salim Patel as he’s known is the front man of Haseena Parker. He was arrested in 2007 with Haseena Parkar in land grabbing and other fraud issues. Mr. Fadnavis said three acres were purchased at LBS road for only Rs. 20 lakh. “Why did you purchase land from criminals of Mumbai. In such a serious matter where the underworld and the blast convicts have connections with Minister Nawab Malik, I will submit the documents to appropriate agencies for further investigation,” he said. In response, the Minister said he will bring forth evidence of the former CM’s relations with the underworld and expose how officials were working with a don sitting in Dubai. “It seems the person providing information to Fadnavis is an amateur. The said land known as Goawala compound was built in 1984 where a residential co-operative housing society exists even today. When I was elected as an MLA first time in 1996, I had an office in the said compound. Fadnavis who became MLA in 1999 has not been briefed properly,” said Mr. Malik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fadnavis-claims-malik-has-underworld-links/article37409815.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Continue distribution of free foodgrains: activists||Given the continuing economic distress caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as rising inflation, the Centre must extend the distribution of free food grains under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, the Right to Food Campaign has said in a letter to Food Minister Piyush Goyal. The scheme, which was part of the initial COVID relief package announced in March 2020, has been extended several times. However, last week, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said there was no proposal to extend it beyond November 30, as the government felt the economic situation was reviving. The PMGKAY provides for 5 kg of rice or wheat per person per month to be distributed free of cost to the 80 crore beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act. “The pandemic still exists and the uncertainty over livelihoods remains with unemployment at record levels,” the letter said on Monday. “At a time like this, when foodgrain stocks are at a record high and people are facing the possibility of hunger and starvation, the government should universalise the public distribution system,” it added. Noting that the Food Corporation of India held 90 million tonnes of foodgrains, the Campaign argued that it was possible to extend PMGKAY for another six months and universalise the distribution of subsidised grain as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/continue-distribution-of-free-foodgrains-activists/article37409982.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Congress, BJP trade charges on Rafale||And in doing so, it has undermined national security, jeopardised the interests of the armed forces and caused a loss of Rs. 41,000 crore to the exchequer, he alleged. “The corruption can be tracked to PM Modi’s own doorstep,” he said. The evidence in this case, he added, had first came up on October 4, 2018, when two former Union Ministers of BJP — Arun Shourie and Yashwant Sinha — submitted a file to then CBI Director Alok Verma. On October 11 the Attorney General of Mauritius also sent documents about the middleman Sushen Gupta. However, at a press conference at the BJP headquarters, spokesperson Sambit Patra accused the Congress, especially Rahul Gandhi who has been alleging corruption in the purchase of the fighter aircraft by the Modi government, of spreading “canard, disinformation and lies”. Mr. Patra also sought Mr. Gandhi’s response to the fresh revelations by Mediapart, according to whose investigation, Dassault Aviation paid the kickbacks to the intermediary in Mauritius between 2007 and 2012 putting it in the time frame when the Congress-led UPA was in power. “The Mediapart story says that ‘corruption, influence-peddling and favouritism’ marked the deal during the UPA government,” he noted and said, “It will not be an exaggeration to say that the INC be renamed as ‘I Need Commission’. Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Robert Vadra , all say that I need commission,” Mr. Patra alleged. Mr. Khera alleged that instead of following the money trail, Mr. Verma was removed in middle of the night and a raid conducted at the CBI headquarters. “This was part of the concerted conspiracy to bury the Rafale ghost,” he said. Mr, Khera pointed out that on March 26, 2019, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raided Mr. Gupta in connection with another case. “Is it not correct that the ED recovered a horde of top secret Defence Ministry documents from Mr. Gupta,” he asked. “Why did the ED not pursue these evidences further to investigate the scam? Why did the Modi government then not take action against Dassault, the political executive or the defence ministry officers who leaked the documents? Which ‘Chowkidar’ sold India’s national secrets,” Mr. Khera asked. ‘Deal within deal’ The UPA government had a deal within every deal, Mr. Patra said. The Congress has in past said the allegations of corruption by the BJP against its ruling family and its members were driven by vendetta. Mr. Patra also said the alleged middleman Sushen Mohan Gupta, whose name has cropped up in the Rafale case, was also accused of pocketing commission in the purchase of VVIP choppers. “This is too much of a coincidence, and too much of a coincidence is always a conspiracy,“ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-bjp-trade-charges-on-rafale/article37409811.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||U.K. includes Covaxin to its list of vaccines||New Delhi had been demanding recognition of India-made vaccines with senior officials of the British government. As a result of the expansion of the list, the U.K. now recognises — Pfizer BioNTech, Oxford AstraZeneca (including India’s Covishield), Moderna and Janssen (Johnson and Johnson) and WHO EUL that includes Sinovac, Sinopharm Beijing and Covaxin. “Passengers who have been fully vaccinated and have received their vaccine certificate from one of over 135 approved countries and territories are not required to take a pre-departure test, day 8 test or self-isolate upon arrival. Instead, passengers will just need to pay for a lateral flow test to take before the end of their second day, post-arrival,” declared the announcement from the U.K. Government. With the latest move, the U.K. has cleared two of the India-made vaccines — Covishield by the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin. The move is aimed at simplifying travel rules and as a result, passengers from most (135 countries and territories) of the world will be able to travel to the United Kingdom (UK).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uk-includes-covaxin-to-its-list-of-vaccines/article37409954.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Why is MHA monitoring foreign funds for NGOs?’||Mr. Mehta said the people at the helm of these organisations should be known, and the MHA was best placed to do that. Identification of the recipients of foreign funds were known via the Aadhaar system - a precaution introduced by the statute itself. The amendments were introduced to prevent NGOs from acting as “middlemen” between foreign contributors and local, unregistered NGOs. “You cannot become a commission agent for just receiving and distributing foreign funds after retaining 20% of the funds for ‘administrative’ expenses. If you are so influential that you can successfully encourage people abroad to send money, then you can advise them that ‘here are 10 NGOs who are doing good work and you can send money to them directly’... You cannot act as a middleman,” Mr. Mehta argued. Senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, for the petitioners, said the act of an NGO to apportion the funds received from abroad to organisations working on the ground cannot be termed “commercial”. The law mandated that NGOs use foreign funds they received for the registered purposes or activities — social, educational, religious, cultural and economic — of their existence. Mr. Mehta said the amendments have been introduced to “strengthen the mechanism, enhance transparency and accountability”. It was noticed before the amendments came only a miniscule portion of the foreign funds were actually used by NGOs for their registered objectives. The amendments helped the government keep watch and ensure that NGOs were getting and spending foreign contributions for the “definite programmes” spelt out in their articles of association. Fund inflow The Solicitor General stated that the government earlier had no way of knowing about the inflow and outflow of foreign funds. The onus had been on NGOs to offer the government information about their foreign contributions. Justice Khanwilkar asked whether foreign funds received for one registered purpose, say educational, could be used for another registered objective of the NGO, say cultural or religious. The court asked whether using the money meant for one purpose for another, even though the latter objective was registered, would “dilute” the law. “NGOs engaged in educational activities like teaching of Sanskrit or Urdu may also fall within the ambit of ‘religious activity’,” Mr. Mehta explained. The court reserved the case for judgment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-is-mha-monitoring-foreign-funds-for-ngos/article37409955.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi to visit U.P. several times in next few weeks||Uttar Pradesh as always is expected to be the star turn in the next set of Assembly polls set for early 2022, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be visiting the State four times in the next month and a half alone to launch and inaugurate projects worth over Rs. 1 lakh crore in the State. On November 16, he will be dedicating the Gorakhpur-Poorvanchal expressway to the nation. Sources told The Hindu that an air force plane may land on the expressway to attest to the quality of the construction. He will also be laying the foundation stones for the newly commissioned Jhevar airport near Noida on November 25 as well. On November 19, Mr. Modi will be in Jhansi and he will participate in a programme related to the 193rd birth anniversary of the late Rani Laxmibai of Jhansi. A ground-breaking ceremony for a plant under Bharat Dynamics Limited, for the Jhansi “node” of the defence corridor, will also be done while Mr. Modi is there. For the inauguration of the completed Kashi Vishwanath Temple Corridor project, a prestigious project started by Mr. Modi in his own constituency of Varanasi, there are three tentative dates that have been put forward, all in December (10, 19 or 27). This clocking of air miles by Mr. Modi between Delhi and various towns of Uttar Pradesh is the setting of the stage for a high blitz campaign that has four vital components – the first being of developmental works and how much the State has gained in terms of investment by having a single party government in the State and at the Centre, the second, with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s visit to Kairana, has been the picking of communally sensitive issues, the third has been the micro-level meetings with individual communities of the non-Yadav OBC and non Jatav Dalit categories and all of this harnessed via the projection of a strong pantheon of leadership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-to-inaugurate-several-infrastructure-projects-in-up/article37409958.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||India, Pakistan to hold parallel meets on Afghanistan||New Delhi and Islamabad will hold two parallel tracks on Afghanistan this week — the two meetings sharpening the divide between India and Pakistan and their view of each other’s role in the region. On Wednesday, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval will meet his counterparts from Russia, Iran and five Central Asian states, including NSAs and State Security Chiefs from each of these countries for the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue. On Thursday, Pakistan’s special envoy on Afghanistan Mohammad Sadiq Khan will host a meeting of the “Extended Troika” made up of Russia, China, U.S. and Pakistan. For the first time, the Troika-Plus, as it is called, will also meet with Taliban acting Foreign Minister Amir Khan Muttaqi, who is visiting Islamabad for bilateral meetings. “I will be travelling to Europe and Asia starting today to discuss the way forward on Afghanistan with Allies and partners. The international community must act together to be effective,” tweeted U.S. Special Envoy Thomas West, as he began his tour on Monday. The meetings make it obvious that the U.S. and other major countries in the region, which include China, Iran, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, perceive their engagement with India and Pakistan on Afghanistan separately, but equally vital. Pakistan is seen as a necessary interlocutor with the Taliban leadership, and an important transit point of trade and connectivity from Afghanistan. As a result, China with CPEC and U.S. and Uzbekistan have all negotiated transit trade agreements with Islamabad; Turkmenistan sent a delegation to Kabul to discuss the TAPI gas pipeline, and Uzbekistan received the Taliban Deputy PM for a visit last month. India is seen as a powerful force in the region which must be engaged with, and kept onside for the difficult conversations on terrorism, drugs and migration, as well as a traditional bilateral partner to all the countries minus Pakistan. This explains why Russia has sent its Security Chief Gen Patrushev to Delhi while special envoy Zamir Kabulov has confirmed he will travel to Islamabad this week, Iran held a Foreign Ministers meeting including Pakistan, but not India, just a fortnight before attending the NSA meet in Delhi, most of the Central Asian security chiefs visiting Delhi have engaged Kabul and Islamabad in the past few months, and U.S. Special envoy Thomas West is on an extended trip to the region, where he will visit Islamabad, Delhi and Moscow. China declined the invitation to Delhi, citing “scheduling difficulties”, but said it was open to a bilateral discussion. The NSA meeting in Delhi is a pitch for India’s continuing role in regional security, even if its bilateral relations with Afghanistan are suspended for the moment. Officials briefing the media ahead of the Delhi meet laid out some of the differences between the two approaches. The NSA meet seeks to share common concerns on terrorism and extremist ideology, drugs and refugees emanating from Afghanistan, and the officials said that none of the countries involved are close to “legitimising” the Taliban. The countries participating also see Pakistan’s role in Kabul, where the ISI chief was seen attempting to negotiate between Taliban factions, as a part of the problem. Pakistan has consistently sought to include Taliban in discussions. By inviting the Taliban acting Foreign Minister to the meeting, it seeks to cut India out of the discussion on Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-pak-meetings-to-focus-on-afghanistan/article37409966.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Repertoire of ancient lore||The Purana and Itihasa stories contain the essence of the dharma sastras ordained for mankind by the Vedas, though they are likely to reflect diverse viewpoints. There may also be many unexplained factors regarding events and characters in these innumerable stories and the connection between them may span many births, yugas and even kalpas. The Devi Bhagavata Purana adopts the technique of dialogue sessions between Janamejaya and Vyasa to fill in the gaps in the narratives that give rise to doubts in many of us, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. Janamejaya is disturbed as he looks back at the life of his immediate ancestors. His questions to Vyasa try to probe the mysterious ways of the Lord’s avatars. If Krishna is the all Supreme Lord, why did He take avatar in jail? Why did He, who was the leader of Yadavas, go to Gokula? Why did He choose to be born in the womb of Devaki? Why was the venerable Vasudeva, His father, imprisoned by Kamsa when punishment in jail is reserved for only those who commit heinous crimes? He who is in full control of this entire jagat could have easily released his parents from the jail. Who were those six babies born before Krishna and killed by Kamsa? In the Ramayana, Valmiki makes use of Uttara kanda as a supplement to explain many issues that could not be incorporated as part of the story line. Hanuman is introduced in Kishkinta Kanda and brings about the friendship between Rama and Sugriva. He plays an important role in the Sundara and Yuddha kandas. But we come to know of his antecedents, his extraordinary prowess, valour, etc, only in Uttara Kanda. Hari Vamsa, likewise is an appendix to Mahabharata and in it are explained many aspects of Krishna avatar that are merely indicated and not clarified straight away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/repertoire-of-ancient-lore/article37409968.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Officials to be trained on disability issues||Union Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar on Tuesday released training modules for sensitisation of government functionaries regarding disability issues. The Minister said the modules developed by the Rehabilitation Council of India for six target groups would be used to train 10,000 government functionaries every year. The Department of Empowerment of PwD under the Ministry had sanctioned Rs. 762 lakh for the implementation, a Ministry statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/officials-to-be-trained-on-disability-issues/article37409961.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre moves SC on Delhi ration scheme||The Centre has moved the Supreme Court against a Delhi High Court decision clearing the way for the Delhi government’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao on Tuesday adjourned the hearing to November 12. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh of the High Court had said that the Delhi Government should first issue communication to each of the fair price shop holders, informing them of the particulars of the ration cardholders who have opted to receive their rations at their doorstep. “Only thereafter, the rations, to the extent that they are being supplied to such beneficiaries, need not be supplied to the fair price shop holders,” the Bench had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-moves-sc-on-delhi-ration-scheme/article37409956.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Legal service began during freedom fight’||Freedom fighters who battled the might of colonial powers were one of the first beneficiaries of India’s legal aid movement, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said on Tuesday. The Chief Justice was speaking on the occasion of the Legal Services Day celebrations. Chief Justice Ramana said that though the legal aid movement was formalised in 1995 through the Legal Services Authorities Act, its beginnings could be traced to the freedom struggle. “Several legal stalwarts used to offer their legal services pro-bono to our freedom fighters and fought against the might of colonial powers,” the CJI said in his address at the Sharda University in Noida.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/legal-service-began-during-freedom-fight/article37409978.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article37409813.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Hari Kumar to take over as Navy chief||Vice Admiral R. Hari Kumar, presently Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief (FOC-in-C) Western Naval Command, has been appointed as the next Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS). He will take over on November 30 when incumbent Admiral Karambir Singh retires from service. “The Government has appointed Vice Admiral R. Hari Kumar presently FOC-in-C Western Naval Command as the next CNS with effect from the afternoon of November 30, 2021,” a Defence Ministry statement said. Vice Admiral Kumar graduated from J-squadron, 61 Course National Defence Academy in December 1981 and was commissioned into the Executive Branch of the Navy on January 1, 1983. During a career spanning nearly 39 years, he has served in a variety of Command, Staff and Instructional appointments. Vice Admiral Kumar’s Sea Command includes Coast Guard Ship C-01, INS Nishank , Missile Corvette, INS Kora and Guided Missile Destroyer INS Ranvir . He also commanded aircraft carrier INS Viraat . He also served as Fleet Operations Officer of the Western Fleet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hari-kumar-to-take-over-as-navy-chief/article37410025.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Security must trump green concerns: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday wondered the extent to which it can intervene on environmental grounds when the defence of the nation is at stake. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud was hearing a plea against the environmental clearance given to widen the Char Dham roads by felling trees. The court referred to the recent skirmishes on the border with China. The court said it was facing a serious predicament when the government is citing defence needs for the widening of the feeder roads. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal said the roads need to be widened for transport of heavy military equipment like missile launchers and even tanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/security-must-trump-green-concerns-sc/article37410029.ece
10 November 2021||Mumbai,||Complaint against Kangana, sister dismissed||A magistrate court dismissed a private complaint seeking action against actor Kangana Ranaut in a case concerning derogatory statements on Tablighi Jamaat. On April 15, 2020, advocate Kashif Ali Khan Deshmukh filed a complaint stating that Ms. Ranaut’s sister Rangoli Chandel had put out a defamatory tweet against the Tablighi Jamaat. It said the actor supported her sister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/complaint-against-kangana-sister-dismissed/article37409970.ece
10 November 2021||New Delhi,||ED attaches Rs. 9.28-crore assets in coal theft case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs. 9.28 crore in connection with the alleged illegal mining and pilferage of coal in West Bengal, taking the value of total attachment so far to Rs. 181.14 crore. The properties are linked to “mastermind” Anup Majhi, Vinay Mishra and his brother Vikas Mishra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-rs-928-crore-assets-in-coal-theft-case/article37409976.ece
10 November 2021||New Delhi,||ED attaches Rs. 61.38-crore assets||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs. 61.38 crore in connection with the alleged siphoning of public funds from Bhushan Steel Limited (BSL), Bhushan Energy Limited (BEL) and others. The assets include agricultural land and the warehouses of entities under the control of erstwhile promoters of BSL. The ED probe is based on a complaint filed by the Serious Frauds Investigation Office under provisions of the Companies Act and the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-rs-6138-crore-assets/article37409977.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru/hyderabad,TAMIL NADU||Council polls in Karnataka, Telangana on December 10||Elections to 25 Legislative Council seats, whose term ends on January 5, 2022, will be held on December 10 and the results declared on December 14. The Election Commission on Tuesday announced the biennial election to the Council from 20 local authorities’ constituencies for 25 seats. The notification for the elections will be issued on November 16. November 23 will be the last date for filing nominations. The last date for withdrawal of candidature is November 26. The model code of conduct will come into effect immediately in the constituencies concerned. The elections are being seen as a big opportunity by the BJP to get a majority in the 75-member House, and comes after the bitterly contested byelections to Hangal and Sindgi Assembly constituencies. Composition Currently, the Upper House has 32 BJP members, 29 Congress members, and 12 Janata Dal (Secular) members, one Independent member, and the Chairman. Of the 25 members retiring from the House, the maximum are from the Congress (13), which wrested Hangal Assembly constituency from the BJP, followed by the BJP (6), JD(S) (5) members, and the Independent. The members whose term is coming to an end include Social Welfare Minister and House Leader Kota Srinivas Poojari, Deputy Chairman M.K. Pranesh, Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil, former Chairman K. Prathapachandra Shetty, senior Congress leader K.C. Kondaiah, Chief Whips of BJP, Congress, and JD(S) Mahantesh Kavatagimath, M. Narayanswamy, and Appaji Gowda, respectively. The tenure of Congress’s member Srinivas Mane also comes to an end on January 5. He has been elected to the Assembly in the bypoll from Hangal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/council-polls-in-karnataka-telangana-on-december-10/article37409989.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Intense rain likely in coastal districts on November 10, 11||The coastal parts of Tamil Nadu may have to prepare for another spell of intense rain. The low-pressure area, which formed on Monday, will intensify into a depression and trigger extremely heavy rain over parts of the State. The India Meteorological Department has issued a red alert in several coastal and adjoining districts, including Chennai, for Wednesday and Thursday. The low-pressure area is likely to become a depression over south-west and adjoining south-east Bay of Bengal by Wednesday. It may move west-northwestwards, reach near north Tamil Nadu coast in the early hours of November 11 and bring another spell of widespread rain in the State. The rain is expected to be extremely heavy in some parts. While rain will cover most places of the State till November 13, the IMD has forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall — up to 20.4 cm — at a few places on Wednesday in nearly 11 districts, including Chennai and its neighbouring districts, Madurai, Tenkasi and Perambalur. The weather system may trigger an extremely heavy rainfall of above 20.4 cm at one or two places in the Cauvery delta districts and Cuddalore, Villupuram, Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Puducherry and Karaikal. Heavy rain is possible in other districts like the Nilgiris and Vellore. Rain may gradually increase over north coastal and adjoining districts on Thursday as the system moves closer to the Tamil Nadu coast. Torrential rain is expected in Chennai and its surrounding districts and Villupuram and Tiruvannamalai districts on November 11. Ten other districts, including Salem, Dindigul and Ranipet, may get very heavy rain in a few areas. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said the weather models indicated that the system would intensify as depression. It was being monitored for its movement and strength. Some parts in Chennai may experience very heavy rain on Wednesday and extremely heavy rain by November 11. On Tuesday, Mamallapuram and Cheyyur in Chengalpattu district received 12 cm each and 10 other districts registered heavy rain at nearly 15 places. Karaikal recorded the heaviest of 16.3 cm between 8.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. on Tuesday. Nagapattinam recorded 15.2 cm and Thanjavur 7 cm. Nungambakkam in Chennai registered 1 cm. The IMD has issued a warning for fishermen as squally wind with speed reaching up to 65 km an hour may prevail along and off Tamil Nadu and south Andhra Pradesh coast. Water release from the Poondi reservoir, one of the city’s major sources of drinking water, was increased to 5,000 cusecs (cubic feet per second) at 10 a.m. as more inflow was expected from the Ammapalli dam in Andhra Pradesh. Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan and Minister for Milk and Dairy Development S.M. Nasar visited the reservoir. At present, the reservoir has storage of 2,712 million cubic feet (mcft) against the full capacity of 3,231 mcft. The discharge from the reservoirs in Red Hills and Chembarambakkam is kept at the same level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/intense-rain-likely-in-coastal-districts-today-and-tomorrow/article37410107.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. widens Mambalam Canal to drain water from T.Nagar||Greater Chennai Corporation has started widening Mambalam Canal following the flooding of T. Nagar. Work on Smart City projects along the canal has also been suspended to facilitate water flow. Over 1.5 sq. km. of T. Nagar, covering roads such as Bazulla Road, G. N. Chetty Road and Usman Road has been flooded because of the smart city work taken up along the canal. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi inspected the 5.7-km stretch of Mambalam Canal after the flooding of roads in T. Nagar. On Tuesday, earthmovers were used by the Chennai Corporation to widen the canal at various locations. Over 3.5-km of the canal does not have proper lining. Thousand Lights MLA Ezhilan Naganathan on Tuesday visited localities around Mambalam Canal and inspected the work of widening the canal. Work on development of the canal from Valluvar Kottam to G.N. Chetty Road under smart city funds was stopped to facilitate draining of water. Earthmovers were stationed at Thyagaraya Road to clean the canal a few metres away from the Pedestrian plaza. Residents in the area said water was knee-deep during the rain. On Tuesday, water receded in most places on arterial stretches like G.N. Chetty Road, Thyagaraya Road and Venkatnarayana Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-widens-mambalam-canal-to-drain-water-from-tnagar/article37410122.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Excess water in dams released||As heavy rain necessitated release of excess water from dams in Kanniyakumari, Collector M. Arvind and Information Technology Minister Mano Thangaraj visited the dams and areas on the banks of canals. The Thamirabharani river in the district is in spate after the dam water and rain entered it. The Minister and officials inspected Mangadu bridge, Vaikalur, Parakkani check dam and Pechiparai dam. “The district administration is fully geared up to face the situation and dams are continuously monitored. The revenue department is surveying the encroachments and will remove them,” said Mr. Mano Thangaraj. He said sand bags had been placed in Vaikalur as a temporary measure to prevent any breach. “There is a plan to construct a 600 metre wall at a cost of Rs. 10 crore. The proposal has been sent to the government,” he added. The inflow in the Pechiparai dam is 1468 cusecs. Another dam Perunchani receives 849 cusecs, Chittar-I receives 263 cusecs and Chittar II receives 210 cusecs. The storage at Pechiparai dam has reached 43.03 feet and the storage is 72.08 feet at Perunchani. All other dams have achieved full capacity. There is heavy flow of water in Thirparappu Falls and a warning has been issued to people on the banks of canals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surplus-water-in-dams-released/article37410415.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu to set up wildlife crime control bureau with four offices||A Tamil Nadu Forest and Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (TN FWCB) will be set up with four offices in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Ramanathapuram, according to an order by Supriya Sahu, Secretary, Environment and Forests. Forest and wildlife crimes not only adversely impact the diverse flora and fauna of a region, but seriously affect the entire ecosystem. Poaching and organised illegal wildlife trade have serious ramifications on biodiversity and can lead to the loss of rare species, threatening sustainable and equitable growth, according to a proposal sent by the Chief Wildlife Warden to the government. Tamil Nadu is one of the richest biodiversity regions in lndia, and ranks first in floral biodiversity in the country. With 15 wildlife sanctuaries, 15 bird sanctuaries, five tiger reserves, four elephant reserves, five national parks and three biosphere reserves, Tamil Nadu’s forest and wildlife wealth is unparalleled. To conserve the rich biodiversity of the State and prevent illegal forest and wildlife trade, the government had made an announcement in the Assembly on September 3 that a Forest and Wildlife Crime Control Bureau would be set up to detect and prevent organised forest and wildlife crimes at the State level. Its objectives will be to combat forest and wildlife crime through a well-designed institutional network of trained forest personnel; gather information related to wildlife crime and illegal trade, including trans-boundary trade, and to coordinate with various national and international organisations to access information and intelligence to reduce and control wildlife crime. Crime databank It will also create a State-level forest and wildlife crime databank to assist investigating agencies, develop and implement various standard operating protocols relating to forest and wildlife crime, create a cadre of well-trained officials from among the government departments, improve investigation quality for better appreciation of evidence, contributing to better investigation and control of illegal wildlife trade, and build informant networks among local communities that live in close proximity to forest and wildlife habitats The TN FWCB will also help understand the latest trends and patterns in wildlife crime, said Chief Wildlife Warden Shekhar Kumar Niraj. The bureau will use the required information technology practices and crime information, in conjunction with intelligence agencies such as the Customs, revenue intelligence, State police and other State forest departments, he said, emphasising that this would help adapt to tackling changing crime and criminal practices in the current context. The headquarters of the bureau will be at Chennai. The government has sanctioned funds for preparing a detailed project report to take this forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-to-set-up-wildlife-crime-control-bureau/article37410137.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Parts of Villivakkam still under water||With certain pockets of Villivakkam remaining inundated since Sunday morning, residents charged that Greater Chennai Corporation has not made enough efforts to drain the water. Localities that had ankle-deep to knee-deep water included the low-income neighbourhoods of Valliammal Nagar, Amman Kuttai and Balaramapuram. G. Karthikeyan, a resident of Valliammal Nagar, said that none of the officials visited the area and initiated measures to drain water until Tuesday. “We have not been asked to go to any shelters. Water has entered our houses. We are spending the nights by sitting on chairs. Some people are sleeping under the Padi flyover,” he said. N. Kamatchi, another resident, said public toilets that were used by the locals have been rendered useless because of the inundation. “There is no power in our area for the past three days,” she said. K.P. Nikhil Dev, a Villivakkam resident and a functionary of Democratic Youth Federation of India, who has been a volunteer for the relief work, said that GCC officials had ensured supply of cooked food in the locality. No relief measures yet “We are helping them in the distribution and there is no shortage of food. However, no measures have been taken to bring life back to normalcy. With more rain expected, the situation may worsen further,” he said. Acknowledging that there was inundation, an official from the Greater Chennai Corporation, said that pumps have been deployed on Tuesday to drain the water. He said that Tangedco officials were working to restore power connection in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parts-of-villivakkam-still-under-water/article37410133.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Relief centres open as water has not receded in many areas||Greater Chennai Corporation has opened 61 relief centres to help flood-affected residents in the city. On Tuesday, 1,300 residents were housed in the relief centres at nine locations in zones, including Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Anna Nagar and Ambattur. More than two lakh residents received food in the flood-affected localities. Most of the relief centres are located on the premises of corporation schools in areas such as Pulianthope, Ennore, Egmore, Mylapore, Nerkundram, Korattur, Ambattur, Choolaimedu, Pallikaranai and Perungudi. Some residents were seen vacating the relief centres in various parts of the city on Tuesday. Ambattur MLA Joseph Samuel said many residents have left the relief centres as the water has receded in their areas. “The officials continue to supply food for 16,000 residents daily in Ambattur zone. The relief centres will remain open to accommodate residents whenever they need assistance,” said Mr. Samuel. Four neighbourhoods Egmore MLA I. Paranthaman said residents of four neighbourhoods in Egmore have been accommodated in relief centres. “Blankets have been distributed to all residents. Food supply will continue,” said Mr. Paranthaman. Suresh Devaraj, a resident of Ayya Sami Street Pumping Station Slum near Egmore Court, said more than 250 residents of their neighbourhood were given accommodation in a relief centre on Pantheon Road. “We request the government to construct new houses for us. Our houses are constructed on top of a covered drain. My house is 5 feet by 2 feet, similar to the size of a toilet. We cannot even sleep in a proper position inside our house. During this rain, it is even more challenging as water level had risen two feet inside my house," said Mr. Devaraj. Muthu Veera, a resident, said many of his neighbours were relying on the food supplied in the Chennai Corporation shelter. "I earn Rs. 1000 every day. During this rainy season, I did not get my wages,” said Mr. Veera. Muniamma, another resident, said the Corporation conducted medical camps in the relief centre as a number of children and senior citizens were unwell.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-centres-open-as-water-has-not-receded-in-many-areas/article37410120.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Public transport operated in reduced numbers due to poor patronage||Public transport in the city was operated with limited strength taking into consideration the reduced footfalls due to heavy rain. However commuters reaching the city from far flung western localities of Tiruttani and Arakkonam, had a tough time, because of the fewer train services. The Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) has been operating reduced number of buses for the past two days. The MTC, which would normally operate nearly 3,250 buses on regular days, has been operating 2,200 to 2,500 buses in the past two days. A senior official said since Sunday around 2,200 to 2,500 buses are being operated because of the announcement of holidays for schools and colleges and poor commuter population on several routes. Buses are operated only based on the needs of particular routes. Similarly, Chennai division of the Southern Railway, which started truncated operation of train services from Monday evening, operated Sunday schedule of train services on Tuesday also citing water stagnation and poor patronage. The operation of reduced number of train services caused severe hardship to the working population travelling from the neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur and Vellore, as a large number of commuters depended on train services from Tiruttani and Arakkonam. Social activist A. Roy Rozario, in a representation sent to the Chennai Divisional Railway Manager, highlighted the hardships faced by hundreds of commuters from Arakkonam, Tiruttani and Tiruvallur. The Southern Railway on Tuesday has announced more stoppages for the fast line proceeding towards Arakkonam and Tiruttani effective from Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-transport-operated-in-reduced-numbers-due-to-poor-patronage/article37410129.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court pulls up Chennai Corporation for waterlogging||The Madras High Court on Tuesday warned the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) that it would take up a suo motu public interest litigation petition on Chennai residents’ travails due to waterlogging, if the situation did not improve by Friday or Saturday. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu broached the subject at the hearing of a case related to the GCC. The judges asked Kartika Ashok, counsel for the GCC, as to what the civic body had been doing in the last five years since the city was battered by floods in 2015. The Chief Justice said the GCC ought to have taken corrective measures and made sure that the city did not float during heavy rain. He said that, in all fairness, the city should not have been facing the situation that it was facing now with many localities remaining inundated. He also told Government Pleader P. Muthukumar that all channels should have been maintained well for the water to recede. “It is such a pity that half the year, we are longing for water and for the rest of the half, we are flooding or dying in water,” the Chief Justice lamented. He added: “We are not a backward State. We are the most advanced State on many parameters. This cannot be the state of a leading State in the country.” Justice Audikesavalu pitched in to say the encroachment of waterbodies and channels was the main reason for flooding. He said that even if the officials evicted encroachments, they cropped up again after some years. The judge pointed out that the court had come across cases in which even the government had been accused of encroaching upon waterbodies. The judges hoped that the situation in the city would improve soon and warned that otherwise, they would initiate suo motu proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-pulls-up-chennai-corpn-for-waterlogging/article37410108.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More than one-fourth of irrigation tanks are full||As many as 3,691 irrigation tanks, accounting for around 26% of the total in Tamil Nadu, are full. This indicates the impact of the northeast monsoon, which has accounted for about 37 cm of rainfall in the State since October 1. On the corresponding day last year, only 629 tanks were full. Compared with 14,144 irrigation tanks in 2020, the present tally of such waterbodies is 14,138. Of the tanks that are now having water to the brim, 555 are in Madurai district, followed by 333 in Tenkasi and 306 in Thanjavur. The fourth and fifth slots go to Kanniyakumari and Tiruvannamalai with 287 and 258 tanks respectively. There are 2,964 tanks whose storage is 76%-99% of their capacity; 2,498 tanks are in the range of 51% to 75%; and 2,505 tanks 26%-50%. While 2,066 tanks have the storage of 1% to 25%, the State still has 414 tanks that have no water. Last year, 4,337 tanks had nil storage, while 5,520 tanks had water up to 25%. The storage of 1,526 tanks exceeded one-fourth of their capacity, but only up to one half, while it varied from 51% to 70% in 952 tanks. Besides, 1,180 tanks had storage ranging from 71% to 99%. Kanniyakumari, which has the maximum number of irrigation tanks in the State with 2,040 tanks, still has 842 tanks whose storage is equivalent to 75% of their capacity or less. The number includes 11 tanks which have nil storage. Another southern district, Sivaganga, which stands second in the number of irrigation tanks, with 1,460, has largely been insulated from the impact of the monsoon. Only 75 tanks are full, while the storage of 215 tanks is in the range of 76% to 99%. The district has 798 tanks whose storage is less than 50% of their capacity. Madurai better placed Madurai, which comes third in the tally of tanks, is better placed than the other two southern districts. In addition to having the highest number of irrigation tanks with 100% storage, the district has 332 tanks whose storage fluctuates from 76% to 99%. As many as 158 tanks have the storage of 51% to 75%, whereas only 295 tanks have storage of 50% or less. The only other district, having a four-digit figure (1,131) of tanks, is Pudukottai where not a single tank has nil storage. In all, 184 tanks are full, whereas 263 tanks are in the slab of 76% to 99% and 252 tanks 51% to 75%.  Of the tanks that are now having water to the brim, 555 are in Madurai district, followed by 333 in Tenkasi and 306 in Thanjavur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-than-one-fourth-of-irrigation-tanks-are-full/article37410110.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 835 fresh cases and 12 fatalities||Another 835 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, taking the tally to 27,10,756. The State’s active caseload stood at 10,271. Chennai continued to top the table with 131 cases, followed by Coimbatore with 98. In Chengalpattu, 70 people tested positive. Erode saw 63 infections and Tiruppur 56. As many as 924 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 26,64,247. Twelve people succumbed to the infection (four in private hospitals and eight in government facilities), taking the toll to 36,238. Chennai recorded the most number of deaths at four. Coimbatore, Dindigul, Kancheepuram, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai, Salem, Thanjavur and Tiruvallur logged one fatality each. All of the deceased had co-morbidities. The youngest among the deceased was a 54-year-old man from Coimbatore who tested positive for COVID-19 on November 6. He had type-2 diabetes and severe hypertension, and was admitted a day earlier to a private hospital in Coimbatore with complaints of fever for three days. He died on November 8 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 1,02,380 people were tested for COVID-19, taking the total count to 5,21,35,829. Vaccine update A total of 1,22,233 people, including 74,836 people aged 18 to 44, were inoculated in the State on Tuesday. So far, 5,73,30,450 people have been vaccinated against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-835-fresh-cases-and-12-fatalities/article37410117.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Non-surgical intervention for congenital heart problem||Doctors at the Madras Medical Mission hospital have been carrying out a non-surgical procedure for sinus venosus defect, a rare congenital heart ailment, for the past four years. According to a release by the hospital, the condition, which often remained asymptomatic and undetected in early childhood, was conventionally treated through an open heart surgery that had significant morbidity. The recovery time was also longer. Though other methods of treatment evolved in the recent years in western countries, they were expensive and hence were not easily available in India, the release said. K. Sivakumar, head, Department of Paediatric Cardiology, MMM, said the team designed a non-surgical correction of this complex condition with covered stents and by making use of easily available clinical tools such as transesophageal echocardiography and balloon occlusion test. “The procedure requires hospitalisation for around 48 hours. Recently, a patient with sinus venosus defect, who was a high risk candidate due to morbid obesity, hypertension and metabolic disorder, recovered safely within 24 hours after the procedure,” Dr. Sivakumar said. Pointing out that the hospital had performed 43 such procedures for patients aged six to 70 years, Dr. Sivakumar said that research papers on this procedure were published in journals and the findings were also presented in international conferences.  Recently, a patient with sinus venosus defect, who was a high risk candidate due to morbid obesity, hypertension and metabolic disorder, recovered safely within 24 hours after the procedure||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/non-surgical-intervention-for-congenital-heart-problem/article37410135.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No transgender applied for vacancies in Madras High Court: Registrar||The Madras High Court closed a public interest litigation (PIL) petition on Tuesday, after it was informed that no transgender had applied for the posts of office assistant, ‘chobdar’ and others in the High Court administration, pursuant to a recruitment notification that it issued in March this year. First Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu took note of the submission, made by Registrar (Recruitment), that the notification had clarified that transgender persons would be entitled to apply for the vacancies for which applications had been invited. It was informed that the transgender candidates who do not possess community certificates would be considered under the quota for Most Backward Classes (MBCs). They were also provided the option of identifying themselves as male, female or third gender. Yet, no one applied. After recording the submission, the judges disposed of the present PIL petition without affecting the petitioner Grace Banu Ganesan's right to file another case, seeking reservation for the transgender persons in future appointments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-transgender-applied-for-vacancies-in-madras-high-court-registrar/article37410513.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Officials asked to ensure uninterrupted milk supply||Minister for Dairy Development S.M. Naser on Wednesday directed Aavin officials to ensure that the functioning of dairies in Sholinganallur and Ambattur, supplying milk to the city and suburbs, does not get affected in any manner. The Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers’ Federation, popularly known as Aavin, supplies 13.6 lakh litres of milk daily, of which 7.1 lakh litres is supplied to milk card holders. Speaking to presspersons after visiting Aavin’s Ambattur and Sholinganallur dairies, the Minister said senior officials were being stationed at these plants to make sure there was no disruption in processing or supply. All of the milk major’s parlours would have enough stocks of standardised milk, skimmed milk powder (SMP) and UHT milk which can be consumed without boiling. Aavin Managing Director K. S. Kandasamy, who accompanied the Minister, said that alternative routes were being charted for supply vehicles in case of flooding of roads and subways. Stocks of SMP and UHT milk would be kept at the zonal offices so that supplies can be quickly sent to places where there is requirement. “We are also in touch with officials of the district administration for supply of standardised milk, SMP and UHT milk in case of need at the rescue centres. When we supply the SMP we will be explaining as to how it should be mixed with hot water to make milk,” he said. Officials have been told to keep a close watch on Aavin’s 1800-425-3300 helpline for any calls about short supply. Private milk brands too are taking steps to ensure supply to regular customers and retailers. “In the past week, there is no major disruption in milk supply. We are managing to reach milk to customers. In certain pockets of north Chennai, there are issues but milk reaches customers after delay,” said an official with a private brand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-asked-to-ensure-uninterrupted-milk-supply/article37410124.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nandini Azad nominated to Working Group on Cooperatives||Nandini Azad, President and Representative of Indian Cooperative Network for Women (ICNW), has been formally nominated by the global board of the World Farmers’ Organisation to the prestigious ‘Working Group on Cooperatives’ as its global facilitator for a term of two years. First Indian She is the first Indian as well as first woman to be appointed to the assignment. The Working Group on Cooperatives is responsible for evolving a global policy on cooperatives in Agriculture and other allied sectors, and will engage with leading cooperatives from across the world. In a statement, the Indian Cooperative Network for Women/Working Women’s Forum (India) said they were privileged that a mass workers’ movement like theirs would be coordinating a global policy on cooperatives which would focus on gender equality in family farming. Previously, Dr Nandini Azad was the first woman to be elected to the International Raiffeisen Union in 50 years. She was also the first Indian to be elected as Chair, Asia-Pacific Women Committee for the ICA-Asia Pacific.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nandini-azad-nominated-to-working-group-on-cooperatives/article37410131.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Duraimurugan explains Tamil Nadu govt. stand||Days after Kerala’s Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran said neither his Chief Minister nor his office was aware of the permission granted to Tamil Nadu for cutting trees in the baby dam in Mullaperiyar, Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan wondered whether an official could grant such permission to another State without the knowledge of his government. “A media report published in Kerala has quoted a Forest Department official as saying that the permission was given only with the concurrence of the Minister. This involves the officials and Minister of that State and we do not want to interfere. But the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister wrote in goodwill to his Kerala counterpart, thanking him. Some people here intend to politicise any issue,” he said. The Minister also released a copy of the communication from the Kerala's Forest Department granting permission to fell 15 trees. At an interaction with reporters in the Secretariat, Mr. Duraimurugan sought to explain the circumstances that led to water release from the Mullaperiyar dam on October 29, contending that Tamil Nadu was only following the directions of the Supreme Court. ‘Rule curve followed’ “That day, the rule curve allows storing of water only at 138 feet. Since there was a surplus of 0.75 feet, we were forced to release water. So, water was released only in view of the rule curve which was issued recently. It is unlikely that conservatives are aware of this,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/duraimurugan-explains-tamil-nadu-govt-stand/article37410115.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘COVID-19 victims entitled to a minimum of Rs. 50,000’||The Madras High Court on Monday said the governments in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are obligated, as per Supreme Court orders, to pay a minimum of Rs. 50,000 each to the familes of over 36,000 people who had died so far due to COVID-19 in the State as well as the Union Territory. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu said the minimum amount was fixed by the Supreme Court under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The individual governments, however, would be free to pay much more than the minimum amount. The judges granted a week's time for the governments to disclose the amount of money that they would be willing to pay from the State Disaster Relief Fund. Grievance redressal mechanism The court also wanted a grievance redressal mechanism to be in place to address grievances of the claimants quickly. The interim orders were passed on a couple of public interest litigation petitions seeking adequate compensation to the COVID-19 victims. Counsel for one of the petitioners Kabilan Manoharan, insisted that the legal heirs or the next of the kith and kin of every person who had succumbed to COVID-19 must be paid Rs. 4 lakh each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-victims-entitled-to-a-minimum-of-rs-50000-hc/article37410263.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Concerns being raised over cows stranded on roads during the rain||Concerns are being raised over cows kept without shelter or proper care during the ongoing rain, particularly in the Triplicane area. Two days ago, a social media user said a calf was lying sick near the MRTS bridge on Dr. Besant Road. According to the user, while the person rearing it had abandoned the calf, the animal rescue services too were not of any help. When The Hindu visited the spot on Monday, cows were found on the road and on the banks of the canal without shelter. Similar scenes were witnessed in places in and around Triplicane. Vignesh, a resident of the area, said around five families were rearing cows in the area. “They have limited space. There must be around 50 cows, but only 10 or 15 get to be in the sheds erected by the families,” he said. A youngster from one of the families, who did not want to be quoted, said a calf was sick two days ago. “It was someone else’s male calf. So the owner probably did not bother to take care of it. Moreover, it was difficult to take it to a veterinarian during the rain,” he said. Saying that the cows are fed properly, as they are the families’ key source of income, he said it was not possible to erect shelters for all of them due to lack of space. “Our family has been rearing cows and selling milk for many generations. During the time of my grandfather, there was more vacant land that we could use. It is all gone now,” he said. Arun Prasanna, from People for Cattle in India, said the way in which these cows were being maintained was illegal. He urged the Greater Chennai Corporation to take action. “It is difficult for animal rights’ activists to intervene in this situation as we often face stiff resistance from owners,” he said. A senior official from the GCC said owners were issued warnings and imposed fines periodically for letting the cows roam freely on roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concerns-being-raised-over-cows-stranded-on-roads-during-the-rain/article37410553.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man drowns in ditch near railway tracks||A daily wage labourer from Korukkupet died on Sunday night after he fell into a ditch near the railway tracks along the Korrukkupet-Basin Bridge junction. An officer attached to the Government Railway Police said people living near the tracks alerted the police that a body was floating in the ditch. A team immediately rushed to the spot and found the body of a person aged around 40 in the ditch. Victim identified The police have identified the victim as Jayavelu of Meenambal Nagar. The family of the victim had given a man missing complaint after he did not return home for more than a day. The body was sent to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-drowns-in-ditch-near-railway-tracks/article37410118.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Air India observes Vigilance Awareness Week||The Vigilance department of Air India, Southern Region, observed Vigilance Awareness Week from October 26 to November 1, according to a directive from the Central Vigilance Commission. As part of it, several programmes were held on the theme ‘Independent India at 75: Self Reliance with Integrity’. A walkathon and debate for college students and painting competition for school students were also conducted. There was a guest lecture and quiz for their employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-india-observes-vigilance-awareness-week/article37410125.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin scuttling project: EPS||Leader of the Opposition Edapadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday accused Chief Minister M.K. Stalin of trying to stall the Smart City project in Chennai by making corruption charges. He charged Mr. Stalin with making a “defamatory statement” and said storm-water drainage was given importance under the project executed in many municipal corporations. He visited rain-affected areas in Kolathur, Harbour, Villivakkam and R.K. Nagar, with party colleagues D. Jayakumar and J.C.D. Prabhakar. Had precautionary measures been taken and coordinating officers posted, people would not have been affected; inundation could have been averted; and relief work could have been undertaken, he said. Pointing out that Mr. Stalin had served as Chennai Mayor and Local Administration Minister and Health Minister Ma Subramanian had also held the post of Chennai Mayor during 2006-11, Mr. Palaniswami wanted to know what they had done for mitigating inundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-scuttling-project-eps/article37410109.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Send Ministers to Kerala on Mullaperiyar’||AMMK general secretary, T.T.V. Dhinakaran, on Tuesday suggested that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin send a delegation of Ministers to Kerala for meeting Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and impressing upon him the need to bring to an end the neighbouring State’s “violations” on the Mullaperiyar issue. In a series of tweets, he criticised the Kerala government for the decision to freeze the move on felling of trees for the strengthening works of the “baby dam” and asked Mr. Stalin what action he was going to take. Mr. Dhinakaran also came down on the DMK government, accusing it of compelling farmers to take crop insurance by November 15, which was “unacceptable.” As there were practical difficulties and transplantation was not yet over during the Samba/Thaladi season, the government should not only extend the last date for enrolment under the crop insurance scheme but also simplify the procedures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/send-ministers-to-kerala-on-mullaperiyar/article37410139.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Security staff at temples to get training’||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P. K. Sekarbabu has said that training will be provided for security personnel, who will be appointed at temples in the State. A count on the number of security personnel required for each temple was being undertaken presently by the respective executive officers, he said. “Larger temples would need more men since they would have more sannidhis (sanctum sanctorums), more crowds and entrance / exits as well,” he said. The appointment of 10,000 security personnel for temples was an announcement made in the Assembly. With temples having hundials, gold ornaments and idols, security personnel are necessary for busy places of worship, he said. Sources said that only persons, who are physically fit and mentally sound would be chosen for the job.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-staff-at-temples-to-get-training/article37410235.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Body retrieved from Adyar||The Adyar Police recovered the body of an unidentified man floating on Adyar river on Tuesday. According to the police, following information from the public to the control room, a team led by Adyar Police Inspector Meenakshisundaram reached the spot at 12.30 p.m. and recovered the body which was stuck under the second pillar of Thiru.Vi.Ka. bridge, with the help of Fire and Rescue Services personnel. The body was sent to Government Royapettah Hospital for post-mortem. A case of unnatural death was registered.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpline 104 and Sneha's suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/body-retrieved/article37410130.ece
10 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tanks across Coimbatore district up to the brim||Coimbatore district received some respite from heavy rain with only an average rainfall of 5.08 mm recorded in the 24-hour period ending at 8 a.m. on Tuesday. However, the district administration said that almost all the tanks in the River Noyyal system have become full due to heavy inflow. As per the rainfall data from the district administration, the only two locations that recorded over 10 mm rainfall in the 24-hour period were Mettupalayam (17.2 mm) and Pollachi (13 mm). Valparai PAP and Valparai taluk rain gauge stations recorded only 1 mm rainfall each, Chinnakallar recorded 7 mm, Sholayar 6 mm, Aliyar 4.4 mm and Sulur recorded 1.5 mm rainfall. Coimbatore Corporation limits too received minimal rainfall during this period, with Airport recording no rainfall and Coimbatore South and Tamil Nadu Agricultural University recording 7 mm and 4 mm of rainfall respectively. As of 9 a.m. on Tuesday, all the major tanks in the Noyyal system are full to the brim except for Perur big tank and Neelambur tank, both recorded 95% water level. Regarding the water level in reservoirs as of Tuesday morning, the district administration said that Aliyar Reservoir had 118.85 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 120 feet. Similarly, water level at Sholayar was 160.05 feet (FRL 165 feet), Parambikulam Reservoir 70.99 feet (72 feet), Pilloor Reservoir 88 feet (100 feet) and Bhavanisagar Reservoir 103.28 feet against the FRL of 105 feet. Valankulam overflows With Valankulam tank reaching its 100% capacity, surplus water began overflowing from the channels on Trichy Road, causing waterlogging till Ramanathapuram Junction on Tuesday morning. Commuters waded through ankle-deep water on the road while several vehicles were caught in traffic snarls along the stretch. Corporation sources said the overflow was caused by blockages in the roadside channels and that the blockages were being removed using earth movers. In the afternoon, the Corporation placed sand bags near Valankulam and had opened its shutters to ensure that water flows from Valankulam to Ukkadam Big Tank, according to the sources. Public warned With tanks reaching full level and reservoirs filling up fast during the northeast monsoon, District Collector G.S. Sameeran requested the public to not visit any of the tanks or reservoirs for bathing or for recreational activities. Those living in flood-prone or low-lying areas must protect their documents using plastic covers and they should move to safer locations, he said in a release. During this monsoon season, the residents are advised to possess candles, essential items required for a week, medicines, milk powder and masks. Those seeking shelter in relief camps or seeking removal of debris/fallen trees in Coimbatore district shall contact the control room at 1077 or send messages via WhatsApp at 94899 46722. The public were also requested to download TN-SMART application in their smartphones to receive updates from the State government during rain, Mr. Sameeran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tanks-across-coimbatore-district-up-to-the-brim/article37410143.ece
10 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure hassle-free loans for education, MSME sector’||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) projects 8.88 % growth in credit outgo next financial year in Coimbatore district compared to the projection given for the current year. Collector G.S. Sameeran released here on Tuesday the potential linked credit plan for the district. The plan projects the credit potential to be Rs. 25,004.27 crore for 2022-23. The document is the basis on which the annual credit plan is finalised. The Collector advised the banks to ensure hassle-free loans for education, MSME sector and loans under various government schemes. He encouraged the bankers to promote entrepreneurs so that the district’s potential in the industrial sector was realised. C. Thirumala Rao, District Development Manager of NABARD, said the PLP projection was 10.10 % more than the annual credit plan target for 2021-22 which could be attributed to the national priorities of the Government of India to scale up lending to the various sectors of the economy. While the MSME sector was expected to get the major portion (42 %) of the credit with Rs. 10,573.33 crore, the agriculture sector was expected to get Rs. 9,118.88 crore, including Rs. 8,013.14 crore towards farm credit. The loans for the agriculture sector would cover crop production, maintenance, marketing, agriculture infrastructure, and ancillary activities. There was more stress on export credit and education loan, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-hassle-free-loans-for-education-msme-sector/article37410140.ece
10 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Stolen mobile phones recovered||Superintendent of Police, Tiruppur district, G. Shashank Sai on Tuesday handed over 41 mobile phones that were stolen in the past three months in various parts of the district to the respective owners. Worth around Rs. 5 lakh in total, the mobile phones were handed over at the District Police Office on Palladam Road. A release said Mr. Sai ordered the formation of a special team led by Additional SP-Cyber Crime Krishnasamy for the recovery of these phones across the district. The Cyber Crime police traced the mobile phones using the International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) number, according to the release. The SP said the public should report to the Cyber Crime police at the earliest if their mobile phones were stolen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stolen-mobile-phones-recovered/article37410145.ece
10 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Juvenile elephant dies during treatment||A juvenile male elephant, that was recently rescued by the Forest Department from a pit near Periyanaickenpalayam in Coimbatore district and was found to be sick, died early Tuesday during treatment. According to district forest officer T.K. Ashok Kumar, the elephant died around 3.30 a.m. on Tuesday on a private plot of land in the Periyanaickenpalayam forest range. Aged six to seven years, the animal was on Saturday found trapped in a pit close to the CRPF campus near Periyanaickenpalayam and lifted using an excavator by the Department. Having walked into the forest after the rescue, the animal was found lying on the private plot, unable to walk, on Monday morning. Thereafter, two veterinarians had commenced treatment. “It was moving its limbs slightly, but there were no sign of recovery,” Mr. Kumar said. There were no external injuries and the cause of death will be ascertained after an autopsy, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/juvenile-elephant-dies-during-treatment/article37410237.ece
10 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs plan protests against raw material price hike||The Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) here are looking at staging protests to draw the attention of the government towards the high raw material prices. “The prices keep fluctuating. Two days ago the prices of copper products went up Rs. 90 a kg and dropped by Rs. 10 or Rs. 15 after that. Can we change the prices of the products every day ? We are unable to quote a price for our products. There is a lot of uncertainty. We asked for appointment to meet the Ministers and have made several appeals. But there is no response from the government,” says M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of the Coimbatore District Small Industries Association. “If we give a quote to our buyers, the order will be finalised only after 10 days. When the order is finalised, if the prices drop, the MSME unit will benefit. If it goes up, the unit will suffer a loss. Those who participate in tenders also are unable to give bids. Similarly, units that have entered into contracts with buyers for a year are also suffering losses. We need a solution to the issue that is on for almost a year. Hence, the industry associations here are in talks to decide on the future course of action,” he added. Most of the MSMEs say there are no orders this month mainly because of the raw material prices, he said. The government should implement nil rate of import duty and allow import of raw materials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msmes-plan-protests-against-raw-material-price-hike/article37410259.ece
10 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Uninterrupted power supply will be ensured: Minister||Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji on Tuesday said that the State government has taken steps to ensure uninterrupted power supply in Chennai and other districts in the State during the monsoon season. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of an event to collect petitions from the public as part of the Makkal Sabai at Saravanampatti, he said that one lakh electric poles and other electrical equipment are available with Tangedco. A committee to monitor power supply has been formed in every district under the respective Collectors, he said. Coimbatore district administration is prepared to tackle heavy rain, Mr. Senthil Balaji said. As of Tuesday, over 27,000 petitions have been collected from the public in the district during the Makkal Sabai events, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uninterrupted-power-supply-will-be-ensured-minister/article37410242.ece
10 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for burglary||The Thudiyalur police on Tuesday arrested a man who was allegedly involved in several burglaries in Thudiyalur in Coimbatore district. The police said Udayakumar (30) was nabbed and gold jewellery weighing 34 sovereigns were recovered from him. He was remanded in judicial custody. Body found in Tiruppur The Tiruppur City Police on Tuesday found a decomposed body of a man with multiple stab injuries near Velampalayam. According to the police, the deceased is estimated to be between 25 and 30 years of age. His body was found on a private plot in Solipalayam on Tuesday morning. The deceased might have been murdered and the perpetrators might have placed the body on the land in Solipalayam about two weeks ago, according to the police. The Velampalayam police registered a case. Efforts to nab the accused are under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-burglary/article37410147.ece
10 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco issues safety guidelines||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has urged the public to be cautious during the north east monsoon season to avoid electrical accidents. It said in a press release that if there is a fallen electricity line, the public should not touch it. Similarly, they should not touch anything electrical with bare hands or feet. They should not use electrical gadgets or stand near open doors and windows when there is thunder or lightning. Electrical appliances should be switched off when not in use. If there is short circuit fault, the main power should be switched off. If the tree branches touching overhead lines should be cut, the electricity consumers should call up the Tangedco personnel, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-issues-safety-guidelines/article37410234.ece
10 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||District Collector G.S. Sameeran on Tuesday participated in the workshop organised by the Department of Social Welfare And Women Empowerment regarding the formulation of State policy for women at Karpagam Arts and Science College, a release said. D. Rathna, Director of Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department, presided over the workshop, according to the release.   Coimbatore Coimbatore City Ladies Circle 16 in association with Ladies Circle Switzerland recently inaugurated ‘Crimson Unit’ to manufacture sanitary napkins at Santhippom Welfare Society in Tiruppur. A release said that the unit was inaugurated virtually in the presence of National President of Ladies Circle India Swapna Rajesh. This was a part of ‘Project Crimson’ by Ladies Circle India, an endeavour to make sanitary hygiene affordable, according to the release.   Commissioner of Tiruppur Corporation Kranti Kumar Pati on Monday issued orders for a one-year internship programme under the Smart Cities Mission for 15 candidates. A release said that these candidates, who have completed their undergraduate courses, were chosen through virtual interviews to work for the Smart Cities Mission in Tiruppur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37410141.ece
10 November 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK has betrayed farmers on water issue’||Blaming the DMK government for the controversy over premature release of water from the Mullaperiyar reservoir, the AIADMK leaders demanded an explanation from the Tamil Nadu government. The AIADMK organised demonstrations in five southern districts - Theni, Dindigul, Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga on Tuesday. Theni MP O. P. Raveendranath Kumar pointed out that it was Jayalalithaa, who waged a legal battle in the Supreme Court and got a verdict favourable to the farmers. What was given up by the DMK under some pretext was restored by the AIADMK. The party would emerge victorious in Tamil Nadu once again and continue to be with the masses. Dindigul Former minister and MLA Dindigul C Srinivasan led the demonstration in Dindigul. He blamed the DMK government for permitting the Kerala government to release water. Southern districts, which had witnessed high crop coverage and better yield during the AIADMK regime, could not achieve the same as the DMK and the Kerala government had decided to bring down the storage level. The people were aware of the works done by the AIADMK. Water conservation became a reality in many southern districts after ‘kudimaramathu’ scheme. When this was the reality, the DMK government was attempting to foist false cases against former ministers. Such ways of silencing the AIADMK would be defeated, he declared. Ramanathapuram The AIADMK staged a demonstration at Aranmanai here. It was led by senior party leader Anwar Rajhaa. He said that the people would neither forgive the DMK for its act over the Mullaperiyar reservoir row nor forget the issue as it was a matter of livelihood. The farmers were happy when the AIADMK was in power. The former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa got back the rights of farmers and Tamil Nadu with sheer determination and grit in the apex court but the DMK government was destroying the benefits. Within six months of coming to power, the DMK had conveniently neglected the farmers and joined hands with the Kerala government, which was keen to bring down the water storage level as much as possible. The AIADMK would fight it out in the apex court as it amounted to contempt of court, speakers said. Sivaganga Leading the demonstration in Aranmanai Vasal in Sivaganga district, district secretary and MLA P. R. Senthilnathan, former minister G. Baskaran shouted slogans against the DMK government for letting down the farmers. There was already an apprehension among many people that dry pockets like Sivaganga would turn desert soon. However, the AIADMK would not allow it to happen, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-holds-protests-over-mullaperiyar-issue/article37410112.ece
10 November 2021||DINDIGUL/THENI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK holds protests over Mullaperiyar issue||Blaming the DMK Government for the controversy over the release of water from the Mullaperiyar dam by the Kerala Government in October-end, the AIADMK on Tuesday held demonstrations in five southern districts — Theni, Dindigul, Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga. A large number of functionaries and cadre took part in the protests, demanding a response from the DMK Government. In Cumbum, addressing a gathering, party coordinator O. Panneerselvam said when the AIADMK ruled the State, under the leadership of Amma [former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa], water was stored in the dam at 142 feet, as per the Supreme Court’s 2014 order. It was the DMK Government’s mistake in 2006 that resulted in farmers from Tamil Nadu losing their rights. He said the DMK had compromised the rights of the farmers again, and was more keen on keeping its ally [CPI-M], which rules Kerala, in good humour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-holds-protests-over-mullaperiyar-issue/article37410550.ece
10 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vehicular traffic resumes on Bargur ghat road||The movement of vehicles on Bargur ghat road, which was disrupted for 26 hours after boulders fell on the road at two spots on Monday, was restored on Tuesday evening. Due to rain in the last one month, huge boulders and trees fell on the ghat road at Neikarai disrupting vehicle movement. The national highway connects Anthiyur with Kollegal and Karnataka and vehicle movement to the 32 hamlets in the Bargur Hills was also disrupted. On Monday, only two-wheelers were allowed to use the stretch. By Tuesday evening, restoration works were completed and heavy vehicles were allowed on the stretch. Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy and District Revenue Officer P. Murugesan inspected the restoration works and discussed with officials on the steps needed to be taken to prevent such incidents. The Minister also inspected the Varattupallam Reservoir in Anthiyur Taluk. Anthiyur MLA A.G. Venkatachalam, Gobichettipalayam Revenue Divisional Officer Palanidevi, Anthiyur Tahsildar Vijayakumar, officials from the departments of Public Works, Highways and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vehicular-traffic-resumes-on-bargur-ghat-road/article37410255.ece
10 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Villagers stage protest demanding bridges across forest streams in Kadambur Hills||With villages cut off due to flash floods in forest streams on the Kadambur – Makkampalayam Road, students and villagers staged a road roko near Kadambur bus stand on Tuesday condemning the delay in construction of bridges across the streams in Kadambur Hills. Over 2,500 people live in Makkampalayam, Kovilur, Kurumbur, Arigiyam and Kombaithotti villages that are located about 22 km from Kadambur Hills. These villages come under Koothampalayam panchayat in Sathyamangalam Panchayat Union and can be reached through a mud road that passes through Guthiyalathur Reserve Forest in the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR). The road passes through two streams, Guthiyalathur Pallam and Sakkarai Pallam. During rainy season, flash floods are common in the streams. Construction of bridges across the streams has been a long-pending demand of the villagers. Following flash floods, bus service from Kadambur to Makkampalayam was suspended on Monday. Students and workers had to to reach their hamlets on foot from Kadambur. On Tuesday, over 200 persons staged a road roko at Kadambur demanding bridges across the stream and better road facility. “Officials said that the projects were sanctioned four years ago. But no work has begun so far,” the protesters said. Later, the police held talks with them and the protest was withdrawn at noon. Awaiting approval Sources in the Revenue Department said that administrative and technical sanctions were issued for construction of bridges at a total cost of Rs. 6.39 crore last year. However, due to escalating costs, the project cost was revised and has been sent for approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-stage-protest-demanding-bridges-across-forest-streams-in-kadambur-hills/article37410248.ece
10 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers asked to insure paddy crops by November 15||With November 15 the last date for insuring paddy crops under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme), farmers have been asked to utilise the opportunity and get relief for crop loss due to northeast monsoon, pest attack or disease outbreak in the current season. Documents needed Collector H. Krishnanunni in a release said that farmers can get paddy crops insured for a premium of Rs. 528 per acre. Farmers who wish to apply for insurance can visit commercial banks, cooperative societies and common service centres in their area and submit their land documents including chitta, adangal, seed sowing certification, photocopy of bank pass book and Aadhaar card, he added. The last date for registration is November 15. To avoid last-minute rush and to prevent applications from being left out, farmers should register at the earliest and pay the premium accordingly, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-asked-to-insure-paddy-crops-by-november-15/article37410256.ece
10 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||63 new COVID-19 cases in Erode||Erode district reported 63 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, which took the overall tally to 1,04,884. While 51 persons were discharged after recovery, the district has 763 active cases.  Salem reported 48 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 1,00,394. One person died, raising the toll to 1,689. Namakkal district reported 39 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/63-new-covid-19-cases-in-erode/article37410252.ece
10 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Bhavanisagar Dam stepped up||With the water level at Bhavanisagar Dam continuing to remain over 103 feet, against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 105 feet, discharge from the dam was increased to 10,000 cusecs on Tuesday. At 8 a.m. Tuesday, the inflow into the reservoir was 1,584 cusecs and the water level stood at 103.28 feet. The storage was 31.36 thousand million cubic feet (tmc) against the capacity of 32.80 tmc. Discharge was 8,500 cusecs into River Bhavani and 1,500 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal. Discharge into Kalingarayan Canal and Arakankottai-Thadapalli canals were stopped due to rain. Meanwhile, a flood alert has been sounded to people living on the banks of River Bhavani at Periya Kodiveri, Akkarai Kodiveri, Nanjai Puliyampatti and a few other villages. Tourists are banned from bathing at Kodiveri anicut in Gobichettipalayam taluk as there is heavy flow during the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharge-from-bhavanisagar-dam-stepped-up/article37410246.ece
10 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||In view of maintenance work at Thingalur sub-station , power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on November 11, in Thingalur, Grey Nagar, Kallakulam, Vettaiyankinaru, Pappampalayam, Mandiripalayam, Nallampatti, Suppaiyanpalayam, Thandacoundanpalayam, Mettur, Sukkakaranpalayam, Seenapuram West areas only, Dasampudur, Chellapampalayam, Veerachipalayam, Veeranampalayam, Karandipalayam, Thalayampalayam, Ponmudi, Naduvalasu, Ayicoundanpalayam, Kullampalayam, Netta Chellapalayam, Keezheri Palayam, Pattakaranpalayam, Nesavar Colony, Madathupalayam, Komaiyan Valasu, Velankadu, Manoorkadu and Mamutti Thoppu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37410257.ece
10 November 2021||GUNTUR,TAMIL NADU||A.P., Odisha to work closely to resolve water, border issues||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy called on his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik at Bhubaneswar on Tuesday. During the meeting, the two Chief Ministers discussed a number of issues of mutual interest, including sharing of water resources, common boundary, energy and Left-wing extremism. A joint statement said the two Chief Ministers had a very cordial and fruitful meeting on Tuesday. “Both States not only share borders but also a long and glorious history and heritage. At times of need, both States have extended full cooperation and assistance, a fact borne out during the natural disasters in the past,” said the joint statement. The two governments also decided to work closely on resolving the issues relating to jurisdiction of Kotia group of villages, Naredi Barrage, Janjhavati Reservoir, Polavaram, release of water for the Bhahuda river and mutual no objection certificate for the Balimela and Upper Sileru hydel projects. They resolved to extend support towards tackling the problem of Left-wing extremism and ganja cultivation. It was also decided to work towards setting up a Chair for Odia and Telugu languages in B.R. Ambedkar University, Srikakulam, and Berhampur University, respectively. They also agreed to appoint language teachers in schools in border districts of the two States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ap-odisha-to-work-closely-to-resolve-water-border-issues/article37409991.ece
10 November 2021||KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||Dalit youth’s death triggers a row in Kanniyakumari||The death of a Dalit youth has caused a controversy in Kanniyakumari after his relatives alleged foul play and refused to receive the body for the second day on Tuesday. The police insisted that the youth had ended his life, but his relatives maintained that he was killed because he was in a love with a caste Hindu girl. S. Sureshkumar, of Thovalai, was seen last on Monday in a garden near Kattuputhur, the native village of the girl. He was taken to a private hospital and then to the Government Medical College Hospital, Asaripallam, where he died. ‘He was attacked’ His relatives said the girl’s family did not approve of their relationship and lodged a complaint with the Boothapandi police station. While Sureshkumar’s family appeared for an inquiry, he did not turn up. When searched, he was found in an unconscious state. His brother Suman Ananath had said in a complaint that there were injuries in Sureshkumar’s neck and legs. “He was attacked and then forced to drink poison,” he said. “He was vexed because their love affair could not end in marriage. When his relatives suspected foul play, we decided to conduct the post-mortem in their presence. The post-mortem report says he has consumed poison,” said Kanniyakumari SP V. Badri Narayanan. He said the police would consider all the facts highlighted by Sureshkumar’s family while investigating the matter further. ( Assistance for those with suicidal tendency is available at the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 .)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dalit-youths-death-triggers-a-row-in-tn/article37410090.ece
10 November 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Monsoon preparedness: 35 vulnerable areas identified in Krishnagiri district||District Monitoring Officer and Secretary, Commercial Taxes and Registration, Beela Rajesh reviewed the preparedness in the wake of the northeast monsoon here in the district on Tuesday. A total of 35 vulnerable areas have been identified across the district and 47 relief centres have been set up. About 2,054 frontline workers are being deployed as part of the preparedness arrangements, according to the administration. In the event of evacuation of people from vulnerable areas, the evacuees will be put up in the relief centres. Reviewing the arrangements, Ms. Rajesh said the designated relief centres were fully equipped with facilities to provide food, drinking water and toilets. The district monitoring officer also ascertained the availability of sand bags to prevent breach of embankments along channels and rivers. Ms. Rajesh also inspected the community kitchens set up at Thimmapuram Government Higher Secondary School and Kaveripattinam Government Boys Higher Secondary School. She witnessed a drill conducted by the Fire and Rescue Services personnel at Avadhanapatty boat house. According to the administration, as of date, 70 drills have been conducted as part of the preparedness assessment for the monsoon. Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monsoon-preparedness-35-vulnerable-areas-identified-in-krishnagiri-district/article37410244.ece
10 November 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Students injured||Three students suffered minor injuries when a school van skidded off a dirt track and fell on its side at Athipadi panchayat in Uthangarai on Tuesday. The van belonged to Mother’s Matriculation school in Singarapettai. The police said that the van was crossing a swampy dirt track in Punganai village, when the driver Shankar (40) lost control and the vehicle skidded off the track and fell on its side. Three students suffered minor injuries and 12 others escaped unhurt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-injured/article37410245.ece
10 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK flays water release from Mullaperiyar dam||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam should show the sincerity of English engineer Col. Pennycuick with regard to the issue of Mullaperiyar dam, which is the lifeline for five southern districts, said former Minister Sellur K. Raju. After taking part in a massive protest against the Kerala Government and Tamil Nadu Government for premature release of water from the Mullaperiyar dam recently, he charged that the DMK had always been betraying the rights of Tamil Nadu. "It has not changed even after M.K. Stalin has become the Chief Minister," he said. While the previous AIADMK Government had got through a legal battle the right to increase water level up to 142 feet, water was released even before it could touch the permissible level. The DMK failed to condemn the Kerala Government for this act, he complained. "There is no precedence of a Minister of another State opening the sluice of a dam belonging to other State," the AIADMK Madurai urban district secretary said. He took a dig at Mr. Stalin for thanking his Kerala counterpart for giving permission to fell trees at the dam site to enable repair works. However, the very next day, the Kerala Government revoked the permission. The DMK cannot cheat the people of Tamil Nadu, he said. Former Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, who led a protest at T. Kallupatti, said that the Chief Minister should give a clarification on the premature water release issue. He should take immediate steps to store water in the dam upto 142 feet and also take efforts to increase the water level to 152 feet to protect the livelihood of farmers of five districts. Stating that the Kerala Government was bent upon decommissioning the Periyar dam and construct a new one, Mr. Udhayakumar said that the protest was only to stress that the DMK Government should thwart Kerala's attempt. Tirupparankundram MLA V.V. Rajan Chellappa led a protest in Melur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-flays-water-release-from-mullaperiyar-dam/article37410418.ece
10 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Most tanks filling fast: Minister||With continuous rainfall since Monday night and many areas getting drizzle throughout Tuesday, tanks in Madurai city and district were fast filling up, said Commercial Taxes and Registration Minister P. Moorthy. He was touring tanks and Sathiar dam accompanied by Collector S. Aneesh Shekhar. At Narayanapuram, the Minister said that the tanks were getting steady flow and encroachments had been removed in most waterbodies. Strengthening of bunds would be accorded top priority now. The district administration had already taken a series of measures to prevent any loss of lives due to the widespread rain. However, due to carelessness and negligence, in two incidents, there were loss of two lives. The government cannot be blamed, he clarified, when a reporter pointed out ‘nonchalant attitude’ had resulted in the death. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had given broad guidelines on the rescue and relief measures to be carried out. The official machinery was fully geared and all waterbodies were closely monitored round the clock, Mr Moorthy said and appealed to the residents to stay indoors as the IMD forecast showed heavy-to-very-heavy rainfall for the next 24 hours. The Collector visited the Uchapatti Sri Lankan Refugee camp, where the rains had fully damaged one dwelling and six others were partially damaged. He told reporters that over 450 dwellings were inside the camp. The occupants, whose houses were damaged, were shifted to the relief centre. As and when the rains receded, the authorities would assess the damage and provide relief as per the government guidelines. He said that over 1500 tanks were there in the district and majority among them had been getting water steadily. “We are prepared to face any challenges that may arise in the next two to three days...” Mr. Aneesh Shekar said and added that two companies of NDRF teams comprising 40 personnel were in Madurai. In the event of any eventualities, they would be moved. A press release issued late evening said that the Collector has declared a holiday for schools and colleges on November 10. In view of the covid-19 pandemic, the soorasamharam event at Sri Subramanian Swamy Temple at Thiruparankundram was performed by the priests and HR&CE officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/most-tanks-filling-fast-minister/article37410420.ece
10 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Advanced robotic telemedicine facility deployed at MMHRC||Meenakshi Mission Hospital & Research Centre (MMHRC) became the first healthcare institution in India to deploy advanced tele-health technology to mitigate pathogenic contamination. The hospital acquired 16 Teladoc Health Vita robots when the COVID-19 pandemic was raging and a close contact between doctors and patients was not advisable. According to the hospital chairman S. Gurushankar, who virtually briefed the media on Tuesday, the installation helped to examine 40,000 in and outpatients during the critical months when the hospital with 250 dedicated beds fell short of hands treating Coronavirus infection. Over 3,500 people who tested COVID-positive were admitted and the robots acted as an effective force multiplier for the hospital and improved the health outcomes, he said. “With remote monitoring, diagnosis and treatment of patients, we managed to prevent thousands of potential cases of cross-infection which could have occurred with face-to-face interaction between patients and doctors,” he added. The state-of-the-art self-driving robots were acquired from US-based Teladoc Health in August 2020 and were put to use by the year-end. The devices empower the doctors to treat patients from anywhere, anytime as the machines collect and process the data required for making clinical decisions, said senior vice president of the company, Shayan Vyas. While accessing the vital readings of a patient such as blood pressure and temperature, multiple doctors from different locations can also consult each other simultaneously. The machines are connected to Picture Archiving and Communication System (PACS) that enables doctors to get diagnostic reports for line of treatment. At MMHRC, the robots are integrated to function in the cathlabs, emergency, ICUs and isolation wards. During the pandemic it was particularly useful because it helped doctors examine patients without putting themselves at risk or using PPE. The device when kept near the patient zooms into the skin, eyes to record the vital signs and the doctors can access the data on their registered mobiles or computers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advanced-robotic-telemedicine-facility-deployed-at-mmhrc/article37410416.ece
10 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks report on plea to declare slender loris habitats a sanctuary||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the State to submit an action taken report on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to authorities to declare the habitats of slender loris (thevangu in Tamil) in the State a sanctuary or a reserve in order to protect the species. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan sought response in the petition filed by K. Pushpavanam of Madurai. The petitioner said that the slender loris habitats could be found in Kadavur hills in Karur district and Ayyalur forest in Dindigul district. These places should be identified as a sanctuary, he said. In a counter affidavit, the State submitted that to declare a sanctuary for the conservation of slender loris, preliminary data about the presence and population in Kadavur and Ayyalur was essential. In 2018, a census was conducted in the Ayyalur forest. The population status could not be studied and only the abundance of the species was noted. The work had to be taken up by a specialist. The State Action is being initiated to conduct a census of slender loris by specialists. Due to the nocturnal habitat and the arboreal nature of the animal, the exact number could not be determined. A detailed proposal for declaration of the reserved forest of Ayyalur and Kadavur range as slender loris wildlife sanctuary will be submitted after obtaining the details from all the survey sites with the help of forest staff, volunteers and members of non-governmental organisations, the State submitted. The court adjourned the case by four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-report-on-plea-to-declare-slender-loris-habitats-a-sanctuary/article37410218.ece
10 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks report on steps taken to prevent soil theft||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the Dindigul Collector to submit a status report to the court on a public interest litigation petition that complained of soil theft taking place in Periyammapatti village near Palani in Dindigul district. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan sought details of the vacant government land available in the village and the extent of soil theft that had taken place. The State submitted that a case was registered for soil theft. Taking note of the submission, the court directed the Collector to conduct an inquiry to find out the extent of soil theft. The court sought to know what steps were initiated so far to stop soil theft. What action would be taken to prevent soil theft, the judges asked and directed the authorities to expedite the investigation in the case. The judges also sought details of the present status of the soil theft case. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by P. Ashok Kumar of Palani. He complained that influential people were lifting soil from the village lands that were fit for cultivation and were using it for producing bricks. The petitioner said even after several complaints and representations were made to the authorities, no proper action had been initiated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/submit-report-on-steps-taken-to-prevent-soil-theft/article37410227.ece
10 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||8,230 kg of ration rice seized||The Madurai unit of the Civil Supplies – Criminal Investigation Department has seized 8,230 kg of ration rice, including 25 bags with the fair price shop seal. Four persons, including a salesman of a ration shop, Mohammed Jahir Ali, have been arrested. Acting upon an intelligence input, the Civil Supplies CID sleuths, raided a tin-sheeted godown at MMC Colony in Avaniyapuram on Monday night. They found ration rice worth Rs. 46,499. This included 23 gunny bags, each weighing 50 kg, with the official seal of the PDS. The bags were smuggled from a ration shop in Jaihindpuram. The sleuths also seized 1,500 kg of broken rice, worth Rs. 8,475. The team arrested a rice mill owner, Mariselvam, ration shop salesman, Jahir Ali and Selvakumar, who was temporarily employed by the salesman, and an assistant of Mariselvam, Manikandan. The sleuths are on the lookout for one more accused, Santhanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8230-kg-of-ration-rice-seized/article37410412.ece
10 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||YouTuber seeks bail||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday sought a counter affidavit from the State in a bail petition filed by Tiruchi-based ‘Sattai’ YouTuber A. Durai Murugan. He passed derogatory remarks against Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at a demonstration last month in Thuckalay in Kanniyakumari district. He was booked by Nagercoil police. Justice K. Murali Shankar adjourned the hearing till November 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youtuber-seeks-bail/article37410413.ece
10 November 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Suchindram temple cars to have raised platforms||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department is raising the platforms of the cars of the Thanumalayaswamy temple at Suchindram in Kanniyakumari district. “Laying and relaying of roads around the temple over the years have raised the level of streets and water stagnates in areas where the cars stand during the rainy season. As the stagnant water corrodes the iron wheels, we have decided to raise the platform,” said R. Gnanasekar, Joint-Commissioner of the department. This follows after Sekarbabu, Minister for HR &CE department, visited the temple in July when he advised officials to raise the level of the ground to safeguard the three cars of the temple. The project cost is Rs. 13 lakh. The department had decided to construct new sheds for the three cars. “We have calculated the project cost to be Rs. 63 lakh and sent it to the headquarters,” Mr Gnanasekar said. As per the new plan, the platforms of the cars would be raised by 20 cm. “Instead of laying concrete, we will create a sand bed on the area and pave dressed stone on it,” the commissioner said. The sheds will be created in such a way that devotees and tourists can have a view of the cars. “The plan is to fix 1.5 feet transparent sheets on all four sides of the sheds,” he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suchindram-temple-cars-to-have-raised-platforms/article37410543.ece
10 November 2021||PONDICHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Officials visit rain-hit farmlands in Puducherry||A team of officials from the Agriculture Department, led by Director Balagandhi visited rain-affected farmlands in Puducherry on Tuesday. The team visited paddy fields, banana and vegetable plantations in Uruvaiyur, Keezhagraharam, Aranganur, Seliamedu, Bahour, .P.S. Nellur, Madukarai, P.S. Palayam and Manalipet areas. Late planting According to an official, in certain areas where late planting was done, the paddy crop were affected. “Normally the water drains away. If it rains for a few more days continuously, the newly planted crops will suffer damage. As of now there is not much damage,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-visit-rain-hit-farmlands-in-puducherry/article37410507.ece
10 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Work on desilting waterbodies will start soon, says Lt. Governor||The government will soon restart the work on desilting waterbodies in the Union Territory, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has said. In response to an article titled “Kanakan lake in a shambles again” that appeared in The Hindu on Monday, the Lt. Governor tweeted that desilting of waterbodies are on the cards. “Two months ago, funds were allotted and desilting works started. Because of the pandemic and certain issues raised by local residents the works were stopped,” she tweeted. Thanking The Hindu for highlighting the subject, the Lt.Governor said she had a discussion with secretary of Public Works Department. “Discussed with PWD secretary and work will restart soon,” she tweeted further. The lake, which was once in bad state got rejuvenated after the former Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi and environmental activists came together two years ago to clean up waterbodies to increase their storage capacity as a measure towards recharging ground water. The lake was rejuvenated and even boats were introduced. But lack of maintenance in the last few months had put the lake into disuse again with waste getting accumulated. Even bunds of the lake started breaching at places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-desilting-waterbodies-will-start-soon-says-lt-governor/article37410504.ece
10 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Provide Rs. 5,000 to rain-affected people, Narayanasamy tells govt.||The Congress party has asked the government to provide Rs. 5,000 as rain relief to affected persons in Puducherry and Karaikal regions. In a virtual message released to the media on Monday night, former Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said the last 10 days of rain had affected the livelihood of residents in both the regions. People residing in low-lying areas had been severely affected. As a temporary relief, the affected persons should be given a sum of Rs. 5,000 and grocery items, he demanded. Attributing the floods to lack of preparedness by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy led-NDA government, the senior Congress leader said after the new establishment assumed office the Disaster Management Authority had become ineffective. The authority was not convened to make coordinated efforts to deal with floods during monsoon, Mr. Narayanasamy said, adding even control room was not set up to provide assistance to the people. “The Chief Minister is not concerned about anything. He has not even visited the affected places or given direction to the officials to survey inundated areas. In contrast, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and the Ministers are on the field to review the situation,” the former Chief Minister said. Touching upon the subject of local body polls, Mr. Narayanasamy reiterated his demand for an explanation from the Chief Minister on the circumstances which led him to sign the file prepared by the State Election Commission to hold the polls without providing reservation to Backward Classes and Scheduled Tribes. “The court has put on hold the elections but still the Chief Minister should explain to the people why he signed the file. The decision not to provide reservation for BC and ST in the polls was against social justice and constitutional rights of the communities,” he charged. He also requested the government to conduct a caste survey. The government should seek time from the court to conduct the polls after holding the survey, he said. CPI plea Meanwhile, the Puducherry unit of the Communist Party of India has also urged the government to provide relief to the rain- affected people. A resolution passed at the executive council meeting of the party here said the government was yet to distribute 2 kg of sugar and 10 kg of rice announced as Deepavali gift to the beneficiaries. The Chief Minister made the announcement before the festival but the beneficiaries are yet to receive the quantum of sugar and rice. Hardship to people The recent rains have caused hardship to the people and hence the government should immediately disburse the grocery items along with an assistance of Rs. 5,000, the resolution said. The government should also take immediate steps to repair all the roads damaged in the Union Territory. Effort should be made to relay the roads and not do patch-up work, CPI secretary A.M Saleem said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provide-rs-5000-to-rain-affected-people-narayanasamy-tells-govt/article37410502.ece
10 November 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Minister holds review meeting with labour dept. officials||Minister for Transport and Labour Chandira Priyanga has asked Labour Department officials to carry out periodic safety inspections at factories and commercial enterprises. Chairing a review meeting at her office in the Legislative Assembly, she stressed the need for coordination between inter-related departments and time-bound resolution of labour issues apart from ensuring safety compliance at factory units and commercial entities. The consultations also dwelt on enabling a fair work environment, implementation of labour welfare measures and ensuring protection of female workers. Labour Department officials, the Inspector of Factories and other officers participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-holds-review-meeting-with-labour-dept-officials/article37410510.ece
10 November 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Tamilisai Soundararajan to attend Governors’ meet in Delhi||Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan will be presenting the case for the immediate and short-term sectoral needs of the Union Territory of Puducherry at the conference of Governors and Lt. Governors scheduled at the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Thursday. Ms. Soundararajan has already left Puducherry for Telangana, where she is administrating as Governor, and will proceed for the conference from there, a spokesman for Raj Nivas said. President Ram Nath Kovind will be presiding over the 51st conference of Governors and Lieutenant Governors. This is the fourth such meeting to be presided by him. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah will also attend the conference. Ms. Soundararajan is also scheduled to participate in the Southern Zonal Council meeting to be held at Tirupati on November 14. The one-day conference, chaired by the Union Home Minister, will be attended by Chief Ministers of southern States, Lieutenant Governors of Puducherry and Andaman and Nicobar Islands and the Administrator of Lakshadweep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamilisai-soundararajan-to-attend-governors-meet-in-delhi/article37410508.ece
10 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||39 new cases detected in U.T.||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory on Tuesday as 39 new cases were detected from about 2,400 tests, against 42 recoveries. Puducherry logged 19 of the new cases, which were confirmed from 2,453 tests, followed by Karaikal (13), Yanam (4) and Mahe (3). The test positivity rate was 1.59%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.34%. The total active cases stood at 267 with 75 patients in hospitals and 192 in home isolation. The region-wise death count is: Puducherry (1,456), Karaikal (250), Yanam (108) and Mahe (48). The Union Territory has so far registered an aggregate of 1,28,263 cases against 1,26,134 patients recovered. Of an estimated 19.34 lakh tests carried out so far, over 16.36 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 1,281 persons took the jab against the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/zero-death-39-new-covid-19-cases-detected-in-union-territory/article37410222.ece
10 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Applications sought from students with disabilities||The Directorate of Social Welfare has sought applications from students with disabilities for various scholarship schemes. A press note said the Central Government had announced the schemes of scholarship “Pre matric, Post matric and Top class education for students with disabilities”. Students with disabilities having 40% and above are eligible to apply for this scholarship. Those who are studying from Class IX to post graduate in government and government-recognised institutions are requested to apply with valid documents through the website www.scholarships.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-sought-from-students-with-disabilities/article37410511.ece
10 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Schools remain closed in Puducherry, Karaikal||The government has declared holiday for all schools in Puducherry and Karaikal regions on Wednesday and Thursday. Joint Director, School Education Department, V.G. Sivagami said in an order that holiday has been declared for all schools in the region due to inclement weather.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-remain-closed-in-puducherry-karaikal/article37410505.ece
10 November 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Schemes reviewed||Schemes for persons with disabilities were reviewed by R. Lalvena, Secretary, Department of Welfare of Differently Abled Persons, here on Tuesday. The meeting organised at the District Collectorate was attended by Collector Kavitha Ramu and officials of all government departments. Speaking at the meeting, Mr. Lalvena asked the officials concerned to ensure that the welfare assistance given by the State government for persons with disabilities reached them. Schemes including provison of maintenance allowance, identity cards and monthly assistance were reviewed. Details regarding bank loan assistance, individual loan, loans for starting business and special grievances redressal camps for differently abled persons were also reviewed. Mr. Lalvena advised the officials to expedite steps on petitions given by persons with disabilities seeking patta, house, loans for starting business and others and distribute welfare assistance to them speedily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schemes-for-persons-with-disabilities-reviewed-in-pudukottai-district/article37410219.ece
10 November 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Minister visits rain-hit areas||Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat declared holiday for schools on Wednesday as the rain lashed the coastal district during the last 24 hours,. Meanwhile, Industry Minister Thangam Thennarasu who is now posted as the Monitoring Minister for the district, toured the rain hit areas in Rameswaram, Ramanathapuram municipal limits and the Big Tank. Speaking to reporters, he said all preventive measures had been taken. Apart from deploying personnel from the police and disaster management, volunteers and NGOs were engaged in assisting the official machinery. He admitted that roads leading to Rameswaram, an important pilgrim and tourist spot, were in a bad shape. He assured that after the rain stopped, basic amenities would be taken up in a phased manner. He said that top priority would be accorded now to save people from the rain and provide them with food and shelter. The district had lost two lives in the rain, 66 dwellings were partly damaged and seven fully damaged in the rain. Earlier, he held a review meeting with Collector Mr Shankar Lal Kumawat and a team explained various steps being taken to face the rain across the district. Ramanathapuram MP Nawaz Kani, MLAs Kadarbatcha Muthuramalingam and Murugesan, former ministers Sundararajan and Satyamoorthy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-visits-rain-hit-areas/article37410226.ece
10 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||People asked to stay away from River Cauvery||With 20,000 cusecs of water discharged from Stanley Reservoir in Mettur, District Collector S. Karmegam on Tuesday asked people to stay away from River Cauvery. He inspected Poolampatti village and Koneripatti barrage and reviewed the safety arrangements. Mettur dam level Mr. Karmegam told mediapersons that as per the guidelines of the State government and as a precautionary measure, water level at Mettur was maintained at 119 feet, against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 120 feet. He said that 23 low-lying areas in the district have been identified along the River Cauvery and officials in the rank of Deputy Collectors were monitoring the situation. He said that official teams comprising Revenue Divisional Officer, Tahsildar, officials from the Rural Development Department, Public Works Department and Town Panchayats were monitoring the river banks from Poolampatti to Thevur in the district. Mr. Karmegam requested people not to take selfies or photographs near the river and added that flood warning was issued to people through public address systems and tom-toms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-asked-to-stay-away-from-river-cauvery/article37410250.ece
10 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||4 policemen suspended||Four policemen who failed to initiate action against a massage centre were placed under suspension on Tuesday.  Tej Mandal (25) of Bengaluru was running a massage centre at Kumarasamipatti. Her body was found packed in a suitcase on October 15 and the Hasthampatti police registered a case. A special team of the city police found that the four personnel from the Hasthampatti Police Station had visited the centre frequently when the victim was alive. Call details recovered from the victim’s phone confirmed that they had interacted with her frequently. It was found that she was involved in flesh trade at the centre and the policemen, who were aware of it, were mere spectators. Based on inquiries, City Police Commissioner Najmal Hoda suspended Sub-Inspector Anandakumar, Special Sub-Inspectors Kalaiselvan and Sekar, and Head Constable Manikandan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-policemen-placed-under-suspension/article37410258.ece
10 November 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek disaster relief for damaged crops||Delta farmers have urged the government to come to their rescue by extending disaster relief as their samba and thaladi crops have submerged. Pointing out that the heavy downpour across the delta districts has resulted in waterlogging in agricultural fields, they say the chances of recovery of transplanted nurseries are remote in several areas. They have appealed to the State government to assess the damage and declare disaster relief similar to the financial assistance of Rs. 20,000 per hectare disbursed to farmers affected by the heavy downpour in January this year. In a memorandum submitted to the Thanjavur district administration, V. Muralidharan, secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, Papanasam Union, affiliated to the Communist Party of India (Marxist), has said the agriculture fields irrigated by Araiyapuram irrigation channel in Vangarampettai, Kuppaimedu, Perumangudi, Naththam Pannai areas remains inundated over the last few days. If allowed to remain under water, the five to 15 days nurseries raised and transplanted by availing loans from private parties by the farmers will definitely perish causing immense hardships to the cultivators. Similarly, a group of farmers led by Sethuraman, president, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Nalasangam, has submitted a memorandum to the Tiruvarur district administration seeking relief assistance to the samba and thaladi crops affected due to the recent incessant heavy rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-seek-disaster-relief-for-damaged-crops/article37410198.ece
10 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Widespread rain in southern districts||Widespread rain lashed Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Tuesday left many low-lying areas inundated. Collectors of Tirunelveli and Tenkasi district declared a holiday for schools and colleges. Overnight rain forced the residents to stay indoors throughout the day in Thoothukudi. Though the district administration declared a local holiday on account of ‘Soorasamharam,’ there was no public movement due to incessant rain. The rain forced civic authorities to focus on pumping water from low-lying areas, which were inundated. Residents in Bryant Nagar, Chidambara Nagar, Anna Nagar, Toovipuram, Kurinji Nagar, Rajiv Nagar, Muthammal Colony, SBI Colony, Lourdammalpuram and Rajagopal Nagar remained indoors due to the continuous drizzle and sharp showers throughout the day. “The rain started on Monday evening and continued till now,” said Samuel of Bryant Nagar. Corporation officials said water was being pumped out with giant motors in at least 15 locations. More and more calls were being attended to, they said. Agriculture Department officials said they would inspect areas to drain the water after the rain stopped. However, many farmers were distressed over the rainfall as they cannot drain the water from their fields. “If it rained non-stop, standing crops may be spoiled,” they added. According to PWD officials, the rainfall recorded in various places during the 24 hours was (in mm): Oddapidaram 90, Kovilpatti 53, Tiruchendur 41.2, Vedanatham 35, Thoothukudi 30.5, Kazhugumalai 30, Vilathikulam 28, Kayalpattinam 27, Ettayapuram 26.5, Srivaikundam 26, Kulasekarapattinam, Kadambur and Sattankulam 25 each, Kayathar 24, Maniyachi 23, Kadalkudi 20, Soorankudi 18 and Keezha Arasadi 12. Tenkasi Collector Gopala Sundararaj declared holiday for schools and colleges in Tenkasi district following widespread rain. Many residential areas were inundated and normal life was hit. Sivagiri recorded a rainfall of 82 mm, Gundar dam 48 mm and Shencottah 46 mm. Tirunelveli Collector V. Vishnu declared a holiday for schools on Tuesday in view of heavy rain since Monday night in many parts of the district. If the situation continued, all the educational institutions might be shut for another day, an official in the School Education Department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/widespread-rain-in-southern-districts/article37410546.ece
10 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||SPIC to supply 33,000 tonnes of urea in November||Out of the annual production of six lakh tonnes of urea at SPIC unit, Tamil Nadu received 60% of the total production, and in November alone the State would get 33,000 tonnes, said Collector K. Senthil Raj here on Tuesday. He visited the SPIC unit here to oversee the movement of fertilizer to different parts of the State and to other southern States by road and rail transport. He told reporters that farming operations were under way with the northeast monsoon having set in actively. The State government had taken a series of measures and one among them was keeping sufficient fertilizer stock at all designated dealer points including Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies. With 3000 tonnes being packed through automated machines, the fertilizer bags were being moved through rail and road transports. In the rabi season, Thoothukudi district witnessed 1.72 lakh hectares of crop coverage, out of which corn, millets and other produce were raised on 1.60 lakh hectares. The farmers along the Tamirabarani stretch raised paddy. The district required 12,500 tonnes of urea for the rabi season, he said and 5,000 tonnes would be allotted in November, he said. He said that Tamil Nadu got 33,000 tonnes of urea, 8,250 tonnes of DAP, and 9,610 tonnes of complex urea. He went around the facility with SPIC Director Ramakrishnan, GM Senthil Nayagam, Assistant Collector (Training) Sruthunjay Narayanan, Joint Director (Agriculture) Mohideen and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spic-to-supply-33000-tonnes-of-urea-in-november/article37410261.ece
10 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Low-lying areas still under knee-deep water in Tiruchi||Though the inflow in Koraiyar came down on Tuesday, several low-lying areas in the city continued to remain inundated for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. According to official sources, the flow in the Koraiyar, which went up to 5,000 cusecs on Monday evening, came down to 3,000 cusecs on Tuesday due to respite from the rain in and around Viralimalai in Pudukottai district and Manapparai and Marungapuri areas in Tiruchi district. The water realisation at Puthur weir came down substantially, thereby reducing the water flow in the Kudamuriti river as well. Nevertheless, low-lying areas, including Linga Nagar, Fathima Nagar, Aravind Nagar and Selvam Nagar, remained inundated with knee to waist-deep water as the water was not receding quickly. However, the level of inundation in M.M. Nagar and Shanmuga Nagar on the western banks of the Kudamuriti began to recede gradually. In some areas, local residents joined together to drain out water. But, several residents were yet to come out of the difficulty posed by waterlogging. “I went out to buy essentials on Monday by wading through four feet of water on the streets. It came down to knee to waist-deep water on Tuesday. What is causing concern is the mixing of sewage with water,” says M. Dharmaraj, a resident of M.M. Nagar. The residents of 5th Cross in M.M. Nagar, one of the affected areas of water inundation, were seen cleaning the ground floors of their houses on Tuesday. They spent the whole day bringing their houses to order. “We cannot compare the current situation with the 2005 flood. It took several days to recede. This time, the water has begun to recede within a day. But, we could not escape from the hardship this time too,” said P. Kamban, a resident of 5th Cross in M.M. Nagar. S. Boopathy, a retired Assistant Commissioner of Customs and a resident of Srinivasa Nagar, says the fear of stagnant water mixing with sewage haunts most of the residents in Srinivasa Nagar, Kumaran Nagar and Ammayapillai Nagar. The fresh spell of heavy rain on Tuesday complicated the efforts to drain out water using pump sets in the affected areas in the city. Collector S. Sivarasu, who visited various parts of the city for the second day on Tuesday, told The Hindu that the water flow had come down in Koraiyar. Based on the steps taken in the 2005 flood, he had initiated a number of steps to prevent flood in vulnerable areas. There was no cause for concern, he said. P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation, said water inundation in Shanmuga Nagar and M.M. Nagar had come down. Twenty-five pump sets and eight earthmovers had been engaged to pump out water from various residential colonies. Arrangements were made to distribute food packets to 2,500 affected residents in Krishna Puram, Gandhi Nagar, Colony, Dhobi Colony, Linga Nagar, Vinobhaji Nagar and Fathima Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/low-lying-areas-still-under-knee-deep-water-in-tiruchi/article37410205.ece
10 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Decks cleared for resumption of construction of road overbridge||The Ministry of Defence on Tuesday has granted ‘working permission’ to the State Highways Department for construction of the remaining portion of the incomplete road over bridge near the Railway Junction on a piece of its land in the city, ending years of stalemate over the issue. In a communication addressed to the Chief of the Army Staff and the Director General, Defence Estates, Sanjay Sharma, Under Secretary, Ministry of Defence, conveyed the sanction of grant of working permission by the President to the Highways on the Defence land measuring 0.663 acres in lieu of ‘equal value infrastructure’ (EVI). The Highways Department would be required to create the EVI in lieu of the land valued at about Rs. 8.45 crore. The Ministry has also laid out of a set of other terms and conditions for the transfer. Authorities in the Highways Department, district administration, elected representatives and activists heaved a collective sigh of relief as news of the grant of permission trickled down on Tuesday evening. Expressing happiness over the grant of permission, Tiruchi MP Su.Thirunavukkarasar pointed out that the project had been hanging fire for several years now. “I am happy to have fulfilled one of my important election promises,” he said recalling the efforts he had taken to get the land transferred. Sources in the Highways Department said that the next stage would be to finalise the modalities of the creation of EVI. The Department would call for fresh tenders to complete the bridge. The original contract for the project was terminated by the department due to the delay in getting the Defence land. A re-tender called by the Department earlier in December 2020 in anticipation of getting the land was cancelled subsequently. The remaining portion of the ROB would be completed within six months from the date of taking possession of the land, the sources said. Land acquisition issues had stalled the construction of the ROB for more than four years. The first stage of the bridge was scheduled to be completed by February 2017 and the second by 2019. Nearly 90% of the first stage of the project has been completed but for the Chennai arm of the bridge, which needs to be connected to a new approach road to be laid across the Defence land. The Chennai arm is the final segment of the first stage of the project. Despite several attempts to take up the issue with successive Defence Ministers and several rounds of talks between the State and Centre, stalemate had persisted over the land transfer. Only upon getting the piece of the Defence land that the first stage of the multi-level ROB, which is to be built in two stages, can be completed. After its completion, the old narrow bridge would be dismantled for the construction of second stage of project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decks-cleared-for-resumption-of-construction-of-road-overbridge/article37410221.ece
10 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Rural Police to deploy rescue teams for evacuation||The Tiruchi Rural Police have prepared a flood contingency plan in the wake of continued heavy rain in the district to rescue and evacuate people from inundated areas as and when the situation warranted and ensure free flow of vehicular movements by removing uprooted trees on roads. The law enforcers have identified several low-lying and vulnerables areas in the district and formed rescue teams comprising police personnel trained by the State Disaster Response Force. A total number of six rescue teams have been formed with one team deployed each in the five sub divisions : Tiruverumbur, Lalgudi, Jeeyapuram, Manapparai and Musiri. One rescue team has been stationed at the headquarters here. Each team comprises 10 police personnel and was equipped with necessary gadgets including walkie-talkie sets for receiving and conveying information speedily, searchlights, tree cutters among others. Every team has been provided with vehicles to reach the spots quickly as and when their services were required. The Deputy Superintendent of Police of the respective sub division would be in-charge of the rescue team which would carry out missions to evacuate people from low lying inundated areas as and when the situation warranted to safer places and removing uprooted trees on the roads to ensure free flow of vehicular movements. A total number of 141 low- lying and vulnerable areas have been identified all over the district which has been witnessing heavy rains over the past few days during the north-east monsoon season. In addition to the rescue teams, the police have also identified 130 swimmers and divers comprising police personnel as part of the contingency plan. The Deputy Superintendents of Police and the Inspectors of Police have been making visits to the tanks, channels and other water bodies time-to-time to ascertain the water level and the condition of the bunds. Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi P. Moorthy said personnel forming part of the rescue teams have been trained by the State Disaster Response Force to act speedily during emergency situations. The Tiruchi Rural Police, Mr. Moorthy said, have prepared a flood contingency plan under which 25 crime squads have been formed to keep a watch in those places where evacuation of people takes place and ensure that there were no criminal activities at those places taking advantage of the situation, Mr. Moorthy said. The Tiruchi Rural Police also have in their possession list of non-governmental organisations and voluntary organisations to seek their assistance whenever the situation arose. A list of ambulance services has also been compiled under the plan. Rescue teams by the police have been formed in Perambalur, Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Perambalur and Karur districts to carry out similar missions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-rural-police-to-deploy-rescue-teams-for-evacuation/article37410210.ece
10 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||200 acres of paddy crop submerged in Tiruchi||Paddy fields in some parts of Tiruchi district have been inundated due to widespread rain over the past few days. Almost all watercourses, including canals and supply channels, are brimming with water since Friday. The heavy flow of water continues in Koraiyar, Uyyakondan river and Kodingal vaical following torrential rain in catchment areas in several parts of Pudukottai, Tiruchi and Karur districts. Some parts of Tiruchi district are flooded. According to sources, a large tract of paddy fields in Anthanallur and Manikandam unions are submerged. The overflowing water in supply channels due to impact of heavy flow in the Koraiyar has entered the paddy crop raised in at least 50 acres in Manikandam on Allithurai-Manikandam Road. Though it does not pose immediate threat to the standing crop, as they are in the tender stage, anxious farmers worked overtime to drain out the excess water. “Paddy crop in patches are under rainwater for the last three days. The crop should not be under water for more than a week. Hence, we keep a close watch and drain out the excess water as quickly as possible,” says S. Karuppaiah, a farmer of Manikandam. Similarly, several acres of standing paddy crop in Pulivalam, Arasangudi, Pathalapettai and Kiliyur have also been submerged. According to Collector S. Sivarasu, who visited various places on Tuesday, a preliminary report estimated that paddy raised on about 200 acres has been inundated. Officials of the agriculture and revenue departments have been asked to survey the flood-hit agricultural fields. In most places, the samba crop is less than 30 days old and may not survive the inundation for more than two or three days, Agriculture Department sources indicate. The inundation comes at a time when the department was hoping an increase in area of coverage under paddy and other crops, including pulses and oilseeds, by at least 10% this year due to the widespread rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/200-acres-of-paddy-crop-submerged-in-tiruchi/article37410207.ece
10 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Crops submerged, holiday declared for schools and colleges as rain batters central region||Moderate to heavy rainfall continued in several parts of the central region, including the Cauvery delta districts, inundating crops and residential colonies in low-lying areas on Tuesday. In view of the continuing rain and the weather forecast, a holiday has been declared by the government for schools and colleges in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam districts in the delta on Wednesday and Thursday. Schools and colleges in Pudukottai, Ariyalur and Perambalur will remain closed on Wednesday, the district administrations have announced. Wednesday will be a holiday for schools in Tiruchi district. Several parts of Tiruchi and Pudukottai districts and the core delta districts of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam district received intermittent rainfall during the day. Muthupettai in Tiruvarur district recorded 94.4 mm of rainfall between 6 a.m. and 4 p.m. on Tuesday. Thiruthuraipoondi (84.8), Mannargudi (55), Needamangalam (37.8) and Tiruvarur (36) also received good rainfall in the district. Vedaranyam, Nagapattinam, Thalainayiru and Thirupoondi recorded heavy rainfall in Nagapattinam district on Tuesday. After spells of light drizzle in the morning, Tiruchi city received a sharp downpour in the afternoon. The sky remained heavily overcast right through the day and vehicles on highways had to ply with their headlights on due to poor visibility. With thousands of acres of samba and thaladi paddy crop being inundated across the delta already, farmers were keeping their fingers crossed. “Thanjavur district received moderate to heavy rain on Tuesday, leaving standing crops inundated in many places. With more rain being predicted over the next few days, farmers are apprehensive over possible crop damages. The Public Works Department authorities should maintain a close vigil to prevent any breaches on water courses. The last date for insuring the samba/thaladi crop should be extended till the month end. This should not be seen as a routine demand but as a necessity due to the inclement weather and the hardship faced by farmers,” said V.Jeevakumar, district president, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, Thanjavur. Ministers, monitoring officers and Collectors fanned out to the affected areas and reviewed the situation in the districts. S. Reghupathy, Minister for Law, reviewed the situation in Pudukottai district, while Siva V.Meyyanathan, Minister for Environment and Youth Welfare, inspected inundated paddy fields in Nagapattinam district and the work on repairs to the damaged road along the Harichandra river on Alangudi-Thalainayiru Road. With the low pressure area in the Bay of Bengal expected to bring in heavy rainfall on Wednesday as per the weather forecast of Indian Meteorological Department, the authorities in the districts are gearing up to tackle the situation. People have been advised to ensure the safe keep of important documents such as Aadhaar and ration cards and stock essential supplies Speaking to reporters, Tiruvarur Collector P. Gayathri Krishnan said that 118 excavators, 442 motor pumps, 699 power saws, over 27,000 sand bags and over 1 lakh gunny bags for plugging breaches, and five fibre boats for rescue operations had been kept ready.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crops-submerged-holiday-declared-for-schools-and-colleges-as-rain-batters-central-region/article37410199.ece
10 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||122 fresh positive cases, three fatalities in central districts||The central region on Tuesday reported 122 fresh cases of COVID-19. Three more persons, one each from Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts, succumbed to the viral infiection n the region, according to the bulleting issue by the Health Department. Tiruchi had the maximum number of fresh cases among the nine districts in the region with 36 persons testing positive for the virus. In Thanjavur, samples of 32 persons returned positive. Karur reported 15 cases, Tiruvarur 14 and Nagapattinam and Pudukottai nine cases each. The daily cases dropped to three in Mayiladuthurai. Perambalur and Ariyalur reported two cases each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/122-fresh-positive-cases-three-fatalities-in-central-districts/article37410203.ece
10 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IRCTC to operate special train for ‘Shirdi Yatra’ on December 1||Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation will operate a ‘Bharat Darshan’ special train ‘Shirdi Yatra’from Madurai on December1. The special tour will cover Pandharpur, Shirdi, Shani Shingnapur and Mantralayam. The package cost for the seven days tour is Rs. 7,060 per person, including GST, and the train journey will be in sleeper class. The tour has the following features: accommodation in non AC hall/dharmashalas; non-AC road transfers; south Indian vegetarian food; tour escort and security for each coach, travel insurance and provision of protection kit such as masks and sanitisers. The exclusive budget package can be availed by people residing in Tamil Nadu. The Tourism Information and Facilitation Centre in Tiruchi can be contacted for reservation and other details on 82879-31974, an IRCTC press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irctc-to-operate-special-train-for-shirdi-yatra-on-december-1/article37410215.ece
10 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Vaikunta Ekadasi’ festival at Srirangam temple||Vaikunta Ekadasi at Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam will be held from December 3 to 24. The main event of the 21-day annual festival is the opening of the paramapada vaasal in the early hours on December 14. The paramapada vaasal will be opened at 4.45 a.m. on December 14. The Thirumangai Mannan Vedupari event as part of the festival will be held on December 21 and Nammazhwar Moksham on December 24. Preliminary arrangements for the upcoming festival is under way, a press release of the temple Joint Commissioner/Executive Officer S. Marimuthu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaikunta-ekadasi-at-srirangam-temple-from-dec-3-24/article37410213.ece
10 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T, SRLDC ink MoU||The National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi, on Monday signed a memorandum of understanding with Southern Regional Load Despatch Centre (SRLDC), Bangalore, of the Power System Operation Corporation (POSOCO) for strengthening industry-academia interaction. The MoU was signed by Mini Shaji Thomas, Director, NIT-T, and J.Jerome Amirtharaj, Assistant Manager (HR), POSOCO, in the presence of S. Muthukumaran, Dean (Research and Consultancy), and other faculty members of NIT-T. The MoU would provide opportunities to faculty members and students to gain hands-on experience working in the area of power engineering, said Ms. Thomas. The broad objective was to encourage research on issues related to Indian power sector, design courses as part of industrial experience sharing, data sharing, joint research and development projects and joint publications of research papers between SRLDC and NITT based on an non-disclosure agreement and other activities. The MoU would be valid for three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nit-t-srldc-ink-mou/article37410209.ece
10 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bus plunges into field||A private bus lost control and plunged into a road-side agricultural field near Thiruppanandhal in neighbouring Thanjavur district on Tuesday. The conductor sustained a simple injury on his hand. Police sources said the bus was on its way to Ariyalur from Kumbakonam when the vehicle skidded off the road and plunged into the field. There were 10 passengers in the bus, said police sources. Thiruppanandal police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-plunges-into-field/article37410212.ece
10 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Motorcycle rider dies after hitting cow||In a freak accident, a 32-year-old man died after his two-wheeler hit a cow that was asleep on the road at Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district in the early hours on Tuesday. Police gave the name of the deceased as A. Manikandan who worked in a two-wheeler sales outlet. Police sources said Manikandan was driving the vehicle when he hit the animal. In the impact, he was thrown out of the vehicle and died on the spot. Kumbakonam Traffic Investigation Unit is probing the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/motorcycle-rider-dies-after-hitting-cow/article37410214.ece
10 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Consultation on impact of climate change in the Nilgiris held||A consultation on the ‘Impact of Climate Change in the Nilgiris’ was organised by the Human Rights Law Network (HRLN) here recently. The event was attended by lawyers, activists, community based organisations as well as other stakeholders who are at the forefront of conserving and restoring the Nilgiris ecosystem, a release from the organisers said. Arun Kasi from the HRLN said Mac Mohan from Save Coimbatore Wetlands, N. Mohanraj, a Nilgiris-based conservationist, Godwin Vasanth Bosco, a restoration ecologist from “Upstream Ecology”, J.R. Mani and Northay Kuttan, two tribal residents of the Nilgiris, and Dr. Raees Muhammad, from the Aathi Thamilar Thoilalargal Peravai attended the event. They spoke on the impact of climate change on wetlands, its impact on rainfall and water resources, the role played by urbanisation and tourism in climate change as well as other issues including food security and agriculture. The organisers said the 5,520 sq.km. Nilgiris Biosphere Reserve – a biodiversity hotspot, was mostly preserved until around two centuries ago, when colonial settlers first managed to set foot into the district. Ever since then, large-scale destruction of native habitats had accelerated, leading to a highly-disturbed habitat facing several serious threats. “Shola forests and grasslands have evolved to lock-in moisture and release it slowly, ensuring that the major rivers such as the Moyar and Bhavani continue to flow even during the summer. To conserve and restore ecosystems, it is important to understand the complex but fascinating connections around them,” the release said. The HRLN said iconic wildlife such as the Nilgiri tahr, the State animal, was at risk of extinction due to habitat loss that could result from climate change. The HRLN would be consolidating a list of issues related to the impacts of climate change in the Nilgiris and legal strategies that could be undertaken to find solutions to the issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/consultation-on-impact-of-climate-change-in-the-nilgiris-held/article37410150.ece
10 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||42 zonal teams formed in the Nilgiris||With moderate to heavy rainfall expected in the Nilgiris till the weekend, the district administration has formed 42 zonal teams to monitor the rainfall and respond to any emergencies that may arise. The district administration stated that 283 places had been identified as being prone to landslips and tree falls and the teams would focus their relief efforts on these areas, officials said. A total of 456 relief shelters have been kept ready across the Nilgiris. Residents can report damage caused by rain to the toll-free number 1077, or 0423-2445577 (Ooty), 0423-2206002 (Coonoor), 04262-261295 (Gudalur), 04266-271718 (Kotagiri), 0423-2508123 (Kundah) and 04262-220734 (Pandalur).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/42-zonal-teams-formed-in-the-nilgiris/article37410149.ece
10 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||As rain stops, normality returns to Vellore and nearby districts||With the rain relenting, life returned to normal in Vellore and surrounding districts on Tuesday. Schools and colleges reopened and civic works including desilting of stormwater drains, relaying of damaged stretches, water pipelines and removal of garbage were taken up in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts. At present, 5,802 schools have been functioning in the four districts. A total of more than 10 lakh students are enrolled in these schools. Around 80% of students returned to classes on Tuesday. Some schools organised a welcome function for students, especially lower classes, as they were returning after Deepavali holidays. “Streets where schools are located were levelled to ensure safety of students. Likewise, other civic works were also undertaken in the district,” Vellore Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian told The Hindu . Within the limits of Vellore Corporation, Mr. Pandian inspected several areas including Old Town, Sarathy Mansion area, Green Circle, Officers' Lane and Sathuvachari that were affected by rain. Of the total 101 lakes, 53 lakes reached full capacity in the district on Tuesday. Along with Ranipet Collector, D. Bhaskara Pandian, Mr. Pandian also inspected several low-lying areas along the Palar river including Poonai anaicut on Monday to relocate residents to safer places. A total of 74 temporary shelters have been set up in these two districts to accommodate rain-affected families. At present, only 33 persons, mainly from Ranipet, were in these shelters. A total of 139 houses were damaged in these districts. At 7 p.m on Tuesday, 9,426 cusecs of water was released from Palar anaicut in Ranipet district. Girivalam festival With the girivalam festival on, Tiruvannmalai has been allowing limited visitors owing to COVID-19 restrictions. From Wednesday, bus termini at Chengam Road, Kanchi Road and Thirukoil Road will be in operation. The district administration is also desilting major water channels that connect the town's biggest lakes. District Collector B. Murugesh inspected these works on Tuesday. The major river, Palar, and its tributaries including Koundinya, Malattar, Ponnaiyur, Agaram Aru and Poyaru have been receiving water from catchment areas in Chittoor district. In Tirupattur, more than 80% of the total 608 tanks in the district have reached their full capacity with excess rainwater being discharged.  Streets where schools are located were levelled to ensure safety of students. Likewise, other civic works were also undertaken in the district P. Kumaravel Pandian,Vellore Collector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-rain-stops-normality-returns-to-vellore-and-nearby-districts/article37410500.ece
10 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects Anaikuttam dam||Collector J. Meghanath Reddy on Tuesday declared a holiday for schools and colleges in the district on Wednesday as heavy rain is predicted. Earlier, incessant drizzle since Monday night forced the district administration to declare holiday for schools on Tuesday. The district had reported widespread rainfall in the last 24 hours ending at Tuesday morning. Sasthakoil recorded the highest rainfall of 58 mm followed by Rajapalayam with 22 mm. Meanwhile, the Collector inspected Anaikuttam dam, as part of the precautionary measures being taken in connection with north east monsoon. As of now, the reservoir, which is the major source of drinking water for Virudhunagar Municipality, has negligible quantity of water. With not good flow into the dam, a minor leak in one of the nine shutters was helping the Virudhunagar Municipality with good recharge of its take-off well, an official said. The dam will get water from the Western Ghats after Pilavakkal Periyar, Kovilar dams and the Big Tank at Watrap start overflowing. The dam constructed across the Arjuna river though has got over 4,000 acres of ayacut, water has not been released for irrigation for more than 10 years. The Collector instructed the Public Works Department officials rework the proposal to replace the nine shutters, an official said. A statement said that all the water bodies in the district was under continuous watch. He has instructed the officials to ensure that surplus water from the dams should be released without causing any adverse impact on the people living downstream. District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Executive Engineer, PWD, Raja and Sivakasi Tahsildar, Rajkumar, were present. Of eight dams in Virudhunagar district, only Sastha Koil dam has surplus with 30 cusecs of inflow being discharged through the weir. The dam has water to its full capacity of 103.40 metre with a storage of 36.47 mcft. Other dams that has significant storage are Periyar and Kovilar. While Periyar has water up to 200.85 metres (204.50 metres) with an iflow of 19.06 cusecs and no discharge. Kovilar has water up to 206.25 metres (212 metres) with an inflow of 6.56 cusecs. Kullarsandhai has 28.9 metres of water (30.20 metres) and Vembakottai 81.99 metres (87.50 metres). Golwarpatti, Anaikuttam and Irrukkangudi have almost nil storage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-anaikuttam-dam/article37410230.ece
10 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Leopard scare near Virudhunagar||Even as local residents had raised an alarm over a leopard prowling the Amathur panchayat area, Forest Department officials have ruled out the possibility of the animal straying into an area 50 km away from a reserved forest in the Western Ghats. However, a dog squad of the Forest Department will be pressed into service in the village again on Tuesday to verify the claims of the local people. The panchayat president A. Kurinchimalar said that only after two persons from Veerachellaiyapuram claimed to have seen a leopard on Monday when they came to collect firewood, a tom-tom was done on Monday to alert people about the lurking danger. Her husband R. Alagarsamy said that many deer were found in the vast expanse of uncultivated rain-fed farms in the panchayat. An official said that the suspected pug marks found in the area were very small suggesting that the animal could not be leopard, but only a wild cat. Besides, there were no complaints of any attack on cattle. However, to re-check the villagers’ claim, another team would visit the village on Tuesday evening, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-scare-in-village-near-virudhunagar/article37410216.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Conquering the evil||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vanquishing-the-evil/article37410422.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 98 new COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district reported 98 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 2,47,720. The Health Department reported one new death, raising the district’s toll to 2,432. The district had 1,138 active cases and 105 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Tiruppur reported 56 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 95,990. The district had 685 active cases and 67 patients were discharged on Tuesday. In the Nilgiris, 15 persons tested positive and the total number of cases stood at 33,729.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-98-new-covid-19-cases/article37410148.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||01 November 2021 Campus Connect||The sixth anniversary celebration of BODHI journal and Bodhi International Academic and Research Excellence Awards ceremony was held at The American College in Madurai. Prof.Vasantha, Registrar (in-charge), Madurai Kamaraj University, delivered the keynote address and distributed awards and certificates to the following winners: M. Davamani Christober, Principal, The American College, and Suresh, Principal, The Madura College (best Principal), and Deenadhayalan, Associate Professor, The Madura College (best educationist). Besides, 45 research excellence awards were given to Associate Professors, Assistant Professors, and other professionals from various universities.   The academic activities of Physics Association of Saraswathi Narayanan College, Madurai, were inaugurated by N. Sivasubramanian, former Chief Scientist of ISRO, Tiruvanathapuram. The chief guest highlighted the ambitious ISRO projects such as sending humans to space (Gaganyan) including Moon (Chandrayan-3) Mangalyan to Mars and Mission Aditya to study the characteristics of solar mass ejection from the sun’s corona. He also highlighted technological advancements such as usage of drones in agricultural field and telemedicine in hospitals.   The PG and Research Department of History of S. Vellaichamy Nadar College signed a MoU with Zunheboto Government College, Nagaland, on November 1. The MoU is aimed at exchange of knowledge and expertise so as to encourage students to cultivate an interest in archaeology, excavation and cerography and to further academic interests between the two institutions. The Department of Communicative English inaugurated Communication Enhancement Club and organised a special lecture to celebrate National Book Lovers’ Day on November 3. Principal R. Rajeshwara Palanichamy presided over the function. P. Srithar, Director (SF), in his felicitations, motivated the students to improve their communication skills. C. Tharini, Head and Assistant Professor, introduced the chief guest M. Nithin Prabhu, Assistant Professor, Department of English, Thiagarajar College, Madurai. Mr. Prabhu urged the students to develop a habit of quality reading.    Fatima College, Madurai, has been re-accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) in the fourth cycle with A++ by a Cumulative Grade Point Average of3.61on a four-point scale, the results of which were declared on November 3. The NAAC peer team comprising Chairperson Rajendra Prasad Das, Pro Vice-Chancellor, IGNOU; Member Co-ordinatorLakshmi Nambakkat of Mohanlal Sukhadia University, Udaipur, and Member Veena Jakkenahalli Siddappa, Principal of Government Science College, Bengaluru, conducted the on-site visit on October 27 and 28. The team interacted with Principal Sr. G. Celine Sahaya Mary who highlighted the overall growth of the institution since the third cycle.   Thiagarajar College Institution Innovation Council (TC-IIC) was inaugurated on November 2. Principal D. Pandiaraja explained how the departments of CS and IT, Chemistry, and Botany adopted innovative practices such as developing mobile applications, preparing sanitisers, and treating sewage water, respectively.K. Thiagarajan, college secretary, said the advent of startups was the result of innovative steps. Ilakumaran of Alagappa Institute of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Career Hub, Karaikudi, urged the faculty to identify the latent talents of students and spoke about ‘One Million Ideas,’ an initiative taken by the Tamil Nadu government. Nanu Swamy of Maxilerator Foundation, Madurai, gave an example of how a botanist became a successful entrepreneur in software industry in the U.S. M. Jegan Mohan of Madurai Productivity Council, explained the idea of ‘Save Mom,’ a digital healthcare ecosystem for pregnant women, N. S. Muralisrinivasan, a polymer technologist, spoke on the detrimental effects of polymer. Kalyanasundaram of Great Innovus Solutions said industries are ready to embrace the so called ‘failures.’ Sayee Kannan, Coordinator of TC-IIC, proposed the vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/01-november-2021-campus-connect/article37410410.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Kasthuri Sreenivasan Trust: Inauguration of ‘Creator Series’ Art Exhibition, Kasthuri Sreenivasan Art Centre, 10.30 a.m.     The Hindu and Vijayalakshmi Charitable Trust: Launch of Read and Rise initiative, Distribution of ‘Young World’, S.R.P. Ammani Ammal Corporation HSS 10.30 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: ‘My Story - Motivational Session by Successful Innovator’, 10 a.m.  Dr. G.R. Damodaran College of Science: Conferences on Advances in Information Technology and Networking, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article37410146.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||10-11-2021-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA AANMAJOTHI & MADHURADHWANI Today 6.15 pm Tiruppukazh Concert by BHAVYA HARI with annotations by Valayappettai Ra.Krishnan @ Arkay Convention Centre, Luz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-11-2021-city-cinema/article37410127.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, Sathyamangalam: School of Management Studies, Inauguration of MBA 2021 batch, C. Anand Sundar Raj, Chief Executive Officer, First Meridian Business Services, Karnataka, chief guest, C. Palanisamy, principal of the institute, presides, 10 a.m.  Vellalar College of Engineering and Technology: Inauguration of B.E/BTech programmes, S.D. Chandrasekar, Secretary and Correspondent, 10 a.m.  RD National College of Arts and Science: Session on ‘Start-up Journey’, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article37410253.ece
10 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Unkal Lake renamed||Members of some Veerashaiva Lingayat organisations renamed Unkal Lake as Sri Channabasava Sagar after Sri Channabasavanna, 12th century saint, in Hubballi on Sunday. They celebrated the Sri Channabasavanna Jayanti and performed puja to Sri Basaveshwara and Sri Channabasavanna. Some women carried Vachana books on their heads and chanted Vachanas. Sri Channabasavananda Swami, who addressed the gathering, said that the Hubballi-Dharwad City Corporation had passed a resolution on this and the High Court of Karnataka had upheld the resolution. “We have decided to rename the lake as the government is delaying it,” he said. A nameboard that reads Sri Channabasava Sagar was unveiled on the banks of the lake. BJP leader and son of Member of Legislative Assembly Jagadish Shettar Sankalp Shettar paid his respects to Sri Basaveshwara and Sri Channabasavanna. Seers Sri Siddalinga Swami of Eradettina Mutt, Sri Basavalinga Swami and Sri Shadakshari Swami and community leaders Channu Patil, Rajanna Koravi, Gangadhar Dodawad, Umesh Gowda, Ajjappa Horakeri, Ajjappa Bendigeri, Basanna Hebballi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unkal-lake-renamed/article37410272.ece
10 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Change in norms for Maharashtra visitors||Those who visit Karnataka from Maharashtra for short duration need not produce negative RT-PCR certificates now. COVID-19 protocol The State Government has exempted those who visit Karnataka for two days or less from producing such certificates. However, they must have had two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine and follow the COVID-19 protocol. During the meeting of the State Advisory Committee on COVID-19 in Bengaluru on Tuesday, norms were amended to allow visits of short duration following a reduction of the cases in Karnataka and Maharashtra. The new norms will apply on people who arrive in Karnataka by road, rail or air, and who return to Maharashtra in two days. The conditions are that they have to be asymptomatic and carry a self-declaration about it, they have to follow all COVID-19 protocols like wearing masks and not be part of a crowd, and undergo thermal scanning on arrival. They have to carry double dose vaccination certificate. They have to produce a valid return ticket as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/change-in-norms-for-travellers-from-maharashtra/article37410083.ece
10 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Lok Adalat in Vijayapura||Vijayapura District Legal Services Authority will organise a national Lok Adalat on December 18. Similar programmes will be held on all taluk court premises, said a release from District Legal Services Authority secretary and senior civil judge Venkanna Hosmani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lok-adalat-in-vijayapura/article37410281.ece
10 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Protest in Dhupdal||Members of various organisations took out a protest march in Dhupdal village near Gokak on Sunday, stating that miscreants had desecrated the posters of Ambedkar and Tipu Sultan. Activists of Dalit Sangharsh Samiti and Jai Karnataka blocked the Dhupdal-Ghataprabha Road for nearly an hour. They demanded that the police conduct an inquiry into the incident and arrest the accused immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-in-dhupdal/article37410273.ece
10 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Students felicitated||KLE Society’s Raja Lakhamagouda Science Institute felicitated meritorious students in Belagavi on Tuesday. M.D. Mulla, Sanjivini Kasalkar, Samir Yellur, Akash Badadani, Soham Chipre, Ambuja Bamani, Tarun Koulgud, Pratibha Sobarad, Abhinav Pawar, Ganesh Maragale, and Divya Nadakarni, who excelled in NEET and CET, were felicitated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-felicitated/article37410274.ece
10 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Carnival at Jain school||A Back to School carnival was organised at Jain Heritage School in Belagavi on Tuesday, to mark the reopening of schools after nearly 18 months. Students turned out in colourful outfits to celebrate the joy of being back in school. They were greeted at the entrance by artists dressed as Mickey and Mini Mouse and a Joker on stilts. A special school assembly followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/carnival-at-jain-school/article37410276.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Colleges scramble to hire teachers and upgrade infrastructure||Degree colleges, which are seeing a rise in admissions for the 2021-2022 academic year, are scrambling to rope in additional guest faculty members and improve infrastructure to meet the demand. The need for more teachers and classrooms is all the more necessary owing to the implementation of the National Education Policy 2020 which offers new electives and a multi-disciplinary approach to learning, said college managements. A principal of a government degree college said that admissions in Humanities have increased by 40% compared to the previous year. “Last year, I needed around 14 guest faculty members but this year, I will need at least 30,” the principal said. Most colleges are introducing new electives across streams as stipulated by the NEP which has been rolled out for the first time this academic year for undergraduate programmes. Under the NEP, students have the freedom to choose any three subjects — two from a particular discipline (such as Arts, Science and Commerce), while one elective can be chosen from the same discipline or any other stream. K.R. Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor of Bangalore University, said that as colleges have to offer a diverse range of electives, many will have to improve their existing infrastructure and hire more faculty members. “Colleges that have a high student strength and offer courses in different streams can manage. However, it will be a challenge for those that offer courses in a single stream and have a small student strength. They will need to introduce new electives under different streams for which they will need to hire new faculty members,” he said. C.B. Annapurnamma, principal of National College, Basavanagudi, said that students in her college have chosen different electives. “We will definitely face a shortage of classroom and faculty members. Students have another week to finalise their electives. Once this is finalised, we will brainstorm and chalk out how many more classrooms and faculty members we would need,” she said. Even smaller colleges acknowledge that they will have to make this investment if they want to remain relevant and attract students by offering a range of electives. Prof. Venugopal acknowledged that there would also be an “imbalance” and shortage of classrooms for smaller colleges. “If colleges are not able to address this, they will not be able to give students the option to choose different electives, and it will be no different from the past academic year,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/colleges-scramble-to-hire-teachers-and-upgrade-infrastructure/article37410088.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka among top five most visited States: Survey||After the big blow that COVID-19 lent to the tourism industry, it was predicted that domestic tourism would see a boom, given the numerous restrictions that travel and movement of people in general has in place. Digital travel platform Agoda announced the results of its ‘Indiagenous Travel Survey 2021,’ according to which Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh were the top five most visited States/Union Territories. The online survey had a total sample size of 1,448 adults and fieldwork was undertaken between September 21 and 27, 2021. It was launched as part of Agoda’s Indiagenous travel campaign. Delhi ranked first (48%), followed by Maharashtra (40%), Karnataka (31%), and Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh as the most visited States or Union Territories across India. “North Indians’ top three destinations are within the region, with 73% having visited the number one spot, Delhi; 58% taking to Uttar Pradesh, and 46% to Haryana. South Indians travelled most within the South Indian region. Tamil Nadu took number one spot with 66%, Karnataka at number two with 57% and number three, Andhra Pradesh, and Kerala with 55%,” it said. Reacting to the survey results, Sanjar Imam from the Karnataka Tourism Forum said it was possible by virtue of the size of the State. “It could also be from spiritual tourism across the strata of tourism. If it is purely about leisure tourism, then I doubt it. Compared to other states and given the potential of Karnataka, not enough has been done. What is required is a sustained marketing campaign over a period of time. Usually, it happens in spurts and fades away from memory,” he added. But the recently concluded festival seasons have brought good news to the State. There was a definite increase in numbers during the Dasara and Deepavali periods, Mr. Imam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-among-top-five-most-visited-states-survey/article37410089.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State achieves 89% vaccine coverage in first dose||Bengaluru’s premier healthcare institution Minto Ophthalmic Institute celebrated its 125th anniversary on Tuesday. The hospital has grown in stature since its humble beginning in a small building in Chickpet. It was established on 9 November 1886 as ‘Bangalore Eye Hospital’. To commemorate this milestone, the hospital planted 125 saplings on its campus, while doctors operated on 125 patients on Tuesday. K. Sudhakar, Medical Education as well as Health and Family Welfare Minister, commended the efforts of doctors and staff in making the hospital a renowned health facility. He appealed to people to come forward and pledge to donate their eyes after death. “Crores of people in the country are suffering from blindness and we can all do our bit to provide vision to people in need,” he said. The hospital authorities gave a representation to the Minister stating that they want to expand the new superspeciality block as it is difficult to run some wards in the old stone building. Mr. Sudhakar stated the State Government hoped to get paediatric COVID-19 vaccine soon. “We will provide vaccination to children based on priority as we have already identified children with vulnerabilities through the Arogya Nandana program,” he said. The state has achieved coverage of 89% in the first dose, while 48% of people have taken both shots of COVID-19 vaccinations. “People should not neglect to take the second dose within the prescribed time as both doses are necessary to get maximum protection against the virus. We must not let our guard down,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-achieves-89-vaccine-coverage-in-first-dose/article37410077.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru Tech Summit from Nov. 17-19||The 24th edition of the Bengaluru Tech Summit (BTS-2021) will be held from November 17 to 19. As the world and nation prepare to move forward in a post-pandemic scenario, technology will play an even more critical and all-pervasive role in the successful functioning of businesses and industries across sectors and governments, said C.N Ashwath Narayan, Minister for IT, BT and S&T and Higher Education. Speaking at the curtain raiser of the event in Bengaluru on Tuesday, Dr. Narayan said, “Technological innovations are redefining the future, and it is in this context that Bengaluru Tech Summit 2021 becomes more relevant. It has emerged as a trendsetter event globally and has become India’s leading technology summit.” Emphasising the importance of the Indian IT sector, S. Gopalakrishnan (Kris), co-founder of Infosys and Chairman of Karnataka Vision Group on Information Technology, said the world increased its dependency on Indian IT during the COVID-19 crisis and the industry came out with flying colours. “We witnessed rapid adoption of digital technologies during COVID-19. It is essential that industry and tech leaders come together to understand and strategise on the emerging opportunities in the IT field. The tech event gives the IT industry the platform to present the most recent and upcoming technological innovations in the new normal,” he added. Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, Executive Chairperson, Biocon Limited and Chairperson, Karnataka Vision Group on Biotechnology, said, “For this event, we have curated sessions that will highlight the most recent technological and scientific advancements in the field of biotech, like mRNA (messenger ribonucleic acid) technologies.” The theme chosen for BTS2021 is ‘Driving The Next’, highlighting the role of digital and technological innovations which drove and supported the growth of multiple sectors in a post-pandemic world. The event will witness the coming together of global tech leaders, Indian corporates and startups from IT, deep tech and biotech, showcasing disruptive technologies, forging partnerships and alliances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-tech-summit-from-november-17-19/article37410085.ece
10 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP asks cadre to get set for Council, BBMP polls||The BJP leadership has asked its cadre to be poll-ready with elections to one-third of the seats in the 75-member Legislative Council to be held on December 10 and the overdue Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) council elections later, ahead of the 2023 Assembly battle. In the BJP office-bearers’ meeting held in Bengaluru on Tuesday,  party’s key strategist and national general secretary (Organisation) B.L. Santhosh explained the political context in which the polls were being held. Party national general secretary and State in charge Arun Singh presided over the meeting. Though the BJP is the largest party in the 75-member Upper House with a tally of 32 seats, the party has to still depend on others to get a passage to the crucial Bills. The BJP is looking at the forthcoming elections as an opportunity to get a comfortable majority which would help it to establish its hold on the Upper House, especially at a time when the party is keen to move towards its core ideology. The meeting asked all the leaders and party workers to completely involve themselves in the preparations for the Council polls, including the State tour by four teams under the Jan Swaraj Yatra. Later, the party leaders also held a separate meeting to review the preparations for the BBMP council polls. In the meeting, the leaders called upon all the legislators from Bengaluru to work in unison for capturing the palike that accounts for highest chunk of Assembly constituencies in the State. The meeting stressed the need for an organised approach as wellas micro-management with the constitution of page pramukhs and strengthening of booth-level committees. Earlier, the office-bearers’ meeting announced that the next State executive would be held in Hubballi on December 18 and 19. It also constituted a team for identifying veteran workers who have played a significant role in building the party right from its erstwhile form of Jan Sangh for introducing their work to all the party cadre through the national programme ‘Kamala Pushpa’ launched by the party organisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-asks-cadre-to-get-set-for-council-bbmp-polls/article37410095.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Auto drivers stage protest, demand hike of Rs. 16 per km||A day after the State Government revised autorickshaw fares, a section of drivers staged a protest in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru (Urban), on Tuesday demanding that the fare per km be hiked from Rs. 15 to Rs. 16. They were protesting under the aegis of the Autorickshaw Drivers’ Union, affiliated to Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU). Srinivas, general secretary, told The Hindu that the operating cost was now Rs. 19 per km, and it was only just to increase the fare to Rs. 16 per km. On Monday, the Regional Transport Authority increased the minimum fare to Rs. 30 from Rs. 25 for the first two km, and this will come into effect from December 1. Mr. Srinivas said the union has also demanded reduction of VAT on auto LPG, along the lines of diesel and petrol, and has sought increase in the area of operation. “Earlier, autorickshaws could ply anywhere in the 25-km radius. Now, that has been reduced to BBMP limits. There are many auto drivers who live on the outskirts where rental rates are low. The police are catching autorickshaws crossing NICE Road and levying fines. The area of operation should be increased to BMRDA limits,” he said. Some of the other demands include a waiting charge of Rs. 1 per minute after the initial five minutes and allowing maximum luggage weight up to 100 kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/auto-drivers-stage-protest-demand-hike-of-rs-16-per-km/article37410073.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru chosen for NAMA Support project||Bengaluru is one of five cities selected for a waste management project supported by the European Union and the German Federal Ministry of the Environment and Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety. The Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions (NAMA) Support project ‘Waste Solutions for a Circular Economy in India’ will help Bengaluru transition to Municipal solid waste low-carbon management technologies. Goa, Tiruchirappalli, Varanasi, and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation have also been selected. A delegation led by Ugo Astuto, Ambassador of the European Union to India, visited a waste management facility in Koramangala and later met with BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta and senior civic officials. The project aims to provide technical and financial support to BBMP for setting up new plants and revamping of existing Material Recovery Facilities, compost facilities and bio-methanation plants, stated a press release. It will also support the creation of a role-model source segregation system through citizen engagement and demonstration of models for integrating the informal sector in the city. Mr. Astuto said: “Through this project, EU is happy to cooperate with India and Bengaluru in fostering the transition to low-carbon technologies in solid waste.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-chosen-for-nama-support-project/article37410074.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Cycle Bengaluru Cycle’ to promote public transport||To promote and encourage citizens to use public transport and bicycles while commuting to work, the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT), BBMP, and Bengaluru Traffic Police (BTP) is collaborating with the Rotary Bangalore IT Corridor (RBITC) to organise a cycling event on ORR. ‘Cycle Bengaluru Cycle’ will be held from 7 a.m. to 9 a.m. on Sunday between the bus depot on Silk Board and Lowry Adventist College, K.R. Puram, a distance of 16 km. Over 700 cyclists are expected to participate. The logo of the event was also unveiled on Tuesday by Pawan Seth, President, RBITC, and Cynthia Castellino, chairperson of ‘Cycle Bengaluru Cycle’, in the presence of Shashikala, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic and Planning), Shamanth Kuchangi, Technical Head, DULT. As part of this event, 50 pre-owned bicycles will be donated by YULU to girl students from government schools supported by RBITC. To participate, register athttps://rbitc.org/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cycle-bengaluru-cycle-to-promote-public-transport/article37410078.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||222 uterine fibroids removed from 34-year-old patient||Doctors at Sakra World Hospital removed 222 fibroids from the uterus of a 34-year-old woman. This was done while preserving the patient’s uterus completely, stated the hospital in a press release. Uterine fibroids are non-cancerous growths made up of muscle and fibrous tissue and can vary in size and shape. In a press release, Shanthala Thuppanna, senior consultant and head-Obstetrics & Gynaecology, said the patient’s fibroids were spread throughout the left side of her uterus, and very near to important structures in the abdomen which made her surgery complicated. “We were able to remove all these fibroids in her uterus that appeared compressed in the MRI scan, without any complications in a four-and-a-half-hour surgical procedure,” she stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/222-uterine-fibroids-removed-from-34-year-old-patient/article37410081.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to grant Rs. 10 cr. for Kannada Bhavan in Goa||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has announced the release of Rs. 10 crore for construction of a Kannada Bhavan in Goa. He made the announcement after meeting representatives of All-Goa Kannada Maha Sangha here on Tuesday. The delegation was led by BJP national general secretary and MLA C.T. Ravi. Mr. Bommai directed officials to prepare a detailed project report for construction of the Kannada Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-grant-rs-10-cr-for-kannada-bhavan-in-goa/article37410094.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Don’t obstruct water projects of Karnataka’||The former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has urged neighbouring States to “show large-heartedness” and not obstruct irrigation projects of Karnataka that are dragged to courts. “These States should come forward to overcome litigation pertaining to sharing of river waters outside the judicial system,” he told reporters in Bengaluru. He said that neighbouring States were unnecessarily causing trouble to Karnataka whenever a new irrigation project was taken up. “States should solve the differences amicably.” He pointed out that Tamil Nadu had raised issues on the Cauvery waters and Mekedatu project while Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana were contesting sharing of the Krishna waters. “However, a large number of people from these States have made Bengaluru their home. These States should understand this,” he added. While the Kempegowda International Airport had helped several districts of Andhra Pradesh, Electronics City has helped people in the neighbouring Tamil Nadu, he said, and added that these States should realise this.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-obstruct-water-projects-of-karnataka/article37410099.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Krishi Mela to be held from Nov. 11 to 14||Krishi Mela 2021, organised by the University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru, will be held from November 11 to 14 on the GKVK campus. People can visit from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. and entry is free. The mela will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on November 11 at 11 a.m. According to S. Rajendra Prasad, Vice-Chancellor, UAS-B, 10 new crop varieties and 28 farm technologies will be released at the event. Speaking to presspersons, he said that the main focus will be on improving the technology for medium and small farmers. The farmers who cannot participate physically can obtain solutions to their agricultural issues online. The mela will also have an exhibition on farm machinery and technology in over 450 to 500 stalls this year. During the event, State, district and taluk-level awards will be presented to farmers, he added. As many as 15,000 to 20,000 visitors are expected per day to the mela.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krishi-mela-to-be-held-from-nov-11-to-14/article37410080.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: 293 fresh cases in Karnataka||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 293 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of positive cases to 29,90,528. Bengaluru Urban district recorded 187 fresh cases, the maximum across the State. As many as four patients succumbed to the virus on Tuesday, two of whom were from Bengaluru Urban. With this, the death toll rose to 38,122. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients owing to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 323 people were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,44,422. At present, there are 7,955 active patients across Karnataka. The positivity rate for the day was 0.36%, while the case fatality rate was 1.36%. Testing was below the 1 lakh mark. Around 79,996 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 56,432 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,15,72,429.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/293-new-cases-in-karnataka/article37410086.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister not in favour of fee hike||While private medical and dental college managements are demanding a 20% hike in fees this academic year, K. Sudhakar, Medical Education Minister, said he was not in favour of it. Increasing fees during the pandemic year will make medical education unaffordable for many aspirants, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-not-in-favour-of-fee-hike/article37410071.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Head constable found dead||A 38-year-old head constable was found dead at the grounds near his house in Dubasipalya on Tuesday. Police have concluded that it was a case of suicide. Kumar R. was attached to the City Armed Reserve force in the west division. “A suicide note has been recovered,” the police said.  Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani ph: 104 for help ).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/head-constable-found-dead/article37410075.ece
10 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||10 new cases in Hassan||Hassan reported 10 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. With that, the total number of cases in the district increased to 1,11,824. Among the new cases, seven were reported in Hassan, one each in Alur and Sakleshpur and one more from outside the district. So far 1,376 people have died to the infection in the district. As many as 106 are under treatment. Shivamogga reported five cases on the day. Of them, two each were in Shivamogga and Sagar taluks and one in Thirthahalli taluk. So far 1,072 people have died in the district. As many as 28 people are under treatment, said a bulletin by the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-new-cases-in-hassan/article37410451.ece
10 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Religious mutts have done govt.’s work: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that many of the mutts and religious institutions have done works which actually should have been done by the government and that’s why the government is committed to ensuring their (mutts) development. He was speaking at a Guru Vandane programme of Sri Abhinava Annadanishwara Swami and installation of Sri Muppina Basavalinga Devaru as successor to the Halakere Mutt in Ron taluk of Gadag district on Tuesday. Mr. Bommai said that during the pre-Independence era, the mutts had done a lot of philanthropic services, including Dasoha (mass feeding). And, subsequently, after Independence, they had taken up dissemination of knowledge through establishment of educational institutions and other social initiatives, he said. He said that it was good that religious institutions and mutts of various communities have taken up initiatives to not only feed poor children but also educate them. Several of them have provided free hostel facilities and education to poor girl children from rural areas, a highly commendable job, he said. “Devotion is not just performing rituals but an ideal love for the Almighty. Engaging in service activities and helping the needy are also devotion. India has witnessed the Bhakti movement during which saints Basaveshwara, Kanakadasa, Purandaradasa and others sowed the seeds of devotion and these seeds of devotion will sustain for several more generations to come,” he said. Lauding the philanthropic services of Halakere Mutt, he said that the new seer will also continue the good work done so far. Referring to a Cabinet decision on naming the erstwhile Bombay-Karnataka region as Kittur Karnataka, he said that the government will ensure comprehensive development of the region and the renaming came as a response to the long-pending demand of the people of the region. On per capita income of the State, he said although the State stands in the third position, only 30% to 35% people are contributing to the economy. The government will be chalking out programmes particularly for women to encourage them to engage in economic activities and take the State to the top level in the country. A photography volume on the mutt, Halakere Beladingalu, was released by the Chief Minister on the occasion. Sri Abhinava Annadanishwara Swami, seer of Srishail Peetha Channasiddarama Swami, Chairman of Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti, Ministers C.C. Patil and Govind Karjol, several legislators and seers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/religious-mutts-have-done-govts-work-cm/article37410279.ece
10 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Teachers to be feted today||Dharwad-based Children’s Academy will honour three teachers with the ‘Shishana Shri’ award in recognition of their contribution to the field of education. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Tuesday, chairman of Children’s Academy and paediatrician Rajan Deshpande said that this year, two teachers from urban areas had been selected for the award. He said Principal of KLE High School, Rayapur, Shubhangi More, and Principal of Presentation High School, Dharwad, Sally B.S., will be honoured with the award. The award comprises of a plaque and certificate. This apart, the academy had also decided to give a special award for rural teacher Nagaraj Huded in recognition of his work in the field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teachers-to-be-feted-today/article37410282.ece
10 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Two arrested, liquor seized near Dharwad||Excise officials have seized 345 litres of liquor valued at Rs. 69,000 that was being illegally transported in a car near Dharwad. Based on a tip-off, the officials intercepted the car near the Toll Gate on Hubballi-Dharwad Bypass Road and found that the liquor stored in cans was being illegally transported. Car driver Channabasava Salimath alias Raju Chikkamath of Old Hubballi has been arrested. A search is on for another accused Sunil Shankar Ballari of Shantiniketan Colony in Hubballi and car owner Ramu Gaikwad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-liquor-seized-near-dharwad/article37410280.ece
10 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Rally in Kalaburagi||As part of Legal Services Day, Karnataka State Legal Services Authority, District Legal Services Authority and Kalaburagi Bar Association organised a mega bike rally to create awareness about legal services among the citizens here on Tuesday. Judge of the High Court of Karnataka R. Devdas flagged off the mega bike rally. During the rally, lawyers visited different localities in the city and created awareness about legal rights and also, about Lok Adalat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rally-in-kalaburagi/article37410278.ece
10 November 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||New indicators on reasons for frequent tremors in NK identified||Teams of seismologists that visited Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, and Bidar districts for two days found “new indications” that are specific to the region for a series of tremors recorded here recently. Speaking to reporters, B.C. Prabhakar, retired professor of geology, Bangalore University, said limestone layers in Kalaburagi district and sand layers in Vijayapura district gave indications on the frequent tremors. “The layers inside the earth in Kalaburagi and Vijayapura districts are similar, with the former having limestone and the latter sand. However, we need to have a deeper seismological study for a better understanding,” Dr. Prabhakar said. When asked whether heavy rainfall over the last couple of years had any connection with the tremors, Dr. Prabhakar said he would not dismiss the possibility. “Most of the tremors in the region are recorded during the monsoon. The earth layers in the region are made of limestone. The reaction of limestone when it comes in contact with water may cause withering of the limestone layers and create a vacuum. The collapse of layers would, in turn, result in movement of the earth’s surface, and it is easily felt in the region as the surface is made of loose black soil,” Dr. Prabhakar said. Peak event Dr. Prabhakar said a tremor in Kalaburagi district measuring 4.1 magnitude on the Richter Scale appeared to be the peak of the tremor events in the region. “There is little possibility of tremors having more intensity than this in the near future. People need not worry,” he said. Pointing to apprehensions that the National Thermal Power Corporation’s plant at Kudgi might have some connection with tremors in Vijayapura district, Dr. Prabhakar said tremors are caused owing mainly to the pressure created inside the earth following a clash of the various layers, and not due to human activity. “There is evidence that large-scale mining activity and gigantic dams could cause minor tremors. But, there is no evidence of power stations causing earthquakes,” he said. No shifting The seismologist said he would not recommend shifting the villages that were repeatedly hit by tremors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-indicators-on-reasons-for-frequent-tremors-in-nk-identified/article37410093.ece
10 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Special campaign in colleges for enrolling new voters||Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao on Tuesday said that the administration will undertake a special campaign through colleges to enrol young voters during the summary revision of electoral rolls during this month. Speaking to reporters at Udupi, Mr. Rao said that as per the population estimate in the district, 27,000 new voters have to be added to the rolls. The District SVEEP Committee will design a programme to include voters who have attained the age of 18 in the rolls. Meanwhile, young voters may contact the jurisdictional booth level officers to submit applications for enrolment or file them throughwww.nvsp.in. The Deputy Commissioner said that the draft electoral roll was published on Monday and people have time till December 8 to file claims or objections to the draft roll. Special enrolment drive will be conducted on November 14, 21 and 28 at the respective booths where officials concerned will be present between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Claims and objections will be disposed of by December 17 and the final rolls will be published on January 13, 2022, he said. Mr. Rao said that those seeking change of address from one Assembly segment to another and those staying abroad intending to file applications for enrolment may file them in Form No 6, while NRIs may file the applications in Form No 6A. Form No 7 may be filed for deletion of name from the roll, Form No 8 for corrections and Form No 8A may be filed for change of address within the same Assembly segment. There are 10,21,188 voters, 4,92,400 male, 5,28,77 female and 11 others, as per the draft rolls published on Monday, Mr. Rao added. Additional Deputy Commissioner B. Sadashiva Prabhu was present. On the occasion, Mr. Rao handed over the draft electoral rolls to representatives of different political parties as per a direction of the Election Commission of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-campaign-in-colleges-for-enrolling-new-voters/article37410437.ece
10 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kudpi Jagadish Shenoy elected president of Women’s National Education Society||Kudpi Jagadish Shenoy was elected president of the Women’s National Education Society that runs Besant Educational Institutions in the city during the governing council meeting here on Monday. A release here said that Manel Annappa Nayak and K.T. Manjunath were elected vice-presidents, Suresh Pai secretary, Manel Arjun Nayak and Lalitha Mallya, assistant secretaries, and M.P. Bhat was elected treasurer of the society. The society runs seven educational institutions, including Besant Women’s College, Besant Evening College, Besant National PU College, Besant English School, Besant Higher Primary School (Kannada Medium), Besant National High School (Kannada Medium) and Manel Srinivas Nayak Institute of Management, on two campuses in Mangaluru, situated at Kodialbail and Bondel, respectively. Women’s National Education Society traces its legacy to the founding of Besant School by the world renowned Theosophist, freedom fighter and social reformer Annie Besant in 1918. The society took over the management of the institution from Theosophical Society in 1943.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kudpi-jagadish-shenoy-elected-president-of-womens-national-education-society/article37410435.ece
10 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 patient dies in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada reported one COVID-19 death and 21 new cases on Tuesday. After 27 patients were discharged, the number of active cases stood at 136 in the district. Test positivity rate was put at 0.43%. Udupi district reported four new cases. With five patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 42.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-patient-dies-in-dakshina-kannada/article37410439.ece
10 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rain damage: Rs. 283.25 crore sought from CM for relief work||A sum of Rs. 283.25 crore has been sought from the State government for carrying out relief works to deal with the damage caused by the recent heavy rains in Mysuru city and the district. As many as 48 works costing Rs. 152.5 crore have been proposed to fix the devastation caused by the heavy downpour recorded in the city as well as in the district and a sum of Rs. 130.85 crore for carrying out 35 works in connection with the improvement of storm-water drains that were blamed for deluge in Mysuru. In total, a special grant of Rs. 283.35 crore has been sought and a proposal in this regard has been submitted to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Minister for Revenue R. Ashok by Minister in charge of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts S.T. Somashekar. Mr. Somashekar had asked the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru to submit a detailed report on the extent of damage and the relief works, after chairing a meeting here on November 1 to discuss the rain damage and issues like crop loss and so on. The DC submitted his report stating that about 48 works costing Rs. 152.5 crore for immediate relief works in view of rain devastation besides 35 works estimated to cost Rs. 130.35 crore for preventing entry of sewage into stormwater drains and works for connecting the sewage lines to the treatment plants. The same report has been submitted to the government. The Minister has urged the CM and the Revenue Minister to consider releasing the special grant at the earliest so that the works can begin. As per an assessment by Mysuru City Corporation following the deluge, based on inspections, drawings of drains and estimates prepared by the engineers, a sum of Rs. 113 crore was required immediately to interconnect the missing links of stormwater drains for uninterrupted movement of rainwater into the respective waterbodies. It had written to the government seeking a sum of Rs. 113 crore. In the absence of a link for water flow, waterlogging occurred wherever the natural path was missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rain-damage-rs-28325-crore-sought-from-cm-for-relief-work/article37410447.ece
10 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah invites GTD to join Congress||Friends-turned-foes Siddaramaiah and G.T. Deve Gowda, who were engaged in a fierce electoral battle in Chamundeshwari Assembly segment in 2018, appeared to have buried the hatchet when the duo came on the same stage at two public functions in the constituency on Tuesday. While Mr. Gowda, who had delivered a humiliating defeat to Mr. Siddaramaiah in the last elections, praised the former CM at a function in Kergalli in the constituency, the latter extended an invitation to Mr. Gowda to join the Congress. “He wants to join the Congress, but H.D. Deve Gowda and Mr. Kumaraswamy are trying to retain him in the JD(S). But, joining the Congress or not is left to him (GTD). He is welcome to join the Congress if he accepts the party’s principles,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. It may be mentioned here that Mr. Gowda had earlier declared that he had spoken with Mr. Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar and sought to join the Congress fold. Referring to his rout in the last elections at the hands of Mr. Gowda, Mr. Siddaramaiah said victory and loss were part of elections and added that he had both won as well as lost in Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency. Even though Mr. Gowda had defeated him in the last elections, the former Chief Minister claimed that they had only been political opponents and were never personal rivals. Mr. Gowda, who heaped praises on Mr. Siddaramaiah during his address, said the people of Chamudeshwari constituency had a lot of affection for the former CM whether he won or lost. Mr. Gowda even recalled his earlier days in politics when he and Mr. Siddaramaiah were in the same party – Janata Dal (S). “I and Siddaramaiah have grown together in politics since 1983. We have built the party from the grass root level,” he said. Earlier, Mr. Gowda and Mr. Siddaramaiah had shared the stage at another event in Hinkal in Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-invites-gtd-to-join-congress/article37410445.ece
10 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Basavashree award for sarod maestro||Renowned sarod maestro Pandit Rajeev Taranath will receive the prestigious Basavashree award conferred on him by the Basava Kendra of Sri Jagadguru Murugharajendra Bruhanmutt, Chitradurga, in Mysuru on Wednesday. The award conferred on the 89-year-old eminent musician is for the year 2019. It will be presented at Pandit Taranath’s residence at 154, 11th Main, near Jaware Gowda Park in Saraswathipuram at 4 p.m. Expressing happiness over conferring the award on the celebrated sarod maestro, the mutt said Pandit Taranath’s contribution to music was phenomenal and the award was being presented in recognition of his contributions. The mutt complimented Pandit Taranath Foundation’s efforts in mentoring young and upcoming musicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/basavashree-award-for-sarod-maestro/article37410446.ece
10 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘If high command names a Dalit as CM, I will welcome it’||Siddaramaiah, former CM, on Tuesday said he will welcome any proposal from the Congress high command to name a Dalit as Karnataka CM if the party comes to power in the State. Speaking after inaugurating a new floor of the Ambedkar Bhavan in Hinkal in Mysuru, Mr. Siddaramaiah pointed out that the High Command has conventionally named the Chief Ministerial candidate in the Congress after eliciting the opinion of MLAs. “I have absolutely no objection if the High Commands names a Dalit as CM. I will be the happiest person and will welcome it,” said Mr. Siddaramaiah. He was responding to an appeal made by former Mayor of Mysuru Purshotham to the Congress to name a Dalit as CM candidate in the coming Assembly elections. “Whether a person from among the Dalits, Backward Classes or Minorities becomes a Chief Minister, I will be happy. But, a decision on the CM is taken by the High Command based on the opinion of the MLAs,” he said. Political opportunities Mr. Siddaramaiah pointed out that a Dalit can become a CM only in the Congress regime, except for Mayawati, who managed to occupy the coveted post after the BSP came to power in Uttar Pradesh. He said he was in favour of the deprived communities getting such political opportunities. He recalled that B.R. Ambedkar had remarked that political power was key for the development of any community. Ambedkar’s principles He also dwelt at length on Dr. Ambedkar’s principles of providing opportunities to deprived communities and said only people with commitment to his ideals can implement the provisions of the Constitution he had drafted. “So, it is important for people with commitment to the Constitution to come to power. People without commitment to the Constitution will not implement the provisions of providing opportunities to the underprivileged sections,” he said. Congress rule Pointing out that SCs and STs comprised 24.1% of the State’s population, Mr. Siddaramaiah said his government was the first in the State to bring in a rule to allocate funds under Special Component Plan (SCP) and Tribal Sub Plan (TSP) as per the population of the community. “Before 2013, there was no rule on allocation as per the population”, he said. Also, soon after becoming the CM, Mr. Siddaramaiah said he had waived off the loans and the interest taken by the poor from Ambedkar Development Corporation, D. Devaraj Urs Backward Classes Development Corporation and the Karnataka State Minorities Development Corporation. The programme was also attended by former Minister and JD(S) MLA representing Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency G T Deve Gowda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/if-high-command-names-a-dalit-as-cm-i-will-welcome-it/article37410449.ece
10 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Padayatra to push Govt. to start Mekedatu project’||Siddaramaiah, former Chief Minister, on Tuesday said the Congress will take out a padayatra to build pressure on the BJP Government in the State to start work on the Mekedatu project. Fielding queries from reporters in Mysuru, Mr. Siddaramaiah accused the State Government of procrastinating on the issue. Though the Detailed Project Report (DPR) had been prepared during the previous Congress rule in the State and submitted to the Centre for environmental clearance, the incumbent Government has not been able to start work on the project. The Congress was taking out a padayatra to build pressure on the State Government to secure early clearance from the Centre and start work on the project. He denied that there was any impediment to the project from the court. The Tamil Nadu Government was opposing it only for political reasons, he claimed. Even though more than two years had passed since the BJP Government came to power in Karnataka, the work on the project has not taken off. Bitcoin scam To queries on the bitcoin scam, Mr. Siddaramaiah urged the State Government to begin a probe to expose the guilty. Responding to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s reported statement asking Mr. Siddaramaiah to furnish evidence to support his allegation that influential politicians were involved in the bitcoin scam, the Congress leader said he will provide evidence whenever he gets an opportunity, but added that the State Government should take up the investigation and bring the guilty to book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/padayatra-to-push-govt-to-start-mekedatu-project/article37410450.ece
10 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Seven arrested with 50 grams of MDMA||The police have arrested seven youths and seized 50 grams of MDMA, a psychotropic drug. The arrested have been identified as Pranav Pradeep, 24, of Muthukulam, Sajin Abraham, 25, of Krishnapuram, Sravan Krishnakumar, 23, of Cheppad, Akshaya Omanakuttan, 24, of Muthukulam, Sachin Tensing, 23, of Arattupuzha, Arjun, 23, of Pallippad, and Raghuraman Rajesh, 24, of Muthukulam. They were taken into custody from a resort near Danapady in Haripad in a joint operation carried out by the Haripad police and the District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force on Monday. The raid was conducted based on a tip-off received by District Police Chief G. Jaidev.  Officials said that the accused were nabbed while waiting for clients to sell the premium synthetic drug. From Bengaluru “They brought the drug in a car from Bengaluru. The group, which was involved in Ganja peddling, only recently shifted to MDMA as it is much easier to transport and handle. They had twice brought MDMA from Bengaluru in recent weeks. They were selling the drug between Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 5,000 a gram,” said an official. Officials said that a Bengaluru-based drug lobby was behind the smuggling of psychotropic drugs like MDMA and LSD to the district. The majority of the clients were youths and students. “We have got some vital information from the arrested about those behind the lobby and the people buying drugs from the group. More arrests will be made in the coming days,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seven-arrested-with-50-grams-of-mdma/article37410401.ece
10 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Woman, baby found dead||A 25-year-old woman allegedly killed her five-month-old child before ending her life at Ala, near Chengannur, on Monday night. The deceased were identified as Adithi and her son Kalki. The police said it was suspected that the woman poisoned the child before consuming the same substance. Relatives found the mother and child unconscious at their house around 11.45 p.m.  Though they were rushed to a hospital, their lives could not be saved. Her husband Sooryan, 31, and mother-in-law Sreedevi Antharjanam died in September due to COVID-19. According to the relatives, she was suffering from depression after the death of her husband. (Suicide prevention helpline number: DISHA- 0471-2552056, 1056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-baby-found-dead/article37410393.ece
10 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||T.N. farmers air anger at water release||Agitations under the banner of farmers’ movements have intensified in Tamil Nadu villages bordering Idukki district alleging ‘failure’ on the part of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Government in protecting the interests of farmers while allowing water discharge from the Mullaperiyar dam into the Periyar. The organisations say the Tamil Nadu Government succumbed to the Kerala demand for keeping the water level in the dam at a low where as it said the apex court had allowed it to keep the storage at 142 ft. When the water level reached 139 ft, the Tamil Nadu Public Works Department opened the spillway shutters to release water into the Periyar as it crossed the upper rule curve fixed by the Central Water Commission. 2018 floods The opening of the Mullaperiyar spillway shutters in 2018 had resulted in heavy damage downstream. It had also led to the opening of the Idukki dam, submerging houses and land in Idukki and Ernakulam districts. The Opposition AIADMK called for a Statewide agitation on Tuesday on the ‘failure of the Government in keeping the water level at 142 ft’. Nearly a decade back it turned into a law and order issue between the two States when the Mullaperiyar agitation council, an organisation of residents downstream of the Mullaperiyar dam in Kerala, intensified demands for decommissioning the dam. The Mullaperiyar dam serves the irrigation and drinking needs of the districts of Theni, Madurai, Sivaganga, Dindigul, and Ramnad in Tamil Nadu. Following water shortage and poor rainfall, large areas had been kept uncultivated in these districts in the past three years. The agitation got a fillip in these districts after AIADMK leader O. Panneerselvam led a protest at the border town of Cumbom on Tuesday. Dharnas were held in the five districts and slogans raised against Kerala. Mullaperiyar agitation council chairman K.A. Mohandas demanded that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and seek measures to reduce the water level in the dam to 136 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tn-farmers-air-anger-at-water-release/article37410354.ece
10 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Man fined for minor son driving vehicle||The Thodupuzha chief judicial magistrate court on Tuesday imposed a fine of Rs. 25,000 on the father of a boy who drove a vehicle without licence. The case was registered on May 5, 2021 when the minor was at the wheel when a Motor Vehicles Department enforcement squad was checking vehicles at Vengallur Junction in Thodupuzha. The vehicle was seized and a case registered for the minor driving the vehicle. The court imposed a fine of Rs. 25,000 on the father of the boy, a Kumaramangalam resident, for allowing him to drive the vehicle. In the order, there is a provision for a month’s jail term in case the fine is not paid. Idukki Enforcement RTO (regional transport officer) P.A. Nazir said vehicle checking would be intensified in the coming days to check whether minors were driving vehicles. Rash driving He said in the wake of opening of educational institutions, there were chances of similar incidents. Action would be taken against rash driving and improper display of registration number, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-fined-for-minor-son-driving-vehicle/article37410397.ece
10 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Water level slowly rising in the dam||The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam is rising slowly. On Tuesday, the water level was 138.70 ft. Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 1,867 cusecs and the average inflow was 2,256 cusecs. The water level in the Idukki reservoir fell to 2,398.36 ft on Tuesday. The power generation at the Moolamattom power plant was at the maximum of 17.487 million units on Monday. As per the rule curve, the red alert level is 2,398.79 ft and the upper rule curve 2,399.79 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-level-slowly-rising-in-the-dam/article37410355.ece
10 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||3 held for poaching deer||Three persons were arrested on Tuesday on the charge of poaching deer by using dogs at Panayambam under the Kurichiyad forest range of the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary. The accused have been identified as Jijo George, 32, Sathyan, 31, and Sudheesh, 29, all from Panayambam. Jijo George was arrested while he was transporting venison in a car. Later, the Forest officials seized the remains of the carcass of a spotted deer from the houses of Sathyan and Sudheesh on the fringes of the sanctuary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-held-for-poaching-deer/article37410342.ece
10 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Govt. intervention sought to stop felling of trees||Environmental organisations in Wayanad district have sought the government’s intervention to foil attempts by a private coffee estate management, with the alleged support of a few Forest and Revenue officials, to axe huge trees on the estate spread over 300 acres on the Brahmagiri Hills on the Kerala–Karnataka border. N. Badusha, president, Wayanad Prakruthi Samrakshna Samiti, said that though the Forest department had stopped issuing permits to cut trees on the land of farmers after the massive rosewood tree felling came to light at Muttil in the district recently, tree felling was still going on in a private coffee estate on the slopes of the Brahmagiri Hills, a highly ecologically fragile area, with the support of a group of Forest and Revenue officials. Nearly 100 acres of the estate is revenue land and a vast area of land adjacent to the estate bungalow is forest land. The felling of silver oak trees had been under way on the forest land too since area was yet to be demarcated, Mr. Badusha said. A lobby, consisting of Revenue and Forest officials, as well as timber merchants and advocates, was very active in the district to plunder the wealth and they were mainly targeting the huge trees on the land planted by British planters, he said. Allegation denied However Bargiri estate manager P.S. Ravichandra and representatives of trade unions of the estate, A. Gopalakrishnan and B. Rajan, told mediapersons that the allegation of the samiti was baseless. There was no land belonging to the Forest or revenue departments under the possession of the estate and the felling of trees was being done with the permission of the departments concerned. They had granted permission to fell 204 of the 341 silver oak trees in the B block of the estate as per the advice of the Coffee Board to regulate the shade to the coffee plants, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-intervention-sought-to-stop-felling-of-trees/article37410339.ece
10 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Resume Gothra Saradhi project, Rahul tells Minister||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, MP, has urged the Tribal Development Department to resume the Gothra Saradhi project to bring children from tribal hamlets to the nearest school by providing them free vehicle facilities in order to address the issue of school dropouts. In a letter to K. Radhakrishnan, Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Classes and Scheduled Tribes, on Tuesday Mr. Gandhi said that the COVID-19 pandemic had disproportionately affected the children of Scheduled Tribes and particularly vulnerable tribal groups, especially those who had been unable to access alternatives to regular classroom teaching. “As schools have reopened across the State, we have a collective responsibility to ensure that students get back to classrooms safely and to extend requisite support to help reverse the learning losses”, Mr. Gandhi said. The Gothra Saradhi project, implemented jointly by the Scheduled Tribes Development Department, Education Department, civic bodies, and parent-teacher associations, had been an effective intervention that had helped increase school participation and reduce dropout rates of tribal children, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resume-gothra-saradhi-project-rahul-tells-minister/article37410341.ece
10 November 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Six students arrested on ragging charge||The police have arrested six students on the charge of brutally assaulting a junior student, P. Anshad, at Naher College in Kannur. They arrested were Mohammad Rashad, Mohammad Tamim, Abdul Qadir, Mohammad Musammil, Mohammad Muhaddis, and Mohammad Safwan. The Chakkarakkal police took the six students into custody from their homes on Tuesday morning. P. Anshad, a second-year economics graduate student was beaten up by a group of third-year students in the toilet. He was brutally beaten by the assailants, who demanded cash and allegedly questioned him about talking to the girls in the class. The victim, who fell unconscious following the assault, was taken to hospital. Following the incident, two students, including Mohammed Anshif, a resident of Naduvanad, and Ajinas of Mattanur, both fifth semester students of BA Economics, were suspended Initially, the police had registered a case of assault and invoked charges under Sections 143,147, 341, and 324 of the IPC against 15 persons. But realising the seriousness of the incident during further investigations, a case of ragging was also registered against the accused. With the addition of the Anti-Ragging Act, the accused students will no longer be able to study in the college. The police are also investigating whether the Naher College management did nothing to control the situation in the college despite similar incidents in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-students-arrested-on-ragging-charge/article37410343.ece
10 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Corporation drops STP projects for 2 divisions||After the Kalvathi Sewerage Treatment Plant (STP), two more similar initiatives of the Kochi Corporation have run into trouble. This time, the three independent and decentralised STP projects proposed for Edakochi, Edakochi South and Perumpadappu Divisions have hit the roadblock as the contractor demanded an amount in excess of what was quoted in the approved bidding document of the project. Faced with a series of financial issues, the civic body has now decided to drop the projects in two divisions and implement the project only in Edakochi South. No takers Incidentally, the project faced issues from the bidding stage itself as the tender document had to be floated six times as no one responded to it during the first five occasions. On the sixth attempt, only one contractor responded to the proposal. Later, the contractor demanded up to 36% extra amount for the project citing various reasons, which had upset the financial plans and preparations of the project, the civic authorities said. Later, conceding to the demands of the contractor, the State Level High Power Committee, which clears the projects under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation, suggested that the Kochi Corporation and the State equally share the additional financial burden. The project plunged into further crisis after the work order was issued with the authorities by approving the tender excess demanded by the contractor. This time, the contractor sought additional funds for the project by pointing out that the cost of the raw materials have escalated significantly since the bid was finalised. He also pointed out that the cost of construction materials had gone up since 2020 when the bid document was finalised, further pushing the project into crisis. Besides raising the urban local body share of the total project cost and shouldering the 50% amount of the tender excess, the civic body needs to find extra funds to cover the cost escalation component. Additionally, it also has to raise the operation and maintenance cost for the project, which would be financially unfeasible, pointed out the civic authorities. ‘Impractical projects’ According to Mayor M. Anilkumar, the Corporation council has decided to trim the project and implement it in Edakochi South division. “One cannot go ahead with impractical projects. One component of the original project was proposed at a holding that was not in the possession of the civic body. Questions on the financial viability of the project were raised as the contractor demanded an amount in excess of the bid documents. Once the project is trimmed and implemented in one division, the project cost would be reduced significantly,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-drops-stp-projects-for-2-divisions/article37410344.ece
10 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Six more months needed for full vaccination in Ernakulam||A minimum of six months is required to fully vaccinate the target population in Ernakulam, as around 2.6 lakh persons had missed their schedule for first and second doses after testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Around 1.4 lakh could not receive the first dose when the authorities declared that they had administered the first dose to the target population by the first week of October. About 1.2 lakh persons could not receive their second dose after they tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 at the time of receiving their second dose, according to estimates by the Health Department. “The vaccine is provided after three months of testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. We may need at least six months to vaccinate the first and second doses for persons figuring in the above categories,” said M.G. Sivadas, district nodal officer for vaccination. The vaccination for those who missed the first dose had started and it would take at least three months to complete the process. Similarly, the vaccination of those who missed the second dose would take another three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-more-months-needed-for-full-vaccination-in-ernakulam/article37410349.ece
10 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Two more surrender||The remaining two out of the eight accused in the case registered for the alleged vandalisation of actor Joju George’s car during the blockade of Edappally-Vyttila national highway, organised by the Congress in protest against the surging fuel prices last week, surrendered before the Maradu police on Tuesday. The accused were identified as P.Y. Shajahan, State secretary, Youth Congress; and Arun Varghese, Ernakulam block secretary, Youth Congress, who were reportedly outside the district. They were accompanied, among others, by District Congress Committee president Muhammad Shiyas. The police recorded their arrest and produced them before the court, which remanded them into judicial custody. Order on bail plea today The trial court considering the bail pleas of former Kochi Mayor Tony Chammany and others, who were arrested for allegedly damaging the car of actor Joju George, will pass its order on Wednesday. Opposing the bail plea of the accused, Assistant Public Prosecutor S. Saiju contended that the spirit of the legislation, Kerala Prevention of Damage to Private Property and Payment of Compensation Act, 2019, shall be upheld even while considering the bail plea in such cases. The Assistant Public Prosecutor submitted that at least half the value of the property that was damaged in the attack shall be ensured as bail bond in the case. Siyad Mohamad, the counsel for the accused, contended the continued custody of the accused was not necessary as the police have already recovered a stone, which was allegedly used to damage the vehicle. Even the prosecution had no specific case that Mr. Chammany, who was arraigned as the accused, had attacked the actor or damaged the vehicle. All the accused had surrendered before the police, he submitted. He also opposed the contention of the prosecution that at least half the value of the vehicle shall be deposited as surety. The surety shall be half the amount, estimated as loss sustained in the alleged incident, he submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-surrender-in-car-vandalisation-case/article37410346.ece
10 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Is Govt. planning law to end Church row, asks HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday directed the State Government to inform the court whether it was proposing to enact any legislation to end the factional feud in the Malankara Church or not. The Bench comprising Justice A. Muhamed Mustaque and Justice Sophy Thomas said it saw in the media that the K.T. Thomas panel had made some recommendations. The court, therefore, wanted to know whether the Government was going to act or prepare a Bill on them. The court added that an exercise from outside would be futile if the Government brought up a law. State Attorney submitted that the Kerala Law Reforms Commission headed by former Supreme Court judge K.T. Thomas had made some suggestions and the Government was considering them. The commission had submitted a Bill before the government proposing a referendum to determine the ownership of churches and their institutions. The court passed the order when an appeal by the Government against a single judge’s directive to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Group Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, to take over the Kothamangalam Marthoman church if the Ernakulam Collector did not implement the court’s directive in this regard.  The court adjourned to November 22 the hearing on the appeal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/is-govt-planning-law-to-end-church-row-asks-hc/article37410352.ece
10 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CCTV footage seized from hotel||The Palarivattom police probing the tragic accident that claimed three lives, including two promising models, have seized CCTV footage from a premium hotel in Fort Kochi where the victims reportedly attended a party late into the night before the accident. “We have seized the footage from No-18, a premium hotel in Fort Kochi. “We are examining the footage for more details,” said A. Ananthalal, inspector in charge of the Palarivattom police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cctv-footage-seized-from-hotel/article37410347.ece
10 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||A milestone for Maradi panchayat||Concerted efforts by stakeholders helped Maradi panchayat in the district achieve close to 100% success in administering the second dose to the target population. The target population in the panchayat was 13,185. Of this, 13,143 received the second dose. “It was a joint effort by the elected representatives, health officials, ASHA (accredited social health activist) workers, Anganwadi staff, and members of the rapid response teams,” said O.P. Baby, president of the panchayat. Dr. Amarlal K., Medical Officer, said that the district medical office and all those associated with the vaccination process in the district extended their cooperation to achieve the target.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-milestone-for-maradi-panchayat/article37410348.ece
10 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||No progress in probe into IIT student’s death||Even two years after her alleged suicide and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) taking over the probe, there hasn’t been any progress in the investigation into the death of Fathima Latheef. On her second death anniversary on Tuesday, her father Abdul Latheef met Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan seeking his intervention for a speedy and fair investigation. Apart from the CBI team visiting her home once and a recent summons to appear before the CBI court in Chennai to record their statements under Section 164, there has been no progress in the case, says her family. The Chief Minister assured the family of all support and said the Government would make arrangements so that the family could meet Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. Mr. Stalin, who was the Leader of the Opposition at the time of her death, had marked his protest and demanded a time-bound investigation. Botch-up bid alleged 19-year-old Fathima was found dead in her hostel room at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras, on November 9, 2019. According to her family, the Kottupuram police had tried to botch up investigation and close the case as a suicide. While her family retrieved notes left by Fathima in her phone accusing some faculty members, the police officials said Fathima committed suicide since she could not score good marks in the first-semester examination. Her family points out that Fathima, a very bright student and a rank holder, had no reason to end her life and she always scored good marks in all her examinations after joining the IIT. They alleged that the young girl was facing consistent harassment from some faculty members and her friends seemed scared. After widespread protests, the case was first transferred to CCB and then to the CBI. Visit by CBI team When there was no progress in the case after the CBI taking over it, her father had approached the CBI director expressing his disappointment. Later, the CBI team visited Kollam in December 2020 for recording the statement of her family, more than a year after her death. Reportedly, COVID-19 related restrictions had caused the delay and the family expects some kind of headway in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-progress-in-probe-into-iit-students-death/article37410395.ece
10 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Chavara school all set to welcome students||Government Higher Secondary School (HSS), Sankaramangalam, Chavara, where one of the largest COVID-19 second-line treatment centres in the State has been functioning, is all set to welcome students, with a fresh coat of paint and disinfected classrooms. Kerala Minerals and Metals Limited (KMML) set up a treatment centre with more than 800 oxygen beds at the school and on its premises, providing oxygen directly through a pipeline from the KMML oxygen plant. The KMML started the renovation work after discharging the final patient and transferring all the hospital equipment to a temporary tent erected on the school grounds. New coat of paint The school building had 250 oxygen beds and as a first step, the copper pipes installed in the classrooms to supply oxygen were removed. All additional structures, including bio-toilets and allied facilities set up at the school for COVID-19 patients, were also shifted. The walls were repaired and repainted after the removal of pipes while benches, desks and tables were washed and cleaned. Disinfected The school premises and toilets were cleaned and disinfected and electrical works carried out. “After the cleaning, benches and desks were arranged in the classrooms as per the instructions of teachers. In the final stage, all classrooms, benches, desks and office rooms were disinfected for a second time with hypochlorous acid. KMML officials, including director J.Chandrabose, visited the site and the school authorities have been informed about the completion of works,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chavara-school-all-set-to-welcome-students/article37410403.ece
10 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Three dead, one critical as family consumes acid||Three persons, including two women, died and one remained in a critical condition after four members of a family at Thalayolaparambu consumed acid in an apparent bid to end their lives on Monday. The deceased were identified as Sukumaran, 52, his wife, Seena, 48, and their daughter Soorya, 26. The condition of their younger daughter Suvarna, 23, who has been admitted to Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kottayam, remains critical. The incident came to light on Monday night when Suvarna alerted one of their relatives about the suicide bid. Though rushed to a private hospital at Muttuchira, Seena was declared brought dead. Soorya, whose marriage was scheduled for December, died a few hours later while Sukumaran, who had been shifted to the MCH, died on Tuesday afternoon. The police suspect that the family could have taken the extreme step due to financial difficulties. Cases for unnatural death have been registered and a probe is on to ascertain the factors that led to the suicides. (Suicide prevention helpline - 1056)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-dead-one-critical-as-family-consumes-acid/article37410398.ece
10 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||IIIT firm to distribute seed fund to start-ups||In a significant achievement, AIC IIIT Kottayam Foundation, a primary incubation company of the Indian Institute of Information Technology here, has been selected by StartupIndia for distribution of seed funds to early stage start-ups. Under the scheme, the foundation can support innovative start-ups, which will be eligible for a financial assistance up to Rs. 50 lakh or more, based on an evaluation by a special committee. The fund will support an estimated 55 start-ups in a couple of years. Early stage start-ups “Our early stage start-ups or entrepreneurs, including students of IIIT, Kottayam, IITs, IISERs or leading universities or institutes, could pursue entrepreneurship from our centre,” said Shajulin Benedict, Director, AIC IIIT. Preference would be given to start-ups that work in leading technologies such as Internet of Things, Cloud Computing, Blockchains as well as those in market analysis and international businesses. The AIC IIIT Kottayam Foundation at present has 35 start-ups, 50 mentors, and international tie-ups with incubation centres across Europe and Canada The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) under the Ministry of Corporate Affairs has launched the Start-up India Seed Fund Scheme (SISFS) to provide financial assistance to start-ups for the proof of concept, prototype development, product trials, market entry, and commercialisation. Visit http://icentre.iiitkottayam.ac.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iiit-firm-to-distribute-seed-fund-to-start-ups/article37410399.ece
10 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn. clears cluttered passages on MP Road amidst resistance||Officials of the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation on Tuesday took action against around 180 shops in Baby Bazaar and Oasis Complex along Moideen Pally Road in Palayam in the city, for not complying with the fire and safety regulations. The action comes in the wake of a fire in a building in the area, which is an annexe of SM Street, more than a month ago. The Fire Department and the corporation had found that the common spaces in most of these buildings were used unscientifically. Dumping and storage of goods in stairwells, corridors and passages prevented free movement of people along them and in the event of a fire, posed great threat to life and property. The corporation had earlier served notice on 196 shops in the area to remove obstacles from the staircases and corridors. Mayor Beena Philip had convened a meeting of vendors and they had agreed to follow the instructions. The one-month window provided by the Mayor ended on October 25. Even fifteen days after the due date, most vendors had made no changes and hence the action. Corporation Secretary K.U. Bini said that the civic body was removing all the obstacles and that only around 10 shops had complied with the notice. “The staircases and passages here are blocked in such a way that none can pass through them without stumbling on the goods. Even a small spark will result in a big fire in these circumstances”, Ms. Bini said. However, the corporation squad met with some resistance by vendors at the two shopping complexes initially, but they carried out the clearing process despite it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-clears-cluttered-passages-on-mp-road-amidst-resistance/article37410338.ece
10 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kudumbashree auxiliary groups set up in all wards||The Kudumbashree Mission of the Kozhikode Corporation has completed the formation of auxiliary groups in all the wards of the corporation, with an aim to address the various issues faced by young women. The auxiliary groups are separate from the usual Kudumbashree hierarchy of Neighbourhood Groups, ADSs and CDSs that form the basic structure of the mission. “These groups are of a maximum of 50 women of the age group 18-40, from all sections of society and not just the financially backward sections that are often part of the Kudumbashree movement”, said T.K. Prakashan, project coordinator of Kudumbashree in the corporation. The auxiliary groups have been designed to address the various issues of young women such as mental and physical stress, being forced to resign from their jobs after marriage, lack of employment despite being highly qualified, lack of avenues to improve their skills, lack of confidence to face issues, domestic violence, social media traps, dowry-related violence, alcoholism and drug abuse. “We have noticed that several women fall into all kinds of traps when they have enough idle time at hand. There is a need to get them engaged in some kind of activities”, Mr. Prakashan said, adding that the auxiliary group aims at empowering the women financially and socially. More than one person from the same family could be part of an auxiliary group and there can be any number of auxiliary groups. The groups are led by a five-member team. “There has been a criticism that the resources of Kudumbashree are limited to the women in the financially backward families and the rest are left out. Through the auxiliary groups, we could find a solution to this issue, as the financial status is irrelevant in them”, Mr. Prakashan said. The auxiliary groups in the corporation were launched earlier this month by Mayor Beena Philip.  Through this, we could find a solution to the criticism that resources of Kudumbashree are limited to financially backward women T.K. Prakashan Project coordinator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-auxiliary-groups-set-up-in-all-wards/article37410340.ece
10 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Kozhikode Sarada passes away||Actor Kozhikode Sarada died at the Government Medical College here on Tuesday. She was 75. Sarada had shot to fame with her fine performance as the mother of one of the lead characters in the 1996 film Sallapam. Manoj K. Jayan and she had provide some sparkling moments in the film that also saw Manju Warrier playing the leading lady for the first time. Sarada had made her debut long before that, though, back in the 1970s. She was part of Kozhikode’s theatre, which contributed several artistes to Malayalam cinema. Among her last major films was Ennu Ninte Moideen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-sarada-passes-away/article37410370.ece
10 November 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Wife’s pyre burning, he receives Padma Shri||Writer Balan Putheri, one of the recipients of the Padma Shri for 2021, could not smile when he accepted the honour from President Ramnath Kovind in New Delhi on Tuesday. The pyre of his wife, Shantha Kadavath, still was smouldering when Mr. Balan received the award with trembling hands. Visually impaired for over a decade, Mr. Balan had wanted to have his wife beside him while accepting the biggest honour of his life. Tragic loss But his hopes were dashed on Tuesday morning when Shantha breathed her last after a long fight with breast cancer. The news of her death shattered him. It took some time for him to come to terms with reality that he could not even attend her funeral that took place at their family land at Karipur, near Kondotty. “It was with a heavy heart that he permitted us to go ahead with the obsequies,” said his younger brother Santhosh Putheri. Santha’s funeral began at 3.30 p.m. and the pyre continued to smoulder even as Mr. Balan received the award. He was accompanied by his elder brother Damodaran. His son Ramlal, 20, could not join him in New Delhi as he is visually and mentally impaired. As per his itinerary, Mr. Balan is to return home on Wednesday night. Cancer The death of his wife, who provided vision and support to his life in spite of her eight-year-long fight with cancer, turned his biggest day into one of the gloomiest ones. Yet, he did not cry, with a firm conviction that it was God’s design. The world of Malayalam writers was in surprise when the Union Government announced the Padma award winners for 2021 in January. Mr. Balan, one of the six awardees from Kerala, was not so well known in Kerala’s literary circles. But his contributions to temple-related literature were commendable. He has published 213 books, most of them about Hindu mythology and temple rites. He made a living by selling these books in temples and places of religious gatherings. The selection of Mr. Balan for Padma Shri had evoked criticism from a section of writers who alleged that he was awarded because of his affiliation to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). ‘Not hardcore RSS’ However, Mr. Balan denied the allegations saying that he was not a hardcore RSS man, though he supported the ideology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wifes-pyre-burning-he-receives-padma-shri/article37410357.ece
10 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Probe on into worker’s death||The Pandalam police on Tuesday launched a probe into the death of a 45-year-old migrant labourer. The deceased was identified as Phanidra Das, Malda, West Bengal. His body was found lying on a property near the private bus station, Pandalam, in the morning. He had been residing in a rented building near the Pandalam family health centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-on-into-workers-death/article37410400.ece
10 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Medical college faculty on stir||Doctors attached to the medical education service in the State are on the warpath over the Government’s failure to implement pay revision of faculty in Government medical colleges despite the fact that the revision had been due since 2016. Faculty of medical colleges, under the banner of Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association (KGMCTA), organised protest marches in all medical colleges and staged dharna in front of the offices of the respective Principals on Tuesday. Anomalies in proposals The KGMCTA pointed out that even the Government order (GO) announcing pay revision of medical college teachers had been brought out only in 2020 by the Government, and that too after several agitations by doctors. Even after the GO was issued, the majority of doctors had not received revised payslips. Also, the Government has not paid heed to the anomalies in the pay revision proposals that the KGMCTA had pointed out. After the pay revision, the salary of doctors in the entry cadre had gone down. There were also several issues regarding promotion and transfer of doctors that the Government had chosen to ignore, even though the Government had been apprised of this several times, the KGMCTA said. If the Government continued to disregard the “just” demands of doctors, KGMCTA would have to intensify the agitation, the KGMCTA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-college-faculty-on-stir/article37410534.ece
10 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala’s interests to be protected during PAP pact renewal, says CM||The Kerala Government is trying to renew the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP) agreement with Tamil Nadu through negotiations by fully protecting the State’s interests, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan informed the Assembly on Tuesday. Efforts to review the water-sharing pact had begun in 1988. But a final decision is awaited as consensus is yet to be reached on issues including the sharing of surplus water, Mr. Vijayan said. Tamil Nadu had agreed to a review of the PAP agreement when the Chief Ministers of both States met in Thiruvananthapuram on September 25, 2019. As decided then, both had formed a Secretary-level committee with five members each from both sides to work out the details. The panel has met thrice so far. On the basis of decisions taken at these meetings, a consensus has been reached with Tamil Nadu for creating a ‘preliminary framework’ for reviewing the pact, he said. As demanded by Kerala, Tamil Nadu has consented to increase the meetings of the Joint Water Regulatory Board which oversees the division and distribution of water under the pact, the Chief Minister said. NGT directives In line with the directives of the National Green Tribunal, Kerala has demanded that the natural flow (e-flow) in all rivers under the PAP agreement is maintained. The State has also demanded the inclusion of a provision for it in the renewed agreement. Work on strengthening the Poringalkuthu dam is expected to be awarded soon. Once this work is completed, more water can be diverted to Edamalayar, thus regulating the flow to the Chalakudy river. The dam strengthening work is being taken up on the basis of a report submitted by an expert panel appointed after the 2018 floods and also in line with studies conducted by the dam safety review panel, he said. The State’s demand for a review of the PAP agreement is several years old. The pact was inked on May 29, 1970 with retrospective effect from November 9, 1958. Although it was to be reviewed after 30 years, in 1988, the two States could not reach a consensus despite several rounds of talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keralas-interests-to-be-protected-during-pap-pact-renewal-says-cm/article37410351.ece
10 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||On Children’s Day, these ‘PM’ and ‘President’ take charge||The child leaders for the Children’s Day celebrations organised by the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare on November 14 have been announced. Nidhi P.A., a Class IV student of Carmel Girls Higher Secondary School here, is the children’s ‘Prime Minister’, while Uma S., a Class VI student of Government Higher Secondary School for Girls, Cotton Hill, is the ‘President’. Devaki D.S. who has been selected as the children’s ‘Speaker’ is a Class VII student of Carmel Girls Higher Secondary School. Minna Renjith, a Class III student of Christ Nagar Central School, Kowdiar, will deliver the welcome address at the public function. Dhwany Ashmy, a Class II student of Nirmala Bhavan Higher Secondary School, Kowdiar, will deliver the vote of thanks. Elocution contest The child leaders have been selected from among the top five winners of an elocution contest organised by the council for lower and upper primary students. Nidhi will inaugurate the State-level online public meeting to be held here on November 14. Uma will preside over the function, and Devaki will deliver the keynote address. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Minister for Women and Child Development Veena George, Minister for Transport Antony Raju and city Mayor Arya Rajendran will deliver Children’s Day messages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-childrens-day-these-pm-and-president-take-charge/article37410537.ece
10 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Only 7.2% cases in treatment centres||The State reported 6,409 new cases of COVID-19 when 68,692 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The cumulative case burden now stands at 50,27,318. The case fatality stands at 34,362 with the State adding 384 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Tuesday. These include 47 deaths which occurred in the past few days and 337 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government. The active case pool had 71,020 patients on Tuesday, with 6,319 recoveries. According to the Health Department, only 7.2% of the active cases are currently in hospitals or first-line/second-line treatment centres The current ICU occupancy in both public and private hospitals went up on Tuesday to 1,057 (1,001 cases on Monday). The number of patients requiring ventilator support also went up sharply from 406 to 431 on Tuesday. Among the districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 972, followed by Kollam 789, Ernakulam 767, Thrissur 734, Kozhikode 684, Kottayam 521, Kannur 481, Pathanamthitta 334, Palakkad 285, Idukki 242, Alappuzha 225, Malappuram 155, Wayanad 118 and Kasaragod 102. Vaccination The State has delivered over four crore doses (4,02,10,637 doses) of COVID-19 vaccine so far amongst the eligible population (those above 18 years of age), as first and second doses, Health Minister Veena George said in a statement here . A total of 95.26% of the eligible population in the State has received the first dose, while 55.29% have received both doses and are fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/only-72-cases-in-treatment-centres/article37410360.ece
10 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Stars project gets under way with workshop||Stars (Strengthening teaching-learning and results for States), a project aimed at improving the quality and governance of school education, got under way in the State on Tuesday. Kerala is among the six States where the project, partially funded by World Bank, is being implemented. The others being Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha. It will be implemented through the Samagra Shiksha. General Education principal secretary A.P.M. Mohammed Hanish inaugurated a one-day workshop in connection with Stars. In his inaugural address, Mr. Hanish said programmes that could provide more direction to the State Government’s public education policy and could be implemented along with current education projects had been included in Stars. The project will be implemented in areas such as pre-school education, valuation, teacher training, academic management and skill-based education. Experts take part The workshop discussed details of training programmes for which implementation approval for this academic year has been received. Experts from various areas of education participated in the workshop, which was presided over by State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) director J. Prasad. Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, project director A.P. Kuttykrishnan was among those present. Samagra State programme officer C. Radhakrishnan Nair presented the project.  Kerala is among the six States where the project is being implemented||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stars-project-gets-under-way-with-workshop/article37410535.ece
10 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CMs to meet next month||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) Government has reiterated its commitment to build a new dam at Mullaperiyar amidst a raging debate on some of its recent decisions on the issue. Electricity Minister K. Krishnankuttysaid in the Assembly on Tuesday, said the Government remained firm on its desire for a new dam and that a Chief Minister-level meeting would be held next month to arrive at a consensus with Tamil Nadu on the demand. “Water for Tamil Nadu and safety for the lives and property in Kerala is the motto,” Mr. Krishnankutty said. A environmental impact assessment (EIA) was under way for constructing a new dam. The Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEFCC) had granted conditional clearance for the terms of reference proposed by the Kerala Government in 2018. Clearance While the apex court had approved Kerala’s demand to construct a new dam 366 metres downstream of the existing one, the State would require clearance from the MoEFCC and nod from the court and Tamil Nadu Government to proceed with the construction, he said..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cms-to-meet-next-month/article37410365.ece
10 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Dubai expo: Centre denies travel nod for officials||Industries Minister P. Rajeeve on Tuesday expressed strong protest over the Central Government’s denial of permission for two senior officials from Kerala to travel to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to oversee the arrangements for the State’s participation in the World Expo in Dubai. In a pressnote issued here, he said the Ministry of External Affairs had refused travel permission for Principal Secretary, Industries, K. Elangovan and Industries Director S. Harikishore. The two officials had sought permission to visit the UAE from November 10 to 12 to supervise the setting up of the Kerala pavilion and other arrangements at the expo. ‘No reason cited’ The Ministry, however, informed the State Government that the request had been turned down. “No reason has been cited in the communication from the Ministry. Instead, it has suggested that the officials travel to UAE in the first week of December.” The Minister said the Kerala pavilion to be held from December 24 to January 6 was envisaged as a platform to showcase the potential of the State in the industries and tourism sectors on a global arena. “It is with this objective that the Government had decided to send the senior officers to Dubai to organise the pavilion and make arrangements,” he added.  The pavilion is envisaged as a platform to showcase the State’s potential in the industries and tourism sectors. P. Rajeeve Industries Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dubai-expo-centre-denies-travel-permission-for-officials/article37410336.ece
10 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Licence issued to 928 snake handlers||The Forest Department has issued licences to 928 snake handlers in the State. As many as 1,657 people have been imparted training in rescuing snakes that venture into human habitations, Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran informed the Assembly on Tuesday. The Minister said the Government has detected the presence of rackets that engaged in illegal possession and smuggling of snakes in the State. The Forest Department has registered 19 cases of such nature thus far. The nefarious dealings were unearthed in Kollam southern forest circle (three cases), Palakkad eastern forest circle (seven), Kannur forest circle (six) and Thrissur central forest circle (three). Legal action has been initiated under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 in such cases, said Mr. Saseendran.  A.K. Saseendran says Govt. has noted rackets engaged in illegal possession and smuggling of snakes in the State||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/licence-issued-to-928-snake-handlers/article37410499.ece
10 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Legal Services Day observed||Legal Services Day was observed here on Tuesday under the umbrella of the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) and the taluk legal service committee. District Enquiry Commissioner and Special Judge M.B. Snehalatha inaugurated the programme. Taluk legal service committee chairperson and CBI special judge K. Sanilkumar presided. A session for paralegal volunteers and panel lawyers was held by Bhuvanendran Nair, lawyer. An interaction between jurists and students was also held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/legal-services-day-observed/article37410536.ece
10 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man, son killed in scooter accident||A 36-year old man and his son were killed after their scooter rammed a KSRTC bus near Kazhakuttam on Tuesday. Another person was critically injured in the incident. Woman injured The Thumba police identified the deceased as Rajesh who hailed from Pazhayi in Thrissur district and his five-year old son, Rithwik. Rajesh’s wife Suchitha (27), who was also travelling, was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital here with serious injuries. The incident occurred close to the Infosys campus around 12.30 p.m. when the trio was on their way to meet a family friend at Kilimanoor. The bus that was headed in the same direction along the NH-66 bypass had stopped at the Chithira Nagar bus stop for passengers to alight. The family had been settled at Mudavoorpara near Balaramapuram for nearly four years. Rajesh used to work as a sales executive in an aluminium fabrication company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-son-killed-in-scooter-accident/article37410539.ece
10 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Action against IG likely in Monson case||The State Government is reportedly contemplating disciplinary action against at least one ranking police officer for his controversial association with suspected confidence trickster and alleged fake antiquity dealer Monson Mavunkal. The Crime Branch interviewed an Inspector General of Police who Monson repeatedly dropped names to impress others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/action-against-ig-likely-in-monson-case/article37410362.ece
10 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One transfer list published||As many as 43,297 applicants got school/combination transfer when transfer allotment for Plus One admission was published on Tuesday afternoon. The number of applications received for school/combination transfer to 37,530 seats was 63,023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-one-transfer-list-published/article37410363.ece
10 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Assembly passes two health Bills||The State Government has extended the validity of the provisional registration of clinical establishments under the Kerala Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2019 from two years to four years from the date of issuance of the certificate of registration. The amendment to the KCE Act, presented as Kerala Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2021 in the State legislature and which had been referred to the Health subject committee, was unanimously passed by the Assembly here on Tuesday. Health Minister Veena George, who moved the motion to pass the amendment to the KCE Act, said that the Government had to give an extension on the validity of the provisional registration of clinical establishments from two years to four years as COVID-19 pandemic had slowed down all procedures. On Tuesday, the Assembly also passed unanimously the Kerala State Medical Practitioners Bill, 2021 which seeks to enable the registration of practitioners in the field of modern medicine, Indian systems of medicine and homoeopathic medicine in the State and the regulation of qualifications required for such registration by unifying the Travancore-Cochin Medical Practitioners Act, 1953 and the Madras Medical Registration Act, 1914 applicable to the Malabar region||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/assembly-passes-two-health-bills/article37410368.ece
10 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital district logs 972 new COVID cases, 908 recoveries||The capital district recorded 972 new COVID-19 cases and 908 recoveries on Tuesday as the number of active cases stood at 10,108. A test positivity rate (TPR) of 10.4% was recorded in the district on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-district-logs-972-new-covid-cases-908-recoveries/article37410538.ece
10 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA schemes disrupted in floods: Minister||The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) suffered the disruption of 79 of its supply schemes in the floods and other natural calamities that affected the State during the last few years. However, all except two in Idukki have been restored, Electricity Minister K. Krishnankutty, who spoke on behalf of Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine, informed the Assembly on Tuesday. The affected schemes of the KWA included those in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, Ernakulam and Thrissur. Mr. Krishnankutty said the accumulation of silt in reservoirs during the floods of 2018 and 2019 has reduced their capacity by 40%. But timely operations have prevented the dams from overflowing, even during the recent spate of downpour. The Government has adopted steps to desilt reservoirs and increase their capacities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-schemes-disrupted-in-floods-minister/article37410540.ece
10 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt., UDF lock horns over Kozhikode RTC complex||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition walked out of the Assembly on Tuesday, accusing the Government of corruption in leasing out the expansive Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) commercial complex in Kozhikode to a builder at far less than the prevailing market rate. Congress legislator T. Siddique, who sought leave of the House for an adjournment motion on the matter, said the Cabinet had rigged the lease bid to favour the businessperson. The Government had slashed the caution deposit for the 1,13,328 sq ft premium space from Rs. 50 crores to Rs. 17 crores. It allowed the KSRTC to enter into a 37-year rental agreement with the builder at a lease rate brazenly advantageous to the tenant. It had waived stamp and registration duties and given the builder State GST relief. Minister’s reply Transport Minister Antony Raju said the lease agreement was on very favourable terms for the Government. The rent exceeded the current market rate. It would cover the costs, post profit, and the complex would return to the State after the lease period. The complex was emblematic of UDF’s corruption. The Oommen Chandy Government had initiated it and three UDF Ministers had overseen its construction. A Vigilance inquiry was on to fix responsibility Speaker M. B. Rajesh rejected the plea for the adjournment motion because it lacked the “urgency” of Rule 50 Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Assembly. However, the Speaker allowed the UDF to present its case briefly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-udf-lock-horns-over-kozhikode-rtc-complex/article37410361.ece
10 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Test for KITE membership||An aptitude test for receiving membership of the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education’s Little KITEs IT clubs for the 2020-23 period will be held on November 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-for-kite-membership/article37410364.ece
10 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Music festival from Nov. 12||The Shadkala Govinda Marar Music Festival organised by the Kerala Sangeeta Nataka Akademi will begin from November 12. The three-day festival will be organised at the birthplace of Marar at Ramamangalam in Ernakulam. The akademi has been organising such festivals even amidst the challenges posed by COVID-19 to energise the art and cultural sector, said akademi secretary Prabhakaran Pazhassi. The festival will be staged at the Kala Samiti auditorium on November 12 with Keli staged by Thazhathedathu Muraleedhara Marar and team. Akademi vice chairman Xavier Pulppat will officially inaugurate the festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/music-festival-from-nov-12/article37410493.ece
10 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||SFI takes out march to KAU||The Students Federation of India (SFI) on Tuesday took out a protest march to Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) in connection with the death of a student of the university. Mahesh, a second year BSc agriculture student, committed suicide at the college hostel on Sunday. The SFI has been alleging that the student killed himself following ragging in the college. They took out a protest march to the university demanding action against those responsible for the death of the student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sfi-takes-out-march-to-kau/article37410494.ece
10 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Dinraj wins State cartoon award||Dinraj of Valapad has won the State cartoon award 2019-20 instituted by the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi. The award carries a purse of Rs. 50,000 and citation. The cartoon titled ‘Raja and Maharaja’ has won him the award. Anoop Radhakrishnan of Ponnurunni and Ratheesh Ravi of Perumanoor have been selected for honourable mention. The awards carry Rs. 25,000 and a citation each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dinraj-wins-state-cartoon-award/article37410359.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festival spirit||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/festival-spirit/article37410496.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Voice of the dispossessed||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/voice-of-the-dispossessed/article37410367.ece
10 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SSBN College to not hike course fees this year||The managing committee of the Sri Sai Baba National College (SSBN) has decided not to enhance the fee structure of all courses for the current academic year following an appeal by District Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan after a two-hour discussion with the committee members in the Collectorate on Tuesday. The management will spend money from its reserves to pay salaries for the new teachers to be recruited in place of 12 surrendered aided lecturers. Students of the college were upset as the managing committee of the college had sent a notice to all the Intermediate students to pay the difference of amount between the fees for aided seats and non-aided seats fixed by the management. While Anantapur District Educational Trust Chairman P.L.N. Reddy claimed that Monday’s incident was a political manipulation by the CPI(M), Telugu Desam Party and Jana Sena Party, other committee members differed with his opinion and said they had called the police into the college premises when a large number of students gathered there. Internal differences between the members in the governing council came to the fore at the press conference organised by the Anantapur District Educational Trust to clarify Monday’s incident. One of the vocal governing council members and lawyer P.G. Vittal alleged that opinions of all members were not being taken into consideration before taking a decision, and that fee enhancement was one of them. He was of the opinion that as the college land was purchased and donated by philanthropist Sirivaram Adinarayana in 1942 for public education, the Trust must adhere to principles and pointed out that the majority of the infrastructure was developed with public or government contribution. Mr. P.L.N. Reddy said the management decided to surrender aided teachers as they wanted to go back to the government service and the enhancement of fees amount was fixed at 50% of the amount suggested by the government. About 90% of the students in the college study under a fee reimbursement scheme of the government and cannot afford to pay on their own said a Trust member V.K. Ranga Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ssbn-college-to-not-hike-course-fees-this-year/article37410465.ece
10 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students take to streets condemning police action at SSBN College||Condemning the police action in Sri Sai Baba National Degree and PG College on Monday, in which one girl student was injured, members of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Student Federation of India(SFI), All India Democratic Students’ Organisation(AIDSO) and Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha(BJYM) organised rallies and rasta roko on Tuesday. Every major street in the city was blocked from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. even as police personnel were deployed at all major junctions and kept a watch. While some students were arrested at the Saptagiri Circle, some were arrested near the SSBN College where they were headed to stage a dharna. The SSBN College announced holiday for two days on Tuesday and Wednesday. The CPI(M) district leaders held a rasta roko at the beginning of the flyover near Tower Clock Junction, which blocked the traffic for half an hour. Deputy Superintendent of Police G. Veeraghava Reddy arrested the agitating students and the CPI(M) activists and shifted them to II Town police station. Speaking to the media, CPIM district secretary V. Rambhupal said that the Anantapur District National Education Trust closed its Telugu medium school that had a strength of 452 students, many of whom were unable to join any other institution. The SSBN College run by the Trust gave notice to the 2,037 students of degree and 600 of the Intermediate colleges to pay double the fee they were paying as they had surrendered the ‘aided’ status. The fees reimbursement amount from the government was not being received by many students for the past two years, he alleged. “The institutions of the Trust were set up by public donations and land/buildings given by philanthropists, but now the managing trustees are trying to profit from it by converting it into a private educational institution,” he said. ‘Stir will continue’ BJP and BJYM activists took out a rally and condemned the State government decision to privatise the aided schools and colleges and promised to continue the agitation till action was taken on the police personnel responsible for causing injury to the girl student.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-take-to-streets-condemning-police-action-at-ssbn-college/article37410467.ece
10 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||DigiPay facility opened at Anantapur railway station||South Central Railway(SCR) General Manager Gajanan Mallya opened a digital payment facility at the Anantapur railway station on Tuesday and declared it a DiGi-Pay station for implementation and operation of user-friendly digital payments. Anantapur Member of Parliament Talari Rangaiah discussed the progress of the several works and possible improvement in amenities for passengers. Mr. Mallya undertook his annual inspection and visited Bellary, Gooty, Anantapur and Dharmavaram sections on Tuesday. He was accompanied by Guntakal DRM K. Venkatramana Reddy. Solar plant inaugurated As part of the National Solar Mission and reduction of energy consumption, the General Manager inaugurated a 10 Kwp solar plant to move towards Net Zero Energy at Hagari Railway station. He inspected the electronic in-motion weighbridge in Guntakal and conducted a speed test from on the Guntakal-Gooty section. Safety inspection of the tracks and curves was conducted by examining major and minor bridges, level crossing gates on the Ramarajupalli – Kalluru section. He inaugurated a 10 Kwp Solar Power Plant at the Kalluru station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/digipay-facility-opened-at-anantapur-railway-station/article37410464.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Introspect, ex-Minister tells Muslims||While the plight of Indian Muslims during partition has been widely debated, it is their role in socio-economic spheres and politics, particularly during elections, that draws attention. Veteran Congress leader and former Union Minister K. Rahman Khan’s latest book Indian Muslims: The Way Forward , reflects on the present socio-economic conditions of Indian Muslims and their political leadership. The four-time Rajya Sabha member and former Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman, Dr. Khan argues that Muslims should concentrate on educational and economic development and not “allow themselves to wallow in victimhood syndrome”. Despite their numbers and resources, the author contends that Muslims are themselves responsible for their socio-economic and educational backwardness. Two disputes Referring to the Shah Bano case and Babri Masjid demolition, Dr. Khan asks, “What did the Muslims get at the end of these two disputes?” Muslims should stop blaming others for their present plight, he argues. The book, published by Chennai-based Notion Press, suggests various practical reforms, and ways of harmonious inter-community relations. Speaking to The Hindu about the book, he said Muslims have been traditionally backing the Congress, but “the party has not been able to build a credible political leadership in the community.” Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad, who fought for the country’s freedom and served as a Minister in Jawaharlal Nehru’s Cabinet, was the “last acceptable leader for all sections of Muslims”, he argued. On considering Muslims as a vote-bank during elections by political parties, Dr. Khan argued that it was a misnomer to consider the community, which has more than 200 million population, as “minority”. “Don’t consider yourself as the minority, empower yourself and be part of India,” the author said. The community supported the Congress because of its secular ideology and firm belief in democracy. With the Congress losing power in many States, the author said the community explored alternatives and supported the SP and the BSP in Uttar Pradesh and the TMC in West Bengal. Asserting their space Moving forward, Dr. Khan said the community should evolve a strong political leadership to formulate the democratic space of Indian Muslims as equal citizens and chalk out a strategy to assert their place in the country’s political power structures. Besides the failure to provide good political leadership, Dr. Khan said the community had also not been able to provide good religious leadership owing to many factions. The Indian Muslims, the book suggests, should engage in serious introspection and chart a positive way forward. “They should be good Muslims and good Indian citizens, useful members of the wider Indian society,” it says, adding, “Let them build confidence in themselves, rather than feel insecure and weak.” The author deals with major issues facing the community in five chapters in the book.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/introspect-ex-minister-tells-muslims/article37409988.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Examine probe report in CD case, court tells SIT||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed Soumendu Mukherjee, Additional Commissioner of Police, Bengaluru City (West Zone), to examine the final investigation report prepared by the Investigation Officer (IO) in the CD scandal case allegedly involving the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. The court said the final probe report, prepared by the IO, should have been placed before Mr. Mukherjee, who is the head of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) supervising the investigations conducted in various first information reports (FIRs) registered in connection with the scandal. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the directions while hearing a batch of petitions related to the alleged scandal. “We are of the considered view that once the SIT was constituted and the same is headed by senior police officer Mr. Mukherjee, the final investigation report prepared by the IO, M.C. Kavitha, an Assistant Commissioner of Police, should have been placed before the head of the SIT for appropriate order,” the Bench observed in its order. While directing the IO’s report, which is already submitted to the court in a sealed cover, to be placed before Mr. Mukherjee, the Bench said the SIT should re-submit the report to the court after its head takes appropriate decision on the final report prepared by the IO. Mr. Mukherjee, in response to the court’s query during an earlier hearing in August on whether he is prepared to review the investigation report, had informed the court that he would stick to his submission made in writing that he had not supervised the probe between April 28 and July 29 as he was on medical leave during that period. The court, in its August 12 order, had recorded that “the only inference which can be drawn is that the head of the SIT is not willing to look into the investigation carried out during his long absence of about three months by other members of the team.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/examine-probe-report-in-cd-case-court-tells-sit/article37409986.ece
10 November 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adivasi girl gets help to chase IIT dream||The financial assistance provided by Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao and a host of other philanthropists to Karam Srilatha, the 17-year-old Adivasi girl from the interior Mamidigudem village in the border mandal of Charla, has boosted her morale giving her the much-needed momentum to chase her dream of studying engineering in the elite Indian Institute of Technology-BHU (IIT-BHU) in Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi. The nondescript village in Bhadrachalam Agency shot into limelight after Srilatha belonging to a poor farm labourer’s family bagged a seat in the prestigious IIT-BHU by securing 919 rank in the JEE (Advanced)-2021. She secured high marks in her Intermediate course, which she studied in the Telangana Tribal Welfare Residential Educational Institution (TS Gurukulam) in Nagarkurnool district. An article published in these columns on Sunday shone a spotlight on the Adivasi girl’s outstanding achievement and her perseverance. Readers extend help Offers of financial aid poured in from a host of generous persons, including several readers of The Hindu from various walks of life to support her educational pursuits. In a swift response to a Nalgonda-based doctor’s tweet about the meritorious Adivasi girl from a poor family as highlighted in these columns, Mr Rama Rao invited Srilatha and her parents to Pragathi Bhavan in Hyderabad, where he handed over financial assistance to Srilatha to meet her education-related expenses on Monday, sources said. He also assured to extend all help to Srilatha to enable her complete her B.Tech in a hassle-free manner. Several other donors including some members of various Adivasi organisations also reached out to the poor tribal girl with assurances to provide all possible help to the latter to continue with her further studies. The Tribal Welfare Department has already directed the officials of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Bhadrachalam, to facilitate her to apply for post-matric scholarship through e-pass portal and enable her get reimbursement of tuition fee in full and maintenance charges (mess charges) under the Telangana government’s scholarship scheme. Meanwhile, the Charla police on Tuesday handed over a financial assistance of Rs. 12,000 to Srilatha following the initiative of Bhadrachalam ASP G. Vineeth to support the talented tribal girl from the remotest corner of Telangana. “I owe a lot to Mr K.T. Rama Rao and all those who reached out to me with support and encouragement,” remarked Srilatha, who returned to Charla, located about 320 km from Hyderabad, on Tuesday morning. Speaking to The Hindu , she said: “Their (philanthropists) acts of kindness will inspire many other girls like me hailing from remote areas to continue with further studies in premier institutions of higher learning to become productive members of society.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adivasi-girl-gets-help-to-chase-iit-dream/article37410306.ece
10 November 2021||BHIMAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police conduct checks at bus, railway stations||Officials of the police, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and the Prohibition and Excise Department conducted checks at the bus and railway stations in West Godavari district on Tuesday. The teams led by Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma and Narsapuram Deputy Superintendent of Police P. Veeranjaneya Reddy conducted checks on moving buses and checked the luggage of passengers. Mr. Sharma said that checks were conducted as part of the special action plan, to prevent illegal transportation of ganja, gutkha, ID liquor, Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL), jewellery and other banned products. “We checked the buses on Ravulapalem-Bhimavaram, Narsapuram-Eluru, Rajamahmundry-Bhimavaram, Narsapuram-Visakhapatnam and other routes. Trains coming from different places were also checked with the sniffer dog teams and on the platforms,” the SP said. Suspects taken into custody Raids were conducted on gambling dens, pan shops, provisional stores, hotels and other places in Undi, Tanuku, Kovvur, Jangareddygudem, Eluru and other places. Police took a few suspects into custody, Mr. Sharma added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-conduct-checks-at-bus-railway-stations/article37410460.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Action will be taken against Smart City contractors: Stalin||Alleging botched implementation of the Smart City project during the AIADMK Government, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said a Commission of Inquiry would be constituted and action taken against contractors who implemented the project. Speaking to reporters after visiting rain-affected and inundated areas in the city for the third consecutive day, Mr. Stalin said: “In the name of implementing the Smart City project, the State Government received several crores of rupees from the Union Government. We do not know what they [the State] did with it [the funds]. A Commission of Inquiry will be constituted after this [rain] is over.” Mr. Stalin said: “No work was done by the Local Administration Department headed by Velumani [Minister in the AIADMK government]. They have received commission.” Asked whether action would be taken against contractors and those who took up contracts of the project, he said action would definitely be taken against them. Asked how the situation was in the city, the Chief Minister said: “Work is under way in rain-affected and inundated areas.” Asked whether inundation had reduced, he said it had come down to some extent, but not entirely. At another interaction with reporters, Mr. Stalin said that though the AIADMK had said that it had allocated Rs. 5,000 crore for restoring rain-affected areas, it did not look like actual work was carried out. Since coming to power, the DMK has desilted channels up to a length of 771 km, he said. “Last time, rainwater stagnated for 10-15 days. But yesterday, water drained when there was a let up in rain,” he said. Work to drain water with 560 pumps is under way in low-lying areas and places where Metro work is on, he said. On the criticism by AIADMK leader Edappadi K. Palaniswami over the delay in deputing IAS officers for carrying out relief activities, Mr. Stalin said the former Chief Minister was frustrated by the functioning of the DMK regime, but the government had gone about doing its duty. On Tuesday, Mr. Stalin visited rain-affected areas in Ambattur, Kolathur, Maduravoyal, Villivakkam and Virugambakkam. Mr. Stalin said he had issued orders for distributing food in Amma Unavagams for free to people until the rain ends. Besides, sambar rice, curd rice and chappattis would be prepared in community kitchens and distributed to those affected by the rain on behalf of the Greater Chennai Corporation. He also visited Kolathur, his Assembly constituency, and distributed relief materials to residents. He also visited the Sembium Traders’ Association Wedding Hall, where he tasted the food that was being prepared for distribution. Ministers, MPs, MLAs and senior officials accompanied the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/smart-city-project-action-will-be-taken-against-contractors-says-stalin/article37410114.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain lets up, but woes of Chennai continue||On a day when Chennai had some respite from the rain, inundation cleared up in a few areas, but people were stranded and in need of help on Tuesday as the stagnant water was yet to be drained. Residents are approaching the next couple of days with dread as heavy rain has been forecast. HC warning The Madras High Court warned the Greater Chennai Corporation that it would take up a suo motu public interest litigation petition on the travails of residents due to waterlogging, if the situation did not improve by Friday. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said action would be taken against the contractor implementing Smart City. In the last 24 hours, Chennai recorded 3.2 cm of rain till 8 a.m. on Tuesday. The weather office has issued a red alert in Chennai for Wednesday and Thursday as the low-pressure area that had formed on Monday is likely to concentrate as a depression. The government announced a holiday for schools and colleges in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu, Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Thiruvarur, and Mayiladuthurai on November 10 and 11. A holiday has been declared for schools and colleges in Pudukottai, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Madurai, Dindigul and Virudhunagar districts on November 10. Schools in Tiruchi and Ramanathapuram will be closed on November 10. The toll in the rain has risen to five and over 500 huts have been damaged, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rain-lets-up-but-woes-of-chennai-continue/article37410091.ece
10 November 2021||GUDIVADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Services of Mahila Police lauded||Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal has said that Mahila Police, who were merged into the Police Department, were helping the police in detecting critical and sensational cases. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had launched the Mahila Police system in Ward and Grama Sachivalayams two years ago, and recently merged them with the Police Department. The aim of appointing Mahila Police was to provide protection for women and the needy in rural areas, he said. “Mahila Police have mingled in villages and are bringing law and order, women and child protection, family and other issues to the notice of the police. Besides, they are helping the police by attending bandobust duties,” Mr. Kaushal said. The SP, DSP and other officers presented awards to 18 Mahila Police personnel, who rendered good services at a programme held here on Tuesday. A Mahila Police, helped the Mahilipatnam police, in tracing the kidnapped infant in just a few hours, the SP said. Mr. Kaushal asked them to develop more information network in villages. “The Mahila Police gave information on ganja smuggling, ID liquor manufacturing units, child marriages, helped in reuniting missing senior citizens and children, alerting the police on anti-social elements,” the SP said. He asked the police officers to make use of their services. Later, Mr. Siddharth interacted with the Mahila Police and enquired about their problems. “The Mahila Police are trying to bridge the gap between the police and different sections of people in the society,” said Gudivada Deputy Superintendent of Police N. Satyanandam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/services-of-mahila-police-lauded/article37410558.ece
10 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to attend National Education Day function||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will be in Guntur on Thursday to take part in the National Education Day and National Minorities Welfare Day Celebrations being observed on the 134th birth anniversary of Bharat Ratna Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, India’s first Minister for Education. The programme spanning about 90 minutes would be held at the GMCANA auditorium on the premises of Guntur Medical College. On Tuesday, Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita, Collector Vivek Yadav, MLC Lella Appireddy and SP K. Arif Hafeez inspected the arrangements, including parking, on the GMC premises. Mr. Vivek Yadav said that 500 people would be seated in the auditorium in adherence to COVID-19 protocols. National Education Day is being celebrated every year since 2008, when the UPA government decided that November 11, the birthday of Abul Kalam Azad, should be celebrated as National Education Day in remembrance of one of the greatest scholars and statesmen India had produced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-to-attend-national-education-day-function/article37410052.ece
10 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appointment of YSRCP leaders as Smart City Corporation chiefs invalid, says BJP||BJP State spokesperson Y. Malakondayya on Tuesday alleged that the appointment of YSRCP leaders as chairpersons of the Kakinada, Tirupati and Visakhapatnam Smart City Corporations is invalid as per the guidelines of the Smart City Mission, which stipulate that the posts be given only to officials at the rank of Municipal Commissioner or Collector. Addressing a press conference here, Mr. Malakondayya said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy provided plum posts to his party leaders by appointing them as heads of the three Smart City Corporations which are being funded by the Central government in contravention of norms. Eligibility criteria “The Chairperson of the Special Purpose Vehicle (Smart City) will be the Divisional Commissioner/Collector/Municipal Commissioner/CEO of the Urban Development Authority as decided by the State government,” the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs had said in response to an an RTI query filed by BJP leader Duvvuri Subramanyam on the eligibility criteria for the appointment of Smart City chairpersons. “The recent appointment of YSRCP leader Alli Rajababu as the Kakinada Smart City Corporation is invalid. Similarly, the appointment of the chairpersons of Tirupati and Visakhapatnam Smart City Corporations is invalid. The State BJP will apprise the Governor and the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) of the issue,” Mr. Malakondayya said. Mr. Malakondayya has stated that the Union Ministry has granted Rs. 1,000 crore to each Smart City Corporation for all-around development and the State government should have a financial contribution for the projects. “The replacement of officials with the political leaders in the appointment of the chairpersons of the Smart Cities in Andhra Pradesh will dilute the purpose and goals of the Smart City Mission,” said Mr. Subramanyam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appointment-of-ysrcp-leaders-as-smart-city-corporation-chiefs-invalid-says-bjp/article37410516.ece
10 November 2021||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special cell created||A special cell was set up at the District Medical and Health Office here for the registration of families next to those who succumbed to the COVID-19 for receiving the ex gratia of Rs. 50,000. DMHO K.V.S. Gowreeswara Rao has said that the cell would function between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-cell-created/article37410515.ece
10 November 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor shops a source of nuisance, says Kerala HC||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday observed that it wanted to ensure that teetotallers are spared of the problems faced by them due to the functioning of liquor shops near their residence or due to long queues in front of the shops. Justice Devan Ramachandran, while hearing a contempt of court case relating to the shifting of a liquor shop, observed that it was an open secret that every shop caused great vexation to children and women and parents feared that it would be a bad influence on the future generation. Therefore, instances of extreme nuisance being caused in the neighbourhood of a liquor shop could not be lost sight of. It impeached on the Constitutional right of the citizen to live a life with dignity. Govt. proposal Meanwhile, S. Kannan, senior government pleader appearing for the Excise Commissioner, submitted that the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco) had requested the Government to sanction 175 new liquor shops in the State. He said that compared to the area and population of the State with that of neighbouring States, the number of outlets in the State — 306 — was less. As a result, large-scale rush was witnessed during peak hours in front of the shops. Besides, Bevco had walk-in facilities in 95 shops while 30 Consumerfed-operated shops had walk-in facilities. Ranjith Thampan, counsel for Bevco, submitted that the only solution to the problem was to have walk-in counters with sufficient parking space. The court also directed the Excise Commissioner to apprise the court of further steps taken in the matter and posted the case on November 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/liquor-shops-a-source-of-nuisance-says-kerala-hc/article37409993.ece
10 November 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tree felling order issued after consensus: official||A consensus on granting permission to Tamil Nadu to fell trees downstream of the Mullaperiyar baby dam was reached at two meetings held by the Additional Chief Secretary, Water Resources, on September 15 and 17, says Bennichen Thomas, Chief Wildlife Warden (CWW), Kerala, in an explanation submitted to the Government for issuing an order to this effect on November 5. The order has since been put on hold. In a detailed report, a copy of which is available with The Hindu , Mr. Thomas said the first meeting was held at the office of the Additional Chief Secretary and was attended by the Principal Secretary (Forest and Wildlife), himself and Field Director (Project Tiger), Kottayam, and the second was an inter-State Secretary-level meeting chaired by the Additional Chief Secretary. Mr. Thomas said Tamil Nadu’s Executive Engineer, Water Resources Department, Cumbum, had submitted proposals in 2015 for soiling and tarring of the 5-km ghat road from the Mullaperiyar dam to Vallakadavu and for removing 23 trees downstream of the baby dam. Both proposals were returned by the Deputy Director, Periyar East Division, citing shortcomings, following which fresh proposals were submitted. Road repair proposal The proposal for repairing the ghat road, which falls outside the leased area of the Mullaperiyar dam, was forwarded by Mr. Thomas with his remarks to the Government on August 25 “for the consideration of State Board for Wildlife.” Neither the Deputy Director, Periyar East Division, nor the CWW recommended the proposal. Explaining his reasons for issuing the November 5 order allowing Tamil Nadu to cut down 15 trees as against 23, Mr. Thomas cited the Supreme Court judgments of 2006 and 2014 which restrained Kerala and its officers from causing any objection to dam strengthening. He cited the ‘consensus’ arrived at in the two meetings and said the “Forest Department is not fully aware of the cases [going on in the Supreme Court] as the department is not a respondent and that the Mullaperiyar agreement is between the Irrigation Department and Tamil Nadu.” He said the Additional Chief Secretary phoned him on October 26 and requested to “expedite the issuance of the cutting permission for the trees if it can be legally allowed” (sic). At a meeting also attended by the Principal Secretary (Forest and Wildlife), the Additional Chief Secretary repeated the request to grant “the felling permissions without any more delay, so that the present case in the Hon’ble Supreme Court could be defended properly.” Mr. Thomas said while the Periyar Lake lease deed allowed Tamil Nadu to fell trees, underwood and saplings within the lease areas for maintenance works, permission for soiling and tarring of the road “requires Forest Conservation Act clearance and wildlife clearances” as it was outside the lease area. Only after receipt of these permissions would Tamil Nadu be able to transport material to the dam site for strengthening work, he said. Minister’s stance Meanwhile, Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran said Mullaperiyar was an inter-State water issue in which the Forest Department hardly had any say. “Only the question of tree felling was considered by the Forest Department,” he said, adding that a committee led by the Chief Secretary and the Chief Minister would now review the development. Amidst this, T.K. Jose, Additional Chief Secretary (Water Resources), received a letter from the Union Department of Water Resources on November 8 requesting the Kerala Government “to allow the necessary strengthening works of the dam (baby dam and earthen dam) as well as repair works to the approach ghat road...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tree-felling-order-issued-after-consensus-official/article37409994.ece
10 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP only alternative to YSRCP in State: Deodhar||Alleging that Andhra Pradesh is heading towards bankruptcy owing to the ‘misrule’ of the YSRCP government and the ‘huge corruption’ by the ruling party leaders, Bharatiya Janata Party national secretary Sunil Deodhar on Tuesday said that the BJP-Jana Sena Party combine was the only alternative to the people The main opposition TDP, a spent-force now, is shying away from polls, Mr. Deodhar told the media here. He exhorted the people to use the civic polls in Nellore and other places to ‘teach a lesson’ to the YSRCP. “Having grossly mismanaged the State’s finances, the YSRCP government is not in a position even to pay salaries to the staff in time,” he alleged. Referring to the fuel prices, Mr. Deodhar said the Centre had reduced the taxes on petrol and diesel. The fuel prices continued to remain high in Andhra Pradesh when compared to that of NDA-ruled States such as Karnataka and Puducherry. “Even the Congress-ruled Punjab had slashed the VAT on petrol and diesel, but the YSRCP government remains adamant and is collecting Rs. 29.4 and Rs. 21.8 per litre of petrol and diesel respectively. Why is the Chief Minister not reducing the taxes in Andhra Pradesh? He should stop spreading falsehood on fuel prices and fool people,” said Mr. Deodhar.  Accusing the YSRCP of resorting to malpractice during Badvel bypoll , Mr. Deodhar said the BJP would move the Election Commission of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-only-alternative-to-ysrcp-in-state-deodhar/article37410481.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||In SC, Kerala bats for new dam at Mullaperiyar||The Kerala government made a strong pitch in the Supreme Court to decommission the 126-year-old “deteriorated” Mullaperiyar dam operated by Tamil Nadu and build a new one, saying climate change, erratic and heavy rainfall and floods make the spectre of catastrophe real and near. Kerala’s affidavit coincides with a red alert issued in Chennai following torrential rains. The Chennai rains came in the heels of several days of downpour in Kerala. The State also referred to the Uttarakhand flood, also known as the Chamoli disaster of February 2021, mainly attributed to the climate change in the environs of the Nanda Devi National Park, a UNESCO world heritage site. “The only permanent solution for removing the eternal threat owing to the safety concerns of the 126-year-old existing dam in Mullaperiyar and for protecting the safety of the lakhs of people living in the downstream of Mullaperiyar dam, is to build a new dam in the downstream reaches of the existing Mullaperiyar dam,” the State, represented by advocate G. Prakash, said in an affidavit. The suggestion dates back to 1979. Kerala had suggested it in meetings with the Union Minister for Water Resources and the Chief Ministers of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. “But Tamil Nadu had not concurred with the proposal of new dam,” says the affidavit. The State referred to the decommissioning of another 19th century lime concrete structure, the Victoria dam in Australia, which was decommissioned in 1990 following seepages and a new dam constructed. The State urged the court to have the Supervisory Committee reconsider the peak value of upper rule level of 142 feet formulated by Tamil Nadu in consultation with the Central Water Commission (CWC). If the water level at Mullaperiyar was kept at a higher level, releases from it would be affecting the already filled Idukki reservoir, it argued. “A cascading failure of Mullaperiyar and Idukki will result in a catastrophe which is beyond imagination affecting the life and property of 50 lakh of people residing below the Idukki dam,” Kerala said. The ageing dam was situated in the Seismic Zone III area, it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-sc-kerala-bats-for-new-dam-at-mullaperiyar/article37410000.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘KCR trying to divert focus from Huzurabad poll loss’||Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy on Tuesday hit back at Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao saying the Telangana Rashtra Samithi leader’s recent attacks on the BJP and the Centre had been an attempt to divert attention from his party’s loss in the Huzurabad bypoll. Mr. Rao said on Sunday the Centre had no moral right to ask States to reduce VAT on petrol and diesel and accused it of lying about the increase in crude oil prices internationally. He also hit out at the Centre for not procuring paddy and threw his support behind the farmers’ protest. Reacting to the allegations, Mr. Reddy said the Centre had paid the entire cost of procuring raw rice grains. The Centre had procured 40,000 lakh tonnes of raw rice from Telangana but the State wanted the Centre to buy more parboiled rice, the procurement of which had been reduced due to lack of demand. He said the Centre had been communicating with the Telangana Government for the past few years to discourage parboiled rice production. “The Telangana Government failed to explain it to the rice millers.” In response to Mr. Rao’s allegation that the BJP labels its critics “urban Naxals”, Mr. Reddy said: “That is not true. Give one such example.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kcr-trying-to-divert-focus-from-huzurabad-poll-loss/article37409998.ece
10 November 2021||ODIYA CAMP (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Alluri’s chilli strategy takes a new turn in Godavari Agency||This monsoon, the centenary of the ‘chilli post’ war strategy executed against the British by freedom fighter Alluri Sitaramaraju was celebrated. The famed ‘Mirapakai Tapa’ or chilli post involved delivering a post tied to a bunch of chillis by shooting an arrow into an enemy camp. In 1922, Alluri’s strategy shot to fame with the dispatch of a chilli post to the British during the attack on the Chintapalli police station in the Visakhapatnam Agency, adjoining the Godavari Agency. A century later, the chilli scare comes back, in a different way though, to the Agency where the Rampa rebellion (1922-24) thrived during the freedom struggle. Last week, a police team led by SP M. Raveendranath Babu ventured into the Naxal-hit hill areas on the banks of the Sileru river braving heavy rainfall and were shocked by what they saw in the fields there — it was chilli being grown as an intercrop in a ganja field near Odiya camp (village name) in the Chintoor Agency. Along with local tribal people they destroyed the ganja plants in the 10-acre farm expected to yield more than 6,000 kg of the narcotic. “The value of the ganja burnt in the single drive is Rs. 6 crore. We did not touch the chilli plants in the field,” says Mr. Ravindranath Babu. “The raid in the Andhra-Odisha border area has given us more clues on the ganja trade cycle. We need the support of the tribal people to tackle the trade,” he explains. Strict vigil Until now, chilli is regarded as a commercial crop in the East Godavari Agency. Now, the crop comes under scrutiny as gangs from across the country have tapped its potential to be a safe cover for ganja cultivation. “We did not have any clue about ganja being grown in chilli fields. We only knew that it is being grown in encroached forest covers. A coordinated effort will be needed now to curb the activity in these areas,” says Chintoor Division Forest Officer V. Saibaba, who participated in the raid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alluri-sitaramarajus-chilli-strategy-takes-a-new-turn-in-godavari-agency/article37410035.ece
10 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crowd swells as farmers’ ‘maha padayatra’ resumes||Tens of thousands of people thronged the otherwise sleepy Inkollu village as the ‘maha padayatra’ launched by the farmers from Amaravati to Tirupati against the government’s move of setting up three capitals resumed after a day’s break on Tuesday. People from different walks of life including farmers and agricultural labourers took a break from their busy Rabi crop cultivation and accorded a warm welcome to the Amaravati farmers on the dusty lanes of villages en route up to Duddukuru, covering a distance of 15 km. Women came out of their homes to expressed solidarity with the farmers. The long march was more orderly when compared to the first day’s proceedings in Prakasam district on Saturday, thanks to elaborate security arrangements made by a posse of police personnel led by Additional Superintendent of Police B. Ravichandra. The police ensured smooth flow of vehicular traffic. Precautions were taken by the police to avoid mingling of the 157 marching Amaravati farmers with the others. They ensured that all the conditions laid down by the Andhra Pradesh High Court were complied with during the march led by among others Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti leaders A. Siva Reddy and G. Tirupati Rao. At any given point time, people followed the farmers to a distance of 2 km. Expressing solidarity with the farmers from the capital region who had parted with their land, their Prakasam counterparts including women broke coconuts and pumpkins seeking the blessings of Lord Venkateswara for the State’s cause. ‘Save Amaravati’ slogan rent the air as many youngsters including students took part in the walkathon. Budding dancers performed ‘Kolatam’ as flower petals were showered on the marching farmers. A large number of people from other places including Visakhapatnam, Guntur, Vijayawada and Hyderabad, joined the farmers on a 45-day walkathon and chipped in with donations. Activists of the opposition parties including the Telugu Desam Party, Congress, Communist Party of India and CPI (Marxist) expressed their solidarity with the farmers by staging stir against the government’s decision of setting up executive capital in Visakhapatnam, judicial capital in Kurnool and continuing legislative capital at Amaravati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crowd-swells-as-farmers-maha-padayatra-resumes/article37410483.ece
10 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Slash taxes on petrol, diesel: TDP||Activists of the Telugu Desam Party staged a demonstration in front of a fuel-filling station on the Guntur road here on Tuesday demanding that the YSR Congress Party government slash taxes on petrol, diesel and cooking gas and ease the burden on the commonman. The activists led by the party’s city president, K.Nageswara Rao, reminded Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of his poll promise made during his padayatra that on coming to power he would slash taxes on fuel to make them affordable to the common people. They blew horns in unison as a mark of protest and drew the attention of people at the fuel-filling station. Taking a cue from the Centre, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government should also cut taxes as the high cost of fuel had a cascading effect on all essential commodities making the lives of the common people miserable, party women’s wing Prakasam district president Ravula Padmaja said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/slash-taxes-on-petrol-diesel-tdp/article37410469.ece
10 November 2021||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CMs’ meet kindles hope for early solution to water, border disputes||People’s representatives hailed the joint statement issued by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik that both the States would find amicable solutions to the issues pertaining to Jhanjavati project in Vizianagaram district and Neradi barrage on the Vamsadhara river in Srikakulam district. Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishna Das, who accompanied Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy to Bhubaneswar meeting, said that setting up of an institutional mechanism by both the States to resolve the pressing issues including construction of Neradi barrage would be a boon to Srikakulam district. “The Neradi barrage project, which had been pending since 1962, will ensure supply of the Vamsadhara waters to nearly 1 lakh acres,” he said. Srikakulam MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao said that friendly relations between the two States would help people of both Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. Parvatipuram MLA Alajangi Jogarao thanked both the Chief Ministers for taking initiatives to clear all the hurdles for the construction of Jhanjavati project which was designed in 1976. Jhanjavati project “Around 848 acres of land within the jurisdiction of Odisha is needed for the completion of Jhanjavati project. It will provide water to nearly 24,000 acres in the backward Parvatipuram division. We hope that the project will be completed soon with the initiative of the two Chief Ministers. The people of this region will be thankful to Odisha forever, if project is completed without delay,” said Mr. Jogarao. Saluru MLA Peedika Rajannadora hailed the joint statement which mentioned the issues pertaining to disputed Kotia villages. “The issue needs an amicable solution to put a full stop to the tension in the villages on the inter-State border,” he said. The people’s representatives from Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts eagerly waited for the outcome of the meeting of both the Chief Ministers in Bhubaneswar on Tuesday evening. Earlier in the day, they met Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who came to attend for a marriage function of Pathapatnam MLA Reddi Shanti’s daughter and IAS officer Vedita. Along with Assembly Speaker Tammineni Sitharam, Minister for Animal Husbandry and other people’s representatives welcomed Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy in Pathapatnam. Some people’s representatives submitted memorandums to the Chief Minister, explaining the problems about inter-State border dispute and Vamsadhara Phase-2 project. After the completion of his tour in Srikakulam district, the Chief Minister arrived in Visakhapatnam in a helicopter and from there he left for Bhubaneswar in a special plane.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cms-meet-kindles-hope-for-early-solution-to-water-border-disputes/article37410487.ece
10 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||LDF to field Jose K. Mani for RS bypoll||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) will field Kerala Congress (M) chairperson Jose K. Mani for the upcoming byelection to the Rajya Sabha. The seat became vacant after Mr. Mani resigned and defected to the LDF from the United Democratic Front (UDF). Earlier in the day, the LDF met here and decided to leave the seat to the KC(M). Mr. Mani did not attend the LDF meeting. Stephen George represented him. The parliamentary party of the KC(M) met at Pala later in the day and decided to nominate Mr. Mani for the seat. Nomination November 16 is the last date for filing of nomination. The CPI(M) asked the LDF constituents to name their candidates for various State-run Corporations. The CPI would control 17, KC(M) six, Janata Dal (S), Nationalist Congress Party, Loktantrik Janata Dal and Democratic Kerala Congress will get two each, and Kerala Congress (B) and Indian National League one each is the current calculus. Bid to derail K-Rail The LDF meeting concluded that the Congress and the BJP were speaking the same language to derail Kerala’s mega infrastructure development projects, including K-Rail (SilverLine) and Sabarimala airport. The Centre was unwilling to pay Kerala its Goods and Services Tax and Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme dues, and it violated the principle of fiscal federalism. The LDF would hold sit-in protests against the Centre’s bid to derail the State development in district centres on November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ldf-to-field-jose-k-mani-for-rs-bypoll/article37409995.ece
10 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD reviews development work of temple with ASI||Officials of the TTD have negotiated issues pertaining to the development of Sri Kalyana Venkateswara temple in Srinivasa Mangapuram with officials at Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), which wields control over the shrine. During a joint inspection on Tuesday, the TTD team led by Joint Executive Officer V. Veerabrahmam discussed the proposal to construct a Yagashala, Goshala, Kalyanakatta, Potu, Kalyana Mandapam extension, security point at the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-reviews-development-work-of-temple-with-asi/article37410458.ece
10 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bhagavad Gita recitation competition on Dec. 5||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has announced to conduct Srimad Bhagavad Gita recitation competition to students on December 5 at all the district headquarters of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The initiative is taken with a view to inculcate the values enshrined in Sanatana Hindu Dharma. The participants will have to recite the slokas from the 17th chapter, Shradhatraya Vibhaga Yogam. The interested students can register at the TTD Kalyana Mandapams in any of the district headquarters or call 9618640444 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bhagavad-gita-recitation-competition-on-dec-5/article37410470.ece
10 November 2021||TIRUPATI/KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leaders placed under house arrest in Chittoor, Kadapa||Several leaders of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) were placed under house arrest on Tuesday to thwart their participation in the dharna and demonstration against the State government for not reducing the VAT on petroleum products. In Kadapa, M. Linga Reddy and R. Sreenivasa Reddy, the TDP’s in-charges for Kadapa and Rajampet parliamentary constituencies respectively, were placed under house arrest. Policemen gathered at their respective residences ahead of their scheduled departure to the dharna venue to participate in the demonstration. They were prevented from leaving their house, even as they insisted that the act was a breach of their right to protest guaranteed by the Constitution. TDP Mydukur in-charge and TTD board former chairman Putta Sudhakar Yadav was prevented from leaving his home in Proddatur. He wondered what was the need for his ‘house arrest’ as he was proceeding to express his resentment in a democratic manner. Even as he was surrounded by the police, Mr. Yadav shouted slogans against the State government for failing to keep its election-eve promise of reducing VAT on petroleum products. Party leaders Singa Reddy Govardhan Reddy and RIMS former Chairman Jeelani Basha were arrested in Kadapa when they were on the way to the protest site. Similarly, R. Ramesh Reddy was arrested in Lakkireddipalle, MLC B.Tech Ravi in Pulivendula and Praveen Kumar Reddy in Kadapa. Novel protest In Tirupati, the TDP leaders led by former MLA M. Sugunamma staged a demonstration at a petrol filling station on Tilak Road. In a novel protest, they garlanded the petrol dispensing unit and broke coconuts, symbolically praying to it to bring down the prices to the reach of the common man.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leaders-placed-under-house-arrest-in-chittoor-kadapa/article37410472.ece
10 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure justice to those who lack access to it: CJ||Andhra Pradesh High Court Chief Justice and High Court Legal Services Committee (HCLSC) Patron-in-Chief Prashant Kumar Mishra has called upon the legal fraternity to render their services to the needy in villages, particularly women and children, farmers, senior citizens, workers in the unorganised sector, transgenders and victims of trafficking and COVID-19. “We should strive to make villages litigation-free. The very purpose of our existence is to help those who don’t have access to justice,” he said. Launching ‘Mission Legal Services’ (MLS) under which the HCLSC will adopt villages with the cooperation of law colleges, stakeholders of other legal service institutions and village heads, from the High Court on the occasion of National Legal Services Day on Tuesday, the Chief Justice said that every village should be covered by the outreach programme so that deprived sections would be able to get justice. He said the HCLSC would constitute core, legal literacy, legal aid, conciliation, redressal and coordination committees for achieving the objectives of the MLS, which was a pan-India programme aimed at reaching out to those who could not access the various avenues for justice. Justices A.V. Sesha Sai and Ahsanuddin Amanullah, Chairman and Executive Chairman of the HCLSC respectively, stressed the need for paralegal volunteers who would be reaching out to villages to facilitate justice delivery through appropriate forums.  The judges of the High Court, HCLSC secretary M.V. Ramana Kumari, State Legal Services Authority member-secretary Chinnamsetty Raju, High Court Bar Association president K. Janakirami Reddy and the principals of Velagapudi Durgamba Siddhartha Law College (Vijayawada), A.C. College of Law (Guntur) and VIT-AP School of Law were present. Later, Mr. Mishra flagged off a vehicle which will take law students and paralegal volunteers to villages under MLS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-justice-to-those-who-lack-access-to-it-cj/article37410051.ece
10 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. clarifies on the crux of aided education system||The concept of grant-in-aid educational institution started around 1960 due to increase in literacy and demand for seats in degree colleges. To meet the growing demand, the government had given permission for private colleges, said a statement issued by the government on Tuesday. Dwelling on the issues pertaining to the aided education system in the State, the statement said a few philanthropists had come forward to establish the colleges with a good intention of serving the society. Citing examples of DNR College at Bhimavaram, CR Reddy College in Eluru, the B.T College at Madanapalle, SKBR College at Amalapuram and Dr. LB College in Visakhapatnam, it said the admissions in these college increased manifold necessitating more number of teachers. Trudging the burden of paying salaries to the increased staff over the years, the managements of these private colleges had requested the government to give some financial assistance and the government had started giving certain amounts as yearly grants to meet the salaries of the teachers. In 2010-12, the staff working in the private aided colleges came under the Comprehensive Financial Management System (CFMS) and since then, staff of the aided colleges have been paid salaries through the treasury, said the statement. Of the 1,444 degree colleges in the State in 2020-21, 1,153 are private un-aided colleges, 137 are private aided colleges and 154 are government colleges. With the proliferation of degree Colleges, there was a steep fall in number of admissions even in the aided and government colleges. In 2019-20 and 2020-21, only 57 % of the total seats were filled in degree colleges. This means that there are higher number of seats than required in degree Colleges. After the introduction of employment-oriented courses, the demand for traditional aided degree courses started decreasing substantially and in 2020-21, 90 % of the courses offered in such degree colleges are unaided courses, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-clarifies-on-the-crux-of-aided-education-system/article37410562.ece
10 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||IRCTC unveils pilgrim tourist packages to Gujarat||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has launched a pilgrim special tourist train to Gujarat, from Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam, said IRCTC Deputy General Manager (DGM) Kishore Satya. The 10-day tour package will begin from November 28. The package includes sleeper class (budget category) and 3AC (comfort journey), Mr. Satya said at a press conference here on Tuesday. The pilgrim tour package will cover Somnath, Dwaraka, Ahmedabad, Statue of Unity and other places. Tourists can board and alight the train in Eluru, Vijayawada, Rajahmundry, Samalkot, Tuni and Visakhapatnam, he said. Fares and accommodation The fare per person is Rs. 10,400 (budget category) and Rs. 17,330 (comfort journey). Hall/lodges/dormitories accommodation on multi-sharing basis for night stay/ morning freshening up for Budget Category and hotels accommodation for 3AC on twin and triple sharing basis at places of night stay and quadruple sharing basis room for morning freshening up for comfort category would be provided. Morning tea and coffee, vegetarian breakfast, lunch and dinner and one litre drinking water woud be arranged per day for each tourist. Security arrangements for each coach, travel insurance and an IRCTC officer woud accompany the pilgrims, said IRCTC Vijayawada Manager Murali Krishna. For bookings, contact IRCTC phone numbers 8287932312, 9701360675 or pilgrims can have details by logging on towww.irctctourism.com, Mr. Murali Krishna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irctc-unveils-pilgrim-tourist-packages-to-gujarat/article37410462.ece
10 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP stages protests at petrol outlets in State||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) rank and file took to the streets to stage a protest against the steep rise in prices of petroleum products across the State on Tuesday. The TDP activists held banners and placards and raised slogans, criticising the State Government for not reducing the petrol and diesel rates in Andhra Pradesh. The protesters kept sounding the horns of their two-wheelers to register their discontent over the high prices of fuel. The TDP leaders and workers, who staged a one-hour protest near petrol pumps, asserted that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was not taking any steps like his counterparts in other States to provide relief to the public from the rising prices of essential commodities. They demanded that the Chief Minister take steps to reduce VAT on petrol and diesel without trying to mislead the public in the State, and added that the State government was collecting Rs. 5 to Rs. 7 per litre in excess on petrol and diesel when compared to other States. In the city, the TDP leaders held protests at Dharna Chowk, Bhavanipuram and Benz Circle. Former Minister Kollu Ravindra, State general secretary Panchumarty Anuradha and former Mayor Gadde Anuradha took part. They asserted that their party would continue its agitation till the government gives up its adamant attitude on fuel prices. At some places, the police took TDP leaders into preventive custody and prevented them from taking part in the protests. Several leaders were taken into custody in Kadapa district during the day. The TDP leaders took out protests by breaking coconuts in front of petrol and diesel pumps. In Tirupati, former MLA Sugunamma led the TDP protest at the local bunks. MLA Gorantla Butchayya Chowdary, former MLAs Alapati Raja and Dhulipalla Narendra took part in protests in their respective places. The TDP leaders demanded that the State government explain why it was not willing to reduce VAT when even the Central government had reduced fuel prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-launches-protests-at-petrol-outlets-in-state/article37410054.ece
10 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC failed to ensure free and fair civic body polls: Naidu||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has advised the State Election Commissioner (SEC) Nilam Sawhney to resign from her post, if she could not uphold the democratic spirit by ensuring free and fair elections to the civic bodies. Addressing the media on Tuesday, Mr. Naidu said the SEC remained as a mute spectator when the YSRCP leaders were resorting to all sorts of violations of poll code. “The SEC has miserably failed in taking the necessary steps when the TDP candidates were threatened, intimidated and their nominations were torn by the YSRCP activists. The election irregularities took place in Kuppam, Nellore, Darsi, Buchireddypalem, Bethamcherla, Rajampeta and other places are unprecedented,” he alleged and accused the Returning Officers and the police of favouring to the ruling party candidates. Mr. Naidu demanded that the SEC must explain as to why nominations filed by TDP candidates Tirumagal and her husband in the 14th ward of Kuppam municipality were rejected. “The candidates had submitted physical and digital nomination papers to the Returning Officer. They had also sent their nomination papers online to the Collector, the SEC and High Court,” said Mr. Naidu. “The fact was that Ms. Tirumagal and her husband Prakash went to a safe place to escape from threats and intimidation of the YSRCP leaders. But, there were rumours that they were kidnapped by the TDP only to announce their withdrawal using forged signatures. What reply would the SEC give to this couple to whom injustice was meted out?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-failed-to-ensure-free-and-fair-civic-body-polls-naidu/article37410491.ece
10 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||On a mission to reduce suicidal despair||Eda Samuel Reddy is on a mission to prevent suicides, especially among the youth, by engaging them in dialogue and helping them snap out of suicidal thoughts. “Suicides and suicide attempts have a ripple effect that impacts families, friends, colleagues, communities and societies. Many of them can be prevented at the individual, community and society levels,” says Mr. Samuel, who has been relentlessly working to prevent people from resorting to the extreme step through awareness activities by Spandana Eda International Foundation (SEIF). A manufacturer of herbal products from Guntur district, Mr. Reddy established SEIF in January 2020, a few days after his daughter Spandana ended her life. An only child, Spandana was a 24-year-old MBA graduate and would have flown to Canada in a month. However, she ended her life on January 2, 2020 over a failed relationship, leaving behind her devastated parents. “I was aware that suicide is a serious issue, but I realised the magnitude of the problem only after a personal loss,” Mr. Samuel said. Along with his brother Anji Reddy, Mr. Samuel formed a team of like-minded people willing to work for the spread of awareness on the issue and embarked on research that proved to be an eye-opener. “Suicide is a serious public health problem that can have lasting and significant effects on youth, families, peers and communities. The causes are complex and involve many factors,” said Mr. Anji Reddy. “The foundation has so far reached out to more than 3,000 people, and 170 people have told me that my programmes helped them reverse their decision to end their life,” says Mr. Samuel, adding that they are striving to build resilience in young people and help them realise that failed relationships are not the end of the world. With the slogan of ‘Life is Precious, Value It’, the foundation members educate the youth on the need to stay mentally strong while navigating through difficult times, using programmes designed by the Reddy brothers.  Besides regular awareness programmes in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the duo now plans to establish a state-of-the-art SEIF Psychological Research and Counselling Centre proposed to be built in Guntur and equipped with all modern facilities and an efficient team of psychologists and psychiatrists. “Psychology is a neglected area. Our efforts are aimed at removing the stigma associated with mental illnesses,” said the duo, informing that construction of the project will start early next year. Those struggling with depression or suicidal thoughts are urged to reach out to the helpline 8885558129, or send an email to spandanaedaif@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/on-a-mission-to-reduce-suicidal-despair/article37410057.ece
10 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP tells YSRCP govt. to issue fresh ad on State tax on fuel||BJP State president Somu Veerraju demanded that the State government must issue a fresh advertisement containing facts about the sharing of revenues by the Centre with the States generated from the taxes levied on petrol and diesel, at the personal cost of Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Mr. Veerraju said that the advertisement published in both English and Telugu newspapers on November 7 was a ‘direct assault on the Centre and the spirit of federalism.’ Public money was spent on publishing the advertisement which targeted the Centre and projected that it was not devolving the share of tax revenue (on petrol and diesel) to which the States were entitled, he said. Mr. Veerraju questioned whether it was not true that the State government was collecting Rs. 29.40 per litre of petrol and Rs. 21.80 per litre of diesel in the form of VAT which went to the State exchequer. He sought to know if the VAT had not been increased by the State by Rs. 8.50 on petrol and Rs. 5.50 on diesel. “The State government’s claim that the VAT remained the same in percentage terms is a move to fool the people,” alleged Mr. Veerraju. He further said that the advertisement made a false claim that the revenue shared with the States by the Centre from the total collected by it was just 5.80% of the gross revenue of Rs. 19,475 crore (which is actually Rs. 2,21,056 crore). Capital, road cess “A wrong statement was made to cover up the looting of people in the form of high VAT—an additional Rs. 4 per litre on petrol and diesel in the name of capital construction and a cess of Rs. 1 for laying of roads. However, no investment in the construction of the capital or improvement of roads can be seen,” he said. Mr. Veerraju said that the Chief Minister must explain what prompted his government to issue such a ‘misleading advertisement’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-tells-ysrcp-govt-to-issue-fresh-ad-on-state-tax-on-fuel/article37410480.ece
10 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Promote child-friendly villages, Joint Collector tells govt. staff||Joint Collector L. Siva Shankar has appealed to teachers, panchayat secretaries, mahila police, village revenue officers, MEOs and Anganwadi workers to focus on promoting child-friendly villages aimed at solving the problems of children. Training programme He participated in a one-day training programme for the staff of various departments on strengthening the Village Child Protection Committees and conducting ‘Bala Panchayats’. The programme was organised by the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Department in association with the Child Rights Advocacy Foundation (CRAF) and World Vision here on Tuesday, said CRAF State programme director P. Francis Thambi. Mr. Siva Shankar told the participants to explain the government schemes for children to the people in villages. Later, WD&CW Krishna district project director K. Uma Rani and assistant PD S. Jaya Lakshmi felicitated the government-run Sishu Gruha staff for their services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/promote-child-friendly-villages-joint-collector-tells-govt-staff/article37410556.ece
10 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||KL students bag plum jobs in Analog Devices||Three students of KL deemed to be University landed jobs in Analog Devices, a global semiconductor company with an annual pay package of Rs. 20 lakh each in the campus drive conducted recently. According to a release, the three students of the Electronics and Communications Engineering Department Ganji Willian Carey of Vijayawada, Nuthanapati Laya Sree of Anantapur and Rohith Jatla of East Godavari bagged the jobs in the placement drive. Institution president Koneru Satyanarayana congratulated the students. Vice-Chancellor Dr. G. P.Saradhi Varma said that students of the 2022 batch have received over 3,200 job offers and over 1,000 internship offers this year. “KL students have showcased absolute finesse in the recruitment drive. The university’s innovative schools, centres of excellence and research labs are meticulously engineered to augment student career development,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kl-students-bag-plum-jobs-in-analog-devices/article37410049.ece
10 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two COVID-19 deaths in State in 24 hours||The State reported two more COVID-19 deaths and 231 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, taking the cumulative toll and cumulative tally to 14,403 and 20,68,718 respectively. Krishna and Guntur districts reported one death each during the past day. The overall death rate remains at 0.69%. The number of active cases came down to 3,233 with 362 patients recovering in the past day. The total recoveries and recovery rate stand at 20,51,082 and 99.14% respectively. Meanwhile, the daily test positivity rate of the 31,054 samples tested in the past day was 0.74%. Chittoor reported 37 infections in the past day. It was followed by East Godavari (36), Guntur (31), Krishna (28), Visakhapatnam (22), Nellore (19), Kadapa (16), West Godavari (13), Prakasam (11), Anantapur (8), Srikakulam (6) and Vizinagaram (4). Kurnool has again reported no infection in 24 hours. The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,94,211), Chittoor (2,47,330), West Godavari (1,79,224), Guntur (1,78,342), Visakhapatnam (1,57,974), Anantapur (1,57,881), Nellore (1,46,553), Prakasam (1,38,576), Kurnool (1,24,155), Srikakulam (1,23,234), Krishna (1,19,627), Kadapa (1,15,726) and Vizianagaram (82,990).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-covid-19-deaths-in-state-in-24-hours/article37410477.ece
10 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress flays lathi-charge on students||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president Sake Sailajanath on Tuesday condemned the police lathicharge on students of Sri Sai Baba National Degress College in Anantapur on Monday. In a statement, the Congress leader alleged that the proposed merger of aided educational institutions with the government was being carried out to ‘usurp’ the huge properties belonging to these institutions. “When the students and student leaders tried to question the government, they were attacked and injured,” he said, criticising in strong terms “the autocratic rule” of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government in the State. He said no government that tried to suppress the students’ voice could survive and demanded that the government drop its decision to do away with the aided education system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-flays-lathi-charge-on-students/article37410055.ece
10 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain likely in south coastal A.P., Rayalaseema||The Rayalaseema and South Coastal Andhra regions (Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore districts) may receive isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall for the next three days, starting Wednesday as a low pressure area has been formed over the southeast Bay of Bengal under the influence of a cyclonic circulation. During the same period, both the regions are likely to receive light to moderate rain at many places. Also, thunderstorms with lightning will likely occur in isolated locations. In the north coastal region, heavy rainfall is expected for two days from Wednesday. As the coast is likely to witness squally weather with wind speed up to 40 to 50 kmph, fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea till November 11, according to the Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority. According to IMD, the low pressure is likely to concentrate into a depression over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal during the next 36 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rain-likely-in-south-coastal-ap-rayalaseema/article37410478.ece
10 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Harichandan to attend Governors’ meet in Delhi||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan will participate in the Governors’ Conference, scheduled to be held from Wednesday, at the Rasthrapati Bhavan in New Delhi. Mr. Harichandan will meet Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday. He will submit a report to President Ram Nath Kovind on the developments in the State the next day. Mr. Kovind will address the Governors’ Conference on Thursday. Mr. Harichandan will return Vijayawada on Friday, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/harichandan-to-attend-governors-meet-in-delhi/article37410488.ece
10 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Election to three MLC posts on November 29||Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council Deputy Secretary and Returning Officer P.V. Subba Reddy on Tuesday issued a notification for the elections to three posts that fell vacant due to retirement of three sitting MLCs—Mohammed Ahmed Sherief (former Council Chairman), Chinna Govinda Reddy Devasani, and Somu Veeraju on October 31. The posts will be filled under the MLAs quota. As per the notification, nominations will be received by the Returning Officer till 3 p.m. on November 16. The nomination papers can be filed by the candidate or his authorised representative from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. till November 16. The application for withdrawal of nominations will be received till 3 p.m. on November 22. The election will be held at the Assembly Bhavan from 9 a.m to 4 p.m. on November 29. Counting of votes will be done at 5 p.m. on the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/election-to-three-mlc-posts-on-november-29/article37410489.ece
10 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||76.44% students qualify in PGCET||In the first ever common entrance exam held for admissions in post-graduate courses, Andhra Pradesh Post Graduate Common Entrance Test (PGCET-2021), 24,164 (76.44 %) students qualified it. Speaking after releasing the results, Education Minister A. Suresh said more than 60% of the first rankers comprised girl students. He said under the new system, a student could seek admission in any college across the State by writing a single entrance test. Amidst COVID guidelines, the common entrance test was conducted from October 22 to 26 at 53 centres for students seeking admissions in 145 post-graduate programmes offered by 15 Universities across the State, he said. Details on website He said details of the ranks were uploaded on the AP State Council for Higher Education (APSCHE) website from where students could download their rank cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/7644-students-qualify-in-pgcet/article37410473.ece
10 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lakireddy Bali Reddy dies in U.S.||Founder Chairman of Lakireddy Bali Reddy College of Engineering (LBRCE) at Mylavaram in Krishna district, Lakireddy Bali Reddy, passed away early on Tuesday at Berkley, U.S. A statement by the college authorities said tributes poured in from various sections. Condolence meeting A condolence meeting was held in the college, where his youngest brother and co-chairman of the college Lakireddy Jaya Prakash Reddy said his brother had ushered in a transformation in this region through the Laki Reddy Bali Reddy Charitable Trust that had been taking up socio-economic issues in the region. College president G. Srinivasa Reddy, principal K. Appa Rao offered their condolences to the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lakireddy-bali-reddy-passes-away-in-us/article37410566.ece
10 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wife of an accused held in FDs scam||The Central Crime Station (CCS) police on Tuesday arrested a woman, P. Prameela Rani, wife of P. Yohan Raju, in connection with the AP State Warehousing Corporation (APSWC) scam. Police probing the diversion of fixed deposits (FDs) from the corporation and AP Cooperative Oil Seeds Growers Federation from Saptagiri Grameena Bank, earlier arrested three persons – the bank manager, the assistant manager and Yohan Raju. Prameela Rani was held on the charge of abetting the crime and Rs. 66.08 lakh in her account was frozen, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wife-of-an-accused-held-in-fds-scam/article37410555.ece
10 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ASHA worker and EMT appreciated||Health, Medical and Family Welfare Commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar appreciated ASHA worker Savara Rajeshwari and Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) P. Satyam for their exemplary service of delivery of a baby in the ambulance. Accoreding to press release, Ms. Rajeswari of of Renikota Public Health Centre, Palasa mandal in Srikakulam district, along with ambulance EMT Mr. Satyam performed an emergency delivery to a woman in the ambulance on November 3. A cash reward of Rs. 5,000 each was given to the ASHA worker and EMT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/asha-worker-and-emt-appreciated/article37410559.ece
10 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New APTIDCO directors sworn in||Prathivada Raghava Rao and Kanuri Nageswari were sworn in as directors of Andhra Pradesh Township and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APTIDCO) in the city on Tuesday. APTIDCO chairman J. Prasanna Kumar administered the oath of office to the newly-appointed directors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-aptidco-directors-sworn-in/article37410560.ece
10 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SI attempts suicide in Disha Mahila Police Station||A Sub-Inspector of Police working in Disha Mahila Police Station of Vijayawada Police Commissionerate allegedly attempted suicide by consuming some glass cleaner. He was rushed to a private hospital and his condition is stated to be stable. ‘Reason not yet known’ The reason for the step was not known immediately, said the police. Persons in distress or having suicidal tendencies may call ‘Dial 1091’ for help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/si-attempts-suicide-in-disha-mahila-ps/article37410459.ece
10 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP cries foul over fielding of YSRCP candidate in Ward 31||The Telugu Desam Party(TDP) leaders alleged that YSR Congress Party has back-stabbed them by fielding a candidate from Ward no. 31 in the GVMC bypoll scheduled to be held on November 15. Vanapalli Ravi Kumar, the then TDP corporator from Ward no. 31, died in April, this year, of COVID a month later after he was elected and Dadi Surya Kumari the YSRCP corporator from Ward no. 61, died of a massive heart attack in March, just three days after she was elected. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, TDP Urban Parliamentary constituency president Palla Srinivasa Rao said, both the political parties had earlier decided not to field candidates in each other’s constituencies as a respect towards the elected representatives who had died and to facilitate victory of their members. Mr. Srinivasa Rao alleged that the YSRCP in the last minute had fielded Bipin Kumar Jain from Ward no. 31. The TDP leader alleged that Mr. Jain was initially a Congress candidate, but he was not given the ‘A’ form. So he was contesting as an independent, but in the last minute the YSRCP fielded him as its candidate, Mr. Srinivasa Rao alleged. The TDP leaders alleged that the Returning Officer had affixed the list at 3.30 p.m. on Monday, wherein Mr. Jain was shown as an independent candidate. Then again around 9.30 p.m., the list was changed and he was shown as the YSRCP candidate. This is against the election norms, they alleged. The TDP has officially filed a complaint against the Returning Officer to the State Election Commissioner and the District Collector Vanapalli Gayatri Phani Kumari, wife of Ravi Kumar, had filed her nominations from Ward No. 31 on Friday and Konathala Sudha, daughter of Surya Kumari, had filed nominations from Ward 61. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that based on the assurances from the YSRCP, other parties except the JSP, didn’t file nominations from Ward no. 61. “However, we have decided that we will not field our candidate in Ward 61,” he said. The JSP has fielded its candidates from both the wards, as they have some issue in retaining their symbol ‘glass’, said Mr. Srinivasa Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-cries-foul-over-fielding-of-ysrcp-candidate-in-ward-31/article37410584.ece
10 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Street plays staged urging tribals to shun ganja cultivation||As part of the ongoing anti-narcotics drive ‘Parivartana’, the district police have started to organise street plays to create awareness against ganja cultivation and smuggling for the tribals in the Visakhapatnam Agency. For better outreach, the street plays were conducted at the weekly shandies, in G. Madugula mandal on Tuesday. Following instructions from Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao, the police conducted the programme along with Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) at G.Madugula, Santhabayalu and Bheeram villages. Artistes performed skits explaining about the consequences of being involved in ganja smuggling. They also appealed to the people to leave ganja cultivation and shift to alternative crops for peaceful living. Keeping the youth in focus, the artistes appealed to them to stay away from such crimes. Ganja plantations in about 33 were destroyed by the police in Paderu and G.K. Veedhi mandals, here on Tuesday. Ganja plantations in around 15 acres in Lingalaputtu and Konthugudu villages in Paderu and around 18 acres in P.Kotturu and D .Kotturu villages in G.K Veedhi mandal were destroyed by the police in coordination with other officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/street-plays-staged-urging-tribals-to-shun-ganja-cultivation/article37410570.ece
10 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Koneru Ramakrishna Rao passes away||Former chancellor of GITAM deemed-to-be University, former Vice-Chancellor of Andhra University and Padma Shri awardee Koneru Ramakrishna Rao died here on Tuesday after a brief illness. He was 89. Born on October 4, 1932, Ramakrishna Rao was an internationally recognised psychologist, Gandhian scholar and educator. He had written more than 20 books and 300 research publications. Ramakrishna Rao had served as the advisor to Higher Education and Chairman of Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education. He was also Vice-Chairman of Andhra Pradesh State Planning Board. He was bestowed with many honours including honorary doctoral degrees from Nagarjuna, Kakatiya and Andhra universities. For his research contributions, he was elected three times as the president of Parapsychological Association, a U.S. based international society, and also had served as the president of Indian Academy of Applied Psychology. Ramakrishna Rao was instrumental in bringing in numerous curricular reforms to link classrooms with community during his tenure as the Vice-Chancellor of Andhra University and Chairman of the APSCHE. He is survived by two daughters and one son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/koneru-ramakrishna-rao-passes-away/article37410475.ece
10 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ITDA PO: only local tribals will be permitted to pitch tents||Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R. Gopala Krishna has clarified that only local tribals will be permitted to pitch tents at the tourist places in the Agency areas of the district. He was holding a coordination meeting with officials of Revenue, Police, Tourism, Panchayat Raj, Fire Services, Excise, Electricity Departments and tent organisers of Araku, Tajangi and Lambasingi at Paderu on Tuesday. Mr. Gopala Krishna said that the tent organisers should obtain permission from the authorities concerned and warned that if non-tribal people organise tents in tribal areas on ‘benami’ names, they would be taken to task. The revenue from tourist spots in the Agency should go to the tribal people. He also warned that anyone indulging in anti-social activities in the name of tourism would be liable for legal action. He advised that the tents should not be erected below 33 KV electricity lines. Sub-Collector V. Abhishek said that tents should not be pitched on government and poramboke lands and in the ‘gap areas’ on forest lands. ASP P. Jagadish said that action would be initiated against those indulging in anti-social activities like use of narcotics in the tents. The tent organisers should not have been involved in the criminal cases in the past. Sand and water buckets should be made available near the tents and measures should be taken to prevent fires. A copy of the ID card of tourist should be taken and kept in the register. Divisional Panchayat Officer P.S. Kumar and Araku CI G.D. Babu were present. Digital classrooms Meanwhile, Mr. Gopala Krishna conducted a meeting with the principals of all Tribal Welfare Residential Schools from 11 mandals of Visakhapatnam Agency, here on Tuesday. Speaking to the principals, Mr. Gopala Krishna said that with a budget of Rs. 2.93 crore, digital classrooms will be set up in the schools. He asked them to prepare estimates for those schools which do not have electricity supply. He said that they would select 50 to 100 talented students and send them to Sriharikota Education Tour. He said that science fair, cultural programmes and sports events need to be conducted in the Agency schools next month. The ITDA Project Officer instructed the officials to arrange CCTVs in all girls’ hostels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/itda-po-only-local-tribals-will-be-permitted-to-pitch-tents/article37410568.ece
10 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Extremism and ganja a heady cocktail in Visakha Agency||Over the last few decades, the city of Visakhapatnam has earned many a sobriquet such as ‘City of Destiny, ‘Port City’ and ‘Steel City’. It is known for its salubrious climate and tranquil beaches, peaceful social fabric, Central public sector units, educational institutions and cosmopolitan culture. But of late, the city and the district have gained the notoriety of being called the ‘ganja hub’ of the country. In the district, nine of the 11 mandals that fall under the thickly forested area of the Eastern Ghats, which is known as the Agency area, are into ganja cultivation. The traditional crops such as turmeric, ginger, rajma and millets have given way to this weed, the seed of which was first sown by smugglers from Kerala and Tamil Nadu about four decades ago. Today, as per a conservative estimate by the Excise Department, it is grown in 7,000 to 10,000 acres spreading over 150 to 200 villages . As per S.V.V.N. Babji Rao, Deputy Commissioner, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), the crop is being grown extensively in GK Veedhi, Munchingput, Pedabayalu, Chintapalli and G. Madugula mandals, where the banned CPI (Maoist) hold sway. It is estimated that one acre yields about 1 tonne of ganja per year, which could mean an average total yield of 7,000-10,000 tonnes per annum, and its value running into hundreds of crores of rupees. Not new “Ganja trade or cultivation is not new in the Visakha Agency. The first case for ganja smuggling was booked about 45 years ago in 1973, even before the NDPS Act of 1985 had come into force,” said DIG (Visakhapatnam Range) L.K.V. Ranga Rao. It has come into focus of late, as the enforcement agencies have started to take it seriously after reports from other States have started to pour in citing confession of smugglers caught in raids, that they had procured the stuff from Visakhapatnam. The weed that is grown here is known as ‘Sheelavat’ and it has a booming market pan India. Though it is procured by middlemen from farmers at about Rs. 2,000 per kg, it has a market value ranging from Rs. 7,000 to Rs. 15,000 in the upcountry market, according to a senior police officer. The pan India presence is established by the fact that out of about 5,000 accused arrested in the last two years, over 50% are from other States, said Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam, B. Krishna Rao. Well-oiled machinery The smuggling network was developed over the years by the middlemen from Tamil Nadu and Kerala, who made the initial forays and now it is a well-oiled machinery, which includes the local people. The fact that none of the enforcement agencies such as the police, SEB, Excise or the DRI have been able to make inroads and catch the kingpins suggests that they operate strictly on the ‘need to know basis’ . They have devised at least 30 routes that lead from AOB (Andhra Odisha Border) region, where the weed is grown unhindered under the patronage of Maoists. There is a flourishing industry in East Godavari that specialises in creating hidden chambers in vehicles, where the ganja can be concealed. Following the tight vigil, there is a shift towards preparing Hashish oil or Hash, as small quantities can be easily smuggled. Maoist link Though Maoists deny any links with the ganja trade, the fact that it is grown right in their hotbed, waters down their claim. “They are mixing extremism and narcotics with dexterity and it has been established that they (Maoist) have a cut in the trade,” said DGP Gautam Sawang. Though the trade has been flourishing in the last few decades, the tribal people of interior parts where the crop is grown continue to live in penury and like bonded labourers on their own land. The land is leased to middlemen and they only get rentals. This could be a ploy of the Maoist as they do not want the tribals to grow affluent since it would hit their mass base, said a senior police officer engaged in anti-Maoist operation. “It is the middlemen and a few tribal groups who are educated, intelligent and live in the road front villages, who have made the best of the trade,” he said. Parivartana To curb the trade, the State Government has launched ‘Parivartana’ involving not only destroying the crop but creating awareness on the provisions of the NDPS Act, 1985 and educating the growers on alternative crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-heady-cocktail-in-visakha-agency/article37409997.ece
10 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJYM condemns lathi-charge on protesting students||Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha State president K. Surendra Mohan has strongly condemned the lathi-charge on students, who were protesting in a peaceful manner in Anantapur against the decision of the State government to merge aided schools with the government schools. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Mr. Surendra Mohan said the aided colleges were established decades ago to make up for the lack of government colleges and to enable poor students to go for higher studies. He alleged that the government was unleashing a reign of terror on students and others, who were opposing its policies. He wondered whether the State has a Home Minister and felt that she should quit the post. He demanded that the police take responsibility for the lathi-charge. He demanded that the State government reconsider its decision on merger of aided schools. He sought to know as to why the State government has failed to reduce the price of petrol and diesel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjym-condemns-lathi-charge-on-protesting-students/article37410519.ece
10 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woes continue for students of special school in city||After being closed five months back, the management of Hidden Sprouts Special School for Mentally Challenged Children has reopened the school near China Waltair, in a temporary accommodation. Classes are being conducted for about 80 students for the last 10 days. However, their woes continue due to lack of proper facilities at the premises. Unable to get a proper accommodation, the teachers are now conducting classes under an asbestos shed. The teachers have arranged curtains to cover the four sides of the shed as there are no walls. With no benches or tables for seating, the students are forced to sit on the floor. In June this year, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) had partially demolished the temporary structure at the old premises and had asked the school management to vacate the site alleging unauthorised constructions. Since then, the students and parents, along with the management, have been staging protests asking the officials to provide alternative accommodation. According to school Principal K. Srinivas, due to lack of adequate space and buses transportation, they have asked only about 80 out of 190 students to attend the school. “Our furniture, buses and equipment are still in the old school, as the GVMC has sealed the gates,” he said. “Now, we are sending six auto-rickshaws and are bringing students only from surrounding areas. The place is also not sufficient for more than 80 students,” he said. Meanwhile on a temporary basis, two toilets were arranged for students and staff. There is no proper place for kitchen also. Mr Srinivas said that even though they have suggested a few alternative sites for locating the school, the corporation officials have rejected them.“We met the new GVMC Commissioner G Lakshmisha and explained our problem recently. We also met Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. We are waiting for their response,” he added. Earlier, on Tuesday, the students, management and parents of the school expressed their happiness over appointment of former Indian Cricketer Rahul Dravid being appointed as the new coach of Indian Men’s Cricket Team. The management recalled the memories of Rahul Dravid’s visit to the school back in the October 2017 along with former Indian team mate and Chief Selector MSK Prasad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woes-continue-for-students-of-special-school-in-city/article37410579.ece
10 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conduct special sanitation drive in Bheemunipatnam, officials told||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Lakshmisha ordered the officials to conduct a special sanitation drive in Bheemunipatnam. He expressed his displeasure over the poor sanitation in the area. Mr. Lakshmisha conducted inspection at Bheemunipatnam on Tuesday morning and checked sanitation at Beach Road, Gantasthambham, Brahmana Veedhi and Eguvapeta areas. He found debris on roads, near dustbins and other public places. He expressed his ire on sanitary secretary and sanitary inspector as sweeping was not properly done. The Zonal Commissioners were directed to ensure road from Sagar Nagar to Bheemili is clear. Chief Medical Officer KSLG Sastri, Zonal Commissioners S. Venkataramana and B Ramu, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conduct-special-sanitation-drive-in-bheemunipatnam-officials-told/article37410582.ece
10 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Varahalu Chetty remembered||Glowing tributes were paid M. Varahalu Chetty for his contribution to Visakhapatnam by conceiving the idea of a Public Library with free access to all and his perseverance in ensuring its completion despite advancing years, here on Tuesday evening. For about 90 minutes speakers from different walks of life recalled Chetty’s efforts in raising it. Chetty who was 93, had passed away in his sleep at his son Dr Raghu Ram’s residence in Detroit, U.S, last week. The popular book seller was in a way a tireless crusader for the promotion of reading good books among the young and old alike. A post graduate in economics Chetty had a huge circle of admiring friends in Vizag and north Andhra. It was proposed to start an endowment in his name to facilitate lectures by eminent persons every year. D.S. Varma Secretary of the public library, welcomed the gathering. Speakers also congratulated Mr Varma for transforming Chetty’s dream into an admirable reality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/varahalu-chetty-remembered/article37410585.ece
10 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC to run specials to Sabarimala||The Visakhapatnam region of the APSRTC has announced special buses to Sabarimala for the convenience of Ayyappa devotees visiting the temple. A special counter for booking of the special buses was opened at the Dwaraka Bus Station (RTC Complex), here on Tuesday. The counter was inaugurated by RTC Vizianagaram Zone Executive Director Ravi Kumar in the presence of Regional Manager A. Appala Raju and Deputy Chief Traffic Manager (rural) K. Venkata Rao.The Visakhapatanam region of the APSRTC had introduced the annual special tour packages to Sabarimala in 2003. These tours have been a great success with the RTC deploying trained drivers for a safe journey. Super Luxury and Ultra Deluxe video coaches would be utilised for the 5, 6 and 7 day tours in different packages. The trips are tailor-made to meet the requirements of devotees based on the temples they opt to visit. The officials released a poster on the special services. The five-day tour covers Vijayawada, Melmarutur, Erumeli, Pamba and Sannidanam in the up trip and Sripuram, Tirupati, Sri Kalahasthi and Annavaram in the down trip. The fare per head is Super Luxury Rs. 7,050; Ultra Deluxe Rs. 7,000, Indra AC Rs. 9,150 and Amaravati AC Rs. 11,500 The six-day tour covers Kaanipakam, Sripuram, Bhavani, Palani, Erumeli, Pamba and Sannidhanam in the up trip and Tirupati, Sri Kalahasti, Vijayawada and Annavaram in the down trip. The seven-day trip covers Kaanipakam, Sripuram, Bhavani, Palani, Erumeli, Pamba and Sannidhanam in the up trip and Madurai, Rameswaram, Tirupati, Vijayawada and Annavaram in the down trip. The RTC is also operating special buses to the pancharamas on Sundays during the Karthika Masam, special buses to Lambasingi, Araku, Daramattam and plans to operate special buses to the ‘Pancha Vaishnava kshetrams’ during the forthcoming Margasira Masam in December and January. Mr. Ravi Kumar said that the region would operate up to 60 ‘Sabarimala Special’ buses this year. He said that the RTC was ready to operate special buses from anywhere, including rural areas, provided there was adequate number of passengers. More details can be had by calling the mobile nos. 99592 25602, 73829 14183, 73829 21540 or 99592 25594.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-to-run-specials-to-sabarimala/article37410577.ece
10 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two killed in road accident||Two persons were killed in a road accident on NH-16 near Kokkirapalle under Yelamanchali (Rural) Police Station limits in the early hours of Tuesday. The deceased were identified as K. Tulasi Rao (34) and I pavan Kumar (25), both from P.Somavaram village of Kasimkota mandal. According to Sub Inspector of Yelamanchali (Rural) Police Station Sannibabu, the accident occurred when the duo were returning home from a local deity festival at Yelamanchali on a motorcycle. A lorry reportedly hit the motorcycle. While Tulasi Rao died on the spot, Pavan Kumar died while being shifted to a hospital, the SI said. Tulasi Rao had come to his native place from Dubai about two weeks ago, police said. The lorry driver was taken into custody by the police. A case was registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-killed-in-road-accident/article37410520.ece
10 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies in road accident||A 43-year-old man died in a road accident on NH-16 near Birla Junction here on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as G. Surya Narayana (43), a resident of Tenneti Nagar, Madhavadhara, in the city. The accident reportedly occurred at around 11 a.m., when he was heading towards the city. The family members of the victim lodged a complaint that he was hit by a vehicle in a speeding government convoy. Sources from the Airport Police said that they had checked the CCTVs and it appeared that he fell from the bike. He was not wearing a helmet, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-dies-in-road-accident/article37410580.ece
10 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||22 new cases in district||As many as 29 persons recovered from coronavirus and 22 new infections were reported during the last 24 hours ending Wednesday morning in Visakhapatnam district. This has taken the total number of infections to 1,58,482. The number of recoveries has also increased to 1,56,676.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/22-new-cases-in-district/article37410581.ece
10 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM mourns former Chancellor||Officials from GITAM Deemed to be University expressed their grief over the demise of the institution's former Chancellor Koneru Ramakrishna Rao, here on Tuesday. Recalling the contribution of Ramakrishna Rao, GITAM president M. Sribharath said he had significantly contributed through his expertise, academic and administrative standing for the overall progress and development of the university. Mr. Sribharath said that Rao had played a pivotal role in the academic growth of the varsity and guided the faculty members for achieving academic excellence in their respective fields. University Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna said that Ramakrishna Rao’s demise is a huge loss to the philosophical community at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gitam-mourns-former-chancellor/article37410572.ece
10 November 2021||Vizianagaram/Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reduce tax on petroleum products, TDP urges State govt.||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) on Tuesday asked the State government to reduce tax burden on petroleum products and take steps to control prices of essential goods. Vizianagaram TDP In-charge Aditi Gajapathi Raju and the party senior leaders staged a protest at the Mayuri Junction in Vizianagaram and raised slogans against the State government. Ms. Aditi said that a majority of the State governments have already reduced tax on petroleum products and the State government should also follow suit to provide relief to common man. In Srikakulam, the party organised a massive agitation. Former MLA Gunda Lakshmi Devi, party senior leaders Jami Bhimasankar, Madarpu Venkatesh and others alleged that the government was imposing heavy tax burden on the people. They said that slashing of prices of petroleum products was need of the hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reduce-tax-on-petroleum-products-tdp-urges-state-govt/article37410518.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mighty mammal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mighty-mammal/article37410574.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||The hunt is on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-hunt-is-on/article37410564.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Needle in a haystack||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/needle-in-a-haystack/article37410059.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Clarity over COVID death certification sought||A day after Telangana government notified district-level COVID-19 Death Ascertaining Committees (CDACs) for issuing ‘Official document for COVID-19 Death’, panel members have sought clarity regarding the procedure to establish the cause of deaths and other aspects. According to the guidelines issued by National Disaster Management Authority, ex gratia of Rs. 50000 is to be paid to the next of kin of a deceased person, including those involved in relief operations or associated in preparedness activities, subject to cause of death being certified as COVID-19. With the State government issuing an order on Monday for constituting CDACs, the demand for COVID death document is expected to rise. “We want to understand quite a few things — will deaths of COVID patients in 2020 also have to be ascertained by CDAC or will it just pertain to fatalities in 2021; what is the procedure to be followed if someone contests that their family member died of COVID but not of any co-morbidity; how to we verify deaths of patients in private hospitals etc.,” said an officer from the State Health department, seeking anonymity. On the panel The CDAC will have the District Collector as chairman, District Medical Health Officer (DMHO) as member-convener and the Superintendent of headquarters hospital as a member. No meeting was held with DMHOs to explain the procedure for seeking or approving the death document which has led to confusion. In fact, a few DMHOs found out about the committee only through news reports. “Doubts regarding it are aplenty. When the number of applications increases, we might come across complex situations,” averred a health officer. Senior health officials were not available for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/clarity-over-covid-death-certification-sought/article37410301.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Excise department starts receiving applications for new retail liquor outlets||The Excise department has started accepting applications for setting up liquor outlets for the license period 2021-23 from Tuesday. The development follows the elaborate exercise to finalise the number of liquor outlets which had been increased from 2,216 to 2,620 across the State. The district collectors on Monday earmarked the shops for SCs, STs and Goud community in line with the reservation to these sections announced by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Accordingly, 756 outlets had been selected for these sections leaving allotment of 1,864 outlets through open competition. Applications for the shops would be received till November 18 except on Sunday. Draw of lots for selecting the licensee would be held on November 20 and the first installment of retail shop excise tax (RSET) should be paid between November 20 and 22. The government, in its recent notification, fixed the RSET per year for different areas based on the population. The tax per year in areas with more than 20 lakh population has been fixed at Rs. 1.1 crore and Rs. 85 lakh a year for areas with population between five lakh and 20 lakh. The RSET for areas with population above one lakh and up to five lakh is Rs. 65 lakh and it will be Rs. 60 lakh a year in areas with population between 50,000 and one lakh. Tax for setting up shops in areas with population of more than 5,000 and up to 50,000 will be Rs. 55 lakh and it has been fixed at Rs. 50 lakh a year for areas with population up to 5,000. The RSET for liquor shops within 5 km periphery from the borders of the GHMC should be same as that of shops within the GHMC limits and the same would be applicable for liquor outlets within 5 km periphery from the borders of the respective municipal corporations other than GHMC. After the collection of first instalment of RSET, stocks to new liquor outlets (A4 shops) would be released on November 29 and the new shops would start functioning from December 1. The license period of the new shops would be from December 1 this year to November 30, 2023. Officials meanwhile are upbeat over the changes that have been made in the policy asserting that these changes are set to result in a big and positive impact without the government having to suffer any losses. The first of the changes was doing away with insistence on two bank guarantees and making it one to reduce pressure on the prospective owners. The bidders are given one month’s time to furnish these guarantees unlike in the past when they were asked to submit it the same day. The number of RSET instalments has been increased from four to six and the return on the sales had also been ensured even after crossing a threshold limit. “The profit on sales used to drop from 20 % initially to as low as 6.4 % as they register more sales. But this has been changed to benefit the owners,” a senior official told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/application-process-for-new-retail-liquor-outlets-begins/article37410312.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FOBs put on hold for highway expansion||Construction of proposed foot over bridges at a few locations on the city roads has been put on hold owing to objections from the National Highways. This has acted as a deterrent to the civic authorities from proposing new FOBs on these stretches where they are sorely needed. National Highways wing of the Roads and Buildings department has not given a green signal for at least three FOBs on the NH- 65, which is one of the major arterial roads in the city, with lakhs of vehicles traversing every day. On this stretch, FOBs have been permitted only up to where the Metro Rail corridor ends on both ways, said Engineer-in-Chief, GHMC, Md. Ziauddin. Three pedestrian bridges were proposed beyond LB Nagar on one side and Miyapur on the other, respectively, at Sushma Theatre, Vanasthalipuram, Word & Deed School, Hayat Nagar, and Vijetha Supermarket, Chandanagar. All the three have been denied permission from the National Highways, which cited its own developmental works in the offing, Mr.Ziauddin said. According to reports, it has been proposed by the NHAI to expand the highway from LB Nagar up to Malkapur in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district, at a cost of Rs. 545 crore funded by the Central government. The road will have 12 lanes from LB Nagar up to Outer Ring Road, and 10 lanes from ORR up to Batasingaram, of which six lanes will be the main carriageway. For the convenience of communities on either side of the road, underpasses will be built at Panama, Vanasthalipuram, Hayatnagar, Koheda, Pedda Amberpet, Abdullapurmet, and other locations. No pedestrians will be allowed on to the highway. Two FOBs are being proposed for their convenience, though the locations have not been finalised. Highway expansion may increase the trouble for the pedestrians on the stretch, as they will have only about five to six places where they can cross over to the other side. Already, pedestrian crossing at the Chintalkunta Y junction has become extremely difficult since construction of an underpass at the location under the GHMC’s Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP). Since there is no traffic signal at the junction now, vehicles gaining tremendous speeds threaten the pedestrians who are forced to wait up to 15 minutes to half an hour merely to cross the road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fobs-put-on-hold-for-highway-expansion/article37410311.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Alumni funded ZP school inaugurated||Minister for Industries, IT and Municipal Administration K. T. Rama Rao along with Minister for Education P. Sabitha Indra Reddy and Minister for R&B V. Prashanth Reddy has complimented a businessman Subhash Reddy and other alumni of the ZP High School at Bibipet in Kamareddy district for developing the school with modern facilities. Speaking after inaugurating the new buildings of the school and gram panchayat in the village on Tuesday he said the school with modern facilities would become a model to all government and ZP schools in the State. Only few individuals like Mr. Subhash Reddy would get an opportunity to express gratitude to the soil (village) from which they hail as he had got constructed the school and GP buildings. The Minister assured to upgrade the primary school at the adjacent Konapur village to upper primary school by taking up the matter with the Education department. Upgrading the school Speaking at the event Ms. Sabitha Indra Reddy said she would try to get the high school upgraded to Junior College with the cooperation from other ministers. Mr. Prashanth Reddy and other former students of the school created a corpus fund of Rs. 1.2 crore for managing the school without any paucity of funds. Zaheerabad MP B.B. Patil offered to contribute Rs. 11 lakh to the corpus fund and Government Whip Gampa Goverdhan another Rs. 3 lakh. Zilla Parishad Chairperson Shobha, District Collector Jitesh V. Patil, Whip G. Sunitha, MLAs J. Surender and Hanumanth Shinde, MLCs Raghotham Reddy and Janardhan Reddy, sarpanch Laxmi and others participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/alumni-funded-zp-school-inaugurated/article37410529.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ready to sacrifice my life: Bandi||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday said he was ready to “sacrifice” his life for the sake of the poor and downtrodden and asked Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to decide the “date, place and time”. “I am ready to come to Pragati Bhavan or the farm house to give up my life for the sake of the people and for my party,” he said, while addressing a ‘Drum Beats’ rally organised by the party’s SC morcha cell from Babu Jagjivan Ram statue in Basheerbagh to Dr. B.R. Ambedkar statue at Tank Bund to demand the TRS Government to re-start the ‘Dalit Bandhu’ programme. The BJP leader was responding to Mr. Rao’s remarks against him at a press meet on Monday and said the entire TS society was shocked at the “language” spoken by the Chief Minister and vowed that his party “would not sleep” and would not let the former sleep till his assurances to the Dalits are fulfilled. “He (Mr. Rao) has to reveal the reasons for not making Dalit as CM? What is this great secret which cannot be shared? Or, does he think Dalits are not capable to become the CM? Dalits supported Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) believing assurances including the three acre land. The bypoll is over when will Dalit Bandhu begin? Stop giving excuses, we demand same benefit be given to Dalits across TS and with cheque powers. Our drumbeats will keep reminding CM of his promise,” said Mr. Sanjay Kumar. “There is a bigger government in Delhi and those responsible for squandering funds meant for welfare and development of Telangana people will be sent to jail,” he said. Former MP Vijayashanti labelled Mr. Rao as “Tourist CM” for coming out “once in a while” to lash out at opponents with invectives but said the BJP was not going to spare the corrupt deals of TRS government. Former Minister E. Rajender said the Huzurabad bypoll was the first blow to the Mr. Rao regime and its dismantling has began. Former MP Vivek Venkatswamy, SC morcha president K. Basha and others also spoke. TS BJP would hold round table meetings including at the universities and public libraries to invite students and unemployed to participate in the proposed ‘Million March’ of the unemployed youth to be held on Nov.16 on Tank Bund. General secretary D. Pradeep Kumar and other leaders released a poster for the programme at the party office on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ready-to-sacrifice-my-life-bandi/article37410326.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Striving for accessible, affordable healthcare||In an attempt to ensure accessible, effective and affordable healthcare services for all, the Foundation for Democratic Reforms (FDR), along with Lok Satta party, released a report titled ‘Towards Viable Universal Healthcare’ on Tuesday. Lok Satta founder Jaya Prakash Narayana and FDR members were present during the release of the report. The key elements of this model are continuum of care through a publicly-funded family physician-led primary care system with choice and competition for all outpatient care, limiting secondary and tertiary-level hospital services to in-patient care upon referral, expanding the scope of Ayushman Bharat (and other public-funded single-payer health insurance or assurance schemes) to cover all secondary care procedures for all citizens while removing tertiary care services from its coverage, and making district and public teaching hospitals the mainstay for quality, cost-effective tertiary healthcare in the country. Implementation cost “The additional cost of implementation of this model will be about Rs. 85,000 crore per year across the country which is about 0.4% of the GDP. In Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the additional cost will be about Rs. 1,900 crore and Rs. 2,600 crore respectively,” a press release informed.  They said while the pandemic has turned attention of people to healthcare delivery in the country, healthcare crisis is not one of recent origin. Policy failings pre-date the pandemic and the prolonged neglect of the healthcare system has worsened healthcare challenges over time. The rise in non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease, lung disease etc. would further burden the strained system, and increase healthcare expenditure, they pointed out. “Consequently, about six crore Indians descend into poverty every year due to lack of access to quality and affordable healthcare services. In the two Telugu states alone, about 50 lakh people are descending into poverty every year on account of ill health,” they said, adding that there is a need to design a comprehensive healthcare system taking into consideration current and future requirements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/for-accessible-affordable-healthcare/article37410302.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chief Minister is irresponsible, says Kishan Reddy||Union Minister for Tourism and Culture G. Kishan Reddy has accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of being “irresponsible” in levelling “baseless charges” against the Centre on paddy procurement and said hurling abuses against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders does not behove of his status of holding a constitutional post. “Mr. Rao had levelled serious charges against the Centre and had even threatened to incite violence, but we are not going to be scared by his empty rhetoric. This is an attempt to divert attention from the resounding defeat given by people of Huzurabad despite spending huge sums of money and frustration over being unable to make his son Chief Minister,” he said, at a press conference in New Delhi. The Minister said paddy procurement for Telangana was highest in the country after Punjab at 94 lakh metric tonnes purchased at Rs. 26,440 crore last year when the corresponding figures were 43 lakh MTs in 2014 at Rs. 3,404 crore. “The Centre pays for gunny bags, transport, workers, milling charges and so on while not a single rupee is paid by TS. Farmers grow raw rice and not boiled rice. Demand for boiled rice is reduced yet there was a commitment to procure 25 lakh MTs and another 20 lakh MTs by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) following the government request. It has promised to encourage rice barn mills and make fortified kernels with new machinery,” he explained. However, the TS Government has no clue on extent of paddy being grown as varied figures are being given - 40 lakh MTs at the Civil Supplies Ministers’ meeting in August and in October the figure has risen to 108 lakh MTs whereas the CM’s letter says 90 lakh MTs. The Minister accused the TRS Government of not sending a single request to the Centre’s offer to start new medical colleges within district hospitals on 60:40 cost-sharing ratio. He has insulted our soldiers on the China border ridiculing their capabilities,” added Mr. Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chief-minister-is-irresponsible-says-kishan-reddy/article37410325.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘KCR confident of no action against his graft’||TPCC president, A. Revanth Reddy opined that the Chief Minister, K. Chandrashekhar Rao was confident of silence on his corruption by the BJP government given his close relations with the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi. Mr. KCR is posing challenges to the BJP state president Bandi Sanjay knowing very well that he has no stature in New Delhi and no one takes him seriously in the party high command, he said adding that the Chief Minister has no guts to challenge the national leadership but only Telangana BJP leaders. In fact, CM has dedicated his press conferences to lash out at Bandi Sanjay and not at national leadership. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the two-day training programme for select Congress leaders on digital membership, the TPCC president said the Congress has given a document to the Central government with full evidence on KCR’s corruption but there has been no action, as expected. “His closeness to BJP national leadership is well-known and that is why he is targeting the local BJP leaders to confuse people. But the fact is TRS and BJP are working together and state BJP leaders are totally clueless on this relationship,” he claimed. Further charging the TRS leadership with corruption, he said the affidavits filed by KCR, KTR, Kavita and T. Harish Rao during elections since 2014 show the phenomenal rise in their properties and they can’t hide their amassed wealth from the people for long. Mr. Reddy said KCR was afraid of Congress and his claims that Congress was finished was to satisfy his false ego. “If Congress was finished why is the CM accusing us of colluding with the BJP and blaming us for his loss,” he asked. The Congress chief accused the government of acting like a middleman rather than guiding the farmers and giving them confidence. If the Centre escapes its responsibility from buying paddy state government too cannot escape leaving the farmers in lurch, he said asked what kind of Chief Minister he is to threaten to sit on dharnas than buying the crops. “Was he given power to stage dharnas or govern,” he asked. He described KCR’s outbursts against the farm laws as a joke and challenged him to pass a resolution in the Assembly against the three farm laws. He said KCR doesn’t have any agriculture policy and his whims and fancies are being thrust upon the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-confident-of-no-action-against-his-graft/article37410329.ece
10 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cadre’s sacrifices would not go waste: Cong. leaders||The two-day training programme for District, Block, Mandal and Town presidents of the Congress on digital membership started with the TPCC president, A. Revanth Reddy promising the cadre that their services for the party will be in his heart and he would not let them down. All the senior leaders who participated in the programme including CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, Nalgonda MP, N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and Madhu Yaskhi Goud among others, took potshots at both the State and Central governments and called for all out efforts to oust the TRS government in the state to free Telangana from its clutches. Mr. Revanth Reddy promised that the cadre would get their reward and all he needs is 18 months of their service to the party to come to power and oust the Kalkavuntla family from power. Those not willing to fight for the party will also be noted and action would be taken against them. AICC incharge for Telangana, Manickam Tagore said the party has to gear up to secure 80 lakh votes in Telangana and the leaders should enrol 80 lakh members. He wanted the party to fight unitedly and leaders should bury their differences. Mr. Uttam spoke elaborately on Congress history, ideology and its contribution to building of modern India. He reminded it was Congress which forced the Nizam to accede to Indian Union in 1948 and it was Sonia Gandhi who gave Telangana to keep her promise. He said it was due to various Congress governments that India is a major economic power now. Mr. Vikramarka while hailing the role of Congress cadre recalled the services of Sonia Gandhi and her family for the party and the nation. He said no one matched the stature of Indira Gandhi in the present government that was targeting the Gandhi family to cover up their failures. He said Congress was the only party that can defeat both the BJP and the TRS. Bhongir MP, Komatireddy Venkata Reddy and Munugode MLA, Komtireddy Rajgopal Reddy were the noted absentees among all the senior leaders. A group of members from Jangoan constituency entered into an argument with the leadership stating that their leader Jhanga Raghava Reddy was being ignored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cadres-sacrifices-would-not-go-waste-cong-leaders/article37410330.ece
10 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Govt. launches collaborative effort with NGOs, startups||The Telangana government on Tuesday launched a collaborative effort between non-governmental organisations and startups to co-create solutions in the social sector. Called Impact Labs, the initiative focuses on co-creation of solutions by startups and NGOs, and is aided by Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) and the ITE&C department. “The focus on social impact under startup ecosystem should be attributed to the collaborations between various entities. The government of Telangana has been very upfront in taking it to the next level, for which we are launching Impact Labs, a program for another crucial collaboration between NGOs and startups,” said Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary to ITE&C department at the launch. The areas mapped out for the collaboration are education, health and nutrition, assistive technology, old age empowerment, women and child development, hunger, agriculture, climate change and clean mobility, according to a press release. Some NGOs on-boarded include ActionAid India, World Vision India, Save the Children, Greenpeace, SOPAR-Bala Vikasa, Akshaya Patra, Youngistaan Foundation, PLAN International, and HelpAge India. Proof-of-concept “Impact Labs will provide a platform for both entities to co-create a proof-of-concept from scratch for the defined problem statements and pilot the same in Telangana,” said Chief Innovation Officer Shanta Thoutam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-launches-collaborative-effort-with-ngos-startups/article37410304.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS writes to Centre for adequate fertilizer||Telangana Government has requested the Centre to supply fertilizers required for the 2021-22 Rabi (Yasangi) season as per the plan issued by the Department of Fertilizers stating that there is huge gap in the requirement and supply so far. In a letter addressed to Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh L. Mandaviya on Tuesday, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy said as per Rabi plan, about 70 lakh acres was expected to be cultivated with various crops in Telangana and based on it the Department of Fertilizers (DoF)had made an allotment of 20.5 lakh tonnes of various fertilizers to the State with month-wise supplies. He brought to the notice of the Union Minister that as per the fertilizer supply plan finalised by the DoF the requirement of 2.9 lakh tonnes was estimated for October and another 3.5 lakh tonnes for November. However, allotment of only 1.76 lakh tonnes was made in October and 1.91 lakh tonnes in November. But, the supplies received were 1.19 lakh tonnes and 0.33 lakh tonnes during the two months, till date. Against the requirement of 6.4 lakh tonnes for the two months, the allotment made was only 3.67 lakh tonnes and supplies made were 1.55 lakh tonnes with a gap of 2.12 lakh tonnes in supplies itself as per the allotment made. Of the total requirement for the two months, 3 lakh tonnes of urea, 2.5 lakh tonnes of NPK, 0.5 lakh tonnes of DAP and 0.4 lakh tonnes of MoP was to be supplied to the State. However, only 0.89 lakh tonnes of urea and 0.52 lakh tonnes of NPK were supplied so far, Mr. Niranjan Reddy explained in the letter. Stating that fertilizer companies had already imported fertilizers already and the consignments were berthed, the Telangana Minister requested the Centre to allot 23,000 tonnes of urea in the Western Singapore vessel berthed at Gangavaram port, 10,000 tonnes of DAP in the Nord Peak vessel berthed in Kakinada port, 8,000 tonnes of DAP from a vessel arriving at Kakinada this month, 12,000 tonnes of DAP from stock already available at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada ports. He also sought an allotment of two additional rakes of urea to KRIBHCO for supply of the soil nutrient to Telangana in November as the company was allotted only 3,000 tonnes of urea to be supplied to the State this month against supply of a minimum of 20,000 tonnes every month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-writes-to-centre-for-adequate-fertilizer/article37410317.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Real estate dealer arrested for forgery||The Central Crime Station on Tuesday arrested Pediripati Shekar Goud, who is accused of forging documents to sell land parcels. According to the police, the 38-year-old accused, who is a resident of Thondupally village, is engaged in dealing with disputed lands. Shekar, along with another accused, allegedly prepared a forged agreement of sale of around 1,500 square yards land of a private company in Moosapet. They then allegedly approached a businessman and offered to sell the plot of land for Rs. 11.25 crore. The victim then paid Rs. 1.10 crore as an advance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/real-estate-dealer-arrested-for-forgery/article37410314.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||11 tolas gold, Rs. 1.70 lakh stolen||A theft in the house of a former employee of Prof Jaishankar Telangana State Agricultural University was reported, police said on Tuesday. According to the Rajendranagar police who are investigating the case, the unknown persons broke into the house of Vasantha, who retired from her job around two years ago and has since taken up employment elsewhere, on Monday between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. Police said that as much as 11 tolas gold and Rs. 1.70 lakh in cash was missing from the almirah. The theft happened when the victim had left for work, police said. Police suspect that the accused could have been someone known to the victim. “The theft happened when Vasantha left for work. When we went to the scene, nothing was disturbed in the house. We are suspecting that the accused could be those who know Vasantha,” police said. A case has been booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/11-tolas-gold-rs-170-lakh-stolen/article37410316.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP not giving clarity on Rabi procurement: TRS||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has accused the State leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), including a Union Minister, of creating confusion among the farming community on the issue of paddy cultivation in the Rabi (Yasangi) season by not giving clarity on the procurement of rice produced in the season by the Centre. When the State government is trying to give clarity by explaining the farmers about the refusal of Food Corporation of India (FCI) to procure boiled rice from this Rabi season, the BJP leaders have been hiding facts about the boiled rice procurement and asking farmers to go for paddy stating that they would make the State government procure it, ministers S. Niranjan Reddy and G. Kamalakar have said. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, they sought to know whether they were not aware of the fact that the FCI had taken in writing from the State government (Civil Supplies Corporation), on the directions from the Ministry of Food and Public Distribution, in the middle of the procurement of rice produced in the last Rabi season that State would not be given boiled rice quota henceforth. They also reminded the State BJP leaders of what a few other Union ministers spoke about the boiled rice stocks in the country — that the country already has over 280 lakh tonnes of boiled rice stocks and procuring more such rice would be useless as boiled rice could be used only for two years after milling. Further, they pointed out that State BJP president Bandi Sanjay spoke of only procurement of rice produced this Kharif season without mentioning the fact that the FCI had not specified the quantity it would lift, so far. He also did not speak about the procurement of rice produced in the Rabi season. The ministers suggested that the BJP leaders could pursue with the Centre for bringing down the out-turn, processed paddy (rice), fixed at 68 kg for every 100 kg of paddy to 50-55 kg in the Rabi season so that the State could supply raw rice in Rabi too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-not-giving-clarity-on-rabi-procurement-trs/article37410320.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nine drug offenders held||The Cyberabad police on Tuesday announced the apprehension of as many as nine alleged drugs offenders who were nabbed over three days. The move comes after the Cyberabad Commissionerate intensified its efforts to stop the selling and buying of narcotics. The offenders were apprehended after three cases were booked against them on November 6, November 7 and November 8, and as much as 8.6 kg ganja was seized from their possession, police said. As many as 101 petty cases were also registered. Two held for murder The Falaknuma police on Tuesday announced the apprehension of two persons for allegedly murdering a 30-year-old dancer Shireen Fatima. According to the police, the accused are Mohammed Afsar (30), a cab driver, and Mohammed Nahed (22), a bookie. Both are residents of Malakpet. Afsar was allegedly in a relationship with the woman and killed her when she insisted on marriage. Techie kills self A 27-year-old woman was found hanging in a private hospital, Rajendranagar police said on Tuesday. The woman was a techie and admitted at the hospital on November 6. “She was unwell and was admitted. It seems she was in depression. The body was found hanging in the hospital,” police said.Roshini - suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nine-drug-offenders-held/article37410309.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana adds 173 cases to its coronavirus tally||The State recorded 173 new cases of COVID-19 and one fatality on Tuesday, taking the infection total to 6,72,823 and death toll to 3,968. While 40,797 samples were examined, results of 1,661 were awaited. The new 173 infections included 61 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 13 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, and 12 each from Rangareddy and Karimnagar. No infection was detected in eight districts — Jogulamba-Gadwal, Kamareddy, Mulugu, Nagarkurnool, Narayanpet, Rajanna-Sircilla, Vikarabad and Wanaparthy. Other districts had single-digit infections. There were 3,754 active cases as of Tuesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-adds-173-cases-to-covid-tally/article37410303.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC to send legal notice to ride hailing app, actor||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation will send a legal notice to actor Allu Arjun and ride hailing app Rapido for ‘tarnishing’ the image of the corporation in an advertisement, according to an official statement released on Tuesday. “Demeaning TSRTC will neither be tolerated by the TSRTC management nor by the commuters, admirers and our own and retired employees. Further, the Managing Director said, in fact actors should act in the advertisements which promote public transport for a better and environmentally cleaner society,” the statement reads. According to the TSRTC, the advertisement, with Mr Arjun in it, is available on YouTube, and has been criticised by passengers and those who support the TSRTC and retired employees. “The TSRTC is in the service of the common man and it will send legal notice to the actor and to the firm which is promoting the advertisement. Cases have been already registered against those putting up stickers and pamphlets in buses and bus stations and also on those spitting pan, gutkha in buses and outside,” the statement reads. TSRTC Managing Director V.C. Sajjanar requested celebrities, not to promote content which is ‘detrimental to public transportation and public good’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-to-send-legal-notice-to-ride-hailing-app-actor/article37410315.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two arrested for murder of dancer||The Falaknuma police on Tuesday announced the apprehension of two persons for allegedly murdering a 30-year-old dancer Shireen Fatima. According to the police, the accused are Mohammed Afsar (30), a cab driver, and Mohammed Nahed (22), a bookie. Both are residents of Malakpet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-arrested-for-murder-of-dancer/article37410532.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Approval for Resolute under Centre’s PLI scheme||The Resolute group of companies has received approval under the Central government’s Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme for telecom and LED lighting. Stating it is only company in Telangana to have received PLI approval for both telecom and LED lighting, chairman Raminder Singh Soin on Tuesday said with the PLI sanctions, it will be moving into the next phase of growth. The PLI scheme will be beneficial for smart lighting, which is the future and translate into more energy-saving than LEDs. The sanction will helping derive advantages of economies of scale and reduce cost for consumers. Share of imported components would come down from 80% to 40% as a result of the scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/approval-for-resolute-under-centres-pli-scheme/article37410525.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State Page - picture briefly||Journalist and writer Palaparthy Ram Prasad passed away at his residence here on Monday. Native of Bapatla, 88-year-old Prasad was suffering from illness since 15 days. A graduate from Madras University, he worked as editor of Andhra Patrika. He was author of several novels like Roshanara, Shahjahan, Arya Chanakya, Prudhviraj, and Appaji . He was a political analyst and stage drama artist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-page-picture-briefly/article37410328.ece
10 November 2021||HYDERANAD,TELANGANA||Tough job for TRS to pick names for MLCs||After dealing with the Opposition in the by-election held to Huzurabad Assembly seat recently, the leadership of ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) continues to grapple with more elections, this time to Legislative Council, with a tough job on its hands in the selection of candidates, although the party is certain to retain all the 18 seats. While the process to fill six MLC vacancies in the MLAs’ quota that fell vacant on June 3 last has commenced on Tuesday with the issuance of notification, the Election Commission has also released schedule to fill another 12 MLC vacancies in the Local Authorities’ Constituencies quota that would fall vacant on January 4 next. With the last date for filing nominations for the 6 MLC seats in the MLAs’ quota being November 16, both the party leadership and aspirants including the members retired in June – Akula Lalitha, Mohd. Fareeduddin, Gutha Sukender Reddy, Nethi Vidyasagar, Bodakunti Venkateshwarlu and Kadiyam Srihari – have urgency to pace up their efforts. “Yes, ours being the ruling party it’s quite natural that the number of aspirants would be high. It’s more so when there’s the certainty that we will retain all the seats with our strength in the Assembly and in the Local Bodies. The leadership has its eyes on the matter already and is in the process of weighing options keeping in mind the combinations and permutations to maintain a social balance”, a senior TRS leader considered close to the leadership said. It is understood that all the six MLCs who retired in June are leaving no stone unturned to retain the party nomination and some new aspirants including those who switched over to the party in the recent months were also engaged in lobbying in whatever way they can to get the nomination. Sources said most of the aspirants were trying to get an audience with the party working president K.T. Rama Rao to push their case at party president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The party leadership is also weighing the names of recent entrants to the party such as L. Ramana and Motkupalli Narsimhulu and former Speaker S. Madhusudana Chary for Legislative Council either in the MLAs’ quota or in the Local Bodies’ quota.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tough-job-for-trs-to-pick-names-for-mlcs/article37410319.ece
10 November 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Land rights lab opened||The Land Rights Lab (LRL) was inaugurated at the district headquarters on Tuesday coinciding with the National Legal Services Day. The centre being run at Grameena Nyayapeetham opposite to district court complex will extend services from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. on all working days. Interested farmers can pay Rs. 100 and get their land records checked to find out if there are any legal complications. “Farmers can protect their land rights by checking the status of their land at least once. They can come out of land related problems,” said Supreme Court senior lawyer P. Niroop, founder and chief advisor of Grameena Nyayapeetham. “There are several land issues haunting the farmers, particularly in rural areas, in Telangana. Farmers do not know the problem and how to get it addressed and whom to approach. Some times the problem becomes more complex. This centre was established to create awareness among farmers and guide them in addressing the problem. This will train people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/land-rights-lab-opened/article37410323.ece
10 November 2021||WARANGAL,TELANGANA||CM’s visit to Warangal, Hanamkonda put off||Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s scheduled visit to Warangal and Hanamkonda on Wednesday has been postponed indefinitely in the wake of release of schedule for biennial election to the State Legislative Council from nine local authorities’ constituencies for 12 MLC (Member of Legislative Council) seats by the Election Commission of India on Tuesday. According to sources, the Chief Minister was slated to undertake a day-long tour of both Warangal and Hanamkonda districts and review matters pertaining to outer ring road south of Warangal, road and civic infrastructure development works in Warangal and other municipalities, construction of railway over bridges and other development works with the public representatives on Wednesday. The Chief Minister, Mr. K. Chandrasekhar Rao, was also expected to take stock of the progress of works on the internal ring road and textile park in Warangal city. The Chief Minister’s visit has been put off indefinitely in view of the release of schedule for MLC elections, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cms-visit-to-warangal-hanamkonda-put-off/article37410331.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||A lot on her plate||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-lot-on-her-plate/article37410527.ece
10 November 2021||Bhopal,||Yet to be named, 4 newborns die in Bhopal hospital fire tragedy||They had just been out of the protective womb of their mothers and yet to see the world around them, but the cruel fate snuffed life out of them in a split second after fire broke out at a hospital here and claimed the lives of four infants. The newborns, who were just about one to nine days old, had not even been named by their parents as they were admitted to the Special Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) of the government-run Kamala Nehru Hospital for treatment. The parents, overjoyed by the birth of their children, were probably thinking of names for them, but it could not happen. Now, they will only be remembered as the “baby of Irfana, baby of Shivani, baby of Shajma and baby of Rachna,” a health official said. A picture of the medical equipment, monitors, ventilators, and other critical life-saving devices covered in black soot was enough to tell the tale of the ghastly tragedy inside the ward. Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang, who was among the first few persons to reach the spot soon after getting information about the blaze, described the scene inside the ward as “very scary”. The fire broke out around 8.35 p.m. on Monday in the SNCU of the medical facility, situated on the campus of the Gandhi Medical College and Hamidia Hospital, which has the upper lake located on one side and CM’s residence on the other side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/yet-to-be-named-4-newborns-die-in-bhopal-hospital-blaze/article37410385.ece
10 November 2021||Bhopal,||Chief Minister orders fire safety audit of hospitals in M.P.||A day after the death of four infants in fire at a hospital in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday ordered for the fire safety audit of all government and private hospitals in the State. The Chief Minister said the fire at the hospital in the State capital on Monday was a result of “criminal negligence”, and the guilty will not be spared. “It was our [government’s] responsibility to save these children as they were under our protection. This is a serious incident,” he said addressing State Ministers and government officials before the Cabinet meeting. “This is criminal negligence. Whoever is guilty will not be spared…we need to prevent such unfortunate incidents in future. All necessary arrangements should be made to avoid such incidents,” he said. The CM said fire safety was now more important as oxygen plants and their supply lines were installed at various hospitals in the wake of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/chief-minister-orders-fire-safety-audit-of-hospitals-in-mp/article37410387.ece
10 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||Shillong Sikhs set precondition for talks||The Harijan Panchayat Committee (HPC) representing the largely Dalit Sikh residents of a prime location in Meghalaya capital Shillong has set a precondition for talks with the State Government. The residents of Them Iew Mawlong, known as the Harijan Colony or the Punjabi Lane, have been facing eviction following a conflict with some locals in 2018. Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma had a few days ago said the Government was open to holding talks with the stakeholders. The HPC responded by asking the Government to first recognise the existence and the presence of the settlers. In a letter to the CM, HPC secretary Gurjit Singh appreciated the call for talks but said the residents facing eviction also need a formal agenda-based invitation from the Government to break the ice. “The residents of the colony never received an invitation from the high-level committee. On the contrary, we were constantly given veiled threats of forcible eviction,” Mr. Singh said. He trashed the claims of the CM and Deputy CM Prestone Tynsong that the committee had never received any representation or objection from them. ‘Disclose agreement’ Mr. Singh also criticised the Government for not disclosing the contents of the tripartite agreement among the Government, the acting Syiem (king-like chieftain) of Mylliem and the Shillong Municipal Board. The Government had in October claimed that it had taken possession of the colony land after paying a premium of Rs. 2 crore to the Syiem, the original owner of the land. The HPC claims that some 350 Sikh and Punjab-origin families have been living in the colony since their forefathers were gifted the land by the then Syiem 200 years ago. “What is so sacrosanct in the agreement that it is not being made available even after filing of RTI applications?” Mr. Singh asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/shillong-sikhs-set-precondition-for-talks/article37410185.ece
10 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Gehlot likely to reduce VAT on petrol, diesel||After urging Prime Minister Narendra Modi to further slash the excise duty on fuel, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said the State Government would reduce the value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to provide relief to the people. The scope for extending the relief was being examined, Mr. Gehlot said. “When all States have taken action to reduce the fuel prices, we will have to follow suit...We will hold a meeting to take a decision on the reduction of VAT and make an announcement,” Mr. Gehlot said at a public meeting during the ‘Prashasan Gaon Ke Sang’ (administration with villages) campaign in Jodhpur. Mr. Gehlot was being pressured to reduce fuel prices after the Congress-ruled Punjab cut down the price of petrol by Rs. 10 per litre and diesel by Rs. 5 per litre and claimed in an advertisement that its fuel prices were lower than those in Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan. The Opposition BJP took up the issue and targeted the State Government for its stand. Poonia writes to Sonia BJP State president Satish Poonia even wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday, requesting her to instruct Mr. Gehlot to announce VAT reduction in the interest of people. The BJP also said that the State Government was charging the highest VAT on fuel in the country. Mr. Gehlot had earlier said that the VAT collection of the States had automatically reduced in a proportionate manner after the Centre’s decision to cut the excise duty on petrol by Rs. 5 per litre and on diesel by Rs. 10 per litre. He has been pitching for a slash in the additional excise duty, special excise duty and cess on fuel. Several BJP-ruled States have reduced VAT rates after the Centre’s move. In a letter addressed to the Prime Minister on Monday, Mr. Gehlot had said if the Centre further reduced the excise duty by Rs. 10 on petrol and Rs. 15 on diesel, then the VAT would automatically reduce by Rs. 3.40 on petrol and Rs. 3.90 on diesel. As a result, Rajasthan was ready to bear a revenue loss of Rs. 3,500 crore, he said. The Chief Minister also said that the Centre had reduced the States’ share in the excise duty on fuel after 2016 and the States were not getting any share from the additional or special excise duty charged by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gehlot-likely-to-reduce-vat-on-petrol-diesel/article37410187.ece
10 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||Mayawati: BJP, SP making it a Hindu-Muslim election in U.P.||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati on Tuesday said on Tuesday that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the main Opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) were trying to communalise and turn the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election into a “Hindu-Muslim” one. Ms. Mayawati also said that the two were “different sides of the same coin” and that there was no difference between them. To divert attention from its anti-people policy and failures, the BJP was working in collusion with the SP to raise communal and religious issues, she told reporters at a press conference here. “They want to make the election Hindu-Muslim,” she said It must be recalled that in 2019 Ms. Mayawati had allied with the SP for the Lok Sabha election but broke off the ties after the results, renewing acrimony between the two sides who have ruled the State for most of the last three decades. Referring to SP chief Akhilesh Yadav’s latest remark on Muhammad Ali Jinnah at a rally in Hardoi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s regular utterances on the 1990 firing on ‘karsevaks’ in Ayodhya under the Mulayam Singh Government, Ms. Mayawati said the SP and BJP were dependant on each other and nourished each other’s politics. “Both parties are casteist and communal,” said Ms. Mayawati, stating that when the SP is in power, the BJP gets strengthened. In contrast, when the BSP comes to power, the BJP becomes weak, she said. Despite a long list of her leaders switching loyalty to the SP, Ms. Mayawati said their exit will not impact her party. Party workers and supporters don’t leaveBSP when these leaders quit, she argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mayawati-bjp-sp-making-it-a-hindu-muslim-election-in-up/article37410192.ece
10 November 2021||Mumbai,||Param Bir created ‘bad image’ for police, CID tells court||A court here on Tuesday remanded two police officers in the custody of the Maharashtra Criminal Investigation Department (CID) in a case of alleged extortion in which former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh is one of the accused. Mr. Singh created a “bad image” for the Mumbai Police, Special Public Prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap told the court while seeking the remand of the arrested officers. The CID has also sought a non-bailable warrant against Mr. Singh in the case, and the court is likely to pass an order on the plea on Wednesday. “The notorious approach of Param Bir Singh, for ages, has created bad image of the Mumbai Police and others,” said Mr. Jagtap. The courts have already issued warrants against Mr. Singh in two other cases of extortion, one of them registered in Mumbai and another in neighbouring Thane. Police Inspectors Nandkumar Gopale and Asha Korke, previously posted with the Mumbai Crime Branch, were produced on Tuesday before Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate R.M. Nerlikar in an extortion case registered at the Marine Drive police station here. Sent to custody Mr. Gopale is currently posted at the Khandala police training centre while Ms. Korke is with the Naigaon local arms unit. The judge sent them to seven days’ custody of the CID after hearing the arguments. The two were arrested on Monday based on the complaint filed by real estate developer Shyamsunder Agrawal on July 22. Seeking their custody, the CID said they had played active role in the crime and it wanted to investigate their connection with the other accused and their financial transactions. The money that was extorted from the complainant is yet to be recovered, the CID said, adding that it wanted to confront some witnesses with the accused. Advocate Aniket Nikam, appearing for Mr. Gopale, opposed the remand plea, saying the accused had cooperated with the probe and appeared before the investigators four times. The FIR was registered in April for the offence allegedly committed in March and what was the CID doing for four months, he asked, pointing out that no chargesheet has been filed yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/param-bir-created-bad-image-for-police-cid-tells-court/article37410186.ece
10 November 2021||Mumbai,||Seven injured as house collapses in Mumbai||Seven people were injured after a ground-plus-one-storey house collapsed in Mumbai on Tuesday morning, a Fire Brigade officer said. The house, located at Jai Maharashtra Nagar in Antop Hill area, crashed at 8.10 a.m., he said. Four fire engines, a rescue van and other fire fighting equipment were rushed to the spot. Police and civic teams also reached the spot after being alerted, the officer said. “Seven people were rescued from the debris of the collapsed house. The injured people were sent to the nearby civic-run Sion Hospital for treatment,” the officer added. Details about their health condition were awaited, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/seven-injured-as-house-collapses-in-mumbai/article37410381.ece
10 November 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra council polls on Dec. 10||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday announced the schedule for the biennial election to the Maharashtra Legislative Council from five local authorities for six seats due to retirement of sitting members on January 1, 2022. The election will be held on December 10 and the result will be declared on December 14. The term of eight sitting MLCs is set to expire on January 2022. However, with regard to local authorities’ constituencies election, the ECI has laid down the guidelines that if at least 75% of the local authorities in the constituency are functioning and in addition at least 75% of the electors out of the total electorate are available, then electorate is treated as available for electing MLC. Based on this, only five out of seven local authorities fulfill the criteria leading to election on only six seats. The seven local authorities include, Mumbai (Ramdas Kadam of Shiv Sena and Bhai Jagtap of Congress), Kolhapur (Satej Patil of Congress), Dhule-cum-Nandurbar (Amrishbhai Patel, Congress-turned-BJP), Akola-cum-Buldhana-cum-Washim (Gopikishan Bajoriya of Shiv sena), Nagpur (Girish Vyas of BJP), Solapur (Prashant Paricharak, independent) and Ahmednagar (Arunkaka Jagtap of NCP).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-council-polls-on-dec-10/article37410386.ece
10 November 2021||Mumbai,||Have enough evidence on Wankhede: Nawab Malik||Narcotics Control Bureau’s Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede’s father has distorted facts and concocted stories to make feeble attempts to obtain court orders, said Maharashtra Cabinet Minister Nawab Malik before the Bombay High Court. Mr. Malik filed a reply to the defamation suit filed by Mr. Sameer’s father Dhyandev Wankhede seeking damages of Rs. 1.25 crore for making derogatory statements against his family. As directed by Justice Madhav Jamdar on Monday, the NCP leader filed his reply on Tuesday. It read: “The plaintiff [Mr. Dhyandev] has made a hue and cry when the defendant [Mr. Malik] has produced this birth certificate, thereby alleging that his name is not Dawood and he nor his son are Muslim by religion. The said certificate is issued by the BMC. If the said certificate is false, then it is for the plaintiff or Mr. Sameer to take corrective steps and pursue it with BMC…Till date, he has not produced any other birth certificate to contradict the one produced by the defendant, which falsifies the plaintiff’s case to a great extent.” The plaintiff was required to obtain permission of the court under the Civil Procedure Code to file a suit in representative capacity on behalf of his family members, which Mr. Dhyandev did not do, Mr. Malik said. “Mr. Malik has sufficient evidence in support of his claim, whose authenticity and admissibility can be decided only at the stage of trial,” the reply mentioned. The matter will be heard on November 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/have-enough-evidence-on-wankhede-malik-to-hc/article37410193.ece
10 November 2021||New Delhi,||550 teams to control open burning: Rai||As the city’s air continued to be toxic, a team from IIT Bombay is studying the impact of the smog tower fitted with 5,000 filters. There is more than 80% reduction in the particulate matter, a chief pollutant, that enters and leaves the tower. But this is just the efficiency of the filters; it will take time to know the actual impact of the tower at a distance away, a Delhi Government official said. Environment Minister Gopal Rai said on Tuesday that the Delhi Government will execute a five-point plan, including a campaign against open burning from Thursday, to reduce air pollution. “This anti-open burning campaign will be run for a month. This is a joint drive involving the Delhi Pollution Control Committee; North, East, South Delhi Municipal Corporations; Revenue, Development, Irrigation and Flood Control Departments; Delhi Development Authority; Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (DSIIDC); and Cantonment Board. They will crack down on incidents of open burning of waste,” Mr. Rai said. The Minister said these Government bodies have a total of 550 teams, of which 304 teams will work during the day and the remaining 246 will patrol at night. He also said that directions have been issued to the departments to implement the phase two of the anti-dust campaign, which will begin on November 12 and end on December 12. About the water sprinkling drive, Mr. Rai said at present, the exercise is being carried by the Public Works Department. “The fight will be intensified with the three corporations, Cantonment Board and DSIIDC pitching in to take the number of tankers deployed to over 400. This will provide immediate relief from the pollution to an extent,” he said. The Minister also said that spraying of bio-decomposer in the entire area of 4,000 acres will be completed by November 20. The smog tower, a pilot project, was inaugurated by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on August 23. The 24-metre-high structure has 40 big fans and 5,000 filters. The fans suck in air which will be cleaned as it passes through the filters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/550-teams-to-control-open-burning-rai/article37410174.ece
10 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks Govt.’s response to plea on controlling dengue||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Delhi Government and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation to respond to a plea seeking steps to control the rising dengue cases through regular fogging, forming inspection teams to check growth of mosquito larvae, and imposing penalties for violations. Justice Rekha Palli granted a week’s time to the authorities to submit their status reports in the case while posting it for further hearing on November 18. The petitioner, Ananya Kumar, a resident of Model Town in north Delhi, who suffered from dengue, said the area is facing an onslaught of the disease. The plea said that due to the inaction of the authorities in controlling the vector-borne disease, many cases are reported every day and hospital beds are being occupied fast. The Delhi Government’s counsel said the authorities are taking necessary steps to check dengue cases in the city. The petition sought a direction to the authorities to control the disease in the surrounding area of her residence and to conduct “regular fogging in the area, door-to-door awareness campaign, form teams to inspect dengue larvae on the premises/area and to impose penalty for violation and issue dengue helpline numbers”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-seeks-govts-response-to-plea-on-controlling-dengue/article37410167.ece
10 November 2021||New Delhi,||EDMC bans firewood, coal at eateries to curb air pollution||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Tuesday announced a ban on the use of coal and firewood in clay ovens ( tandoors ) and grills at restaurants under its jurisdiction. The civic body in an order said that to curb air pollution, restaurants and eateries have been directed to make use of compressed natural gas (CNG), piped natural gas (PNG) or wood charcoal. “ Tandoors and grills must be operated on the premises and all the eateries must install an emission control system. Firewood and coal are prohibited and action will be taken against violators,” an EDMC official said. Restaurant owners, however, are unhappy with the move. The owner of a restaurant in Shahdara said this is “not feasible in terms of cost”. “Most of my customers prefer food cooked in a coal-based clay oven and if I cannot use it, my business will be affected. Another factor is cost. I would invest in a CNG or PNG-based oven if it was affordable. The average cost of a medium-sized LPG cylinder is more than Rs. 1,800,” he said. Another restaurant owner from the area said he has “been using an LPG-based clay oven for four years”. “An LPG-based clay oven is neither economical nor does it give a smokey flavour to the food. Wood charcoal is also an ineffective option and if this ban is to curb air pollution, then wood charcoal should have been prohibited,” he said, adding this ban will not help cut down on pollution because there are larger problems which are yet to be attended to. EDMC Commissioner Vikas Anand said the ban on firewood and coal “was not new” and that it had been “implemented last year”. “There is some logic behind this move and many restaurants have moved towards other fuel-based options. We are only implementing the rules that have been directed to us by authorities,” Mr. Anand said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/edmc-bans-firewood-coal-at-eateries-to-curb-air-pollution/article37410171.ece
10 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Perception of courts going on vacation like schools incorrect’||Delhi High Court Judge Justice Jayant Nath, who demitted office on Tuesday, said that the public perception of courts going on vacation like schools was not correct and that an “image change” was necessary. Speaking at his farewell reference, Justice Nath said, “Courts are overburdened with long pending cases. Unfortunately, the perception of a common man is to blame the court for delay in disposal of cases.” “Much is said about the courts going on vacations, comparing it with school vacations. I can say with full conviction that this public image is not correct,” Justice Nath said, adding that the pendency is there in spite of “huge efforts” by courts and lawyers. “The reasons for delay are many but are not really attributable to the courts. All I can say is, the court needs to take some steps to project this hard and good work that is being put in place by engaging an appropriate machinery. I feel some image change would be useful,” Justice Nath said. ‘Tunday Kababi’ ruling At the event, which was streamed live on YouTube through Delhi High Court’s official account, Chief Justice D.N. Patel said Justice Nath will forever be remembered for his eminence and excellence as a judge of the High Court. “He shall be in our hearts as a member of the family,” Chief Justice Patel said. In December 2017, Justice Nath ended the legal battle over ownership of the name ‘Tunday Kababi’ after he ruled that the name belongs exclusively to Mohammad Usman, the grandson of Haji Murad Ali ‘Tunday’ in Lucknow. In June 2019, a Bench headed by Justice Nath took serious exception to video footages of cops dragging and assaulting a 15-year-old boy and his father in broad daylight in north-west Delhi’s Mukherjee Nagar, describing it an evidence of “police brutality”. The Bench had then called for an independent report on the incident from an officer of the rank of Joint Commissioner of Police within a week. In May this year, Justice Nath had ruled that the Delhi Government had no power to indefinitely postpone the collection of annual charges and development fees by private unaided schools as it would unreasonably restrict their functioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/perception-of-courts-going-on-vacation-like-schools-incorrect/article37410169.ece
10 November 2021||New Delhi,||BJP playing politics over Chhath, AAP busy with preparations: Rai||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Delhi in-charge and Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday said that the BJP is busy doing politics over Chhath Puja, while AAP’s Ministers and MLAs have taken charge of preparations for the festival and are visiting ghats. Mr. Rai inspected the preparations at Bhalswa lake and said that facilities — from tents to CCTV cameras — have been provided at the site. MLA Atishi inspected several Chhath ghats, including Giri Nagar and Tilak Khand. “Our only wish is to help the people of Delhi, of Purvanchal to celebrate Chhath Puja without obstacles. Amidst the enthusiasm and the preparations, I would also like to urge the people to exercise caution and adhere to COVID-19 guidelines. The role of the BJP is to impose its politics, while the responsibility of AAP is to help conduct the puja. So, they’re doing their part and we are doing ours,” Mr. Rai said. Meanwhile, north-east Delhi BJP MP Manoj Tiwari accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of trying to shirk his responsibility for the cleanliness of the Yamuna and blame the Haryana Government for increased ammonia levels. Mr. Tiwari visited the Najafgarh drain on Tuesday. “I am here to expose the fact that the Yamuna falls prey to pollution not because of water from Haryana but because the Delhi Government did nothing to improve its situation over the past seven years,” he said at a point where water from the Najafgarh drain was falling into the river. “The Delhi Government has not only been misleading citizens but also the honourable Supreme Court about the efforts to clean the river. The CM is now disrespecting the Purvanchali people by trying to hold them and the Chhath festival responsible for the polluted Yamuna,” he added.  Our only wish is to help the people of Delhi, of Purvanchal to celebrate Chhath Puja without obstacles. I urge the people to adhere to COVID-19 guidelines Gopal Rai AAP Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-playing-politics-over-chhath-aap-busy-with-preparations-rai/article37410179.ece
10 November 2021||New Delhi,||City’s air quality dips to ‘severe’ level again||The air quality in the Capital deteriorated to the ‘severe’ category again on Tuesday from the ‘very poor’ level, a day earlier. The AQI (air quality index) has been ‘severe’ for four out of five days after Deepavali. Delhi’s air quality entered the ‘severe’ level for the first time this winter on Friday with an AQI of 462. The AQI was 437 on Saturday, 428 on Sunday, 390 on Monday, and 404 on Tuesday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours and considered the day’s AQI.  Several other NCR cities, including Faridabad, Noida and Ghaziabad, and towns in north India such as Meerut, Baghpat, Hapur, and Ballabgarh too witnessed ‘severe’ level of air pollution on Tuesday.  Stubble burning and slowing down of local winds were the major reasons for Tuesday’s toxic air quality. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5 in Delhi was 27% on Tuesday and the number of active fires in the region was 3,476, according to the Centre-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research).  Gufran Beig, founder project director, SAFAR, said, “From today afternoon, the local wind speed has declined, so dispersion of pollutants also slowed down. However, the impact of stubble burning continued to remain the same due to high-effective fire counts. AQI is likely to fluctuate between the higher end of the ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ category in the next two days if the fire counts continue to remain high.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/citys-air-quality-dips-to-severe-level-again/article37410181.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Wish she had told me about the threats earlier’||A 26-year-old woman is battling for life at a hospital, days after she was attacked with acid by a man, Montu, whose advances she refused. The victim’s husband wished she had told him that the man was threatening her. Rakesh*, 30, who works at a private company in Bawana, said that he received a call at 4.30 p.m. on November 3 that his wife had been attacked. It took him 15 minutes to reach his residence in Pooth Khurd where he got to know that Montu had tied his wife’s hands and threw acid on her. Mr. Rakesh, who hails from Bihar, had come to Delhi years ago and had been living in Badli. He got married to Pinki* in 2011 and the couple were living with their three children. “We came to know about Montu about a year and a half ago as he lived in the neighbourhood. When I got to know that he had been making advances at my wife, we left Badli and moved to Bawana three months ago,” Mr. Rakesh said. After shifting, Mr. Rakesh said that he saw Montu there a few times but didn’t know that he had taken a room nearby. “About a month ago, I spotted him near my house and I asked him why he had come. He said he had come to meet the children. I told him to leave and never come back,” he said. On November 3, Montu told Pinki that he had proof of Mr. Rakesh’s infidelity and took her to his room on a false pretext. “She told me in the hospital that he had taken her to his room on this false pretext and asked her to leave me and marry him. She told me that Montu had threatened her previously and said that he would throw acid on her face if she didn’t accept,” Mr. Rakesh said. “I wish she had told me about these threats earlier,” he said.  (Names have been changed to protect the identity of the acid attack victim)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/wish-she-had-told-me-about-the-threats-earlier/article37410177.ece
10 November 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition persistent on reduction of VAT on fuel||The Opposition on Tuesday continued to exert pressure on the Delhi Government to slash fuel prices through a reduction in Value Added Tax (VAT). While BJP MLAs staged a sit-in outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s house for the second consecutive day, the Congress demonstrated outside the Delhi Secretariat. BJP MLAs gathered outside the CM’s residence on Tuesday afternoon, demanding relief for people. Vijender Gupta, Mohan Singh Bisht, Omprakash Sharma, Jitendra Mahajan, Anil Bajpai, Abhay Verma and Ajay Mahawar participated in the sit-in. Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, sought to remind the CM that after winning the 2015 Assembly elections, he had promised that the VAT in Delhi would be the lowest in the next five years, but the opposite had happened. “Today the Delhi Government is charging the highest VAT on petrol and diesel in the country. We are reminding CM Kejriwal of his promise,” Mr. Bidhuri said. The Delhi Congress held a protest outside the Delhi Secretariat, demanding a reduction in fuel VAT. It said that despite many State Governments, including Punjab, reducing the VAT on petroleum products following a nominal reduction on excise duty by the Centre, the Delhi Government had not followed suit. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said, “In the last seven years, the Delhi Government has collected over Rs. 25,000 crore on VAT from petroleum products, but has spent hardly on Delhiites. Mr. Kejriwal often claims that ‘he is the son of Delhi’, and this is an apt opportunity for him to prove his ‘Delhi’ credentials, and provide relief to the people by reducing the oil prices.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/opposition-persistent-on-reduction-of-vat-on-fuel/article37410183.ece
10 November 2021||New Delhi,||Funds under Scheduled Caste Sub-Plan poorly utilised: plea||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Delhi Government to respond to a plea seeking utilisation of funds under the Scheduled Caste Sub-Plan (SCSP) towards the socio-economic development of people belonging to the Scheduled Caste community. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh gave the direction on a petition filed by Harnam Singh, who claims to be a social activist. Mr. Singh, in his petition, said that the SCSP, which was introduced as part of the Sixth Five Year Plan in 1980, envisages “channelising a minimum flow of the outlays and benefits from all sectors of development in the annual plans of States/UTs and Central Ministries in proportion to the Scheduled Caste population of the State/UT concerned”. He contended that there is poor utilisation of funds allocated under the SCSP by the authorities, which violates several rights guaranteed to the members of the Scheduled Caste community of Delhi under Articles 14, 15, 16, 21, 21A, 37, 38, 39, 41, 46 and 47 of the Constitution. “Only a miniscule fraction of the allocated amount is spent by the State Government on the welfare of the Scheduled Castes in complete contravention of the ‘Revised Guidelines’ published by the then Planning Commission...,” the plea said. The plea said that in Delhi, the population of Scheduled Castes was 16.9% of the total population. He further said that a collective 17.92% of the budget outlay was spent on the welfare of SCs, STs, Other Backward Classes and minorities in 2020-2021. He also said that the Delhi Government has not provided the latest and relevant information/data regarding the SCSP annual plan on its website. The High Court will hear the case again on January 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/funds-under-scheduled-caste-sub-plan-poorly-utilised-plea/article37410165.ece
10 November 2021||New Delhi,||City sees no COVID-19 deaths||The city reported no COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours for the 17th day and the total number of fatalities stood at 25,091, said a bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Tuesday. Thirty-three new cases were reported, taking the total cases to 14,40,176.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-sees-no-covid-19-deaths/article37410176.ece
10 November 2021||New Delhi,||CM gives Rs. 3 lakh to young athlete||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday handed over a cheque for Rs. 3 lakh to a young athlete, Lokesh Kumar, after learning about his financial difficulties. Mr. Kejriwal learnt about 15-year-old Lokesh’s woes on social media and offered him help within three days, the Government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cm-gives-rs-3-lakh-to-young-athlete/article37410180.ece
10 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi CEO asks authorities to increase voter awareness||Delhi’s Chief Electoral Officer Dr. Ranbir Singh on Tuesday asked various Government departments to establish voter awareness forums for the ongoing special summary revision, 2022. The count of electors for the latest roll is lower than last year. Dr. Singh said the claims and objections regarding the draft would be accepted from November 1 to November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-ceo-asks-authorities-to-increase-voter-awareness/article37410182.ece
10 November 2021||Pune,||Civil surgeon, 3 others suspended o ver Ahmednagar fire tragedy||Following the Ahmednagar hospital fire tragedy where 11 COVID-19 patients, mostly senior citizens, lost their lives, the Maharashtra Government has suspended the district civil surgeon along with three other hospital staff personnel, while terminating the services of two nurses. State Health Minister Rajesh Tope tweeted late on Monday that Ahmednagar District Civil Surgeon Sunil Pokharna along with two medical officers — Suresh Dakhe and Vishaka Shinde — and staff nurse Sapna Pathare had been suspended. Service terminated The services of two staff nurses — Asma Sheikh and Chhana Anant — have been terminated. “Based on the information available in the Ahmednagar hospital fire tragedy, we have taken action against some officials…” Mr. Tope had tweeted. Soon after the incident on last Saturday, the clamour for action against the district civil surgeon had been growing steadily with Dr. Pokharna facing flak from irate relatives of the deceased, political parties and activists for his alleged failure to ensure that safety measures were in place in the hospital. According to sources, the decision was taken on the basis of the report submitted by a team of senior officials deputed by the Government to probe the causes that led to the incident. At a press conference on November 7, Mr. Tope had promised stern action against those found guilty on the basis of the report of the committee appointed by the State Government. Despite the Health Minister and the district administration claiming that a fire audit of the hospital had been conducted a few months back, the district fire authorities said that the hospital was utterly wanting in basic firefighting infrastructure. According to fire authorities, apart from fire extinguishers, the civil hospital lacked a concrete firefighting system and allegedly had no fire sprinklers, hydrants or even smoke detectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ahmednagar-fire-tragedy-civil-surgeon-three-others-suspended/article37410191.ece
10 November 2021||HONG KONG,||China exports warship to Pak., to be deployed in Indian Ocean||China on Monday delivered to Pakistan’s Navy what its official media described as the “most advanced” Chinese warship ever exported, which is to be deployed by Pakistan in the Indian Ocean. The delivery of the Type 054A frigate is the latest example of increasingly close military cooperation, which many Chinese and Pakistani analysts see as aimed at bolstering Pakistani capabilities in an effort to balance India in the region. Pakistan’s envoy to China, Moin Ul Haque, told the Communist Party-run newspaper Global Times on Tuesday that the commissioning of the frigate “in the context of the overall security paradigm of the region” would “strengthen Pakistan Navy’s capabilities to respond to maritime challenges to ensure seaward defence, maintain peace, stability and balance of power in the Indian Ocean region”. The newspaper quoted the China State Shipbuilding Corporation (CSSC), which designed and built the frigate, as saying the warship was delivered to the Pakistan Navy in a commissioning ceremony in Shanghai. PNS Tughril It has been named PNS Tughril by the Pakistani Navy, and it is “the first hull of four Type 054 frigates being constructed for the Pakistan Navy”, the Pakistan Navy told the newspaper, “Being equipped with state-of-the-art combat management and an electronic warfare system along with modern self-defence capabilities, the Type 054A/P frigate can simultaneously execute a number of naval warfare missions in a highly intense multi-threat environment,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-exports-warship-to-pak-to-be-deployed-in-indian-ocean/article37409809.ece
10 November 2021||Dhaka,||Bangladesh sentences former Chief Justice to 11 years in jail||Bangladesh’s former Chief Justice was sentenced in absentia to 11 years in jail for corruption on Tuesday, in a case that opposition groups and supporters say is politically motivated. Surendra Kumar Sinha, 70, headed the Supreme Court when it ruled in 2017 that Parliament could not sack judges, a move hailed by lawyers as safeguarding judicial independence. Sinha left Bangladesh in late 2017 alleging he had been forced to step aside following the landmark ruling. He lives in North America where he has reportedly sought asylum. Campaigners have said his departure was a massive blow to the credibility of the country’s judiciary, and accused the government of going after Sinha. “It was very obvious that the government was angry with him and... was determined to just kill his reputation,” Asif Nazrul, a law professor at Dhaka University told AFP. Judge Shaikh Nazmul Alam of Special Judge’s Court in Dhaka delivered Tuesday’s verdict, ordering Sinha to serve seven years in jail for laundering money and four years for breach of trust, prosecutor Khurshid Alam Khan said. “This verdict proved that nobody in the country is above law. Wrongdoings will bring anyone in the trial,” he told AFP. Sinha was the first Hindu chief justice in the officially secular Muslim-majority nation of 169 million.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bangladesh-sentences-former-chief-justice-to-11-years-in-jail/article37409800.ece
10 November 2021||Warsaw,||Hundreds of migrants trapped in Belarus-Poland stand-off||Hundreds of desperate migrants were trapped in freezing weather on the border between Belarus and EU and NATO member Poland on Tuesday, with Warsaw accusing Russia and the government in Minsk of using them to threaten European security. Western critics have for months said Belarus’s strongman leader Alexander Lukashenko is luring migrants from West Asia to his country to send them across the border in retaliation for EU sanctions. Belarus denies the claim and accuses Poland of violating human rights by refusing to allow the migrants in. The tense situation has raised fears of a confrontation on the border, where armed troops from both countries are deployed. A defiant Mr. Lukashenko said he did not want an armed confrontation but also would not back down. “We are not seeking a fight... I am not a madman, I understand perfectly well where it can lead,” he told the state news agency Belta. “But we will not kneel.” Poland’s Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, meanwhile, accused Russian leader Vladimir Putin of “masterminding” the unpreceden- ted wave of migrants trying to illegally enter Poland from Belarus in a bid to destabilise the European Union.  The crisis came to a head on Monday when hundreds of migrants marched to the border in a bid to cross but were blocked by rows of Polish police, soldiers and border guards behind barbed wire. Poland said Belarus was using the migrants as a weapon, insisting it would not open its border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hundreds-of-migrants-trapped-in-belarus-poland-stand-off/article37409803.ece
10 November 2021||Taipei,||Taiwan says China capable of air, sea blockade of island||China is capable of blockading Taiwan’s major ports and airports to cut off key transport links, the island’s Defence Ministry warned on Tuesday, with Beijing-Taipei tensions at their highest in years. Taiwan lives under the constant threat of invasion by China, which sees the self-ruled democratic island as part of its territory to be brought into its fold, by force if necessary. Beijing has ramped up pressure since Tsai Ing-wen became Taiwan’s President in 2016, as she views the island as a sovereign nation and not part of “one China”. Beijing is strengthening its air, sea and land strike capabilities against the island, Taiwan’s Defence Ministry said in a biennial report released Tuesday. Those capabilities include imposing a “blockade agai- nst our critical harbours, airports and outbou- nd flight routes, to cut off our air and sea lines of communication”, the report added. The report also warned that China is capable of striking all of Taiwan with its missile arsenal, including ballistic and cruise variants, and is also beefing up its ability to launch amphibious assaults on the island. Taiwan’s Defence Minister warned last month that military tensions with China were at their highest in four decades, after record incursions by Chinese warplanes into the island’s air defence identification zone. The zone is not the same as Taiwan’s territorial airspace but includes a far greater area that overlaps with part of China’s own air defence identification zone. China’s “frequent manipulation of grey zone threats” such as the warplane incursions, as well as other methods of warfare, including cyberattacks, are aimed at “seizing Taiwan without a fight”, the Defence Ministry report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taiwan-says-china-capable-of-air-sea-blockade-of-island/article37409806.ece
10 November 2021||brussels,||Facebook whistleblower fears the metaverse||Facebook whistleblower Frances Haugen warned on Tuesday that the “metaverse,” the all-encompassing virtual reality world promised by the social media giant, will be addictive and rob people of yet more personal information while giving the embattled company another monopoly online. In an interview with The Associated Press , Ms. Haugen said her former employer rushed to trumpet the metaverse because of the intense pressure it is facing after she revealed deep-seated problems at the company and energised legislative and regulatory efforts around the world to crack down on big tech companies. “If you don’t like the conversation, you try to change the conversation,” the former product-manager said. Meta, the new name for the parent company of Facebook, denied it was trying to divert from the troubles it faces by pushing the metaverse. “This is not true. We have been working on this for a long time internally,” the company said in a statement. But the new focus on metaverse creates a whole new set of dangers, Ms. Haugen said. “So beyond the fact that these immersive environments are extremely addictive and they encourage people to unplug from the reality we actually live,” she said, “I’m also worried about it on the level of — the metaverse will require us to put many, many more sensors in our homes and our workplaces,” forcing users to relinquish more of their data and their privacy. She said employees of companies that use the metaverse would have little option but to participate in the system or leave their jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/facebook-whistleblower-fears-the-metaverse/article37409807.ece
10 November 2021||HONG KONG,||Absence at meet due to scheduling issues: China||China’s Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday that “scheduling reasons” were behind Beijing giving a miss to the regional security dialogue being hosted by New Delhi on Wednesday. National Security Advisers (NSAs) of Russia, Iran and five Central Asian nations are participating in the meet hosted by NSA Ajit Doval. Pakistan said it would not attend the meeting. Asked about China’s absence, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said it was “inconvenient for China to attend the meeting due to scheduling reasons”. “We have already given our reply to the Indian side,” he said, without elaborating further on the meet. While both top Chinese diplomat and Politburo member Yang Jiechi and Foreign Minister Wang Yi are this week attending an annual four-day meeting of the ruling Communist Party’s Central Committee in Beijing, which opened on Monday, the Foreign Ministry did not say why other top security officials were not attending the meeting in their stead, which both sides had discussed. The Ministry of External Affairs said Wednesday’s “high-level dialogue will review and deliberate upon measures to address relevant security challenges and support the people of Afghanistan in promoting peace, security and stability”. Both Pakistan and China have increasingly been aligning their strategies and diplomacy on the Afghanistan issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/absence-due-to-scheduling-issues-china/article37409967.ece
10 November 2021||Santiago,||Impeachment trial of Chile President heads to Senate||Chile’s Lower House of Congress approved the impeachment trial of President Sebastian Pinera on Tuesday over corruption allegations that appeared in the Pandora Papers leaks. Parliamentarians in the Chamber of Deputies gathered the 78 votes required to seek impeachment and advance proceedings to the Senate for the President’s involvement in the controversial sale of a mining company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/impeachment-trial-of-chile-president-heads-to-senate/article37409810.ece
10 November 2021||Glasgow,||New climate pledges barely affect global heating: UN||A flurry of emissions pledges around the COP26 climate summit will likely do little to slow global warming, the UN said on Tuesday, calling on nations to sharply accelerate their greenhouse gas cuts this decade. Nations have presented a range of new and enhanced commitments — including a vow by India to be carbon neutral by 2070 — in recent weeks as the UN climate summit sets its sights on limiting temperature rises to 1.5 degrees Celsius. Countries came in to the negotiations far off target, with national emissions-cutting pledges — known as nationally determined contributions, or NDCs —put Earth on course to warm a “catastrophic” 2.7 degrees Celsius this century. And a fresh assessment of their new pledges by the UN Environment Programme (UNEP) found the outcome was “very similar”, largely because the most ambitious emissions cuts are envisaged after 2030. The report highlights the challenges facing climate negotiations, given the yawning gap between the emissions cuts needed this decade to keep warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius and the continuing increases in greenhouse gases pumped into the atmosphere.  UN Climate Change said last week that countries’ renewed NDCs would see emissions climb 13.7% by 2030 before sharply declining thereafter. To keep in line with 1.5C, emissions must instead fall 45% by then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-climate-pledges-barely-affect-global-heating-un/article37409804.ece
10 November 2021||Oslo,||Knife-wielding attacker shot dead in Oslo||The Norwegian police said they shot and killed a knife-wielding man who threatened several people early on Tuesday in central Oslo before attacking a patrol car that arrived on the scene. A policeman was injured as the officers tried to arrest the attacker in the capital’s Bislett neighbourhood, the police told a press conference. No details about the identity of the attacker or his motive were disclosed. “We’re not excluding any motives, but there is nothing at this stage that indicates this is a terror attack,” police Inspector Egil Jorgen Brekke told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/knife-wielding-attacker-shot-dead-in-oslo/article37409805.ece
10 November 2021||Gaza City,||Hamas sentences 3 to death for working with Israel, drug trade||The Islamist movement Hamas which rules the Gaza Strip said Tuesday it had sentenced three people to death, two of them for collaborating with its enemy Israel. The Hamas military court said recent rulings “included three death sentences, two of them against collaborators with the occupation, and the third against a drug dealer”.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hamas-sentences-3-to-death-for-working-with-israel-drug-trade/article37409801.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||In U.P., a missing tango and the BJP’s waltz||In many ways, the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Indian National Congress in Uttar Pradesh make for natural alliance partners. Their social bases complement each other, they do not have too dissimilar an ideological outlook, and have displayed a large degree of consonance in terms of campaign issues. Yet, both parties are presently in the midst of a bruising feud, each accusing the other of colluding with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The SP has termed the Congress as the flip side of the BJP, part of the saffron strategy to confuse the voters, while the Congress has charged the SP with being too afraid of the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate to take on the BJP. Incentives for a link So there is the one fundamental question to ask: why are these two parties so hesitant to commit to a potentially mutually beneficial alliance? The answer to this question might help illuminate the state of Opposition politics in both the State and the country, shaped in fundamental ways by the BJP-dominant system. First, let us evaluate the case for the alliance from the point of view of both the parties. The incentives for the Congress are relatively straightforward. If the last two elections in U.P. are anything to go by, the Congress has been reduced to a 6% vote-share party, with barely any pockets of stronghold. The evidence from the Assembly bypolls and the panchayat elections since then have only reinforced this impression, not to mention the steady stream of Congress leaders exiting the party for greener pastures. A failure to get into an alliance with a larger party could well mean electoral decimation, in the manner of Delhi and West Bengal. Being the face of the U.P. campaign, it might also irrevocably damage the image of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra — the last remaining ‘trump card’ of the party. It might be instructive here to remember that the first time Rahul Gandhi became seared with the image of a political novice was after leading the disastrous 2012 campaign in Uttar Pradesh. The draw for the Samajwadi party is no less compelling. The thrust of the Samajwadi campaign so far has been to make the fight for U.P. a bipolar contest. The trouble is that a direct duel with a party possessing a much larger social base is a losing proposition, minus a wave of massive anti-incumbency which has not surfaced so far. The BJP in Uttar Pradesh is a political behemoth, with a social catchment area ranging from upper castes, non-Yadav Other Backward Classes and non-Jatav Dalits. In a sense, the social base of the party in U.P. is roughly equivalent to a combination of the BJP and the Janata Dal (United) in neighbouring Bihar. The SP, meanwhile, is hamstrung by its traditionally narrow social base, anchored by Yadavs and Muslims. The SP knows this, and its leader Akhilesh Yadav has spent much of his political career pushing his party to embrace a new umbrella avatar. Even so, the party has not done the hard yards of long-term social engineering: building up community leaders, cultivating caste alliances at the ground level, or immersing itself in new socio-political movements. It has now gone for the quickest available route: stitching up alliances with an array of smaller parties. This would, the party hopes, not only boost its electoral arithmetic, but also aid the social acceptability of the SP among the specific caste and community constituents of the smaller parties. Hence, it makes intuitive sense for the SP to clasp the Congress’s hand which does represent, in a sense, the biggest of the smaller parties of U.P. What, then, explains the jitters at the prospect of coming together? There are three reasons, all of which reveal one aspect of the electoral and ideological dominance of the BJP. The Congress’s decline First, the decline of the Congress, accelerated as it has in the Narendra Modi era, has reached such a state where, in many States, it is not even a reliable junior partner. The Congress’s recent record in grand alliances hardly commends it to any potential suitor. In last year’s elections in Bihar, while the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the three Left parties won more than half the seats they contested, the Congress proved to be the fatal weak link. This was not an aberration as the Congress has been the laggard alliance partner in several State elections, from Tamil Nadu in 2016 to Maharashtra in 2019. Of course, Akhilesh Yadav has had personal experience of this phenomenon in the last elections, where the Congress fared considerably worse than the SP. Meanwhile, the Congress, as a party slowly approaching a condition of existential crisis, fears it can no longer remain trapped in a state of low equilibrium. The mood in the party harks back to the Pachmarhi resolution of 1998, which declared that only those coalitions will be considered which are “absolutely necessary” and that “will not weaken the party”. A long running thread in Congress thinking holds that the only way for the party to revive its social base and rejuvenate its organisation is through a period of expansive struggle directed against both the regional parties as well as the BJP. The BJP’s dominance Second, the BJP’s ideological dominance on the issues of religion and nationalism has ensured that success for Opposition parties in State elections depends on the extent to which they can neutralise the salience of ‘national’ issues and make the election about ‘local’ issues. The presence of a national party such as the Congress in an Opposition alliance, particularly one which has been the most forthright ideological opponent of the BJP under Rahul Gandhi, hampers such a strategy. The Gandhi siblings display none of the caution of regional leaders such as Akhilesh Yadav in terms of challenging Mr. Modi and making him into an electoral factor. After all, the Congress leadership likely views the U.P. elections, in part, as a springboard to building itself up as the national alternative to the BJP in the next general election. Third, the BJP’s dominance has converted Muslims into a uniquely radioactive political community. The SP party understands that any alliance with the Congress would be painted by the BJP as an ‘unholy alliance’ cynically aimed at consolidating the ‘Muslim votebank’. Even as the Congress has long claimed to have retained a base among Brahmins and non-Jatav Dalits in U.P., it has all but evaporated now. In the 2019 elections, only 6% of Brahmins and 7% of non-Jatav Dalits in Uttar Pradesh backed the party, almost exactly in line with its 6% aggregate vote-share in the State. The only really sizeable support base of the Congress remains among Muslims, with 14% overall choosing the party in 2019, and especially so in seats where the Congress stood a chance. This is perhaps the most important reason why Akhilesh Yadav has privileged allying with smaller parties such as the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP), Janwadi Party and Mahan Dal over the larger Congress. Since the social base of these parties extends to one or more Hindu caste groups, the SP can cobble them together and portray itself to be the larger ‘Hindu alliance’. This alliance strategy is also in harmony with the SP’s recent political outreach, where it has aggressively courted non-Yadav OBC castes, the Scheduled Castes, and the Brahmins, but has extended only the most rare and indirect gestures towards Muslims. The political logic behind this approach is that once the party has proven itself to have a support base among Hindus rivalling the BJP, Muslims would automatically flock to it over a third alternative, as shown by the Aam Aadmi Party in Delhi and the Trinamool Congress in West Bengal. Of course, there is a possibility that the present tiff between the two parties might represent nothing more than adroit jockeying for a larger share in an eventual alliance. In this interlude of brinkmanship, the Congress might be establishing itself as a major player and the SP might be demonstrating itself as the only alternative pole. However, if this marriage actually fails to materialise, both parties might come to rue the price to pay. A recalcitrant approach from the Congress could prove fatal not just in these elections but also for its hopes of stitching up a joint opposition against the BJP in 2024. The SP, meanwhile, could consider the range of middle-ground options between a no deal with the Congress and the bad deal it had struck last time. For a party that has never broken its 30% vote-share ceiling, facing the BJP in a seemingly bipolar contest, it scarcely has the luxury of spurning partners. Asim Ali is a political researcher and columnist based in Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-up-a-missing-tango-and-the-bjps-waltz/article37409786.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||India must remain safe for diversity||There are three kinds of writers coexisting within Shashi Tharoor, says David Davidar in his introduction to Pride, Prejudice and Punditry : “The writer of newspaper columns, book reviews, and magazine articles; the creator of literary fiction; and the author of heavyweight books of popular history, sociology, and current affairs.” This is an edited excerpt of a profile of Jawaharlal Nehru and his idea of India from the book, a collection of the best of Tharoor’s fiction and non-fiction:  Jawaharlal Nehru was a skilled exponent of soft power, much before the term was even coined: he developed a role for India in the world based entirely on its civilisational history and its moral standing, making India the voice of the oppressed and the marginalised against the big power hegemons of the day. This gave our country enormous standing and prestige across the world for years, and strengthened our own self-respect as we stood, proud and independent, on the global stage. Indeed, we are still drawing from these traditions. After all, in the information age, it is not the side with the bigger army that wins, but the side which tells the better story. India must remain the ‘land of the better story’. As a society with a free press and a thriving mass media, with a people whose creative energies are daily encouraged to express themselves in a variety of appealing ways, India has an extraordinary ability to tell stories that are more persuasive and attractive than those of its rivals. This is not about propaganda; indeed, it will not work if it is directed from above, least of all by government. But its impact, though intangible, can be huge. This soft power, too, is Nehru’s legacy; he created a standing for India out of all proportion to our military strength or economic might. Yet soft power is not just what we can deliberately and consciously exhibit or put on display; it is rather how others see what we are, whether or not we are trying to show it to the world. It is not just material accomplishments that enhance India’s soft power. Even more important are the values and principles for which India stands, and I do believe Nehru would have applauded this evolution of his own approach to world affairs. Absorbing transformations India has in recent years undergone profound transformations in its politics (from the dominant Congress system to a proliferation of regional parties to the dominance of the now-ascendant Bharatiya Janata Party), its economics (from a controlled ‘socialist’ economy to a thriving, if mixed, free-enterprise system), its trade (from protectionism to globalisation and perhaps partially back again), and its social relations (from a rigidly hierarchical caste system to a more egalitarian policy affirming opportunities and outcomes for the ‘lowest’ castes, and from a secular political culture to one in which a party of the Hindu majority is overtly asserting its strength). Now, any of these transformations could have been enough to throw another country into a turbulent revolution. But we have had all four in India and yet we have absorbed them, and made all the changes work, because the Indian revolution is a democratic one, sustained by a larger idea of India, an India which safeguards the common space available to each identity, an India that remains safe for diversity. That was Nehru’s vision, and this is his vindication. The truth is that Nehru’s extraordinary life and career is part of the inheritance of every Indian. The very term ‘Indian’ was imbued with such meaning by Nehru that it is impossible to use it without acknowledging a debt: our passports incarnate his ideals. Where those ideals came from, whether they were brought to fulfilment by their own progenitor, and to what degree they remain viable today, are all legitimate issues for debate. Nehru’s impact on India is too great not to be re-examined periodically. His legacy is ours, whether we agree with everything he stood for or not. What we are today, both for good and for ill, we owe in great measure to one man. That is why his story is not simply history. Today, both Gandhi’s and Nehru’s legacies are fundamentally contested, and many Indians have strayed from the ideals bequeathed to them by Gandhi and Nehru, Ambedkar and Patel. Yet they, in their very different ways, each represented that rare kind of leader who is not diminished by the inadequacies of his followers. Today, the ruling BJP and its followers lose no opportunity to denigrate Nehru, especially on social media, accusing him of every conceivable sin of both commission and omission. It is like throwing pebbles at a mountain. They cannot even begin to dent the scale of his contributions to India.  Even the most distinguished leader of the BJP has in the past — despite many areas of disagreement — acknowledged the legacy of Nehru as a champion of the country. Speaking in Parliament on Nehru’s death, Atal Bihari Vajpayee declared emotionally — and poetically — that with the prime minister’s passing ‘a dream has remained half-fulfilled, a song has become silent, and a flame has vanished into the Unknown. The dream was of a world free of fear and hunger; the song a great epic resonant with the spirit of the Gita and as fragrant as a rose, the flame a candle which burnt all night long, showing us the way.’ The loss, Vajpayee averred, was not merely that of a family or even of a party. Mother India, he said, was in mourning because ‘her beloved Prince has gone to sleep’; even humanity was sad because its servant and worshipper had left it forever. Vajpayee went on to describe the departed prime minister as a ‘benefactor of the downtrodden’ and the ‘chief actor of the world stage’ whom he compared to none less than Lord Ram, for like Valmiki’s (and the Hindutvavadis’) hero, Nehru was ‘the orchestrator of the impossible and inconceivable’. He too (I’m still quoting Vajpayee) ‘was not afraid of compromise but would never compromise under duress’. One might say that these words were only to be expected from a gracious adversary in tribute to a deceased prime minister. But Vajpayee’s statements went far beyond the claims of ritual. He called on the nation to rededicate itself to Nehru’s ideals. ‘With unity, discipline and self confidence,’ Vajpayee said, in words that could never have been Narendra Modi’s, ‘we must make this Republic of ours flourish. The leader has gone, but the followers remain. The sun has set, yet by the shadow of stars we must find our way. These are testing times, but we must dedicate ourselves to his great aim, so that India can become strong, capable and prosperous….’ This remains the cherished goal of all Indians. As we make our political choices, we would do well to recall the first leader of independent India and the values and principles on which he built our democratic polity. Excerpted with permission from Aleph Book Company. Shashi Tharoor is a Congress MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-must-remain-safe-for-diversity/article37409793.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||India needs to sign up for life-course immunisation||Before the COVID-19 pandemic, most people linked and associated vaccination with children only. The fact is that vaccines — ever since the first vaccine against smallpox became available in 1798 — had always been for a far wider age group, including for adults. However, soon after smallpox eradication and the launch of the Expanded Programme on Immunisation (EPI) across the world in the 1970s — and in India in 1978 — there were concerted efforts to increase vaccine use and coverage in children. Scientifically, the benefit of most vaccines are greater if administered earlier in life — infancy and childhood — a reason children are usually prioritised and vaccines recommended for every child. For the remaining age groups including adults, vaccines are recommended for specific sub-groups such as older people or those with specific health conditions. The COVID-19 vaccines are exceptions in some sense. These are the first vaccines which have been recommended for all adults, who have been given priority over children. In fact, the jury is still out on whether, which age sub-group and when children should receive COVID-19 vaccines. The importance of vaccines, which are considered to be among the most cost-effective public health interventions, has been recognised globally. Yet, the full benefits of vaccines do not reach all children and other age groups. There are wide inequities in vaccine coverage in children by geography, gender, parent’s education and family’s socio-economic status, and other stratifiers. The coverage of most available vaccines in adults in India is sub-optimal. The COVID-19 vaccination drive is an opportunity to take stock of the status of adult immunisation and the future ahead. Need for adult vaccination Following the outbreaks of Japanese Encephalitis (JE) in 2005-06 — in the years that followed — India had conducted mass scale JE vaccination in the endemic districts, which included the adult age group. Then, there had been a limited use of Swine Flu vaccines for health workers during the H1N1 (2009) pandemic in 2009-10. Other than that, there has been limited focus on the systematic efforts for adult vaccination in India. The first and only national vaccine policy of India, released in 2011, had no mention of adult vaccination. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) in India, on a few occasions, discussed adult immunisation but stayed away from any recommendation for the general population except for the vaccination of health workers as high-risk groups, for hepatitis B vaccine, etc. Outside the Government, professional groups such as the Association of Physicians of India and the Indian Society of Nephrology have released guidelines on adult vaccination; however, as these are voluntary and the private sector share in vaccination in India is very small, understandably, the impact remains unknown and is likely to be low. There is very limited data on the burden of vaccine preventable diseases (VPDs) in adult age groups — in most settings including India. Lately, review of available data has pointed that the increased childhood vaccination coverage has resulted in proportionately higher cases of VPDs in the older age groups. It is known that the burden of VPDs in adults (in comparison to children) is relatively low; the larger adult population renders a greater social impact in terms of absenteeism from work (due to illnesses) and the associated costs of health care seeking and hospitalisation. There is emerging scientific evidence on waning immunity and the need of booster doses in the adult age group for the vaccines administered in childhood. The vaccines which have become available in the last two decades (which adults had not received as children), have potential to be beneficial. As an example, there are more deaths due to pneumonia in adults than in children. A proportion of those illnesses, hospitalisations and deaths — in all age groups — can be prevented by increasing coverage of currently licensed vaccines which prevents pneumonia and related complications. Fortunately, these vaccines have become part of childhood vaccination programmes; however, the coverage and benefits need to be expanded to the identified high-risk adult population. The available evidence has resulted in the global stakeholders agreeing to ‘the Immunization Agenda 2030’ (https://bit.ly/3qlKnH1) which has emphasised that countries should consider extending the benefit of vaccines to all age groups. An opportunity in hand The COVID-19 vaccination drive has drawn our attention to the possibilities of adult vaccination, which should be used effectively. The initiatives should be taken to educate public, health-care providers and members of professional associations about currently available vaccines for adult age groups. This can help people to make an informed choice and healthcare providers to share information with citizens. Various training programmes and graduate and postgraduate teaching curricula should be revised to have content on adult vaccination. The current discourse should be used to plan and develop a national adult vaccination strategy and road map for India. It can be done through a few coordinated efforts. The steps to take First, the mandate of NTAGI needs to be expanded to adult vaccination. NTAGI may start with a review of available scientific evidence and providing recommendations on adult vaccination in India. These recommendations can be regularly revisited and revised once additional data become available. A NTAGI sub-group on adult vaccination can also be constituted to facilitate the process. Second, the VPD surveillance system and the capacity to record, report and analyse data on the disease burden and immunisation coverage need to be strengthened. The focus has to be on analysing immunisation coverage and VPD surveillance data by age and other related stratifiers. Third, the capacity of research and academic institutions to conduct operational research including the cost benefit analysis and to guide evidence-informed decisions needs to be boosted. Such analysis and evidence can be used by NTAGI in decision making processes. Fourth, the process for developing and drafting a road map, possibly India’s national adult vaccination policy and strategy should be initiated. Any such policy should factor-in the learnings and lessons from the ongoing COVID-19 vaccination drive as well. In fact, policy questions in need of the answers should be identified now, and the process to generate evidence started. Otherwise, we may be at risk of asking policy questions 10 years down the line which can be answered in a few years from now. Fifth, on a more operational level, the shortage of life-saving rabies vaccine in India in 2019 is a reminder of the risk and vulnerability in vaccine supply. To ensure vaccine security and be future ready for adult vaccination, the existing public sector vaccine manufacturing units in India should be revived and more need to be set up. Vaccination policy for adults The childhood vaccination programme is amongst the best performing government health programmes in India. In COVID-19 vaccination, it was the government facilities which have delivered 93%- 95% of total vaccine shots. The COVID-19 vaccination is a reminder that the benefits of already licensed vaccines are yet to reach the adult population. It is an opportunity for health policy makers in India to institutionalise mechanisms to examine the need, take policy decisions on adult vaccination and empower adult citizens to make informed choices on whether they wish to get currently available vaccines. It is time to plan for and expand the benefits of vaccines, for all age groups as part of the Universal Immunization Programme Plus in India. Drafting and developing a national adult vaccination policy and strategy for India could be one such concrete step in this direction.   Chandrakant Lahariya, a physician-epidemiologist, is a vaccines and health systems specialist. His forthcoming book is ‘The Lighthouse of Peeragarhi: What We Need To Prevent Diseases And Protect Health’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/india-needs-to-sign-up-for-life-course-immunisation/article37409788.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||There are shades of equality||Assume that in a classroom, a teacher is faced with students with differing command over the English language. There are three groups: some students are excellent, some require minimal guidance, and some others, a lot of attention. The teacher decides to give a special class of half an hour for the second group and a class for two hours for the third. Since the first group needs no additional support, they won’t be given any. Is the teacher wrongfully discriminating among her students? Most of us would think that she is not. Treating students at different levels in the same way would do little to help those who lag behind. Those students could benefit from some support to catch up with those ahead. This is the idea behind affirmative action and reasonable accommodation: to enable those who are worse off to become on par with others. What is true in the classroom context is also true in a policy context. The controversy around the award of scholarships to minority students in Kerala illustrates this. The dispute surrounds the question of how scholarships for minority students should be distributed between different minority groups. On October 29, the Supreme Court issued notice on an appeal of the Kerala government against a High Court order directing it to award the scholarships by the proportion of minorities in the overall population of the State. Minority scholarships The background of the decision is as follows. The Kerala government passed an executive order in 2015 prescribing that minority communities will be entitled to scholarships. Of the scholarships, 80% were distributed to Muslim students and 20% to Latin Catholics and converted Christians. In Justine Pallivathukkal v. State of Kerala (2021), the Kerala High Court set aside this order holding that all minorities must be treated alike. Hence, it held that the only relevant criterion is the minority groups’ share of the population. The government argued that its policy was based on the findings of the Sachar Committee report and the Kerala Padana report on the disadvantages faced by Muslims. It pointed out that Muslims were far behind Christians, Dalits and Adivasis in college enrolment, just as they are in employment and land ownership. Besides, studies on discrimination in labour and housing markets reveal that Muslims experience substantial levels of discrimination when applying for jobs or housing, often even more than Dalits. Equalising access All of this underlines the point that some minorities face greater obstacles than others. Scholarships for minority students are a form of affirmative action. The aim is to facilitate students from these communities to study, and reduce the inequalities between different communities. If that is the goal, the only sensible policy is one which identifies the most disadvantaged groups. This is exactly what the Kerala government did. Hence, reserving a higher proportion of scholarships for Muslims is justified. The different kinds of backwardness of a community must be considered while awarding scholarship schemes. Any other scheme defeats the purpose of offering scholarships to students from minority communities. The High Court prohibited an allocation sensitive to social realities by adopting a form of blind equality approach. This was a mistake. This is not in consonance with the constitutional and just vision of equality, a vision which needs to be mindful of social inequalities. As the Supreme Court rightly noted in B. K. Pavitra v. Union of India (2019), “For equality to be truly effective or substantive, the principle must recognise existing inequalities in society to overcome them.” It is important, therefore, that the Supreme Court corrects the error of the High Court. This case will be significant for constitutional law. It will determine how representation is understood in the law on reservations. The High Court’s reasoning suggests that access to the benefits of affirmative action must follow an approach which is blind to the relative backwardness of different communities. This is dangerous in the Indian context. One of Ambedkar’s great insights was that the caste system is a form of graded inequality. Even when we identify disadvantaged castes or communities, we need to remember the forms of inequality and hierarchy among them. The logic of the High Court’s judgment forbids this. It tells us that once we identify the beneficiaries of measures of affirmative action, we need to treat everyone alike regardless of any inequalities or hierarchies between them. We should not let such bad reasoning obstruct affirmative efforts to remove inequality. The fight against inequality is too important for that. Thulasi K. Raj is a lawyer at the Supreme Court and Bastian Steuwer is a political philosopher at Rutgers University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/there-are-shades-of-equality/article37409796.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||The cost of BJP’s tug of war||The rift has widened in the Rajasthan unit of the BJP after the party’s defeat in the recent Assembly bypolls to the Dhariawad and Vallabhnagar seats, where the party’s candidates were pushed to the third and fourth position, respectively. The BJP will be forced to introspect on this loss and find a way forward for the 2023 Assembly election. Rival camps The BJP’s defeat has been attributed mainly to the wrong selection of candidates and the party’s failure to give a convincing reply to the voters’ questions on price rise. But the loss could also be attributed to the massive infighting in the party. The rival camps in the party are led by BJP State president Satish Poonia and former Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje. After defeats in successive bypolls, Ms. Raje’s loyalists have been demanding that she be brought to the centre-stage and projected as the party’s face for the next elections. Not only was Ms. Raje sidelined during the exercise to choose the contestants, but the sentiments of local party workers in the two constituencies were also largely disregarded. Ms. Raje did not visit the two constituencies during the election campaign and attributed her absence to her daughter-in-law’s ill health. According to political observers, the BJP’s top leadership, which had marginalised Ms. Raje, will have to consider ways of bringing her back to infuse energy among the party workers. The formation of a new outfit in support of Ms. Raje earlier this year had created ripples in the political circles in the State, with its office-bearers urging that she be appointed Chief Minister in the event of the party’s victory in the 2023 election. Since the formation of the Congress government in 2018, Ms. Raje has remained silent on the issues of the State and avoided making public appearances. Two of Ms. Raje’s loyalists — former MLAs Prahlad Gunjal and Bhawani Singh Rajawat — have questioned the party’s defeat in the bypolls and demanded that the leadership mantle be handed over to her. Mr. Gunjal said the present leadership should not only accept responsibility for the defeat, but also realise that only Ms. Raje is capable of competing with a strong Congress leader like Ashok Gehlot. About 20 MLAs loyal to Ms. Raje recently wrote to the BJP State president alleging bias in the Assembly proceedings. The BJP had earlier expelled former Minister Rohitash Sharma, considered close to Ms. Raje, from the primary membership for six years on the ground of breach of party discipline. However, the anti-Raje camp asks why she should be brought back when the party lost the 2018 elections under her leadership. Meanwhile, the Congress has attacked the BJP, saying the party is a divided force and its multiple leaders are eyeing the chief ministerial post. Speculations have been rife about Ms. Raje’s growing differences with the BJP’s State leadership and the increasing clout of the party’s central leaders in the State. Denying rumours of factionalism, Mr. Poonia has been trying to shift focus to the ruling Congress, which has also been embroiled in infighting. This came to the fore last year when a rebellion was staged by the then Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and some MLAs. Mr. Poonia has said that the Congress is using Rajasthan to save its credibility and its support to the farmers agitating against the three farm laws amounted to “political hypocrisy”. The BJP has secured only one seat in the seven bypolls held in the State since the last Assembly election. While the Congress also has issues, it put up a united front for the elections. These bypolls serve as a lesson for the BJP on leadership, unity and ticket distribution. mohammed.iqbal@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-cost-of-bjps-tug-of-war/article37409798.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Caught in the crossfire||An Indian fisherman was killed in firing by the Pakistan Maritime Security Agency (PMSA) off the Gujarat coast on November 7. This is the first such killing by the PMSA in the last seven years though conflicts over fishing rights are not infrequent along the International Maritime Boundary Line between the two countries. Six other fishermen have reportedly been detained, while one injured person managed to return to Indian shores. India has termed Pakistan’s action deplorable and “in contravention to all established international practices and bilateral understandings”. On Monday, the Ministry of External Affairs summoned a Pakistani diplomat who was asked to investigate the incident and instruct its forces to refrain from unprovoked firing. According to the Gujarat government, a total of 345 fishermen from the State were lodged in Pakistan jails as on December 2020. In April 2020, Pakistani forces opened fire on two boats off the Gujarat coast injuring one person, and in 2019 they sunk an Indian boat in which six of seven fishermen onboard were rescued. One person went missing. Fishermen often get caught in the fluctuating fate of the bilateral relations between the two countries, which is currently at a low. According to the National Fishworkers Forum, there are 558 Indian fishermen in Pakistani jails, and 74 from Pakistan in Indian prisons. The Forum calculates that 1,200 Indian fishing vessels are in Pakistan’s custody. The families of these imprisoned people are in penury. Consular access to those in prison is difficult. Only 295 of the 558 prisoners in Pakistan could have their nationality verified. In 2007, both countries formed a joint judicial committee comprising eight retired judges — four each from India and Pakistan — to facilitate the exchange of civilian prisoners. The mechanism has been defunct since 2013, and attempts to revive it in 2018 did not bear fruit. Civilians along international borders often get caught in disputes between countries, and India has several such hotspots, on land and in sea. Even fishermen venturing near the India-Sri Lanka maritime border often fall victim though both countries maintain cordial bilateral ties. Many Indian villages along the borders with Myanmar and Bangladesh also become theatres of conflict, as communities often find it difficult to reconcile with international borders that divide their traditional spheres of economic and social activities. Pakistan has aggressively sponsored violence in India, and terrorists trained by its agencies sailed in a hijacked Indian fishing boat in 2008 to Mumbai. It is a tragedy that ordinary people could end up in a foreign prison while trying to earn their livelihood. India and Pakistan must consider this as a humanitarian crisis and work towards resolving it. And, both countries must avoid any escalation in tensions on account of the latest incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/caught-in-the-crossfire/article37409780.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Overlapping interests||The Supreme Court of India continues to question the tardy progress in the ongoing probe into the October 3 violence during a farmers’ protest at Tikonia in Lakhimpur-Kheri district, a situation that reflects poorly on the Uttar Pradesh police and administration. In its latest expression of dissatisfaction, the Court has indicated that it would like a retired High Court judge to monitor the investigation and has sought the State government’s response. The Court’s apprehensions are not without basis. A large number of witnesses coming forward ostensibly to help the police have ended up giving “exculpatory evidence”, that is, their statements are in favour of some suspects. Another source of doubt about the fairness of the probe is that an overlap is being sought to be created between two FIRs registered in relation to the incidents: one relating to the mowing down of four farmers and a journalist covering the event by vehicles suspected to be part of the convoy of Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister Ajay Mishra; and another concerning retaliatory violence by the crowd, in which three persons were killed. Counsel for the State government has confirmed at the latest hearing that Raman Kashyap, reporting for a television channel, was indeed run over by a car, with the Court pointing out that an impression was sought to be given earlier that he was lynched by the mob. The idea of having a retired judge to monitor the probe seems to be prompted by the Court’s keenness to ensure that the two crimes are not mixed up. It would be in the public interest to have a judicial mind monitoring the probe. It would also have a salutary effect on the investigation as a precautionary measure against any attempt to dilute or derail the case. It is noteworthy that the judges on the Bench appear to think that some of the developments redound to the benefit of a particular accused. It seems to be an oblique reference to the influential Ashish Mishra. Such an impression will persist as long as the probe seems tardy, and the gathering of evidence is marshalled towards exonerating someone. Both the Union government and the ruling BJP are silent on the continuance of the suspect’s father as a Union Minister, a factor that casts a shadow on the investigation. The Court is also not inclined to hand over the probe to the CBI, and is possibly right in holding that view. Recording the statements of witnesses before a judicial magistrate, certifying the electronic evidence available so far, and piecing together the evidence to make a strong case for the prosecution may be a time-consuming job, but what is expected of the State police is not a herculean task. There can be no excuse for allowing the fairness of the probe to come under a shadow of doubt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/overlapping-interests/article37409781.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Normal ties with China: P.M.’s offer||The Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, said to-day [Paris, November 9] that India was prepared to resume normal relations with China and exchange ambassadors without waiting for a solution of the border problem between the two countries. Asked at her press conference whether India would make use of French good offices for resumption of normal diplomatic relations with China, Mrs. Gandhi pointed out that India had diplomatic relations at the level of ‘Charge d’Affaires’. “We have no objection to an exchange of ambassadors and we hope this will be done. If the French Government can help, we have no objection to that,” the Prime Minister added. Earlier, she was asked whether India was ready to resume normal relations with China on the basis of the status quo on the border and in regard to the Akasi Chin area. “This is a question that could be discussed. So far as normalisation of relations is concerned, I made a statement immediately after I became Prime Minister in 1966,” Mrs. Gandhi said. (Mrs. Gandhi said in 1966 that she would maintain the friendliest relations with the neighbouring countries). Mrs. Gandhi in reply to questions said that as far as she knew both France and the United States had cut off arms aid to Pakistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/normal-ties-with-china-pms-offer/article37409789.ece
10 November 2021||MUMBAI,||M&M net jumps eightfold||Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (M&M) reported an eightfold jump in standalone second-quarter net profit after exceptional items at Rs. 1,432 crore, aided by volume growth and cost cuts. Profit was boosted by a sharply lower impairment charge on long-term investments of Rs. 255 crore, against Rs. 1,149.46 crore in the year-earlier period. Revenue rose 15% to Rs. 13,305 crore. Demand outstripped supply last quarter and the auto business continued to see a strong booking pipeline, top company executives said. The introduction of the XUV 7OO saw ‘overwhelming’ response, the SUV and tractor maker said, adding that more than 70,000 bookings had been made to date. In the Farm Equipment sector M&M’s market share for tractors increased 1.9 percentage points to 40.1%. The firm said volumes of electric three-wheelers increased more than fourfold. The company added that it would invest Rs. 13,500 crore over three years to develop new products and invest in subsidiaries. This includes Rs. 6,000 crore for the traditional auto business and Rs. 3,000 crore in the electric vehicles (EV) unit. While Rs. 3,000 crore would be invested in the farm equipment sector, Rs. 1,500 crore would go to the subsidiaries. The company said it would introduce 13 new SUVs including 8 EVs by 2027 and that they were under various stages of development. “We have seen significant all around improvement in our performance this quarter,” MD and CEO Anish Shah said. “Commodity prices have impacted our margins in both the auto and farm business, but our focus on cost management and optimisation has helped mitigate some of the impact,” said group CFO Manoj Bhat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mm-net-jumps-eightfold/article37409764.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,||MRF net dives 55% on rising raw material costs||MRF Ltd.’s standalone net profit for the second quarter ended September contracted 54.6% to Rs. 183 crore predominantly on account of rising raw material costs. The tyre manufacturer had reported standalone net profit from continuing operations of Rs. 403 crore a year earlier, it said in a regulatory filing. Revenue from operations grew to Rs. 4,832 crore from Rs. 4,186 crore a year earlier. Cost of material consumed grew to Rs. 3,805 crore from Rs. 2,249 crore. Total expenses climbed 27% to Rs. 4,672 crore. For the six-month period ended September 30, revenue from operations increased Rs. 8,959 crore from Rs. 6,617 crore, cost of materials more than doubled to Rs. 7,021 crore. Net profit contracted to Rs. 345 crore from Rs. 420 crore. The board declared an interim dividend of Rs. 3 per equity share for the current fiscal year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mrf-net-dives-55-on-rising-raw-material-costs/article37409767.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Domestic air traffic grew 25% in October, says ICRA||Domestic air passenger traffic grew about 25% with 87-88 lakh trips in October, compared with 71 lakh trips in the preceding month, rating agency ICRA said. The rise was in large part due to the ebb in COVID-19 infections, and impetus for leisure travel during the festive season, the agency said. Domestic airlines together conducted 72,000 departures, registering an increase of 18% in capacity deployed compared with September. Last month , average daily departures were at 2,400 compared with 2,100 in September. The average number of passengers per flight was 122, against an average of 117. “Though the recovery continued in October 2021, demand continues to be subdued from the corporate traveller segment as reflected by passenger traffic being lower by [about] 28% in October 2021 compared to pre-COVID levels,” said Suprio Banerjee, VP and sector head, ICRA. With the easing of curbs, airlines have reverted to their pre-COVID schedules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/domestic-air-traffic-grew-25-in-october-says-icra/article37409770.ece
10 November 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI lifts curbs on Diners Club card issuance||The RBI has lifted curbs imposed on Diners Club International, enabling the firm to onboard new card customers in India. “In view of the satisfactory compliance demonstrated by Diners Club International Ltd. with the RBI circular dated April 6, 2018 on Storage of Payment System Data, the restrictions imposed have been lifted with immediate effect,” the Reserve Bank of India said in a circular. The RBI, had by an order dated April 23, 2021, imposed restrictions on Diners Club from on-boarding new domestic customers onto its card network from May 1, 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-lifts-curbs-on-diners-club-card-issuance/article37409765.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Manali Petro Q2 net jumps to Rs. 120 crore||Manali Petrochemicals Ltd. (MPL), part of AM International, Singapore, has posted a more than sixfold increase in standalone net profit for the second quarter ended September to Rs. 120 crore from Rs. 18 crore. Revenue from operations more than doubled to Rs. 404 crore from Rs. 195 crore in the same period last year, the company said in a regulatory filing. “We expect to maintain a similar performance in the coming period, subject to imports into India, which have remained subdued for more than a year due to global market conditions,” said managing director Ravi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/manali-petro-q2-net-jumps-to-rs-120-crore/article37409768.ece
10 November 2021||New Delhi,||FM to nudge PSB heads to lend more||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is scheduled to meet heads of public sector banks (PSBs) next week to review the performance of the lenders and the progress made by them to support the economy battered by the COVID-19 pandemic. Banks would be urged to sanction loans for productive sectors to accelerate revival of the economy, sources said. According to sources, the two-day meeting would commence on November 17 and undertake a review of various segments, progress in government schemes including Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fm-to-nudge-psb-heads-to-lend-more/article37409772.ece
10 November 2021||New Delhi,||Contractors to get 75% funds under new rule||To address liquidity issues facing the construction sector, the government has framed rules that will allow for the release of 75% of the amount to contractors against a bank guarantee in cases where a department has challenged an arbitral award. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) had in November 2019 permitted government departments to pay contractors 75% amount awarded to a contractor by a dispute settling arbitration panel. This was to be done in cases where the arbitration award has been challenged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/contractors-to-get-75-funds-under-new-rule/article37409773.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Delhi loses, out of knockouts||Delhi was knocked out of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy after suffering a 13-run defeat to Saurashtra in Rohtak on Tuesday. Delhi needed a win to claim the second spot in Group E for a spot in the preliminary quarterfinals, but its batters failed to accelerate and fell short, chasing a victory target of 167. The team has lost to Hyderabad on Monday. The team was in the hunt even with 3.4 overs left when Lalit Yadav (28, 12b, 3x4, 2x6) was dismissed by Jaydev Unadkat and Delhi was restricted to 153/5. Earlier, openers Dhruv Shorey (33, 34b, 2x4) and Anuj Rawat (31, 28b, 5x4, 1x6) gave a solid start, but it went in vain. Late thrust Saurashtra’s innings was shepherded largely by middle-order batter Sheldon Jackson (79 n.o., 47b, 11x4, 2x6). Chirag Jani added 42 (29b, 5x4, 1x6) to provide a late thrust. In Sultanpur, Hyderabad defeated Uttar Pradesh for its fifth win in as many games. Tanmay Agarwal scored his second half-century in two days (62, 46b, 7x4, 1x6) and Buddhi Rahul scored an unbeaten 38 as Hyderabad posted 147/7 in its 20 overs. ‘ UP, in reply, was bundled out for 118 in 19.3 overs, left-arm medium pacer Chama Milind claiming a career-best 5/8 in 3.2 overs. Hyderabad made it directly for the quarterfinals, while Saurashtra will feature in the preliminary quarterfinals. Chandigarh registered its first win in the competition in an inconsequential match in Sultanpur. In a nip-and-tuck affair, Chandigarh chased down a target of 162 with three balls to spare. Manan Vohra (74, 60b, 3x4, 4x6) and Sarul Kanwar (38, 22b, 4x4, 2x6) were the chief contributors for the side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/delhi-loses-out-of-knockouts/article37410160.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||TN makes the grade with ease||In what was a must-win game for both sides, defending champion Tamil Nadu produced a clinical performance to beat Punjab by seven wickets in the final league match of the Elite Group A match in the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament in Lucknow on Tuesday. The win ensured TN finished with four wins from five matches, tied on points with Maharashtra. However, TN topped the group despite a lower net run rate than Maharashtra as it had won the head-to-head battle and qualified for the quarterfinals. Disciplined bowling Opting to bat, Punjab managed to score just 145/6, thanks to some disciplined bowling from TN. Gurkeerat Mann was the top-scorer with an unbeaten 43 (30b, 2x4, 2x6). After a promising start, the Punjab innings never managed to shift gears as TN kept picking up wickets at regular intervals. The spinners R. Sai Kishore and B. Aparajith were impressive giving the initial breakthroughs before experienced pacer Sandeep Warrier took two crucial wickets towards the end to ensure Punjab did not get the final flourish. Big partnership In its chase, despite losing two wickets in the PowerPlay, opener N. Jagadeesan (67, 47b, 6x4, 3x6) and skipper Vijay Shankar (59 n.o., 40b, 3x4, 4x6) took the attack to the opposition. The duo added 105 runs for the third wicket partnership in just 11.3 overs to help TN seal the direct qualification berth for the quarterfinals. TN coach M. Venkatramana was elated with the team’s performances and the way it adapted to the conditions. “Today was a superb win, we bowled well and then backed it up with superb batting. To have a 100-run stand in a T20 match is very impressive,” said the former India off-spinner. “Overall I am satisfied with how we have played so far. Different players have stepped up when the situation demanded and it has been a complete team effort,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-makes-the-grade-with-ease/article37410103.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Bengal overwhelms Karnataka||Bengal whipped Karnataka by seven wickets to book a spot in the quarterfinals of the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy on Tuesday. The win pushed Bengal to the top of the Elite Group ‘B’ points table. Karnataka, which finished second, will face Saurashtra (second-placed team in Elite Group ‘E’) in the pre-quarterfinals at New Delhi on November 16. Mumbai recorded an 82-run win over Baroda in its final group stage outing, but having finished third, exited the tournament. Not enough Electing to bat at Nehru Stadium in Guwahati, Karnataka could only muster 134 for eight. Captain Manish Pandey (32, 27b, 3x4, 1x6) and Karun Nair (44, 44b, 5x4) put on 61 runs for the third wicket — the only significant partnership of the innings. Pacer Mukesh Kumar took three wickets. Steady knocks from opener Abhimanyu Easwaran (51 n.o., 49b, 4x4, 1x6), Wriddhiman Saha (27, 23b, 2x4, 1x6) and Kaif Ahmed (34 n.o., 24b, 5x4) helped Bengal reach the target with two overs to spare. Though Mumbai thrashed Baroda, the big upset at the hands of Chhattisgarh on Monday that cost the side a spot in the knockout rounds. Mumbai opener Prithvi Shaw, who has struggled in this tournament, finally came to the party with a 63-ball 83. Skipper Ajinkya Rahane (71, 45b, 8x2, 2x6) recorded his fourth fifty in five outings to push Mumbai to a formidable 193 for two. Off-spinner Tanush Kotian wrecked the chase, picking up four wickets, to leave Baroda limping to 111 for nine in its 20 overs. In an inconsequential affair, Chhattisgarh defeated Services by 35 runs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengal-overwhelms-karnataka/article37410064.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||All-win Rajasthan storms into the knockout phase||Rajasthan stormed into the knockout stage of Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, defeating Haryana by 30 runs in its last Elite Group C fixture at Vadodara on Tuesday. Good partnership Put in to bat, in-form Deepak Hooda’s blistering 75 (47b, 5x4, 4x6) and Mahipal Lomror’s 46 (38b, 5x4, 1x6) guided Rajasthan to a competitive total of 155/6. Rajasthan was reeling at 4/2 after losing openers Yash Kothari (0) and Ashok Menaria (0). But with Lomror and Hooda putting up an 87-run stand, Rajasthan fought back in style. While Lomror crafted his innings with five boundaries and a six, Hooda toyed with Haryana bowlers, hammering five fours and four sixes. After Lomror was trapped leg before by Harshal Patel, Hooda took the onus on himself and ensured that his bowlers had enough runs to defend. In reply, Haryana was bundled out for 125, with Mohit Jain claiming four wickets for 14 runs. Chasing 156, Haryana lost skipper Harshal Patel (14) early. Even though Chaitanya Bishnoi (41; 45b, 4x4) tried to steady the ship, he did not get support from the others. For Rajasthan, pacer Kamlesh Nagarkoti scalped 3/25. With this win, Rajasthan topped the group with 20 points after remaining unbeaten in the league stage. Jaiswal shines Himachal Pradesh also proceeded to the knockouts after beating Andhra by 30 runs. Raghav Dhawan’s 57 and Prashant Chopra’s 35 guided Himachal to 148/7 and, in its chase, Andhra was bundled out for 118, with Pankaj Jaiswal claiming a five-for (5/18). In the other match, Jharkhand defeated Jammu & Kashmir by five wickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/all-win-rajasthan-storms-into-the-knockout-phase/article37410457.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Kerala joins Gujarat in knockouts||When it really mattered, things went Kerala’s way as it came up with a comprehensive eight-wicket victory over Madhya Pradesh to qualify for the pre-quarterfinals of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy in New Delhi on Tuesday. Before Kerala took the field at the Ferozeshah Kotla ground, Gujarat (16 points) posted a five-wicket victory over Bihar to not only qualify for the quarterfinals but also avoid a three-way tie at the top. This helped Kerala’s cause. Since there is no role of net run rate in case of a two-way tie, it came down to a win-and-qualify situation for MP and Kerala. As it turned out, the one-sided result tied the teams at 12 points but Kerala advanced because this head-to-head result against MP was considered to break the tie. Put in, MP posted a challenging 171/5 with Rajat Patidar top-scoring with 77 (49b, 7x4, 3x6) before being out to the last ball of the innings. He was well supported by opener Kuldeep Gehi (31) and then Parth Sahani (32). In response, Kerala cruised to an emphatic win after riding on an unbroken 110-run stand between Sanju Samson (56 n.o. 33b, 4x4, 3x6) and Sachin Baby (51 n.o. 27b, 4x4, 3x6). The other two matches, too, were one-sided. Gujarat restricted Bihar to 118/6 and then finished the job, thanks to the unbroken sixth-wicket stand of 60 runs between Het Patel (45) and Piyush Chawla (27). In a match that had no bearing on the qualifying race to the knockout phase, Railways (8) cruised to a 48-run victory over Assam (8).   Pre-quarterfinal line-up (On November 16)   PQF1: Maharashtra v Vidarbha; PQF2: Karnataka v Saurashtra; PQF3: Himachal Pradesh v Kerala.  Quarterfinal line-up (On November 18)   QF1: Tamil Nadu v Himachal Pradesh or Kerala; QF2: Bengal v Karnataka or Saurashtra; QF3: Rajasthan v Maharashtra or Vidarbha; QF4: Gujarat v Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-joins-gujarat-in-knockouts/article37410390.ece
10 November 2021||ABU DHABI,||Chance for Kiwis to give it back to England||The ICC men’s T20 World Cup is in its climactic phase. The quintessential cricket fans cannot ask for a better face-off than the one between England and New Zealand in the first semifinal at the Zayed Cricket Stadium here on Wednesday. Over the last five years, this has emerged as one of the fiercest rivalries in lCC Championships. Be it World T20 in 2016 or the ODI World Cup in 2019, Eoin Morgan’s marauders and Kane Williamson’s warriors have faced each other in the Worlds’ knockouts. With England toppling New Zealand in both those ties, the latter would be gunning to avenge the defeats and keep alive its hunt for an elusive World title in white ball cricket despite being one of the most consistent sides in World tournaments over the last decade. Consistent unit Williamson would certainly be optimistic about overcoming England this time around, thanks to the clinical performance so far. Other than the loss to Pakistan in the Super 12 stage, New Zealand has hardly put a foot wrong. With its dynamic and skilful bowling attack and a rejigged batting order — with Daryl Mitchell and Devon Conway playing their new roles to perfection — New Zealand has been a consistent unit. England would be hoping to repeat its feats in 2016 and 2019 despite the absence of two key stars who had shone in those memorable encounters. If it was Ben Stokes’ assault that helped England clinch the World Cup title in 2019, Jason Roy’s blitzkrieg had helped the team waltz into the WT20 final in 2016. With Stokes unavailable for the tournament and Roy ruled out with injury, England will be forced to tweak the combination. It has a readymade replacement in Jonny Bairstow to partner an in-form Jos Buttler but a forced change could be a cause for concern. Seasoned pace duo New Zealand, meanwhile, will be banking on its seasoned pace duo of Trent Boult and Tim Southee to counter Buttler & Co. The long boundaries in Abu Dhabi will mean that the spinners will be the game-changers. How Adil Rashid and Moeen Ali fare in comparison with Ish Sodhi and Mitchell Santner may prove defining.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chance-for-kiwis-to-give-it-back-to-england/article37410006.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Split teams, captaincy and coaches too — give Dhoni a bigger role||It is time India began to take T20 cricket seriously. That might be a strange thing to say about a country that won the inaugural World Cup in 2007 and changed the face of the sport the following year with the IPL which remains the top tournament in the T20 world. But things change quickly in T20, and I don’t mean just in the course of a match or an innings. What was important yesterday — Test match experience, for instance — often turns out to be a handicap. What works for one team need not work for another. Since it is a new format, less than two decades old, almost every match, every change, every nuance is recorded. Patterns can be discerned. Changes can sometimes be anticipated. There are things happening in T20 tournaments around the world that need to be understood or at least acknowledged. It doesn’t matter if Indian cricketers are not allowed to play in these, but we need a team that analyses threads and checks how these changes apply to India. It is a full-time job, and needs a full-time team of analysts who focus on nothing else. Crucial difference What we need in the backroom are not cricket people who understand statistics, but statisticians who know cricket. The difference is not subtle, and it may be crucial. One of the features of the T20 format is that it can turn the basics of the longer game on its head — in fact it is expected to. You don’t get your eye in as a batsman, you don’t mix caution with aggression, you don’t rely on singles to upset a bowler’s rhythm, a dot-ball is more precious than a perfect delivery which is edged for four; some are cliches in the longer game. A bowler has 24 deliveries to make his mark, a batsman sometimes even fewer. Contrarily, wickets don’t matter for a batsman, nor do boundaries matter for a bowler. By all accounts, the nation seems to have heaved a sigh of relief that a player and personality of Rahul Dravid’s stature has been persuaded to take over as national coach. He has known many of the players from their Under-19 days, and understands the game better than most. Coaching the national team will come with its challenges though — the same players who looked up to him as teenagers would have developed egos large enough to fill a room! It is a lesson Anil Kumble learnt to his cost when he had to quit because the captain was unhappy with him.  Distinct sport In a previous column, I made the point that India should look at T20 as a distinct form of sport and choose a captain for whom it existed even as he was growing up. India have been conservative in their approach to the format, and need to think out of the box. Having a young captain like Rishabh might be one way to go. Another — and this is important too — would be to split not just the teams and captaincy but the coaches as well. And that’s where Mahendra Singh Dhoni would come in. Perhaps India could go one step further and appoint him not just the T20 coach, but the sole selector as well in the format. He has the experience, is one of the greats of the format and would work best given a free hand. It is a big task, taking sole responsibility, as football coaches around the world have discovered. But at least the lines of communication are clear. I am not sure quite what Dhoni was doing at the recent World T20 in the UAE; international players don’t need ‘mentors’ to look after them. They need decision-makers, and Dhoni has been one of the best in the business. This will leave Dravid free to focus on Test cricket and One-Day Internationals; he was a master of both, with over 10,000 runs in each format. T20 is becoming increasingly specialised, and calls for a specialist coach and selector, and Dhoni fits the bill well. Not the time for ‘if onlys’ Making excuses for the Indian defeat in the UAE will only perpetuate the mistakes the team made. We cannot wallow in a series of “if onlys”. If only India had won the toss in the matches they lost. If only they hadn’t run into Shaheen Afridi so early in the tournament. If only they had been bolder in their selection. If only, if only... It is time to forget the tournament as a bad dream, and start afresh, with a new captain, a new coach and a team of T20 players who relish playing the format. It seems ironic that the IPL is ideal preparation for all teams (not Pakistan, of course) except India!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/split-teams-captaincy-and-coaches-too-give-dhoni-a-bigger-role/article37409776.ece
10 November 2021||ABU DHABI,||What went wrong for India?||For the first time since the World T20 in 2012, India failed to make the cut for the knockouts in an ICC Championship. While the management has been quick to cite the toss, dew and bubble fatigue as the reasons, a look at some factors that contributed to the early exit.  Selection: The original squad of 15 lacked balance as it had five spinners and three pacers. A last-ditch effort was made to rectify it by bringing Shardul Thakur in place of Axar Patel. The team management made things worse by not playing R. Ashwin for the important games against Pakistan and New Zealand. What made the decision even more bizarre was that most teams preferred to play three spinners given the conditions in the UAE. With neither Varun Chakravarthy nor Ravindra Jadeja able to pick up wickets in the middle overs, India’s bowling lacked bite in the first two matches. Though Ashwin was included for the final three contests and formed a potent spin combination with Ravindra Jadeja, it was too late. Persisting with Hardik Pandya who, according to chief selector Chetan Sharma, was to bowl “in every match” wasn’t a good ploy either.  Batting order: Given the tendency of India’s top three — Rohit Sharma, K.L. Rahul and Virat Kohli — to get their eye in before going after the bowling, it was always going to be risky. A left-hander was missed at the top of the order though Ishan Kishan got a chance to open against the Kiwis. With the next T20 World Cup less than a year away, the new think-tank will have to ponder over the ideal batting order.  Bubble fatigue: Once India lost the first two games and was virtually out of the semifinal race, bubble fatigue, the toss and dew factor were cited as the reasons by the team during the limited interactions with the media. It was conveniently forgotten that just before the tournament, the players were touting IPL’s second half as an ideal preparation for the World Cup as it was being played at the same venues. With Indian cricket’s ecosystem — starting with the BCCI — putting the cash-rich IPL ahead of international commitments, an Indian player seeking rest from the IPL is highly unlikely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/what-went-wrong-for-india/article37410003.ece
10 November 2021||ABU DHABI,||The bubble will burst: Shastri||Minutes after finishing his last assignment of a long streak as the India head coach, Ravi Shastri issued an indirect caution to the Indian cricket administrators with regard to managing India’s hectic workload. “When you’re six months in a bubble... lot of players in this team play all three formats of the game. In the last 24 months, they have been home for 25 days. I don’t care who you are, if your name is (Don) Bradman, if you are in a bubble as well, your average will come down because you are human,” Shastri said in Dubai on Monday night after India finished third in its group of the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup. Got to be careful “This is not something where you just put petrol on the back side and expect the guy to move on in overdrive. It doesn’t happen that way. That’s why I say in life it’s not what you accomplish, it’s what you overcome; that’s what this team has done. They have shown the drive to hang in there, no complaints. But sooner or later, the bubble will burst, so you have got to be careful.” With the suspended Indian Premier League to be squeezed between the England tour and the World Cup, the Indian team hardly trained together for a week for the World Cup. Asked whether it is impractical to prioritise World tournaments ahead of IPL from an administrator’s perspective, Shastri played safe. “That’s not my job, first of all. That is something the administrators, not just from India, it is the others around the globe who will also be looking at it before big tournaments to ensure that there is a little bit of gap so that the guys are made fresh and ready to play,” Shastri said. The former India captain, who reiterated India has emerged as “the best team ever” in Indian cricket history during his tenure, had no doubts that a player can now raise his hand up, seek rest and come back afresh to claim his spot in the team. Freedom of expression “The communication has been free. We have managed players, especially with the training methods and everything. One thing, we were never short on communication,” he said. “Everyone was free to speak. No one was treated as a junior. There were no seniors and juniors on this side. Everyone had the freedom to express himself.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-bubble-will-burst-shastri/article37410005.ece
10 November 2021||Chennai,||Rohit takes over the T20 reins||Rohit Sharma will lead India in the three-match T20I series against New Zealand which begins at Jaipur on November 17. K.L. Rahul will be his deputy. Ruturaj Gaikwad and Venkatesh Iyer, who performed exceptionally well in IPL 2021, were included in the squad. Yuzvendra Chahal, who was dropped for the T20 World Cup, returned to the side while R. Ashwin retained his spot. The senior selection committee, headed by Chetan Sharma, picked a 16-member squad for the series. Virat Kohli who relinquished his captaincy from the shortest format, has been rested.  The committee also picked an India-A squad, led by Priyank Panchal, that will travel to South Africa from November 23 to play in three four-day matches in Bloemfontein.  The squads and schedule:   For T20Is against NZ: Rohit Sharma (Capt.), K.L. Rahul (Vice-capt.), Ruturaj Gaikwad, Shreyas Iyer, Suryakumar Yadav, Rishabh Pant (wk), Ishan Kishan (wk), Venkatesh Iyer, Yuzvendra Chahal, R. Ashwin, Axar Patel, Avesh Khan, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Deepak Chahar, Harshal Patel and Mohammed Siraj.   The dates: Nov. 17 (Jaipur) ; Nov. 19 (Ranchi) ; Nov. 21 (Kolkata).   India-A (for South Africa tour): Priyank Panchal (Capt.), Prithvi Shaw, Abhimanyu Easwaran, Devdutt Padikkal, Sarfaraz Khan, B. Aparajith, Upendra Yadav (wk), K. Gowtham, Rahul Chahar, Saurabh Kumar, Navdeep Saini, Umran Malik, Ishan Porel and Arzan Nagwaswalla .   The dates (four-day games): Nov. 23-26; Nov. 29-Dec. 2; Dec. 6-9 (all at Bloemfontein) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-takes-over-the-t20-reins/article37410009.ece
10 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Choraria, Nayak win||Harsh Choraria and Pehr Nayak respectively won the junior jumping and dressage events in the Regional Equestrian League at the Fort William Riding and Polo Institute (FWRPI) on Sunday. The event, organised by Head Quarters Eastern Command, judged the riding skills of boys and girls, aged between 10 years and 18 years. The riders participated in the events of show-jumping and dressage in three categories – Children II (10 to 12 years), Children I (12 to 14 years) and Junior (14 to 18 years). The winners in the event also qualified to the Junior National Equestrian Championship (JNEC) which will be held in Jan 2022.  Important results:   Junior jumping: 1. Harsh Choraria, 2. Tapodyuti Tewary; Junior dressage: 1. Pehr Nayak, 2. Saanvi Fatehpuri.   Children I jumping: 1. Aditya Padhy, 2. Labbh Jalan; Children II jumping: 1. Ansh Garodia, 2. Rishanjali Raje Dash .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/choraria-nayak-win/article37410453.ece
10 November 2021||INDORE,||Karan off to a flier||National junior champion Karan Singh got off to a flying start as he beat the two-time National champion Niki Poonacha 7-5, 6-1 in the first round of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament here on Tuesday. Karan broke Niki’s serve in the second game to go 3-0 up, but it was a tussle in the first set as Niki broke back in the fifth game and saved a set point in the 10th to hold serve. However, he dropped the set with two double faults in the 12th game. Niki served 11 double faults in the match and thus could not capitalise on the advantage of twice breaking the serve of Karan, who is fast emerging as the face of the National Tennis Centre (NTC) with his bright game. In another match, top seed Sidharth Rawat squeezed his way past National championship finalist, Digvijay Pratap Singh 5-7, 6-4, 6-4.  The results:   First round: Sidharth Rawat bt Digvijay Pratap Singh 5-7, 6-4, 6-4; Dev Javia bt Kaza Vinayak Sharma 6-3, 6-3; Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam bt Raghav Jaisinghani 6-2, 6-2; Karan Singh bt Niki Poonacha 7-5, 6-1.   Qualifying (third and final round): Madhwin Kamath bt Rohan Mehra 6-2, 6-3; Faisal Qamar bt Lakshit Sood 6-2, 7-5; Ajay Malik bt Lohithaksha Bathrinath 6-4, 4-6, [12-10]; Vishnu Vardhan bt Fardeen Qamar 6-2, 6-4; Bharath Kumaran bt V.M. Ranjeet 6-3, 3-6, [12-10]; Ishaque Eqbal bt Lakshya Gupta 3-6, 6-4, [10-8]. Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Niki Poonacha & Vishnu Vardhan bt Ankit Chopra & Aaditya Tewari 6-4, 6-4; Ajay Malik & Karan Singh bt Rishi Reddy & Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam 7-6(4), 6-3; Alexis Canter (GBr) & Dev Javia bt Chandril Sood & Lakshit Sood 6-3, 3-6, [10-4].   Ishaque Eqbal & Faisal Qamar bt Dusty Boyer (US) & Karunuday Singh 6-2, 4-6, [10-6]; Paras Dahiya & Parikshit Somani bt Rishab Agarwal & S.D. Prajwal Dev 6-3, 6-4.   Manish Sureshkumar & V.M. Ranjeet bt Jatin Dahiya & Dalwinder Singh 7-5, 6-0; Anirudh Chandrasekar & Nitin Kumar Sinha bt Kunal Anand & Shahbaaz Khan 6-4, 6-3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karan-off-to-a-flier/article37410161.ece
10 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Arundhati Choudhary moves court||World youth champion boxer Arundhati Choudhary on Tuesday moved the Delhi High Court seeking a spot in the World women’s boxing championships-bound Indian side. The case is listed to be heard on Wednesday morning, Arundhati’s lawyer Sandeep Lamba said. “We have said, like other 11 National champions, Arundhati should also get selected for the World championships (in Istanbul in December),” said Lamba. Arundhati, a three-time Khelo India champion who won the World youth title in 69kg in Kielce, Poland, earlier this year, bagged her maiden National title in 70kg at Hisar following a revamp in weight divisions. The BFI decided to select the National champions for the Istanbul event. However, it made an exception to pick Tokyo Olympics bronze medallist Lovlina Borgohain directly in 70kg for the World championships. Arundhati claimed that she got an assurance from the BFI top brass for a trial in her weight class after the National championships. On November 4, the boxer from Kota, Rajasthan, wrote a letter to Boxing Federation of India (BFI) president Ajay Singh, requesting him to conduct a trial in 70kg. In her letter, Arundhati said she did not seek any favours and just wanted “fair play.” Arundhati moved the court as she ‘did not receive any response’ from the BFI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arundhati-moves-court/article37410062.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian women’s team to play in Brazil||The Indian women’s football team will take on former World Cup runner-up Brazil for the first time ever during an international tournament later this month as part of its preparations for next year’s AFC Asian Cup. Chile, ranked 37th in FIFA chart, and Venezuela (56th) are the other teams that the 57th-ranked Indians will face in the November 25 to December 1 tournament to be held in Manaus, Brazil. India will play the host on Nov. 25, Chile on Nov. 28 and Venezuela on Dec. 1. World No. 7 Brazil, the 2007 World Cup runner-up and Olympics silver medallist in 2004 and 2008, is captained by six-time World Player of the Year Marta, widely considered as the greatest female footballer in the world. However, it is not yet known whether the 35-year-old will feature in this tournament. “This will be the first time any Indian senior national team will be playing against either Brazil, Chile or Venezuela,” the All India Football Federation (AIFF) said in a release. The exposure tour is part of the team’s preparation for the Asian Cup to be held in Mumbai and Pune from January 20. “As the governing body, we want to provide the best platform for preparation for our women’s senior team as they prepare for the AFC Women’s Asian Cup India 2022,” AIFF general secretary Kushal Das said. “Brazil and Chile are regular World Cup teams, and playing against such opposition will help our team.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-womens-team-to-play-in-brazil/article37410101.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ankita-Rosalie duo loses||Irina Khormacheva and Lidziya Marozava beat Ankita Raina and Rosalie van der Hoek of the Netherlands 7-6(3), 7-6(2) in the doubles pre-quarterfinals of the €189,708 WTA tennis tournament in Linz.  Other results:   $52,080 Challenger, Knoxville, US: Singles (first round): Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt Mikael Torpegaard (Den) 6-2, 7-6(2).   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Singles (first round): Chisa Hosonuma (Jpn) bt Jennifer Luikham 5-7, 6-4, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankita-rosalie-duo-loses/article37410104.ece
10 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sarnobat takes silver||Rahi Sarnobat shot the silver in women’s 25-metre sports pistol in the President’s Cup shooting championship in Wroclaw, Poland. Doreen Vennekamp of Germany shot brilliantly in the first few rounds of the final to take the lead and sustained it to push Sarnobat to the silver 33 points to 31. Manu Bhaker also made the final, but placed sixth. Bhaker made the mixed rapid fire pistol gold medal match partnering Ozgur Varlik of Turkey. The duo beat Xiao Jianuixuan of China and Peeter Olesk of Estonia 9-7 in the final. Chinki Yadav and Marko Carrillo of Peru placed eighth in the second stage of qualification. Anjum Moudgil shot 584 in the second stage and failed to qualify for the final by one point in the women's rifle 3-position event. She had shot 587 in the first stage in the 10-shooter field. In the mixed team competition of the 3-position event, Moudgil and Petar Gorsa of Croatia placed ninth in the first stage with a combined score of 878.  The results: Women’s 25m sports pistol: 1. Doreen Vennekamp (Ger) 33 (588); 2. Rahi Sarnobat 31 (583); 3. Mathilde Lamolle (Fra) 27 (582); 6. Manu Bhaker 17 (583); 9. Chinki Yadav 578.   Mixed rapid fire pistol: 1. Ozgur Varlik (Tur) & Manu Bhaker 9 (366) 557; 2. Xiao Jianuixuan (Chn) & Peeter Olesk (Est) 7 (370) 560; 3. Doreen Vennekamp (Ger) & Clement Bessaguet (Fra) 10 (364) 569; 4. Kim Minjung (Kor) & Olier Geis (Ger) 4 (356), 549; 8. Chinki Yadav & Marko Carrillo (Per) 337 (547) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sarnobat-takes-silver/article37410019.ece
10 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Sanjay Bangar named RCB head coach||Former India all-rounder Sanjay Bangar has been named the head coach of Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) for the upcoming season, RCB announced on Tuesday. Bangar will take over from Mike Hesson, who had donned the role for the second leg of IPL 2021. Hesson will remain with the team in his existing role as Director of Cricket Operations. Bangar had joined RCB as batting consultant for IPL 2021. He has served as the batting coach for the Indian team, and has coaching experience in the IPL as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sanjay-bangar-named-rcb-head-coach/article37410033.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Top honours||Reward for excellence||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/top-honours/article37410016.ece
10 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Varun and Ganapathy clinch gold||The Indian pair of Varun Thakkar and K.C. Ganapathy won the gold medal in the Asian 49er sailing championships at Al Mussannah Sports City, Oman, on Tuesday. Though the two finished 10th overall, they were the only Asians in the top 10. This is Varun and Ganapathy’s third medal at the Asians after the first place in 2018 and runner-up spot in 2019. Varun and Ganapathy thanked their personal coach Bunny Warren for the triumph. “The competition was one of the toughest we’ve faced so far. We pulled as a unit along with coach Warren. We’ve established a good rapport [with the coach],” said Varun. Ganapathy said the Asians were good preparation for the World Championships at the same venue from Nov. 16 to 21. “We have a long way to go, but we are slowly getting there,” said Ganapathy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/varun-and-ganapathy-clinch-gold/article37410017.ece
10 November 2021||Kolkata,||Mitrabha Guha is India’s 72nd GM||Mitrabha Guha has scored his final norm to become the 72nd Grandmaster of the country. He defeated GM Nikola Sedlak of Serbia in the ninth round of the GM Third Saturday Mix 220 event at Novi Sad, Serbia, on Monday to secure his final GM norm. Guha, who had crossed 2500 in live ratings when he beat FM Aradhya Garg in the second round, became the ninth GM from West Bengal. Guha, who has been without a coach for three years, got his first GM norm at the Sant Marti Open in Spain in 2018 and his second GM norm at the Sheikh Russel International GM tournament in Bangladesh last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mitrabha-guha-is-indias-72nd-gm/article37409779.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 13:26 IST,||Sudoku — November 10, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-10-2021/article37410986.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Wing it through winter||The season’s first bird watching tour at Podugupalem Lake near Visakhapatnam sprung up quite a few surprises. Birders recorded 54 species during the two-hour-long session, which was held about a month ago. “This lake is popular for raptors like red-necked falcon, marsh harrier and short-toed snake eagle. Last winter, we spotted migratory species like great crested grebe and tufted ducks, which was a welcome sight and indicates that the eco-system is well-suited for migratory species,” says V. Bhagyasree, an avian biologist working with Wildlife Conservation Through Research and Education (WCTRE) on conservation projects. November to February is the season when the migratory species arrive and birders and birdwatching groups in the city are geared up to document the year’s sightings. Visakhapatnam and its surrounding regions have quite a few waterbodies where migratory bird species are recorded. “Araku and Lambasingi are promising places with more than 100 species,” says Janardhan Uppada from the Vizag Birdwatchers Society. The Tagarapuvalasa Cheruvu now hosts snipes and waders. The Meghadrigedda reservoir, surrounded by hill ranges of Eastern Ghats on all sides, with steep slopes and deep gullies, is a wintering ground for many migratory birds, especially from the Central Asian Flyway. V Bhagyasree who has co-authored a paper along with Vivek Rathod on the habitat lists the birds that have been recorded in the area: “Ten species from the family of Anatidae (ducks, goose). Followed by other significant families such as Motacillidae (pipits, wagtails) with nine species, Ardeidae (herons, bitterns) with eight species, Charadriidae (plovers) and Accipitridae (harriers and kites) with seven species, Cuculidae (cuckoos and koel) and Scolopacidae (snipes and sandpipers) having six species.” Out of the 146 species recorded from this hotspot, the Common Pochard is listed as ‘vulnerable’ according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List, while blackheaded ibis, oriental darter, painted stork, alexandrine parakeet are ‘near threatened’. “Some of the notable migratory species include great-crested grebe, Eurasian wigeon, red-crested pochard, northern pintail and gadwall,” adds Bhagyasree. The last birding season yielded some unusual sightings, including two female oriental pied hornbills in the Kailasagiri Hill at the heart of the city. “This was the first such record from this hill and has opened up more opportunities for further explorations for the birders,” says Vikram Penmetsa, a member of Vizag Birdwatchers Society. “The NTPC ash pond is another hub for plovers and shovellers. Interestingly, birders also recorded a flamingo here about two years ago,” he adds. Digital documentation For the past couple of years, the Vizag Birdwatchers Society has been keeping an eye on the residents and migratory bird species of the region. The society has more than 150 members, including 20 active members, and has documented many rare and important species. Some significant findings include the greater flamingo, the red-necked falcon, and the peregrine falcon raptor among others. The society has been digitally documenting the bird species on the eBird India platform. However, habitats like Kondakarla Ava lake, the second biggest freshwater lake in Andhra Pradesh, which once was a popular birding site has shown a drastic fall in winter migrants. “Winter migrants have three main criteria for habitat selection — availability of food, availability of space and protection from predators. If any of this is affected, it leads to a fall in the number of avian visitors,” says Bhagyasree. According to birders, an increase in fishing activity could be one reason behind the drop. For beginners, places like the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park offer a good way to start on the bird watching journey. “Here, there are good number of resident species. We also spotted the Asian brown flycatcher, a migratory species,” says Bhagyasree. The WCTRE along with Indira Gandhi Zoological Park has been conducting regular bird walks here every weekend. Currently, the team is also in the process of documenting the list of species in the region. The recent spell of rains, however, has made the birders of the region anxious. “The backwaters get flooded and the waders which used to be along the fringes get displaced. Ducks are settling at the centre of the reservoir due to poaching, which is another major concern here. So sightings become difficult; one needs binoculars,” says Janardhan. There is also concern about the habitat’s progressive degradation from man-made causes. “Habitat destruction, industrialisation in nearby lands are all contributing to the decrease in number of birds in the reservoir,” says Bhagyasree, adding, “Effective desilting and declaring it equivalent to a wetland are a few means to protect this habitat for our feathered friends.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/wing-it-through-winter/article37410376.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Our planet, our parent||Nine years ago, Soumik Datta turned down an invitation from Beyoncé and Jay-Z to tour with them. His reason is self-effacing. He says he was not ready for it. But Soumik’s choice of projects informs us that popularity is not something he fervently pursues. Right from his early days, he veered away from conventions. Growing up in London in his early teens, Soumik played the sarod. His band, Circle of Sound, which he formed with an Austrian friend, was a mix of drums and sarod, alaap and bass, jor and hip-hop. He collaborated with folk percussion artiste Cormac Byrne to rescore Satyajit Ray’s 1969 film Goopy Gyne Bagha Byne , mixing contemporary orchestra with Indian classical and folk sounds. This April and May, he, with a 40-member team of musicians and dancers, performed in front of empty seats in Britain’s iconic cultural centres like the British Museum and the Royal Albert Hall. The idea was to break the silence with new music in spaces shut down during the pandemic. Soumik’s latest work, Songs of the Earth , an animated musical short film, emphasises this issue.The film premiered on November 2 at the COP26 summit in Glasgow. There could not have been a better place and time, says Soumik. The occasion is not a coincidence. Soumik made Songs of the Earth after winning a British Council Climate Change creative commission in February to develop a film and music project with Earth Day Network. Soumik wrote, scored, and directed the film. Indian illustrators Sachin Bhatt and Anjali Kamat did the animation. The 24-minute film tells the story of Asha, a young climate refugee from Bengal, who searches for her father through the flood banks of the Sundarbans delta, burning forests and melting polar ice caps. Soumik explains why he chose this story. “With climate change, it is difficult for people to understand what the numbers mean. We might not relate to coral reefs dying, burning forests in Australia and South America, or polar bears going extinct. But we relate to human stories and relationships. I wanted a relationship between a daughter and her father. It is also a metaphor for our planet being our parent.” The film’s musicis a blend of vocals, saxophone, drums, sarod, cello, and sounds of leaves, wind and waves. Like Soumik’s other projects, this too has a fusion of styles. At one point, it even sounds peppy. Soumik agrees. “As an artiste, I respond more when what I am watching and what I am listening to do not always fit (with each other). That’s when you start questioning. With this project, we tried to create something that is visually arresting, sonically arresting, and thought-provoking too.” The music album of the film is available on audio streaming platforms. Despite addressing distressing topics like deforestation and migration crises, Soumik says his work tries to spread hope.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/our-planet-our-parent/article37410379.ece
10 November 2021||November 10 2021 00:00 IST,||Past forward||“Why not Sanskrit?” Dushyanth Sridhar, a Bengaluru-based speaker and researcher on Indian scriptures, will soon be posing this question to audiences across the globe when his Sakuntalam releases. An adaptation of Kalidasa’s Abhijnana Sakuntalam , Dushyanth (in pink shirt, in the photograph)hopes to recreate a historical world in his upcoming Sanskrit film. “If people can watch a Korean series called Squid Games , they will surely understand Sanskrit and warm up to Sakuntalam ,” says a confident Dushyanth, who was recently in the city to supervise post-production work. The journey began during a chance conversation he had with a friend, Srinivas Kanna, who is associated with the film industry. “He suggested I take up filmmaking, but I was apprehensive as it was absolutely the opposite of what I was doing at that point (religious discourses). But I knew the immense reach of cinema.” Then, he thought about Sakuntalam and Kalidasa’s storytelling nature. Given his proficiency and exposure to the language, Dushyanth decided to do it himself. “I became a filmmaker by chance.” Starring debutants Shubham Sahrawat and Payal Shetty in the lead, and YG Mahendran, Mohan Raman and TV Varadarajan in vital roles, Sakuntalam promises to be an aesthetic adaptation of a popular literary work. “The drama in Sakuntalam is so dynamic. India is not just about the aghoris in Varanasi, or the garbage piled up at Perungudi… there is much more than it. There is so much in the past to observe.” He is trying to get audiences to do that with his film, which will have dialogues in Sanksrit and Prakrit, with subtitles in English. Dushyanth could have chosen to deliver this message via a lecture in a sabha or a video online — but he opted for the cinematic medium instead. “Cinema is a powerful tool and has a great reach. I was not nervous on set, but it did take a few days for me to warm up to this new medium,” says Dushyanth. Dushyanth deliberately roped in some seasoned names, including National Award-winners Pattanam Rasheed and Lenin for make-up and editing. “It took away so many of my worries, thanks to the technical pampering I received.” The rise of OTT platforms and exposure to different kinds of cinema in the recent past augurs well for the team of Sakuntalam , says Dushyanth. “Once the entire product is ready, we will take it to OTT platforms. It also has global appeal and will interest scholars of linguistics across the world. Some people describe Kalidasa as the Shakespeare of India, but it is actually the other way round: Shakespeare is the Kalidasa of Europe.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/past-forward/article37410454.ece
10 November 2021||Mumbai,||Vaze a puppet in ED’s hands, Mumbai Police tells court||The Mumbai Police Crime Branch on Tuesday told a local court that the Enforcement Directorate, which has sought the custody of dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze to record his statement in a PMLA case involving former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, is “sabotaging” the investigation and that Mr. Vaze is just a “puppet” in the hands of the Central agency. After hearing the arguments of the ED and the Crime Branch, the court rejected the ED’s plea. Mr. Vaze was remanded in the custody of the Crime Branch till November 13 in connection with an extortion case registered at suburban Goregaon in Mumbai. The ED is probing a money laundering case based on the allegations levelled by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. Mr. Vaze is an accused in that case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/vaze-a-puppet-in-eds-hands-mumbai-police-tells-court/article37410384.ece
