11 November 2021||New Delhi,||Union Cabinet brings back MPLAD Scheme||Citing economic recovery, the Union Cabinet on Wednesday restored the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) that was suspended in April 2020 subsuming the funds for the scheme in the consolidated fund of India. The scheme was suspended for two financial years (2020-21 and 2021-22) but the Government on Wednesday announced a partial rollback. The MPs will get Rs. 2 crore instead of the annual approved Rs. 5 crore. Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said, “I am happy to state that since we are on the road to economic recovery, with many sectors reporting a positive growth, the Union Cabinet has decided to restore the MPLAD Scheme for the remaining part of the financial year 2021-22.” When the suspension was announced last year, the Government had claimed that Rs. 8,000 crore that would have otherwise been spent under the scheme will go to the consolidated fund of India and will be used for fighting the pandemic. Opposition leaders pointed out that the Government so far has not given a record of how it spent the savings from suspending the scheme for a year. DMK’s Rajya Sabha member P. Wilson pointed out that the Centre, by way of suspending the MPLAD Scheme, withheld funds for the States during the peak of pandemic when they were battling with financial strain themselves. Senior RJD leader Manoj K. Jha said the Government should come up with a detailed account of how it used the money saved by suspension of MPLAD funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/union-cabinet-brings-back-mplad-scheme/article37430952.ece
11 November 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal Minister-directed film is first included for IFFI, then dropped||A Bengali feature film whose director is now the Education Minister of West Bengal finds itself excluded from — after being included in — the list prepared for screening in the Indian Panorama section of the International Film Festival of India (IFFI) in Goa. The 52nd edition of IFFI begins on November 20 and according to the official list released on November 5, as many as five feature films and two non-feature films in the Bengali language were picked up for the Indian Panorama. The feature films included Dictionary , which released early this year during Saraswati Puja and even drew full houses before the second wave of COVID-19 began sweeping through the country. Bratya Basu, the director of the film, subsequently became West Bengal’s Education Minister after the Trinamool Congress won the Assembly election in the State in May this year. Omitted in fresh list  Dictionary has, in the lead, two highly popular Bengali actors — Nusrat Jahan (also a Trinamool Congress MP) and Abir Chatterjee — and its inclusion in the Indian Panorama was celebrated by the local media and rejoiced by the film fraternity. A fresh list released by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on November 6, however, did not include the film. The reason behind its exclusion is not clear yet. For that matter, even its inclusion appeared to be a last-minute decision and an afterthought, considering it figured at the bottom of the list, at no. 25, even though the other Bengali films selected had been grouped — going by the alphabetical order of the language — at the beginning of the list. When asked to comment, Dictionary producer Firdausul Hasan, who also happens to be the vice-president of the Film Federation of India, said he would get back. Filmmaker Jayashree Bhattacharya, a member of the feature film jury for the Indian Panorama, said she would respond once she found out what exactly was the matter. Directorate of Film Festivals officials could not be reached for comment. The Bengali feature films that now figure in the list for the Indian Panorama include Kalkokkho , Nitantoi Sahaj Saral , Abhijaan and Manikbabur Megh .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-minister-directed-film-is-first-included-for-iffi-then-dropped/article37431114.ece
11 November 2021||HUBBALLI,||Protest march in Gadag seeking release of caste census report||Seeking the release of the caste census report conducted during the previous government, members of various backward classes staged a dharna in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner in Gadag on Wednesday. Leading the agitation, State president of Karnataka Rajya Hindulida Jatigala Okkuta K.M. Ramachandrappa urged the State Government to immediately release the report of the caste census done by the Karnataka State Backward Classes Commission, then headed by Chairman H. Kantharaj. Addressing the protestors, Mr. Ramachandrappa said that because of the oppression of powerful upper class communities, communities that had remained socially and educationally backward had suffered a lot. And, in the last three years, the State Government had neglected the welfare of the backward communities on the pretext of economic crisis, he said. He urged the State Government to immediately take steps to resume welfare schemes meant for backward classes and not to provide reservation to communities that were economically, socially and educationally forward. The okkuta will also urge the government to immediately abolish the high-level committee led by Subhash Adi which had been constituted to look into demands by various communities for revising the reservation percentage. The former chairman of Karnataka Sheep and Wool Development Corporation Y.N. Goudar said that the agitation had become inevitable as social justice was being ignored and steps are being taken to reach benefits to the powerful. He said that the agitation was not against any community but for seeking fulfilment of their rights. The former MLC M.D. Lakshminarayan said that there were 1,471 sub-castes in the 102 castes listed under Category 2A. “In the State, 52% of the population, i.e., 3.25 crore people, belong to backward classes. The government has given grants of Rs. 1,000 crore to two powerful communities and Rs. 500 crore each to 16 caste-based development corporations. Similarly, a backward classes development corporation should be set up for 38 communities with a grant of Rs. 500 crore,” he said. Mr. Lakshminarayan emphasised that the agitation will continue till the caste census report given by Mr. Kantharaj is released. “If our demands are not met, we will lay a siege to the Vidhana Soudha in the coming days,” he said. Leaders of 38 backward communities, including Nagaraj Yadav, Ennigere Ramachandrayya, R. Ramakrishna, S.P. Seshadri, Ravikumar, Fakirappa Hebasur and Vasanna Kuradagi, led the agitation. Earlier, they took out a protest march after garlanding the statue of Shivaji Maharaj on Hubballi Road in Gadag. Along with protestors, various folk troupes were part of the protest march that concluded at the Deputy Commissioner’s office. The protestors also paid tributes to actor Puneeth Rajkumar by observing silence, before the start of the protest meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/protest-march-in-gadag-seeking-release-of-caste-census-report/article37431209.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||NSA meet seeks urgent help for Afghans||The Third Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan held here on Wednesday called for “urgent humanitarian assistance” to the Afghan people. The call was given in the meeting chaired by the National Security Adviser Ajit Doval, who urged close cooperation and consultation among the regional countries over the Afghan scenario. Russian representative Nikolai P. Patrushev said multiple dialogue mechanisms “should not complicate” the unfolding situation in the Taliban controlled Afghanistan. A joint statement titled the ‘Delhi Declaration’ issued after the meeting called for “collective cooperation” against terrorism and drug trafficking in the region and “expressed concern over the deteriorating socio-economic and humanitarian situation in Afghanistan and underlined the need to provide urgent humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan”. The statement emphasised that the aid should be provided in an “unimpeded, direct and assured manner” and that the help should be distributed across the country in a “non-discriminatory manner across all sections of the Afghan society”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nsa-meet-seeks-urgent-help-for-afghans/article37430956.ece
11 November 2021||MYSURU,||Activists of Bajrang Dal and VHP detained in Madikeri||Kodagu district unit president of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) Krishnamurthy and others were detained by the police in Madikeri for violating ban orders, on Wednesday. Section 144 was promulgated in the district to ensure peace as the VHP and other right-wing groups wanted to observe special programmes in memory of K.M. Kuttappa, VHP organising secretary who died in the violence that broke out during Tipu Jayanti celebrations in 2015. Mr. Krishnamurthy and other Hindu activists, including Suresh Muthappa Ajith Kumar, emerged out of the Sri Omkareshwara temple in Madikeri after offering prayers and performing rituals when the police took them into custody. The VHP and Bajrang Dal activists had performed rituals and offered prayers at Chowdeshwari temple as well. Local leaders who spoke on the occasion alleged that people from outside Kodagu had fomented violence in which Kuttappa died and criticised the Congress for introducing Tipu Jayanti celebrations “to appease minorities”. The detention of VHP and Bajrang Dal leaders was also condemned and it was described as “an effort to suppress the Hindu sentiments”. Security was tightened across the district to foil any untoward incidents. The District Armed Reserve police contingents conducted a flag march along the main roads of Madikeri town and other sensitive areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bajrang-dal-vhp-activists-detained-in-madikeri/article37431389.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Attendance improves in schools post Deepavali break||After the Deepavali break, attendance in schools across the State has improved in all grades from classes I to X. An analysis of grade-wise attendance by the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) shows that there has been an increase in the percentage of students attending offline classes on their school campuses. As of November 9, the highest percentage of attendance has been clocked in classes VIII to X. There has been an over 5% increase in attendance in these classes compared to November 2, when schools closed for Deepavali break. On November 2, the attendance in classes I to X ranged from 24.83 % to 38.76 %. And as of November 9, the attendance was in the range of 28.46 % to 44.74 %. R. Vishal, Commissioner for Public Instruction said that the attendance was likely to increase further by the end of this week. “Currently, the weather in many parts of the State has posed a challenge for children to come to school. Besides that many schools say that they have not updated their attendance data. Once these things settle, it will automatically reflect in the attendance data,” he said. Schools opened in a phased manner from August 23. School managements also say that many families who had also relocated to their hometowns during the pandemic have returned after the Deepavali break. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said that attendance had improved as many parents felt confident to send their children to school after observing all the precautionary measures adopted by school. “We are seeing more parents coming forward to admit their students in schools now,” he said. Many private school managements were adopting the wait and watch approach and had decided to start schools after Deepavali.  Harish S., a parent whose daughter studies in class IV in a CBSE-affiliated school, said, “Majority of the parents in my daughter’s class have voted for reopening of classes. However, despite that the school management says that they want parents’ approval. I feel the school does not have adequate funds and teaching resources to start offline classes which is why they have delayed the reopening,” he said. Mansoor Ali Khan, member, board of management, DPS Group of Schools, said the attendance in high schools was good and offline classes were taking place. However, he said that the attendance in primary and middle school was poor and they had decided to continue only with online classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/attendance-improves-in-schools-post-deepavali-break/article37430986.ece
11 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Passengers go without advance rly. ticket facility for six months||Residents of and visitors to Kundapur town in Udupi district have been denied of railway passenger reservation system (PRS) ticketing for the last six months as the one at the Head Post Office in the town remains non-functional due to connectivity issue. On the other hand, Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL) was not positive to demands to open a PRS counter on the station premises itself. Opening a PRS counter on railway premises involves additional cost, though more and more people are booking tickets online, KRCL said. Kundapur MLA Halady Srinivas Shetty wrote to KRCL Chairman and Managing Director saying that the India Post PRS has failed people of his constituency for many reasons. He said that it remains closed on holidays and postal staff are busy during Tatkal booking hours, while staff do not have adequate ticketing knowledge. Kumta-Honnavar MLA and Konkan Railway Users Consultative Committee member K. Dinakar Shetty also wrote a similar letter demanding a PRS at the Kundapur Railway Station. Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP and Union Minister of State Shobha Karandlaje too had sought the facility way back in 2019. However, KRCL did not respond to these requests, according to Kundapura Railu Hitharakshana Samithi. Samithi president Ganesh Puthran said that KRCL’s negative gesture to the genuine demand of passengers is appalling as the corporation was established to serve people in the coastal region. Another member Gautam Shetty said that an average of 100 advance tickets were issued through Postal PRS in 2017-18, while many stations on KRCL network that issue fewer tickets have PRS. He said that 49% of passengers book tickets through PRS, while the remaining book online. Superintendent of Posts, Udupi district, Naveenchandar said that despite writing many letters to the Railways and BSNL to restore connectivity, nothing has been done to address the issue. KRCL’s Chief Public Relations Officer and Chief Commercial Manager L.K. Verma said that BSNL is not addressing the connectivity issue with India Post PRS despite repeated reminders. Regarding opening a PRS at Kundapur Railway Station, he said that it involves additional cost. More than 80% passengers book tickets online and KRCL is in fact closing PRS counters at many places, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/passengers-go-without-advance-rly-ticket-facility-for-six-months/article37431376.ece
11 November 2021||CHITTOOR,||Tension in Kuppam after arrest of TDP leaders||There was high drama in Kuppam following the arrest of senior Telugu Desam Party leaders late on Tuesday, who were shifted to Chittoor. The Andhra Pradesh police said the TDP leaders were served notices under Section 41 (A) of the Cr.PC before being shifted to Chittoor with a condition that those who were not natives of the Kuppam municipality should not enter the area till the civic elections are over. On the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, a police contingent from the Palamaner and Kuppam sub-divisions reached a private guest house in Kuppam, where TDP’s Palakollu MLA N. Ramanaidu, former Minister N. Amarnatha Reddy, TDP Chittoor parliamentary constituency president Pulivarthi Nani and other senior leaders were camping as part of organising the campaign for the Kuppam municipal polls, scheduled for November 15. In Chittoor, TDP MLC B.N. Rajasimhulu was also confined to his house. The B.V. Reddy Colony in Chittoor was brought under heavy police cover as most of the senior TDP leaders are residents of the area. For about an hour, the TDP leaders bolted themselves from inside, objecting to the “excesses” of the police and their move to arrest them without any valid reason. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy convinced the TDP leaders and shifted them to Chittoor. On Wednesday morning, tension gripped Kuppam with TDP cadres thronging the local party office, expecting the arrival of Mr. Amarnatha Reddy. Police rushed to the spot and controlled the frenzied mobs. Kuppam had witnessed tension after the YSRCP candidate was declared elected unanimously from the 14th ward, while the TDP’s woman candidate alleged that her nomination was withdrawn by “forging” her signature. Mr. Ramanaidu alleged that the police resorted to force to coerce the TDP cadres and to benefit the YSRCP cadres in the municipal polls. Terming it a “black day” in Kuppam’s history, he said people were watching the atrocities of the ruling party and would teach a fitting lesson to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/arrest-of-senior-tdp-leaders-triggers-tensions-in-kuppam/article37430910.ece
11 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Power consumption surpassed national average in October||The power consumption in Andhra Pradesh surpassed the national average in October this year, amid the severe coal crisis. The consumption was up by 17.20% when compared to that of the corresponding month last year. It is higher than the national average consumption of 4.80%. The consumption for October was put at 5,828 Million Units (MU) against 4,972 MU recorded in the same month last year, according to an official release. It is an indication that there was no significant shortage in power supply in the State in October despite the coal crisis, said Energy Secretary N. Srikant. In fact, Andhra Pradesh had recorded a maximum demand of 9,865 Megawatts (MW) on October 19, 2021 whereas the demand was 8,820 MW on October 31, 2020. Mr. Srikant said that the government and the power utilities took the coal crisis as a challenge and ensured that there were no major disruptions in supply. The utilities tapped multiple sources to meet the daily grid demand and could prevent the crisis from deepening further. The Energy Secretary asked the officials to be alert to meet any contingency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/power-consumption-surpassed-national-average-in-october/article37430949.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||New online certification system puts exporters in a fix||After crossing $30 billion for seven successive months, India’s merchandise exports have hit a home-grown stumbling block in the first 10 days of this month — a new system mandating online issuance of Certificates of Origin (CoO) for every outbound consignment from November 1 that has put exporters in a tizzy. Several small exporters are facing challenges in registering on to the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) portal which requires high-quality digital signature certificates, with many reporting outages on the portal that was earlier used only to issue CoOs for shipments to countries with whom India had a preferential trade pact. “For the last four days, we have been trying to register on the platform and get a CoO issued for a consignment,” said a Mumbai-based exporter, adding that the process used to take much less time earlier. “This used to take an hour earlier through the State’s industry chamber and other agencies that were allowed to issue certificates,” he said. The Government said the move was to improve the ease of doing business in line with its ‘Digital India’ focus, but industry bodies from several States have flagged concerns with its implementation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-online-certification-system-puts-exporters-in-a-fix/article37430953.ece
11 November 2021||Ghaziabad,||Youth picked up over ‘missing’ girl dies in U.P. police custody||A 22-year-old man died in police custody in Kasganj district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday evening. While the police described it as a case of suicide, the family of the victim suspects foul play. The Kasganj Superintendent of Police (SP) has suspended five policemen, including the inspector of Sadar police station and two sub-inspectors, for negligence. Local sources said Altaf, a mason and resident of Nagla Syed in Kasganj, was working at a house where a girl went missing on Sunday. The girl’s family lodged a kidnapping complaint against him. While Altaf’s family says he was picked up on Monday, SP Rohan Pramod Botre said he was called for questioning at Sadar police station on Tuesday morning. “During questioning, he requested to use the washroom. He was taken to the toilet on the police station premises. When he didn’t come out, the policemen on duty opened the door and found him in a grave condition. He was taken to the community health centre where he died during treatment,” he said. Father’s U-turn On Tuesday, Chand Miyan, Altaf’s father, expressed dissatisfaction with the police version and said he was forced to leave when he went to see his son at the police station. “I had myself handed over my son to the police on Monday evening when they said he was wanted in a case. When I went to the police station, I was asked to leave. And 24 hours later, I was told he has ended his life,” he told reporters. “The father was understandably agitated on Tuesday but after seeing the post-mortem report and the scene of death, he has decided not to press charges against the police and given it in writing,” Mr. Botre told The Hindu . “We made the father speak to the doctor who explained the cause of death was asphyxia due to ante-mortem hanging. The burial was peaceful and there is no tension in the area,” he said. Asked why Altaf was called to the police station, Mr. Botre said the girl’s father had given a written complaint on the basis of a video alleging that his minor daughter had been kidnapped by him. The girl has not been traced yet. “Two teams are actively working on the case,” he said. Though Mr. Botre denied any similarity, the incident comes days after a Dalit youth died in police custody in Agra where he was brought on charges of stealing Rs. 25 lakh from the warehouse on police station premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/youth-picked-up-over-missing-girl-dies-in-up-police-custody/article37431107.ece
11 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Rajendra Kumar likely to contest Council polls||Cooperative sector expert M.N. Rajendra Kumar on Wednesday hinted at contesting the elections to the State Legislative Council from the local authorities constituencies scheduled for December 10. Chairman of South Canara District Cooperative Central (SCDCC) Bank, Mr. Kumar, however, said that his contest will be apolitical. Speaking to reporters in Udupi, he said that there is pressure on him from cooperatives and self-help group members to contest the Council polls. “I wish to represent the cooperative movement, if at all I am contesting,” he said and added that the final decision will be made known by the last date for filing nomination papers (November 23). Mr. Kumar said that a majority of members in the cooperative movement are also members of gram panchayats. Similarly, many in the Navodaya Grama Vikasa Charitable Trust and self-help groups mentored by him are members of local bodies. They are compelling him to contest the polls. When pointed out that he was in the Congress, Mr. Kumar said it was once upon a time. The Cooperative movement has leaders from different political parties, he said and pointed out at South Kanara-Udupi Fish Marketing Federation president Yashpal Suvarna, who is also a BJP leader, standing next to him. “I do not want to do politics, but only espouse the cause of cooperative movement,” Mr. Kumar said. Minister for Social and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojari from the BJP and former Council Chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty from the Congress are retiring on January 5. They are among 25 members retiring from the Legislative Council from 20 local bodies constituencies. Dakshina Kannada and Udupi district have two combined seats. While it is not still clear whether Mr. Poojari will seek re-election, Mr. Shetty had, during the previous polls itself, indicated unwillingness to contest. However, when he contested the polls, the then Congress leader from Dakshina Kannada Harikrishna Bantwal contested as a rebel candidate and lost to Mr. Shetty. Both Mr. Poojari and Mr. Shetty hail from Udupi district, Mr. Poojari from Kota in Brahmavar taluk and the latter from Kolkebail in Kundapur taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rajendra-kumar-likely-to-contest-council-polls/article37431374.ece
11 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Panel to formulate State’s carbon-neutral strategy||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the Assembly on Wednesday that a newly constituted committee under the Additional Chief Secretary, Environment, will formulate an action plan to make Kerala carbon-neutral. It will map the State’s emissions, identify polluting sources, and guide the policy. Mr. Vijayan said SilverLine, Kerala’s semi-high-speed railway project, would drastically reduce the State’s carbon footprint and appealed to the UDF not to object the ambitious scheme blindly. The Chief Minister was replying to the notice for an adjournment motion by Congress legislator P.C. Vishnunath accusing the Government of doing little to reduce the State’s greenhouse emissions and mitigate the risk posed to life and property by extreme climate events. Mr. Vishnunath said experts had flagged Kochi as one of the cities most vulnerable to rising sea levels. Mr. Vijayan said no one Government could be blamed for global warming. The climate risk mitigation committee would meet on November 19. The climate risk mitigation strategy would inform the Government’s policy decisions. Climate change resilient infrastructure was the State’s long-term goal. The Government promoted the construction of prefabricated homes to save on finite natural resources such as granite, timber, clay, and river sand. The State had invested in wetland protection, room for river projects, desilting of reservoirs and lakes, scientific disposal of garbage, and plastic waste.  Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said he agreed with Mr. Vijayan that devising policies to address the challenge of climate change required a lengthy Assembly sitting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-to-formulate-states-carbon-neutral-strategy/article37431282.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Steps to help farmers||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has approved a slew of measures to support farmers growing sugar cane, cotton and jute. At a meeting on Wednesday, the CCEA increased the price of ethanol extracted from cane juice for blending in petrol to Rs. 63.45 a litre. It decided to provide Rs. 17,408.85 crore to the Cotton Corporation of India as reimbursement for its losses in procuring crops from farmers at minimum support prices. The CCEA also took steps for use of jute in packaging.page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/steps-to-help-farmers/article37430954.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||Saplings won’t be planted in Central Vista||The compensatory plantation of 4,040 saplings, for uprooting 404 trees to pave the way for the new Parliament, will not happen in the Central Vista area but 22 km away at the NTPC Eco Park in Badarpur, as per a new Delhi Government notification. The Central Public Works Department will get an extra year to plant the saplings and permission has been granted to transplant 274 of the 404 uprooted trees in the Eco Park. As per the initial notification, the 404 trees were supposed to be transplanted and the 4,040 saplings were to be planted in the Central Vista area. The new notification has approved the change in site and granted three months’ time to complete the task from the date of permission to remove the trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/saplings-wont-be-planted-in-central-vista/article37431106.ece
11 November 2021||Chennai,||North coastal regions brace for severe rain||Normal life remained disrupted for the fourth day in many parts of Chennai and coastal districts following rain and waterlogging on Wednesday, even as the north coastal regions in Tamil Nadu braced themselves to face the forecast of severe rainfall on Thursday. The India Meteorological Department announced the weather system has intensified into a depression and would cross the north Tamil Nadu coast close to north of Puducherry by Thursday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/north-coastal-regions-brace-for-severe-rain/article37431183.ece
11 November 2021||Mumbai,||‘Fadnavis covered up fake note case’||A day after claiming that he would “drop a hydrogen bomb” by revealing the “relationship between Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis and the underworld”, Nationalist Congress Party leader and Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik on Wednesday levelled a series of serious allegations against the BJP leader, including that of protecting an accused in a fake currency racket, and enabling access for Riyaaz Bhati, an alleged aide of Dawood Ibrahim, to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Malik said, “On October 8, 2017, the Department of Revenue Intelligence seized fake currency notes worth Rs. 14.56 crore from Bandra Kurla Complex. Devendra Fadnavis swept the case undercover and the amount was later shown as only Rs. 8.8 lakh.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fadnavis-covered-up-fake-note-case/article37431333.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Faith and froth||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/faith-and-froth/article37431338.ece
11 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cong. to go on stir seeking cut in fuel tax||The Congress has decided to intensify the agitation demanding lowering of the fuel price by the State and Central governments. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran told the media here on Wednesday that party men would take out a march and stage a sit-in in front of State and Central Government offices at 280 venues across the State on November 18. This would be followed by a human chain from the Secretariat to Raj Bhavan in Thiruvananthapuram. The agitation would continue till the Left Democratic Front Government conceded the popular demand to lower the tax on fuel. Referring to the confrontation between actor Joju George and a section of Congress workers in Kochi, he said party workers had been directed not to disrupt film shooting to register their protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-to-go-on-stir-seeking-cut-in-fuel-tax/article37431285.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Prayers unhindered||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prayers-unhindered/article37430989.ece
11 November 2021||Haryana,||Trainee wrestler, brother killed||A 21-year-old Haryana-based trainee wrestler, Nisha Dahiya, and her 18-year-old brother, were shot dead by the former’s coach, while her mother was left severely injured, on Wednesday inside a wrestling academy in Sonipat here, the police said. Haryana police have identified the deceased brother of the trainee wrestler as Suraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trainee-wrestler-brother-killed/article37430950.ece
11 November 2021||Chennai,||North coastal regions brace for severe rain||Normal life remained disrupted for the fourth day in many parts of Chennai and coastal districts following rain on Wednesday, even as the north coastal regions braced themselves to face the forecast of severe rainfall on Thursday. The India Meteorological Department announced the weather system has intensified into a depression and would cross the north Tamil Nadu coast close to north of Puducherry by Thursday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/north-coastal-regions-brace-for-severe-rain/article37431087.ece
11 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Survey to identify economically backward among forward castes||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the Government will collect information about at least one lakh economically backward families among forward communities as part of a socio-economic survey. Replying to a submission by Kerala Congress (M) legislator N. Jayaraj in the Assembly on Wednesday, Mr. Vijayan said the survey did not intend to identify the recipients of welfare schemes among forward communities. The sample survey is to gauge economic deprivation among forward castes and target welfare accordingly. It would identify the five most economically backward families among forward communities in every local body ward in the State. The Government has sanctioned an initial amount of Rs. 80 lakh for the survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/survey-to-identify-economically-backward-among-forward-castes/article37431283.ece
11 November 2021||Mumbai,||Fadnavis covered up fake note case: Nawab Malik||Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik on Wednesday accused State BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis of protecting an accused in a fake currency racket and enabling access for Riyaaz Bhati, an alleged aide of Dawood Ibrahim, to the Prime Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fadnavis-covered-up-fake-note-case-nawab-malik/article37431108.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||5 Delhi hospitals report fall in new dengue cases||New dengue cases have been falling for the past three to four days in at least five city hospitals, suggest data shared by doctors. Delhi has reported a total of 2,708 cases till November 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5-delhi-hospitals-report-fall-in-new-dengue-cases/article37431109.ece
11 November 2021||KOLKATA,||West Bengal Governor, Amit Mitra trade barbs||The West Bengal Government and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar are once again sparring over the Bengal Global Business Summit, the annual event to attract investment to the industry-starved State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-governor-amit-mitra-trade-barbs/article37431111.ece
11 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||SAD activists and farmers clash, 2 injured||A violent confrontation took place between a group of farmers and Shiromani Akali Dal members in Ferozepur on Wednesday. It occurred near the venue of a rally addressed by SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sad-activists-and-farmers-clash-2-injured/article37431334.ece
11 November 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra transport staff strike intensifies||The strike by MSRTC staff intensified on Wednesday with the Opposition BJP backing the protesters even as the Chief Minister appealed to the personnel to resume duty and provide relief to commuters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-transport-staff-strike-intensifies/article37431335.ece
11 November 2021||KOLKATA,||West Bengal Governor, Amit Mitra trade barbs||The West Bengal Government and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar are once again sparring over the Bengal Global Business Summit, the annual event to attract investment to the industry-starved State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-governor-amit-mitra-trade-barbs/article37431336.ece
11 November 2021||KALABURAGI,||Congress defends Siddaramaiah||Defending Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah over his remarks on Dalit leaders who had left the Congress and joined the BJP, KPCC spokesperson Sharan Prakash Patil has said that the BJP is making an attempt to show the former Chief Minister in bad light.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-defends-siddaramaiah/article37431206.ece
11 November 2021||HUBBALLI,||598.7 route kilometres electrification completed||The South Western Railway has completed electrification of over 598.7 route kilometres in the last 16 months to create a record of sorts. The railway zone has now achieved electrification of 1,233 route kilometres (till March 2021).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/5987-route-kilometres-electrification-completed/article37431207.ece
11 November 2021||BENGALURU,||Upgrade DIMHANS by March next, says HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the State Government to upgrade the Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences as higher centre for psychiatry by March 1, 2022. Delay due to lack of fund or any other reason should not be there when the government has decided to upgrade the institute, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/upgrade-dimhans-by-march-next-says-hc/article37431211.ece
11 November 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘Dalit CM will be decided by high command’||The former Deputy Chief Minister G. Parameshwar has said that the issue of a Dalit Chief Minister will be finalised by the party high command and they (Congress leaders) will not indulge in a public debate over it. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Wednesday, Dr. Parameshwar said that he had never discussed the issue of a Dalit Chief Minister in public and will not do that in future also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dalit-cm-will-be-decided-by-high-command/article37431213.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Armed forces need to be ready for any contingency: Rajnath||Referring to the “volatile situation” on the borders, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday told the IAF brass that the armed forces must be prepared to respond at “short notice for any contingency” while IAF Chief Air Chief Marshal (ACM) V.R. Chaudhari emphasised on development of multi-domain capability to give a “swift and befitting response” to any misadventures by adversaries. “The role of IAF in conflicts is crucial and it needs to harness the capabilities and opportunities offered by AI, Big Data Handling and Machine Learning,” Mr. Singh said at the second bi-annual IAF Commanders’ Conference being held from November 10 to 12. “The efforts in the field of indigenisation through Make in India initiative are showing results and the orders of LCA Mk 1A and C-295 will open new opportunities in the indigenous aerospace sector.” On the process of theaterisation of the armed forces, Mr. Singh said enhancing jointness is essential and the structure should be evolved after closely examining options. Prepared for challenges According to the Defence Ministry, inputs from all stakeholders would be taken into consideration. Complimenting the commanders for maintaining a high state of readiness despite the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, ACM Chaudhari emphasised on joint training with the Army and Navy for synergised application of combat power. The commanders will brainstorm on situations which may affect national security and focus on measures to enhance operational capability, the statement said. “Uncertainty in the geo-political landscape makes it an imperative for the armed forces to train, equip and adapt to rapid changes.” Issues pertaining to strengthening training and optimising HR policies for effective utilisation of manpower will also be discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/armed-forces-need-to-be-ready-for-any-contingency-rajnath/article37430674.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre approves incentives for sugar cane, cotton, jute farmers||In the run-up to the first anniversary of protests against three farm reform laws, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has approved a slew of measures that will support farmers growing sugar cane, cotton and jute. At a meeting on Wednesday, the CCEA increased the price of ethanol extracted from sugar cane juice for blending in petrol to Rs. 63.45 a litre in the coming sugar marketing season starting December. This is an 80 paise hike from the previous year’s. The rate for ethanol extracted from C-heavy molasses has been increased by 97 paise a litre, while that of ethanol extracted from B-heavy molasses is up Rs. 1.47 as well. Ethanol blending with petrol is expected to reach 10% next year and 20% by 2025. Oil marketing companies buy ethanol from sugar mills and distilleries at the rate set by the Government. By reducing the sugar surplus and increasing mills’ liquidity, the rate hike is expected to reduce their pending arrears in payment to sugar cane farmers. Cane growers make up a sizeable chunk of protesters from western Uttar Pradesh and could also be critical voters in the State’s coming Assembly election. The ethanol blending programme also reduced the dependence on crude oil imports, said an official statement. Price support to CCI The CCEA also approved a committed price support of Rs. 17,408.85 crore to the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) as reimbursement for its losses in procuring crops from farmers at minimum support prices (MSP) over the past seven years. “In order to safeguard the interests of the cotton farmers, it was expedient to conduct price support operations in cotton years 2014-15 to 2020-21 as prices touched the MSP. Price support operations help stabilise the prices and alleviate farmer’s distress,” said the statement, adding that around 58 lakh farmers and more than 400 people engaged in processing and trade were dependent on cotton for their livelihood. The CCI is mandated to procure all Fair Average Quality grade cotton from farmers without any quantitative ceiling, as and when prices follow below the MSP rates set by the Centre, in a bid to protect farmers from distress sales. Over the last two seasons during the pandemic, the CCI procured a third of the country’s cotton production, paying 40 lakh farmers more than Rs. 55,000 crore. Jute in packaging The CCEA approved reservation norms for the mandatory use of jute in packaging this year, stipulating that 100% of foodgrains and 20% of sugar must compulsorily be packed in jute bags. Such reservation consumed two-thirds of the total raw jute production last year. As the Centre itself purchases jute sacking bags worth approximately Rs. 8,000 crore a year to pack grains, it also ensures a guaranteed market for the produce of 40 lakh jute farmers, mostly in eastern India, and supports 3.7 lakh jute mill workers, largely in West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-approves-incentives-for-sugar-cotton-jute-farmers/article37430688.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||India, U.S. monitoring defence trade projects||As part of efforts for co-production and co-development of defence equipment under the Defence Technology and Trade Initiative (DTTI), India and the U.S. agreed on a revised Statement of Intent (SOI) to strengthen the dialogue by “pursuing detailed planning and making measurable progress” on several specific projects, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) said on Wednesday. The agreement was made at the 11th DTTI group meeting held virtually on Tuesday. It was co-chaired by Secretary (Defence Production) Raj Kumar and Gregory Kausner, performing the duties of Under-Secretary of Defence for Acquisition and Sustainment from the U.S. Department of Defence. The meetings are normally held twice a year, alternating between India and the U.S. However, this meeting was held via videoconferencing consecutively for the second time on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, a MoD statement said. The aim of the group was to bring sustained leadership focus to the bilateral defence trade relationship and create opportunities for co-production and co-development of defence equipment, the statement noted. Four Joint Working Groups focused on land, naval, air and aircraft carrier technologies had been established under the DTTI to promote mutually agreed projects. “The groups reported to the co-chairs on ongoing activities and collaborative opportunities, including a number of near-term projects targeted for completion on priority,” the MoD stated. The two sides recently signed the first project agreement for Air-Launched Unmanned Aerial Vehicle under the Joint Working Group Air Systems. A virtual expo of the Defence Industry Collaboration Forum was also conducted on Monday. “This forum offers an opportunity for Indian and U.S. industries to be directly involved in DTTI and facilitates dialogue between government and industry on issues that impact industrial collaboration,” the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-us-monitoring-defence-trade-projects/article37430895.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. to launch protest against price rise on Nov. 14||The Congress on Wednesday said it would launch a nationwide mass agitation programme, Jan Jagran Abhiyan, from November 14 to 29, where it would reach out to people to explain how the Union government’s “failed economic policies” have led to runaway inflation. The announcement was made at a press conference addressed by party general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal, general secretary (communication) Randeep Surjewala and senior Congress leader Digivijay Singh, who heads the party’s internal committee on organising and coordinating mass agitations. Party workers would lead a week-long “padyatra” with night halts in villages. The programme would begin with “prabhat pehri” (early morning march), followed by “shramdaan” (cleanliness drive). “Padyatris” would hold numerous small group meetings to communicate the nuances of inflation and its adverse effects on the common man, Mr. Venugopal stated. Party president Sonia Gandhi, during the recent Congress Working Committee meeting, had stressed the need to train party leaders and workers on ideological issues. The party’s training department, headed by Sachin Rao, will be organising three-day training programmes from November 12 to 15 as part of this effort, at Sevagram, Wardha, Maharashtra. Explaining the context of the agitation programme, Mr. Venugopal observed, “The country is undergoing severe pain due to the policies of the Modi Government, and especially in the last two years, the condition has deteriorated further with a sharp increase in inflation.” Mr. Singh said inflation was now pinching not only the poor but also the middle class. Drawing a parallel with Mahatma Gandhi’s Dandi Yatra, he remarked that many were apprehensive about participating in the Dandi March. Mahatma Gandhi told them that he did not mind if they don’t want to participate. He was confident that women would come out in huge numbers. On the day his march reached Dandi, Mr. Singh stated, out of a crowd of 39,000, 19,000 were women. “Mahatma Gandhi led the Dandi March against the tax on salt that hit every household. Similarly, the increase in price of gas cylinders has hit every household ... the inflation has hit everyone. Our agitation too will be women centric.” This was only the first edition of the agitation. There would be more such protest movements, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-to-launch-protest-against-price-rise-on-nov-14/article37430690.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||IAF plans aerobatics in Dubai show||India will showcase Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas at the biennial Dubai Air Show scheduled next week. The Indian Air Force’s Sarang helicopter display team and Suryakiran aerobatic display team will also perform at the show. “The IAF has been invited by the Government of UAE to participate with the Sarang and Suryakiran Aerobatics Teams,” the IAF said in a statement. The air show is scheduled to be held at the Al Maktoum International Airport from November 14 to 18. “The induction of five Advanced Light Helicopters (ALH) Dhruvs of the Sarang Team, 10 BAE Hawk 132s of the Suryakiran Team and the three LCA Tejas was completed by November 9. The induction was supported by the IAF’s C-17 Globemaster IIIs and C-130J Super Hercules transport aircraft,” the IAF stated. These teams would be performing along with some of the best aerobatics and display teams in the world, including the Saudi Hawks, Russian Knights and the UAE’s Al Fursan. In addition, the LCA shall be part of the aerobatics and static displays during the show, the statement noted. “The teams are now preparing for the opening ceremony on November 14.” While the Sarang Team has participated in the Al Ain Grand Prix in the UAE in 2005, the Dubai Air Show will be the first occasion for the Suryakirans and the Tejas to show off their swashbuckling aerial manoeuvres here, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iaf-plans-aerobatics-in-dubai-show/article37430898.ece
11 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Bengal Governor, Mitra trade barbs||The West Bengal Government and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar are once again sparring over the Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS), the annual event to attract investment to the industry-starved State. On Wednesday, a day after assuming the new responsibility of Principal Chief Adviser to the Chief Minister and Adviser to the Department of Finance, Amit Mitra defended the West Bengal government against a charge by the Governor that the ground reality of BGBS belied “resounding success” syndrome. “On November 9, he strongly supported CM’s plan of next Summit and within 24 hours he tweets venom on summits, by putting out a year-old letter to CM & FM, (me)! It is shocking that he seeks response when I had officially responded with a 4-page letter on Summits, giving data on investment offers under implementation, employment generation etc.” Mr. Mitra said in a series of tweets. Mr. Mitra also shared the four-page letter on social media. “Is he suffering from amnesia and needs help, or is it a Machiavellian omission? Governor said on November 9 at Meet and Greet event as reported, ‘We have to ensure there is no room for conflict... no room for adversarial situation.. only one way, togetherness.’ Very next day, he tweeted the opposite of these utterances, in a mode of all-out conflict? Shocking!!!” he added. Only a day before, Mr. Dhankhar had called upon the Chief Minister to “come out with a White Paper on #BGBS so that information is available in transparent and accountable manner.” Seeking transparency Mr. Dhankhar has sought response from the Chief Minister to five questions relating to BGBS. “It is our obligation that we need to subscribe to sanctity of facts, not dictate actions by mere advertisements and statements. We are living in times where Goebbels’ stance can no longer cut ice. I am sure in a transparent and accountable manner, information sought herein above and from Finance Minister would be made available at the earliest,” the Governor wrote on Tuesday. The timing of the war of words is crucial, as it comes at a time when the Chief Minister has announced that the BGBS would be held in 2022. The last time the BGBS was held was in February 2019. In fact, the Chief Minister, while announcing the sixth edition of BGBS a few days ago, had urged Mr. Dhankhar to visit a foreign country and showcase West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-governor-mitra-trade-barbs/article37430901.ece
11 November 2021||Mumbai,||‘Fadnavis covered up fake note case’||A day after claiming that he would “drop a hydrogen bomb” by revealing the “relationship between Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis and the underworld”, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik on Wednesday levelled a series of serious allegations against the BJP leader, including that of protecting an accused in a fake currency racket, and enabling access for Riyaaz Bhati, an alleged aide of Dawood Ibrahim, to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Malik said, “On October 8, 2017, the Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) seized fake currency notes worth Rs. 14.56 crore from the Bandra Kurla Complex [in Mumbai city]. Devendra Fadnavis swept the case undercover and the amount was later shown as only Rs. 8.8 lakh. Coincidentally, Sameer Dawood Wankhede, who is the officer at the Narcotics Control Bureau at present, was posted as the DRI’s Joint Director.” Mr. Fadnavis was the Chief Minister of Maharashtra at the time and also handled the Home Department. The NCP leader further stated that one of the arrested in the case, Imran Sheikh, is a brother of Haji Arafat Sheikh. Mr. Sheikh joined the BJP and was made the Chairman of the State Minority Commission. “Pakistan sends fake currency to India to destroy our economy. We demand to know why this case was not given to the NIA,” Mr. Malik said. In another allegation, Mr. Malik said of Mr. Bhati, who was arrested in a bogus passport case but let go in two days, “This Riyaz Bhati was taking photographs with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the latter’s visit. How did he reach the PM? Was there no scanning and background check? Was he taken there by someone’s influence? Devendra- ji must answer.” Accusing Mr. Fadnavis of appointing people with “criminal backgrounds” in government positions, Mr. Malik gave the example of Nagpur’s wanted criminal Munna Yadav, who was made the Chairman of the Maharashtra Construction Workers Welfare Board. Mr. Fadnavisdid not react to the new allegations levelled by the Mr. Malik but tweeted a quote by George Bernard Shaw, “I learned long ago, never to wrestle with a Pig. You get dirty, and besides, the pig likes it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fadnavis-covered-up-fake-note-case/article37430668.ece
11 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Of the dead at protest, ‘small farmers’ make up big chunk||As the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws on the State borders of Delhi is about to complete a year, a recent socio-economic study by researchers associated with Punjabi University at Patiala says most of those who lost their lives during the movement are “small and marginal farmers” and “landless cultivators”. The study titled “Separating wheat from the chaff: farm laws, farmers’ protest and outcomes” points out that those who have died cultivated on an average 2.94 acres and if landless farmers who cultivate the contracted land are included, the average size goes down to 2.26 acres. Lakhwinder Singh, Professor Emeritus, Department of Economics at Khalsa college, Punjabi University, and Baldev Shergill, Assistant Professor, Department of Social Sciences, Punjabi University Guru Kashi campus at Talwandi Sabo, have recently presented their findings on the basis of data of nearly 460 farmers. 600 dead The estimated number of farmers and agricultural workers, who died between November 26, 2020, and October 26, 2021, was 600, according to the study. “It is important to note that the farmers who died largely belong to Punjab as many from the State are participating in the protest. The participation is higher and intense in the Malwa region. We collected data of 460 farmers, belonging to Punjab, who had died in the protest,” said Mr. Singh, who has been mapping rural Punjab for decades. Region-wise distribution “The region-wise distribution shows that the Malwa region has relatively higher average size of cultivated area followed by Doaba and Majha. Hence, the participation in the protest and number of persons who died were also very high from the region — nearly 80%. The Doaba and Majah regions accounted for 12.83% and 7.39%, respectively,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/of-the-dead-at-protest-small-farmers-make-up-big-chunk/article37430683.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No separate FIR on Zakia Jafri plea’||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it had not directed the registration of a separate FIR in 2011 on a complaint by Zakia Jafri, widow of slain Congress MP Ehsan Jafri, about a “larger conspiracy” behind the post-Godhra riots. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar said the Supreme Court, in its September 12, 2011 order, had merely directed its Special Investigation Team (SIT) to “look into” the material brought forth by Ms. Jafri and file a final report before the magistrate Court concerned in Gujarat. The Bench said the September 2011 order may have been restricted to the Gulberg Society case, which involved the killing of Ms. Jafri’s husband by a mob, and not any “larger conspiracy” allegedly tracing its roots to the highest echelons of power in Gujarat led by Chief Minister Narendra Modi in 2002. Following the apex court order in 2011, the SIT had gone on to file a closure report in February 2012. It had given a clean chit to Mr. Modi, current Prime Minister, and 63 others, including senior government officials, saying there was “no prosecutable evidence” against them. A ‘protest petition’ filed by Ms. Jafri against the clean chit was dismissed by the Magistrate. The Gujarat High Court too, in October 2017, refused to entertain Ms. Jafri. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for Ms. Jafri, said though the complaint was never registered as an FIR, it was “treated” as one. Besides, there were no proceedings going on in the Magistrate Court at the time as the Gulberg case trial was going on in a Sessions Court. Challenging the SIT’s closure report, Mr. Sibal said they merely accepted the statements given by the “accused”. The SIT did not even “look at” a sting operation which was treated as evidence in another (Naroda Patiya) case.The SIT has to explain why they did not do a proper investigation.. He urged the court to intervene against the SIT’s closure report. “Communal violence is like lava erupting from a volcano, and it is an institutionalised problem. Wherever lava touches, it scars and becomes fertile ground for future revenge…” Mr. Sibal told the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-separate-fir-on-zakia-jafri-plea/article37430686.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Jurisprudential basis of Ayodhya verdict narrow’||Senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram on Wednesday said the Supreme Court’s Ayodhya judgment became a right one because both sides accepted it and not the other way round. Launching party colleague Salman Khurshid’s book Sunrise over Ayodhya along with senior leader Digvijaya Singh, he said, “The jurisprudential basis of the Ayodhya judgment is very narrow, but due to the passage of time both sides have accepted it. Because both sides have accepted it, it has become a right judgment and not the other way round.” Speaking earlier, Mr. Singh noted that many expected a widespread reaction to the verdict after the court gave the disputed land to Hindus. “But over the years, people have become so fed up with this dispute that they wanted to move on,” he pointed out. Reconciliation could be the only way forward and it was also the essence of the book. He also spoke about Nelson Mandela’s “Truth and Reconciliation” Commission to maintain harmony. Countering Mr. Singh’s argument, Mr. Chidambaram said Nelson Mandela had promised truth and reconciliation, but first the truth must be told and then there could be reconciliation. “The truth is that what happened on 6th December 1992 was terribly wrong.” It was an incident that debased the Constitution, defied the Supreme Court and created an unbridgeable chasm between the two communities, he said. “It is perfectly right to say that a wrong has been committed but please reconcile. But I think it is patronising to tell the people of this country, over 200 million Muslims that please reconcile because that’s what it is!”. It was for each citizen of the country to decide whether the Ayodhya judgement emptied the soul of the Constitution. “While we proclaim we are secular, many of us are ultimately submitting to so-called pragmatism,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jurisprudential-basis-of-ayodhya-verdict-narrow/article37430677.ece
11 November 2021||Panaji,||Navy displays submarine rescue ability||The Navy demonstrated its submarine rescue capability, available with very few countries in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), to delegations of Indian Ocean countries during the Goa Maritime Conclave (GMC) 2021. “We have an MoU with Singapore, under which we support each other. It helps understand each other’s system,” said Cdr V.K. Singh, pilot of the DSRV (deep-submergence rescue vehicle) on the west coast. “We can provide support in the entire IOR. We are looking for MoUs with other countries too.” In his closing remarks at the GMC on Tuesday, Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh stressed that the GMC should move beyond dialogue and focus on cogent outcomes. He proposed “four guiding principles for the future editions: iterative and incremental gains, harnessing complementarities, synchronisation and focussed operations, and lastly upskilling and upscaling the existing capabilities.” The conclave also saw the declaration of ‘Common Maritime Priorities’, which had been identified during the Goa Maritime Symposium held earlier this year. India and Singapore have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to exchange practices on submarine rescue and discussions were on with more countries to have arrangements for them to utilise this mechanism, Navy officials said. The Navy has procured two DSRVs from the U.K., of which the first one was operationalised at the end of 2018 in Mumbai and the second at Visakhapatnam in early 2019. The system can go to a maximum depth of 650 metres and rescue 14 people in one go. The DSRVs are designed to be agile and easily transportable to far-off places, said Capt. Koushik Hota, Officer in Charge, Submarine Rescue Unit (West). The DSRV, attached to mother ship INS Sabarmati, could be transported by heavy transport aircraft like IL-76 and C-17. “From the time of distress to the time of first rescue, we are considering between 72-96 hours,” stated Cdr Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navy-displays-submarine-rescue-ability/article37430939.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||India confers honorary rank of General on Nepal Army Chief||Nepal Army Chief General Prabhu Ram Sharma was on Wednesday conferred the honorary rank of General of the Indian Army by President Ram Nath Kovind at a ceremony at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. It is a customary practice by the two countries to confer the honorary rank of General on each other’s Army Chiefs. Gen. Sharma, an alumnus of the Nepali Military Academy, was commissioned into the Army in March 1984. He took over as the Chief of the Army Staff on September 9, 2021. In his career of over three decades, he has held several high-profile command, staff and instructional appointments. He is also a graduate of the National Defence College in India and the Army Command and Staff College, Nepal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-confers-honorary-rank-of-general-on-nepal-army-chief/article37430893.ece
11 November 2021||Srinagar,||Senior BJP leader gets demolition notice in J&K||The Jammu Development Authority (JDA) has served a notice on former Deputy Chief Minister of erstwhile J&K State Nirmal Singh to demolish a house constructed “without permission” at Ban village in Nagrota. According to the JDA order, Mr. Singh, a senior BJP leader, and his wife, Mamta Singh, have submitted no replies to the show cause notices served. “You have not obtained the valid permission from the competent authority as prescribed under law (for the house). In exercise of power conferred under Section 7(3) of the Control of Building Operation Act 1988, you are hereby directed to remove the illegal construction on your own level within five days,” the order, issued on November 8, 2021, said. “If you fail to remove the illegal construction, the same shall be demolished by enforcement wing of the JDA and the cost of removal shall be recovered from you as arrears of land revenue,” it added. Mr. Singh is accused of illegal construction between January 2016 and December 2020 near the Army’s ammunition sub-depot “in violation of the norms”. There were allegations against him that he violated rules that no construction should be allowed within 1,000 yards of defence works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-deputy-cm-of-jammu-gets-demolition-notice/article37430896.ece
11 November 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra transport staff strike intensifies||The strike by Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) staff intensified on Wednesday with the Opposition BJP backing the protesters even as Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray appealed to the personnel to resume duty and provide relief to commuters. Stating that this was not the time for parties to indulge in politics, Mr. Thackeray, in a veiled rebuke to the BJP, urged them not to incite transport workers to agitate. A statement issued by Mr. Thackeray’s office said the Government had been trying its best to give relief to MSRTC workers by accepting their demands. “You [employees] are ours, not outsiders … the Government has already told the Bombay High Court what steps it is taking to resolve the crisis and the court has expressed its satisfaction. We have also appointed a special committee to look into the matter as directed by the court,” read the statement issued by the Chief Minister’s Office. Mr. Thackeray said the Government was still battling the COVID-19 pandemic and appealed to the transport personnel to withdraw their agitation. State Transport Minister Anil Parab said he had already given written assurances to the workers that the rest of their grievances would be addressed after the Deepavali break. Meanwhile, over 200 of the 250 MSRTC bus depots remained shut on Wednesday as well, inconveniencing commuters across Maharashtra, especially in the rural hinterland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-transport-staff-strike-intensifies/article37430675.ece
11 November 2021||Mumbai,||Defamation case against Minister adjourned||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday said the Narcotics Control Bureau’s Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede is a public servant and therefore is bound to be scrutinised, and adjourned the defamation suit filed by his father against the Maharashtra Cabinet Minister Nawab Malik to November 12. Damages sought A Vacation Bench of Justice Madhav Jamdar was hearing a suit filed by Mr. Sameer Wankhede’s father Dhyandev Wankhede, seeking damages of Rs. 1.25 crore for defamatory statements made against Mr. Sameer Wankhede. The plea mentions the “leaking” of a purported birth certificate of Mr. Sameer Wankhede by Mr. Malik on Twitter. Advocate Arshad Shaikh, representing Mr. Sameer Wankhede, said Mr. Malik had alleged his client’s son had misused the caste certificate to reach the position he had as a civil servant. “The birth certificate is not on record. He [Mr. Malik] may be an MLA but then, he is not the court or a quasi-judicial authority,” Mr. Shaikh said. The court said, “As a public officer, you are bound to be scrutinised. The issues can be raised by any member of the public.” Senior advocate Atul Damle, appearing for Mr. Malik, pointed out that the birth certificate of Sameer Wankhede, issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, had an asterisk, “so his name was changed”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/defamation-case-against-minister-adjourned/article37430669.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||MPLADS: RJD leader demands White Paper||Reacting to the Union Cabinet’s restoration of the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) that was suspended in April 2020, Opposition leaders on Wednesday said the Government so far had not given a record of how it spent the savings from suspending the scheme for a year. “Tamil Nadu has 39 Lok Sabha MPs and 18 Rajya Sabha members. So the State, through the MPLAD funds, is to get Rs. 285 crore annually. This is the money that the Union Government pocketed,” DMK’s Rajya Sabha member P. Wilson said. Senior RJD leader Manoj K. Jha said the Government should come up with a detailed account of how it used the money saved by suspension of MPLAD funds. “The Government should bring out a White Paper. The question is how was this money spent and how exactly did it help during the pandemic,” he said. During the pandemic, public representatives who got direct feedback from the ground could have done a better work in helping the people using this money, Mr. Jha added. Fully funded by the Centre, the objective of the MPLAD Scheme is to enable MPs to recommend development works.  Tamil Nadu has 39 Lok Sabha MPs and 18 Rajya Sabha members. So the State... is to get Rs. 285 crore annually. This is the money that the Centre pocketed P. WilsonDMK MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mplads-rjd-leader-demands-white-paper/article37430935.ece
11 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Selja flays Haryana Govt. on paddy purchase ban||Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja on Wednesday hit out at the BJP-JJP Government accusing it of taking adverse decisions which would ruin farmers. “The anti-farmer face of the Government has again been exposed. The procurement of paddy has been stopped in 12 districts though the crop is still arriving. The Government should purchase the crop at the minimum support price by removing the ban on procurement,” said Ms. Selja. “The State Government has issued an order prohibiting procurement of PR paddy at MSP in the mandis of Jind, Ambala, Faridabad, Palwal, Hisar, Fatehabad, Jhajjar, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panipat, Sonipat and Yamunanagar districts. This decision is an attempt to harass and ruin the farmers,” she said. She said the farm laws “will gradually abolish the purchase of crops by Government agencies and force the farmers to sell them to private people at throwaway prices. The decision to stop the Government procurement is part of this conspiracy.” “The farmers are in a miserable position as they are not getting the DAP fertilizer for the next crop.” Ms. Selja said the tax burden on diesel, pesticides, fertilizers and seeds and the impact of inflation have already increased the cost of cultivation and the farmers are forced to stay in debt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/selja-flays-haryana-govt-on-paddy-purchase-ban/article37430678.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Trainee wrestler, brother shot dead in Haryana||After news of the death broke, it was wrongly attributed to the national-level wrestler by the same name, Nisha Dahiya, who recently won the bronze medal in the 72 kg weight class at the Under-23 World Wrestling Championships 2021 in Belgrade. According to the Haryana police, the deceased brother of the trainee wrestler has been identified as Suraj. The accused, identified as Pawan, is on the run. Dahiya and her family were based in Halalpur village, the police said. The deceased duo’s injured mother, identified as Dhanpati Dahiya, is receiving treatment at the Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak. “The motive of the crime is not immediately known and we are still waiting to record the mother’s statement,” the police said. “ Prima facie ,the woman and her brother were killed by the coach of the academy.” Meanwhile, the academy was set on fire by locals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trainee-wrestler-brother-shot-dead-in-haryana/article37430679.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Online certificate mode puts exporters in a fix||The Government said the move was to improve the ease of doing business in line with its “Digital India” focus, but industry bodies from several States have flagged concerns with its implementation. Most critically, existing export facilitation intermediaries such as customs house agents (CHAs), who handle most of the export paperwork, have not been able to share data on exporters’ behalf, as the DGFT has not shared the API (Application Programming Interface) for the new system. “For CoWin and Aadhaar, we have an API-sharing system so that information can be shared. Unfortunately, this facility is not there and we have flagged the issue but there hasn’t been a favourable response,” said an industry representative. The Commerce and Industry Ministry which oversees the DGFT, entrusted with formulating and implementing the foreign trade policy, told The Hindu that the online CoO portal had a simple registration process and its design allowed the principal user or the exporter to provide access rights to the other secondary users such as the CHAs. The Ministry did not respond to a query on whether API-sharing is being considered, but said 85 agencies were “now enabled on the portal”. On hardships faced by exporters in registering to the online system, it said, “No problem has been reported on this account based on our experience with the preferential exporting community.” “ Many exporters are facing issues and we have sent emails to the DGFT and called on their call centre, but to no avail,” countered an exporter, adding that the problem is particularly acute for micro, small and medium exporters in smaller towns. Separate payments Even larger exporters, with multiple shipments heading out at a time, are facing challenges due to a norm that stipulates separate payments for each certificate issued. “Issues relating to bulk fee payment, etc. are areas which can be looked at in a phased manner based on the extent of interest shown by various users,” the Ministry said. The Federation of Indian Exporters’ Organisations said that while the new digital portal was a step in the right direction that would address a number of concerns of exporters and importing countries, teething challenges needed attention and permitting API integration would facilitate faster on-boarding of the exporting community into the new system. Over seven lakh preferential CoOs have been issued from the online DGFT portal since its launch in September 2019, the Ministry said. With all merchandise exporters now required to use the same platform, the volumes to be handled by the portal have gone up. Asked if the portal’s capacity has been enhanced accordingly, the Ministry said the portal had scalability and was hosted on a cloud server. “All IT systems being dynamic in nature, can be tweaked to accommodate the larger concerns of a majority of users based on the exporter feedback. In fact, a number of changes were implemented recently in October 2021 based on the exporter feedback and user experience of authorised agencies,” it said. Nashik-based Santosh Mandlecha, president of the Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture, told The Hindu that exporters, including those dealing with perishable farm produce consignments, had been facing challenges since November 1 for myriad reasons, including difficulties in registering their digital signatures on the DGFT portal. “The online certificates are a good idea but the Government must consider allowing both offline certificates and online certificates till the on-boarding challenges are resolved. We have been taking this up with the Ministry for a few months now,” said Mr. Santosh Mandlecha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/online-certificate-mode-puts-exporters-in-a-fix/article37430680.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||NSA meet seeks urgent help for Afghans||“This is the third meeting of the process that was initiated by Iran in 2018. We are grateful to Iran for that. We are meeting today to discuss matters related to Afghanistan. These have important implications not only for the people of Afghanistan but also for its neighbours and the region. This is a time for close consultation amongst us and greater cooperation, interaction and coordination among the regional countries,” said Mr. Doval.He was initiating discussion among heads of the national security establishments of all the Central Asian countries, Russia and Iran. Pakistan and China too were invited to participate in the consultation but both stayed away. The meeting did not have representation from Afghanistan. Addressing the meeting after Mr. Doval, Rear Admiral Ali Shamkhani, Secretary of the Supreme National Security Council of Iran, said there is a need to establish an inclusive government in Afghanistan. “The solution comes only through the formation of an inclusive government with the participation of all ethnic groups,” said Mr. Shamkhani, highlighting the need to find a “force” within society that can create an inclusive government. Karim Massimov, Chairman of the National Security Committee of Kazakhstan, highlighted the many obstacles that prevent the formation of an “effective government” in Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nsa-meet-seeks-urgent-help-for-afghans/article37430681.ece
11 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||SAD activists and farmers clash, 2 injured||A violent confrontation took place between a group of farmers and the Shiromani Akali Dal members in Ferozepur on Wednesday. The incident occurred near the venue of a rally addressed by former Union Minister and SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal. Farmer leaders claimed that at least two farmers suffered serious injuries after SAD members attempted to plough into the protest. Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Dakonda), told The Hindu that farmers associated with it were protesting peacefully and wanted to meet Ms. Badal to seek answers on their issues, including SAD’s role in the controversial farm laws enacted by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) Government, of which the Akali Dal was a part when the laws were passed. “We have every right to seek answers and today, we wanted to ask Ms. Badal why her party, did initially support the three farm laws. We were assured that Ms. Badal will meet us. When the farmers tried to meet the SAD leaders, they were not allowed and were beaten up. Even gun shots were fired at us,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sad-activists-and-farmers-clash-2-injured/article37430692.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI takes over case against J&K businessman||The Central Bureau of Investigation has re-registered the case against Kehwa Group director Sheikh Imran, a former Srinagar Municipal Corporation Deputy Mayor, for allegedly cheating the Jammu & Kashmir Bank of funds running into crores of rupees. The CBI has taken over the probe into the case which was earlier registered at the Anantnag police station in 2019. “The FIR no. 3, 2019, was registered by ACB Anantnag against Sheikh Imran. Therefore it’s not true that the alleged accused has been booked by CBI,” said Mr. Imran, in a statement to The Hindu . He said the matter under FIR no. 3 of 2019 was still sub judice before the court concerned and no charges had been framed against any accused person and no cognisance of the case had been taken yet. “It’s also clarified that despite having FIR re-registered, no motion for transfer or investigation has been made by CBI in the matter in the above learned court,” he added. Mr. Imran has been accused of misappropriating the funds provided as subsidy given for setting up a controlled atmosphere store. It is alleged that the group got various credit facilities amounting to Rs. 138 crore, which was allegedly restructured in connivance with the bank officials for just about Rs. 78 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-takes-over-case-against-jk-businessman/article37430890.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Subramanya Bhujanga||Adi Sankara has sung more than one hymn on many deities such as Ganesha, Siva, Parvati, and so on. He has two on Ganesha, the Ganesha Pancharatnam and the Ganesha Bhujanga. Sivananda Lahari, Siva Ashtothram, etc, are some of the many stotras on Siva, and the Saundarya Lahari, Gowri Dasakam, Sarada Bhujanga, Annapurna Ashtakam, etc, are on Goddess Parvati. But the Subramanya Bhujanga is the only stotra of the acharya on this deity and this itself is indicative of its special quality, pointed out Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. In spiritual parlance, there is a term ‘sastra vasana’ which means the penchant to study more texts. But such sastra vasana has no use if it does not lead one to learn about God and one’s atma swaroopa. Anyway, for a sadhaka, even any one text is enough if it teaches him about God and leads him towards God realisation. Just as Gita sastra is singled out as the most essential and comprehensive of all sastras, this one hymn contains within it all that is essential to gain salvation. When analysing the circumstances leading to the composition of this hymn, the Lord’s sankalpa that Adi Sankara should grace humanity with an Uttama sloka on Subramanya is vey clear. Under the cover of being in the grip of a painful disease, Adi Sankara is directed to propitiate Subramanya in Tiruchendur. It is not that Adi Sankara, a realised yogi, who reaches the place by yogic power, could not have got rid of this ailment. The hymn teaches us to seek the God’s grace as the only hope for the cure for all ills. The first verse is in praise of Ganesha, well known as the remover of hurdles and obstacles of all kinds. In the next verse, the humble tone of the seeker makes us imbibe this most valuable and essential quality by giving up our sense of ego.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/subramanya-bhujanga/article37430694.ece
11 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha man held in illegal assets case||An Odisha-based engineer who had thrown a carton filled with cash into a neighbour’s house to escape the scrutiny of anti-corruption sleuths was found to have amassed properties worth Rs. 14.87 crore — 1,021% of his known sources of income. The amount, Rs. 14.87 crore, is the highest ever disproportionate income unearthed by the Odisha Vigilance Directorate. Over 38 lakh cash The accused, Pratap Kumar Samal, was arrested on Wednesday. Vigilance officials detected Rs. 38.12 lakh cash in his possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-man-held-in-illegal-assets-case/article37430672.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC expects vaccine supply to continue||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said it expected the Centre to continue the National Vaccination Programme and supply vaccines against COVID-19 as per its policy. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh made the remarks while hearing a plea seeking supply of vaccines at “reduced” rates. The Bench said there was no reason to monitor the case after the Centre informed that it was providing them free of cost to all States and Union Territories. The plea, filed by petititioner Mr. Rakesh in May, had then highlighted the cost of the vaccines saying it was “not easy” for most people to pay for them. The plea had said it was the Central Government’s duty to provide free vaccination but it was not being done due to a shortage of sufficient number of doses at the time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-expects-vaccine-supply-to-continue/article37430693.ece
11 November 2021||Lucknow,||Kanpur sees 105 Zika cases in a month||As many as 105 cases of Zika virus were recorded in Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh in the last month, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters in Kanpur, Mr. Adityanath said the situation was brought under control through surveillance and sanitation drives. Of the 105 cases, 17 had recovered and tested negative, said the Chief Minister. “There is no need to panic,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kanpur-sees-105-zika-cases-in-a-month/article37430902.ece
11 November 2021||Srinagar,||Two injured in Srinagar grenade attack||Two persons were injured in a grenade attack carried out by suspected militants in the Eidgah area of Srinagar on Wednesday. This is the third attack in the capital in four days. An official said militants lobbed the grenade near the CRPF’s 161 battalion camp at Aali Masjid. “It exploded on the road and injured two civilians. Both the injured were shifted to a nearby hospital and their condition is stable,” the official said. The police have cordoned off the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-injured-in-srinagar-grenade-attack/article37430936.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article37430671.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Janjatiya Gaurav Divas on Nov. 15||As a part of the year-long commemoration of 75 years of Independence, the Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved declaration of November 15 as “Janjatiya Gaurav Divas” to remember the contributions of tribal freedom fighters. Announcing the decision, Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said the date was chosen as it was the birth anniversary of Birsa Munda, a tribal freedom fighter revered as “bhagwan” by tribal communities. The celebrations would begin on November 15, and events, including cultural activities, would go on till November 22. In a statement, the government said the Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved the proposal “so that coming generations could know about their sacrifices for the country.” Tribal heroes “India’s freedom struggle was strengthened by several movements by tribal communities such as Santhals, Tamars, Kols, Bhils, Khasis and Mizos, to name a few. The revolutionary movements and struggles organised by the tribal communities were marked by their immense courage and supreme sacrifice,” the statement read. Museum in Ranchi A tribal freedom fighter museum at Ranchi would be inaugurated by the Prime Minister, it said. In his Independence Day speech in 2016, Mr. Modi announced the setting up of 10 such tribal museums in the country. Mr. Modi is scheduled to address a BJP tribal outreach event in Bhopal on November 15, which will mark Birsa Munda’s birth anniversary, celebrate tribal art and culture and is likely to include announcements of welfare measures for tribal communities, according to BJP leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/janjatiya-gaurav-divas-on-nov-15/article37430684.ece
11 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||AAP MLA joins Congress in Punjab||In a setback to the Aam Aadmi Party in Punjab, its Bathinda Rural MLA Rupinder Kaur Ruby on Wednesday joined the Congress. Ms. Ruby said the stupendous performance of the Congress Government under the leadership of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi during the past 50 days had been far better than that of AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal’s Government in Delhi, prompting her to join hands with the Congress party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aap-mla-joins-congress-in-punjab/article37430691.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches assets of ex-DoT official||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs. 6.32 crore of Somyendra Nath Banerjee, then Deputy Director General (New Technology) in the Department of Telecommunications (DoT), and his associates in connection with a disproportionate assets case. The properties are in the form of an office premises, two vacant plots, one three-storey commercial building along with plant and machinery, cash in 47 accounts, two vehicles, shares held in demat accounts and two demand drafts. The ED probe is based on an FIR registered by the CBI, alleging that Mr. Banerjee had amassed huge properties beyond his known sources of income and was in possession of disproportionate assets to the tune of Rs. 7.58 crore. According to the ED, the accused official had acquired huge amounts in cash through corrupt practices. The funds were diverted to companies floated by him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-attaches-assets-of-ex-dot-official/article37430891.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Balance security, green concerns: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said a balance between defence and environmental concerns is a better goal to achieve rather than to pit one interest against the other. The court was hearing a plea against the environmental clearance given to widen the Char Dham roads by felling trees. These Himalayan roads are crucial to the defence preparedness along the Indo-China border, the Government said. “There is no defence versus environment... What you do for the defence is not contrary to the civilian needs or environmental needs,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud observed during the hearing. The court is mulling on the extent to which it could intervene on environmental grounds when the defence of the nation is at stake in the light of the recent skirmishes on the border with China. “We cannot deny the fact that at such a height, the security of the nation is at stake. Can the highest constitutional court say we will override the defence needs particularly in the face of recent events? Can we say environment will triumph over the defence of the nation? Or we say defence concerns be taken care of so that environmental degradation does not take place,” Justice Chandrachud had asked senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for an NGO, Citizens for Green Doon, on Tuesday. The court had said it was facing a serious predicament when the Government is citing defence needs for the widening of the feeder roads. Attorney General K.K. Venugopal said the roads need to be widened for transport of heavy military equipment like missile launchers and even tanks. “The Forces have to take heavy vehicles, tanks, self-propelled artillery and troops to the Indo-China border... It is the specific need of the armed forces to defend the country against any possible external aggression at the northern border,” the government affidavit had said. It had said bottlenecks would delay deployment in emergency situations if feeder roads are not developed to requisite standards. The Army has been using these roads post the war with China in 1962.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/balance-security-green-concerns-sc/article37430940.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC rejects CBI plea in INX Media case||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday rejected an appeal filed by the CBI against a March 5 trial court order allowing the inspection of documents kept in ‘malkhana’ (evidence room) by Congress leader Karti Chidambaram and other accused and their counsel in the INX Media case. The CBI said the order reflected intrusion into their investigative process and that the probe would be subverted if the accused persons were allowed to inspect the documents. The case relates alleged irregularities in the Foreign Investment Promotion Board clearance provided to INX Media for receiving overseas funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-rejects-cbi-plea-in-inx-media-case/article37430899.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reservoirs’ combined storage inching towards 200 tmc ft||The combined storage of reservoirs in the State is inching towards 200 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft). On Wednesday, it was 199.165 tmc ft, accounting for 89% of the capacity of 90 reservoirs. On the same day last year, the figure was about 140 tmc ft, accounting for 63% of their capacity. The total capacity of the reservoirs in the State is 224.297 tmc ft. Of the existing storage, the share of three reservoirs in the Cauvery basin — Mettur, Bhavanisagar and Amaravathy — is two-thirds with 126.827 tmc ft which, in turn, includes 91.883 tmc ft at Mettur, 31.131 tmc ft at Bhavanisagar and 3.8 tmc ft at Amaravathy. All three are almost full. As for the Parambikulam group of reservoirs, four major reservoirs — Parambikulam, Aliyar, Sholayar and Thirumoorthy — have very comfortable storage. Except Thirumoorthy, whose storage is about 87% of capacity, the other three are virtually full. In respect of the Mullaperiyar-Vaigai network, the former’s storage is 6.8 tmc ft, about 89% of the permitted storage of 7.67 tmc ft. The latter’s storage is 5.639 tmc ft, equivalent to 93% of its capacity. Kanniyakumari’s two key reservoirs — Pechiparai and Perunchani — have a storage of about 85%. In the northern districts of the State, the biggest reservoir in the region, Sathanur, is an outlier, with its storage not touching even one-half of its capacity. The reservoir’s storage is 3.392 tmc ft, about 46% of its capacity. Veeranam, a historic tank in Cuddalore district, has a storage of 0.892 tmc ft, about 61% of its capacity. In respect of reservoirs supplying water to Chennai, their levels have been lowered in anticipation of further floods. Consequently, their combined storage varies from 73% to 83%. As for the State’s realisation of Cauvery water, the total realisation since June 1 has exceeded the 150 tmc ft-mark. Up until Monday (November 8), it was about 151.64 tmc ft, which was 4.6 tmc ft in excess of the State’s share for the elapsed period.  In respect of reservoirs supplying water to Chennai, their levels have been lowered in anticipation of further floods||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reservoirs-combined-storage-inching-towards-200-tmc-ft/article37431038.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Villagers stranded due to floods in Kosasthalaiyar rescued||Villagers stranded in the middle of Kosasthalai river were rescued by Fire and Rescue Services personnel in a coordinated effort with other departments in Tiruvallur district. On Tuesday night, the district authorities received information about the plight of the people in Kottaimedu village near Karanodai, which was cut off due to flooding in Kosasthalai river. The village is located at a point where the river divides and 37 people of 16 families were stranded since the floodwater surrounded the village. N. Priya Ravichandran, Joint Director of Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) said, “On information from the revenue authorities, we quickly deployed our personnel from Redhills and well-trained commandos from Chennai with boats and ropes. We quickly rescued six persons, including four men and two women, from the village.” “Our men continued to stay in the village through the night giving hope to the villagers. In the morning, our personnel evacuated 31 people in our boats and brought them to safer places.” From November 7, Fire and Rescue Services personnel have rescued 315 people including senior citizens and children, who were stranded in low-lying areas and residential areas surrounded by flood in the city limits. “We have baled out stagnant water in 123 residential areas using heavy duty motors, removed fallen trees in 42 locations and also rescued 63 animals during the relief operations,” she said. On the orders of Director General of Police, Fire and Rescue Services Karan Singha, the personnel from Vellore, Tiruchi and Coimbatore and commando teams have been brought to city and deployed in the rescue operations. Over 1,500 personnel including 100 from 42 fire stations in the city and commando teams from other cities have been conducting rescue operations at several places in coordination with other departments. Mr. Karan Singha personally inspected the rescue operations at ESI Hospital, K.K.Nagar, Rangarajapuram subway in Kodambakkam, Jawahar Nagar, Kolathur and Periyar Nagar. He also issued instructions to expedite the rescue operations. Public have been asked to contact the numbers 101, 112 or through a mobile app called ‘THEE' in case of emergencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-stranded-due-to-floods-in-kosasthalaiyar-rescued/article37431058.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||WRD diverts surplus water from Poondi reservoir||The Water Resources Department has started diverting surplus water from Poondi reservoir to flush the polluted stretch of the Cooum river and store water. Excess water from the Poondi reservoir is being released into Kosasthalaiyar river since October 10. On Wednesday, nearly 5,000 cusecs of surplus water is being let out through floodgates and water level is maintained at 32.9 feet against the full level of 35 ft. Officials of the WRD said, considerable level of excess water from the Poondi reservoir that flows through the Kosasthalaiyar river, was already stored in nearly 14 storage structures like checkdams, including in Tamaraipakkam, Thirukandalam and Perumbakkam, before draining into sea. A minimum of 1,000 mcft of water would have been released from the Poondi reservoir. In a bid to save more rainwater, the WRD is now diverting 700 cusecs of water from Poondi to Cooum river through the 15-km Link Canal near Aranvoyal, which carries excess water from Poondi to Chembarambakkam reservoirs. Though the Cooum river in city limits carries some floodwater from local areas, the river upstream still largely remains dry. Floodwater from Poondi would help fill the newly reconstructed Korattur anicut, across the Cooum, and also flush the polluted urban stretch of the river. Officials said, the improved flow in the waterway would also help groundwater recharge in localities on the river’s sides. The city reservoirs are under close watch and the department is maintaining the same level of water release from the reservoirs, including in Red Hills and Chembarambakkam, as inflow and rainfall remained moderate. The total storage of the five reservoirs is now being maintained at 79.89% as more inflow is expected. In Tiruvallur district, nearly 83 of 324 tanks, including Paruthipattu and Koilpadagai near Avadi, have reached their full capacity. Similarly, Ambattur, Korattur, Madhavaram, Retteri and Kadapakkam lakes in Chennai limits have also filled up. Nearly 246 of 528 tanks in Chengalpattu district reached their full capacity as on Wednesday. Similarly, 158 tanks in Kancheepuram district are full and most others, over 25%-75% full so far, officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wrd-diverts-surplus-water-from-poondi-reservoir/article37431065.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flood monitoring officers inspect 161 locations, suggest mitigation measures||Flood monitoring officers inspected 161 locations in the city after the recent rain and recommended solutions to the problem of flooding, said Municipal Administration Minister K. N. Nehru on Wednesday. Speaking to media persons on the sidelines of the meeting with flood monitoring officers, Mr. Nehru said heavy duty pumps and heavy machinery would be used to drain water in flooded areas. “In the long term, we will take initiatives to find a permanent solution to the problem of flooding. Currently, we are planning to focus on installation of pumps to bale out water,” Mr. Nehru said. Of the 2,700 km of drains and canals, a total of 721 km of the network has been desilted ahead of the onset of the monsoon, he said. Officials at the meeting pointed to the inadequate number of culverts in railway land to drain water in areas such as Rangarajapuram, Mambalam, T. Nagar, Nungambakkam, Egmore and Saidapet. Meanwhile, a section of residents of Anna Nagar West Extension said senior IAS officials who are part of the flood monitoring team visited Padi Kuppam Road and assured residents that a temporary drain would be constructed across a private land of a new residential apartment complex that had raised the level by three feet. The machinery is expected to reach the flood affected locality on Wednesday night. Velachery AGS Colony Residents Welfare Association president Geetha Ganesh said the water receded only after the Greater Chennai Corporation installed heavy duty pumps. Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said water has receded in many of the flood-affected areas after additional machinery was hired. Pointing to the surprise inspection of T. Nagar by Chief Minister M. K. Stalin on Wednesday, Mr. Bedi said the water has receded in most of the roads in T. Nagar by Wednesday. Officials inspected the three railway culverts in T. Nagar to assess the situation ahead of the next spell. “On Wednesday, the number of flooded areas had reduced to 27. A total of 492 bigger pumps have been installed to drain water,” Mr. Bedi said. Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said 2,000 additional labourers would be employed to drain water in flooded areas, based on the orders of the Chief Minister. “Medicines worth Rs. 120 crore have been kept ready to help flood-affected residents,” said Mr. Subramanian. HR and CE Minister P. K. Sekar Babu said arrangements would be made to receive all complaints from residents to resolve civic issues caused by flooding in North Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flood-monitoring-officers-inspect-161-locations-suggest-mitigation-measures/article37431056.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Come up with measures to eradicate manual scavenging: HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the State Government to come up with meaningful measures to completely eradicate the practice of manual scavenging by prescribing harsh penalty to perpetrators as a deterrent. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu called for a status report from the government in four weeks. They also impressed upon the need for a fresh enumeration of the people involved in manual scavenging in the State. The judges agreed with advocate Srinath Sridevan, representing Safai Karamchari Andolan, which had preferred a public interest litigation petition, on the need to increase substantially the compensation paid for deaths due to manual scavenging. The counsel told the court that the compensation amount of Rs. 10 lakh for each death was fixed way back in 2014. Since the cost of living had increased manifold since then, the amount should be increased to Rs. 50 lakh, he said. Though the petitioner had made a suggestion, the government had not indicated the extent to which it would increase the compensation, he said. The judges directed State Government Pleader P. Muthukumar to get instructions in this regard. The Bench also impressed upon the need for the State to educate those involved in manual scavenging and erase the impression from their minds that they cannot take up any other vocation. It said the State was duty bound to rehabilitate them. ‘Need fresh enumeration’ In his submissions, Mr. Sridevan said the government was relying upon a 2015 enumeration to claim that only 464 people were involved in manual scavenging in the State, though the petitioner estimated the number to be over 3,000. Claiming that 42 deaths had been reported since the present case was filed in 2017, the counsel insisted that there should be a fresh enumeration. He also said the dependants of those who die due to manual scavenging must be given employment. The other suggestion made by the advocate was to prosecute local body officials and individuals who engage people for manual scavenging. He said not a single official had been punished so far.  The government is relying upon a 2015 enumeration to claim that only 464 people are involved in manual scavenging in the State Srinath Sridevan Advocate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/come-up-with-measures-to-end-manual-scavenging-hc/article37431020.ece
11 November 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||State logs 828 fresh COVID-19 cases and 9 deaths||Tamil Nadu recorded 828 fresh cases of COVID-19 and nine deaths due to it on Wednesday. Of the 38 districts, 17 logged fewer than 10 cases each, while 31 saw no deaths due to the infection. As many as 127 people tested positive in Chennai. Coimbatore’s daily count exceeded 100 after recording under 100 infections for four days in a row — it recorded 101 cases. Erode followed with 66 cases, while there were 52 in Tiruppur. Salem and Namakkal recorded 47 and 42 cases respectively. State’s case tally Of the 17 districts that reported fewer than 10 cases each, three — Perambalur, Tenkasi and Theni — saw just a single case. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 27,11,584. The fatalities were reported in seven districts — of them, Chennai and Thiruvarur logged two deaths each, while Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Dharmapuri, Erode and Karur saw one each. The toll stood at 36,247. With 931 more people being discharged after treatment, total recoveries touched 26,65,178. The active caseload of the State fell to 10,159. Chennai has the most number of active cases at 1,205, followed by Coimbatore with 1,132. Eleven districts have fewer than 100 active cases. They include Perambalur (20), Theni (25) and Ramanathapuram (29). A total of 1,01,143 samples were tested for COVID-19. With this, the total count reached 5,22,36,972. The State’s test positivity rate stood at 0.8%. According to Tuesday’s data, Chennai’s test positivity rate stood at 1%.  With 931 people being discharged, total recoveries touched 26,65,178. Chennai has the most at 1,205||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-828-fresh-covid-19-cases-and-9-deaths/article37431048.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Action will be taken if milk is sold above MRP, says Minister||Dairy Development Minister S.M. Naser on Wednesday said Aavin will not hesitate to take action against retailers and milk vendors who sell milk above the maximum retail price (MRP). Addressing presspersons after a review meeting with general managers (GM) of all district unions, Mr. Naser said that during the 2015 floods, there were instances of milk being sold for Rs. 200 per packet. “We frown upon such practices,” he said, adding that shops selling milk above the MRP were sealed recently in Chennai, Tiruchi and Coimbatore regions. He told the GMs to remain stationed at their offices considering the red alert issued for several districts, “When the State is getting ready to face heavy rain, officials should not take unnecessary leave but man their posts. I have planned to conduct surprise visits to various district unions and dairies,” he later told The Hindu.  He urged the officials to be in touch with the societies through WhatsApp groups and ensure milk supply to the chilling centres and dairies. “Aavin’s work is to supply milk and sell milk-based products, if we work together like we did before the Deepavali festival, we can really pull it off. Several unions did well and Aavin sold over Rs. 80 crore worth of special sweets in just 15 days,” he said. Mr. Naser said Aavin was in talks with the city Corporation for supply of skimmed milk powder (SMP). Earlier, there were complaints of Aavin milk packets dumped by the roadside. However, officials clarified that they were not dumped but only left behind at the regular point as the delivery person was delayed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-will-be-taken-if-milk-is-sold-above-mrp-says-minister/article37431070.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Charitable institutions will be in need of charity without revenue’||Civic bodies cannot expect charitable institutions to not collect money even from the affluent to be eligible for property tax exemption. An institution bereft of revenue sources will itself be in need of charity and cannot be expected to do charity, the Madras High Court has said. Justice Anita Sumanth made the observations while partly allowing a writ petition filed by Christian Medical College Vellore Association, a registered society that runs the Christian Medical College and Hospital in Vellore. It had challenged a property tax demand for its buildings. The judge held, the petitioner society would be eligible for property tax exemption for its Community Health and Development Department (CHAD) building, which provides health care facilities to far-flung areas and that the Vellore Municipal Corporation was wrong in demanding tax for it. However, she held that the society would not be eligible for tax exemption for its college building since a 1994 amendment to the municipal law had deleted the legal provision under which buildings used for educational purposes could also seek exemption. However, after recording the submission of the society that it charges an annual tuition fee only Rs. 3,000 per student for under graduation and Rs. 450 for post graduation , the judge recommended grant of tax exemption to service-oriented and non-profit educational institutions too. “I would urge the powers that could address this issue appropriately to ensure that genuine and bona fide teaching institutions are provided with relief in this regard to enable them to deploy available funds for their core activities,” the judge wrote while disposing of the case.  The society moved the court against a demand raised by Vellore Corporation officials on November 9, 2020. It was asked to pay a huge amount of money towards property tax for the CHAD building as well as the college building for the assessment years, beginning from 2011-12 to 2020-2021. Though the Corporation had claimed that the society collects exorbitant charges from the patients, and could not be categorised as a charitable institution, the judge said the civic body had not disputed the society’s claim that the poor were being offered medical services free of cost. “It would be impossible to sustain charity by way of free medical services if there were no revenue streams which, in this case, are provided by those who can pay. Thus, the mere fact that some patients are being charged a fee must not, in my view, stand in the way of the petitioner’s status as a charitable institution,” the judge observed. Economic status The judge also took note of the society’s submission that 40% of the out-patients and 10% of the in-patients from the weaker sections of society were treated free of cost in the hospital. The judge was also told that the hospital charges its patients depending upon their economic status.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-charitable-bodies-sans-revenue-will-need-charity/article37431080.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Public should avoid unnecessary travel in rain: Police chief||City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal on Wednesday appealed to the public to avoid unnecessary movement during heavy rain and to contact police and other authorities including Chennai Corporation for any emergency. On Wednesday, Mr. Jiwal visited the police quarters in Kilpauk which was completely inundated. He interacted with the families of the police personnel and assured them of a permanent solution to the waterlogging problems in their residential area. Asked about the relief and rescue arrangements in view of heavy rain expected over next two days, Mr. Jiwal said 13 Greater Chennai Police Disaster Rescue teams have been constituted to help the public from any rain-related mishap, meet any emergency and extend assistance to the marooned people. The teams consist of a sub-inspector, armed police constables who are also trained swimmers. Each police district has been given a team with all equipment and boats and they have been undertaking relief work, he said. “Our advice to the public is not to step out of their homes unnecessarily in the rain. In case of any emergency, such as uprooting of trees, disruption of power supply and removal of water stagnation, the public can call authorities on the emergency numbers. We have also made arrangements to ensure supply of essential commodities,” said Mr. Jiwal. He said the authorities have worked out an evacuation plan for people living on the banks of rivers in case of emergencies. The evacuation will be done if Chennai Corporation and other authorities seek help. He also advised the non-governmental organisations to tie-up with the Corporation or the police for distribution of food or any relief materials to the marooned people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-should-avoid-unnecessary-travel-in-rain-police-chief/article37431060.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GCC asks corporates to join relief efforts||The Greater Chennai Corporation has asked NGOs and corporate entities to take part in relief work. In a tweet on Wednesday, Chennai Smart City officials stressed the need for support from NGOs and corporates. The tweet read: Dear #Chennaiites.Thanks for your support. We need to join hands and work together in overcoming this disaster. Interested NGOs/corporates who can join us in the relief work can fill this form. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said Amazon and Nestle supplied dry ration kits. Federal Bank supplied bread for flood-affected residents. Rotary Club supplied dry ration. Akshaya Patra supplied 10 tonnes of rice and food. Dharshan Foundation supplied bedsheets, pillows, mattresses. ITC gave 10,000 biscuit packets. On Wednesday, IndusInd Bank sent ambulance for affected residents in flood shelters. Many NGOs distributed relief materials on Wednesday in areas like Ambattur. Estimates state, at least two lakh persons, residing in low-lying areas in various parts of the city have been depending on relief materials from the civic body. Egmore MLA I. Paranthaman said relief materials would be distributed in Naval Hospital Road in Vepery and Ashtabujam Salai in Choolai at 9 a.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gcc-asks-corporates-to-join-relief-efforts/article37431068.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway readies men and material to face any eventuality||The authorities of the Chennai division of the Southern Railway are taking all precautionary measures to avoid accidents and maintain smooth train operations during the rain. An official release said the Chennai Divisional Railway Manager, having reviewed the monsoon preparedness in all four suburban sections, directed all railway officials in the division to conduct monsoon patrolling of vulnerable locations and alert the frontline staff and patrolling teams to be on standby to ensure the tracks are not flooded. Security personnel would be posted at vulnerable bridges to avoid any untoward incident. The Chennai division, having conducted safety audits of various railway infrastructure facilities, has kept ready men and material besides monitoring the welding of rail joints to prevent waterlogging on the tracks. The staff have been ordered to keep ready accident relief trains with medical kits to help commuters. The railway authorities are in touch with the officials of the IMD and the State Government to keep track of weather updates and disseminate any changes in train operations through the public announcement systems installed in all important railway stations. Authorities would also be constantly providing details of any train cancellations/short-terminations and diversions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-railway-readies-men-and-material-to-face-any-eventuality/article37431074.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eight flights cancelled at Chennai airport owing to weather condition||Eight flights were cancelled at Chennai airport on Wednesday after the Indian Meteorological Department issued a forecast that there would be heavy rainfall in the city. Some of the international flights for Thursday have been cancelled and some rescheduled as well. Some of the flights to London, Bahrain, Dubai and Muscat on Thursday and Friday have been rescheduled. Few flights to Dubai and Sharjah early on Thursday have been cancelled too. On Wednesday, flights to and from Madurai, Tiruchi, Mumbai and Sharjah airport were cancelled. Sources said, since these were smaller aircraft like ATR, the airlines did not want to take a chance in the prevailing weather conditions and decided to cancel those flights. Some of the airlines decided to cancel the flights on Wednesday which were to depart from the city and arrive here after 4 p.m. Officials of Airports Authority of India (AAI) said they have prepared a detailed contingency plan in case there is very heavy rain in the coming days. Additional staff have been deployed in both terminals and air side area (the runway and parking bays) to check if facilities for passengers are intact and the movement between aircraft and terminal is smooth, sources said. “We held a meeting with all stakeholders — airlines, police, CISF and ground handling agency — to make sure there is better coordination between agencies, should be any major problem and we can have a plan in place. We have instructed the firm that operates the food and beverage outlets to stock up on essentials so that if passengers are stranded in the terminal owing to delays or cancellations of flights, there is enough to provide for everyone. We are in touch with the Public Works Department and National Disaster Reserve Force as well,” an official said. Officials said they are in talks with the police to see if buses can be stationed outside the terminal to transport passengers if required. “We are also constantly monitoring the water level in the Adyar river,” an AAI official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-flights-cancelled-due-to-adverse-weather/article37431062.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eight-year-old boy treated for severe cracker injury, regains 90% vision||An eight-year-old boy sustained a severe fire cracker injury that required a series of surgeries. He has since recovered and regained 90% sight, according to Mohan Rajan, chairman and medical director of Rajan Eye Care Hospital, whose team treated him. The resident of West Mambalam was brought to the hospital a day after Deepavali with bleeding injuries in the eye. He was watching a firework display when a cracker burst into his eye, leading to multiple damages, Dr. Mohan said. “We operated on him on Monday, removed the cataract, repaired the iris, removed the blood and did vitrectomy. There was also a corneal tear that we set right. He has regained 90% vision. The boy was discharged on Wednesday,” the ophthalmologist explained. The surgery was done free of cost under Rotary Paediatric Eye Surgery (ROPES), with donations from two Rotarians, Rajamanickam and Varalakshmi Raja. “Unfortunately the people who are injured and children with complex eye problems are usually from lower socio-economic families. The donation funded the cost of general anaesthesia and the use of sophisticated disposable instruments,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eight-year-old-boy-treated-for-severe-cracker-injury-regains-90-vision/article37431053.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,150 mobile medical units operating in T.N.: Minister||In view of the rains, as many as 1,150 mobile medical units have started to operate across the State, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said on Wednesday. In the last three days, a total of 74,283 persons were screened through medical camps held at 1,858 places and through 965 mobile medical units in the State. Majority of the persons screened were treated for fever, diarrhoea, cold and minor injuries, he said, according to a press release. In line with this, 400 mobile medical units were launched at an event at Ayappakkam on Wednesday. In addition to this, 750 jeeps would also take forward medical assistance across the State. The Health department has spent Rs. 120 crore on medicines required to treat rain-related illnesses. On COVID-19 vaccination, he said so far, 5,73,30,450 persons were vaccinated through government vaccination centres, while 26,82,556 persons were vaccinated through private centres. The overall coverage so far has crossed six crore — 6,00,18,006.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1150-mobile-medical-units-operating-in-tn-minister/article37431052.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police’s support centre for women draws praise||The ‘Specialised Counselling and Support Centre for Women’, launched by the Chennai City Police at the Police Commissionerate in Vepery in July, has many success stories. The police, in association with the Social Welfare Department, launched the centre to provide counselling and rehabilitative services to women and children who are victims of domestic violence, abuse, and dowry harassment, and to render psychological and legal counselling, and facilitate quick medical assistance to needy victims. It has been established under the Safe City Project to enable women’s safety in public places under the Centre’s Nirbhaya Fund. Among those who came here is a woman in her thirties and her alcoholic husband, of a middle income group, facing unending quarrels. Violence led the woman to approach a local police station to book a case against her husband, opting for separation. The couple were brought by police personnel in plain clothes to the centre. Counsellors here had two sittings with them. As a result, the couple were reunited. While leaving the centre, the woman said, “My husband assured me that he would not drink hereafter. The counselling was useful for us to be able to lead life without any further issue in our relationship.” Another woman, a victim of domestic violence, wrote to thank the staff at the centre, saying, “At first, I came here gripped with fear and anxiety. However, the counsellors here guided me and treated me so cordially. I got happiness and clarity in life. I have a rejuvenating life after counselling.” Victims reach the centre through the Child Welfare Committee, Women’s Helpline, All Women Police Stations, and the Social Welfare Department. They can also reach the centre directly. Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal, who has been monitoring the performance of the centre on a regular basis, said, “Our first analysis revealed that the support and counselling centre is useful for women and children in distress. Most of the persons availing the centre’s services have given positive feedback. We have four feeder lines — All Women Police Stations (AWPS), NGOs, Child Welfare Committees, and people on their own.” Mr. Jiwal said since the counsellors were performing well, he would request the Social Welfare Department to depute more counsellors, so that the services could be extended to more women and children in distress. He added that he would review the performance of the centre within a month and explore the possibility of extending counselling services to the homes of those affected. The counselling centre has successfully assisted in 75 cases of matrimonial disputes, 42 cases of domestic violence, and counselled victims in cases lodged under the POCSO Act. Joint Commissioner of Police B. Shamoondeswari said, “The objective of establishing the centre is to provide professional services like crisis intervention and make efforts for reconciliation in cases of separation. Most of the cases referred for counselling ended in success.” People in distress can approach the centre via 044-23452436.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/polices-support-centre-for-women-draws-praise/article37431077.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Many parts of north Chennai still inundated||With extremely heavy rain predicted for the next 24 hours, many parts of north Chennai are still inundated. Residents of areas, including Pulianthope, Pattalam and Pensioner’s Lane in Old Washermanpet are having a tough time as the neighbourhoods are waterlogged for the past four days. In many parts, rainwater mixed with sewage is turning the situation worse for the residents. In Pattalam, Demellows Road, Strahans Road, K.M. Garden and Angalamman Koil Street remained under water. Angalamman Koil Street was one of the worst-hit with heavy waterlogging. Decaster Road in Pulianthope and its lanes were still inundated. The arterial stretches of Pulianthope High Road and Perambur Barracks Road were partially waterlogged, while a few parts of Old Washermanpet such as Pensioner’s Lane and Kathpada Road were also waterlogged. Some neighbourhoods in Tiruvottiyur had more than one-foot water. Many residential localities remained without power supply for four days. With extremely heavy rain predicted, residents are worried that the water levels could swell further. At Pensioner’s Lane in Old Washermenpet, residents complained that the storm water drain was not desilted for nearly two years. Mohammed Ayub, a resident of Pensioner’s Third Lane, said this was the first time that the area was waterlogged to such an extent. “During the 2015 floods, water receded quickly. But this time, our entire area has been inundated for the last four days. Water also entered a number of houses, giving a tough time for residents. We staged a protest on Tuesday and lodged nearly 10 to 15 complaints — both online and offline — but to no avail. Zonal authorities asked us to hire equipment to pump out the water. Only on Wednesday morning was a tractor fitted with motor was engaged to pump out the water,” he said. A resident of Decaster Road in Pulianthope said the stagnant water has turned dirty. “Decaster Road and its five streets, including Thiruvengada Samy Street, Mannarsamy Street, Ramasamy Street and Narayanasamy Street are still under water. We staged a protest in the morning but except for empty promises, authorities have not done anything. There is power cut and most of the residents do not even have access to water for household needs,” he said. With many areas cut-off due to waterlogging, Basin-Elephant Gate Street is one of the main connecting stretches between Vyasarpadi and Choolai. But the stretch was in a bad shape. Similarly, road users said that Demellows Road had potholes and they had to fix markings to enable persons identify them as the stretch remained waterlogged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-parts-of-north-chennai-under-water/article37431051.ece
11 November 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway is nodal agency for upgrading Chennai-Bengaluru route||Southern Railway has been selected as the nodal agency by the Indian Railways for upgrading the Chennai-Bengaluru route to operate trains at the speed of 160 kmph. The Indian Railways issued the policy for increasing the speed to 160 kmph on eight identified routes. The Southern Railway would prepare the detailed project report (DPR) for the Chennai-Bengaluru route. The entire length of the section is 362 km. A senior official said the DPR is planned to be outsourced to a private agency as it involved two railway zones. Technical works It would identify the civil engineering works in the route, which comprise of assessing the number of level crossing gates, permanent speed restrictions, conditions of track and fittings, and strength of the bridges. Other electrical engineering works include assessing the present power capacity, the number of traction substations, and signal and telecom works. From a mechanical engineering part, the DPR would assess the existing maintenance facilities of rolling stock and recommend automated maintenance facilities. Eight routes The eight proposed high-speed routes identified in the country are Chennai-Delhi, Chennai-Mumbai, Chennai -Howrah, Chennai-Bengaluru, Chennai-Hyderabad, Mumbai-Howrah, Bengaluru-Hyderabad and Howrah-Puri. Chennai takes five routes.  The DPR would be outsourced to a private agency as it involved two railway zones Senior official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-railway-is-nodal-agency-for-upgrading-chennai-bengaluru-route/article37431072.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held under POCSO Act||The Chennai City Police have arrested a 49-year-old man under the POCSO Act for attempting to sexually harass a nine-year-old girl recently. The accused has been identified as M. Siva Adithya, a resident of Gandhi Nagar in Adyar. A senior official of the City Police said a complaint was filed by the girl’s mother in the Teynampet Police Station last month against the accused, also a relative of the girl for showing her obscene videos and attempting to sexually harass her. Based on the complaint, the Teynampet police filed a case and arrested the accused. He was remanded to judicial custody. ChildLine operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress -1098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-under-pocso-act/article37431063.ece
11 November 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Open direct purchase centres’||The AIADMK on Wednesday called for the opening of more direct purchase centres to procure paddy in different parts of the State. In a statement, party coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the government should ensure that procurement and payment are effected expeditiously. In tune with the electoral promise of the ruling party, it should see to it that MSP of Rs. 2,500 a quintal is given for paddy and the remunerative price of Rs. 4,000 a tonne for sugarcane. Complaining that paddy, kept in open places at direct purchase centres for procurement by authorities, had got damaged by rain, the two leaders said adequate compensation should be paid to the farmers. Similarly, in rain-hit districts, standing paddy crops had been affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/open-direct-purchase-centres/article37431036.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CJ: President wants verdicts in Tamil too||Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee on Wednesday said President Ram Nath Kovind wanted court verdicts delivered in the State to be translated and made available in Tamil too, so they could reach the common man. The Chief Justice told Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan that the President had made a personal request to him on the issue, and therefore, he had explored the possibility of tapping technology to translate the verdicts. The Chief Justice said this when the ASG, during the arguments in a case, said his attempts, as editor of a law journal, to translate verdicts into Tamil had not been successful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cj-president-wants-verdicts-in-tamil-too/article37431040.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth gets 20 years RI for raping minor||A special court has convicted a 25-year-old youth for raping a minor girl and sentenced him to 20 years rigorous imprisonment. According to the police, S.Ruban raped a 13-year-old when she was alone at home after her parents had gone for work. Following a complaint from the girl’s parents, All Women Police arrested Ruban in October 2018 and booked a case under the provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. At the end of the trial, he was convicted for the offence and sentenced to 20 years rigorous imprisonment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-gets-20-years-ri-for-raping-minor/article37431049.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘75,000 personnel ready for relief operations’||Over 75,000 personnel from the local police, Armed Reserve, Tamil Nadu Special Police and Home Guards have been kept ready to handle emergency and relief works on the orders of Director General of Police (DGP) C.Sylendra Babu. This has been arranged as a precautionary measure to meet exigencies during heavy rain expected from Wednesday. State Disaster Response teams with rescue boats, wood-cutting machines and drilling machines have also been deployed. As many as 350 personnel of Coastal Security Group with kayak boats and 250 personnel of special teams have been kept ready besides 364 personnel from Home Guards with 10 rescue boats, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/75000-personnel-ready-for-relief-operations/article37431066.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Vanniyars hurt over Jai Bhim’||PMK leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Wednesday wrote to actor Suriya Sivakumar, stating that members of the Vanniyar community were “hurt and agitated” because of the way his film Jai Bhim had portrayed them. “Many have been telling me about how the Vanniyar community has been defamed in the film. Despite this widespread view, you [Mr. Suriya] have been maintaining an unjust silence over the issue. In the film, the police officer who violently attacks an innocent person is shown as a Vanniyar, despite not being one in real life,” he said. “The Vanniyar Sangam’s calendar [since replaced] was placed behind in a frame, and the officer is named Gurumurthy, reminding people of J. Guru [late PMK cadre],” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vanniyars-hurt-over-jai-bhim/article37431075.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin will get ‘Ambedkar Sudar’ award||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will receive the ‘Ambedkar Sudar’ award for the year 2021, given by the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), party founder Thol. Thirumavalavan said on Wednesday. The VCK leader said Mr. Stalin had satisfied a long-pending demand of Dalits and tribals to set up a commission for their welfare. “He has also announced that a memorial for Pandit Iyottheethass would be built and steps taken to retrieve Panchami lands. He has also set up a monitoring and vigilance committee at the State level under his chairmanship. We are proud to give him this award,” he said. MDMK chief Vaiko will receive the ‘Periyar Sudar’ award, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-will-get-ambedkar-sudar-award/article37431076.ece
11 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Poor condition of Trichy Road adds to the woes of motorists||“Travelling from Sulur to Race Course area takes nearly one-and-a-half hours,” said an industrialist in Coimbatore. “Commuting even by car seems to be easier in metro cities compared to the roads and traffic issues in Coimbatore,” he said. “Sometimes you wait for three green signals to pass before you are able to proceed at Singanallur junction,” the industrialist added. Coimbatore south MLA Vanathi Srinivasan tweeted on Wednesday about the poor condition of Trichy Road in the city. Water stagnation at Ramanathapuram junction, traffic snarls at Singanallur, poor condition of the service road at Sungam, and the narrow stretch between Sulur and Neelambur bypass all add to the woes of the motorists on Trichy Road. An official of the State Highways Department said that land acquisition work is expected to get over soon for the down ramp under construction at Sungam, as part of the Trichy Road flyover. The department plans to ask for Rs. 4 crore to re-lay damaged portions of the service road for nearly 3.2 km, where the flyover is coming up. The damaged section of the road at Ramanathapuram junction can be redone only when the stagnating water drains and after the rains are over. The department is also preparing a project proposal to construct a flyover at Singanallur for 1.5 km. This will not require land acquisition. Meanwhile, the National Highways Authority of India is preparing a project to have a bypass road from Karanampettai to Mettupalayam Road. When these projects are completed, the traffic congestion on Trichy Road will ease. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, added that there are plans to widen the entire stretch of Trichy Road from Coimbatore to Palladam, wherever it is narrow. The Highways Department should expedite works to take up construction of flyover at Singanallur, should get funds and re-lay the service roads where the flyover is coming up, should acquire land and widen the service road where the flyover starts (near ICICI Bank), and remove the encroachments for the down ramp. While the down ramp works proceed at Sungam, it should complete the works on the main carriageway and open the flyover for vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-condition-of-trichy-road-adds-to-the-woes-of-motorists/article37431091.ece
11 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Second edition of Ukkadam Art District gets under way||The second edition of the Ukkadam Art District project, organised by the Coimbatore Corporation in association with St+art India Foundation and Asian Paints, was inaugurated recently at Ukkadam. A release said that Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji inaugurated the project at the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUHDB) tenements in Ukkadam on October 31. Ukkadam Art District involves painting of murals on the walls of the tenements to promote street art. “Started in 2020, this ongoing project will feature between October and November 2021 five contemporary artists who will contribute with their unique works to establish and expand the art district,” the release said. The project will be carried out in three phases namely carrying out a pre-commencement survey “to initiate public engagement in the art-making process,” painting the murals based on the survey and conducting workshops and other community engagement activities. For the second edition, the organisers will involve the support from local stakeholders like Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore and CREDAI – Coimbatore Chapter. “There are around 1,200 families living here and it is a thriving public place to demonstrate art and artists — that’s one of the main reasons for identifying this place,” the release quoted Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara as saying. Ukkadam Art District is India’s sixth and the State’s second open-air public art gallery, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-edition-of-ukkadam-art-district-gets-under-way/article37431095.ece
11 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||21 vulnerable areas identified in Coimbatore district||Amid the North-East Monsoon, Coimbatore district administration has identified 21 vulnerable locations in the district which could be impacted due to the rain, said Mission Director of National Health Mission – Tamil Nadu and District Monitoring Officer Darez Ahamed on Wednesday. He chaired a review meeting regarding the precautionary measures and preparedness for the monsoon with Collector G.S. Sameeran and other officials at the Collectorate. According to a release, the 21 vulnerable locations consist of 11 locations in Mettupalayam taluk, three locations each in Valparai, Perur and Pollachi taluks and one location in Anamalai taluk. The adverse impact due to rains are predicted to be minimal and relief camps have been set up in all of these locations. Government officials and volunteers have been roped in for relief works in the 21 locations. Similarly, 65 low-lying areas have been identified in Coimbatore Corporation limits and relief camps have been set up in these locations, the release said. Coimbatore district has received 249% more rains than the usual 195 mm rainfall during the North-East Monsoon and all major reservoirs in the district are 90% full, the release said. Speaking to mediapersons, Mr. Ahamed said that he will be visiting Valparai on Thursday to check for preparedness in case of landslides or floods. Mr. Sameeran said that the district administration has supplied PDS rice to the residents in the vulnerable locations of Valparai, Anamalai and Mettupalayam. Adequate number of ‘108’ ambulances have also been stationed in these locations, the Collector added. Helplines In case of emergencies during rain, the public shall contact the 24x7 control room at Collectorate though 1077, 0422-2306051/2/3/4, 0422-2303537 and 94899 46722 (WhatsApp). Helpline numbers for the rest of the district are Valparai Municipality office: 04253-222394, Pollachi Municipality office: 04259-220999, Mettupalayam Municipality office: 04254-222151, Mettupalayam taluk office: 04254-222153, Annur taluk office: 04254-262260, Coimbatore North taluk office: 0422-2247831, Coimbatore South taluk office: 0422-2214225, Sulur taluk office: 0422-2681000, Perur taluk office: 0422-2606030, Madukkarai taluk office: 0422-2622338, Kinathukadavu taluk office: 04259-241000, Pollachi taluk office: 04259-226625, Anamalai taluk office: 04253-296100, and Valparai taluk office: 04253-222305. Meanwhile, the Coimbatore Corporation has opened control rooms to deal with rain-related issues. The corporation’s main control room can be reached at 0422-2302323. Individual control rooms of the five zones could be contacted at 0422-2215618 (Central Zone), 0422-2595950 (East Zone), 0422-2551800 (West Zone), 0422-2243133 (North Zone) and 0422-2252705 (South Zone). Apart from this, residents shall also send images to the corporation regarding their grievances via WhatsApp at 81900 00200.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/21-vulnerable-areas-identified-in-coimbatore-district/article37431097.ece
11 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore receives 41.7 mm rainfall on Wednesday||Coimbatore district received an average rainfall of 2.98 mm in the 24 hours that ended at 8 a.m. on Wednesday, registering a decline from Tuesday’s 5.08 mm and Monday’s 18.36 mm. The district had a total rainfall of 41.7 mm on Wednesday, around 30 mm less than that of Tuesday’s. Out of the 25 tanks in the Noyyal river system in the district, 23 had 100% water as of 7 a.m. on Wednesday. Two tanks namely Perur Periyakulam and Neelambur tank had 95% of water. According to the District Disaster Management Authority, Sholayar reservoir had 159.83 feet of water against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 165 feet, Parambikulam 70.94 feet (72 feet), Aliyar 118.50 (120 feet), Bhavanisagar 103 (105 feet), Pilloor 90 (100 feet) and Siruvani 44.65 feet (49.53 feet) as of Wednesday morning. Bhavanisagar reservoir had the highest inflow of 4,307 cusecs against an outflow of 2,500 cuses. Pilloor had the highest outflow of 3,000 cusecs against an inflow of 1,629 cusecs. The rainfall recorded in different places during the 24 hours period that ended at 8 a.m. on Wednesday were Mettupalayam - 5.5 mm, Cincona - 10 mm, Chinnakallar - 9 mm, Valparai - PAP 4 mm, Valparai taluk - 4 mm, Sholayar - 3 mm, Aliyar - 1 mm, Sulur - 2 mm, Pollachi - 1 mm, Periyanaickenpalayam - 1.2 mm and Tamil Nadu Agricultural University - 1 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-receives-417-mm-rainfall-on-wednesday/article37431099.ece
11 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Policeman suspended for sexual abuse||Coimbatore City Police on Tuesday placed a policeman under suspension for sexually abusing a transwoman during the investigation of her complaint regarding lost mobile phone. N. Moovendhan Velpari (50), a resident of Kovaipudur and a head constable attached to the Race Course police station, was suspended after a preliminary inquiry found that he had sexually abused a transwoman complainant. As per the FIR, a 30-year-old transwoman Pappanaickenpalayam lodged a complaint with the Race Course police recently after she lost her mobile phone. The head constable went to the residence of the transwoman near Puliyakulam on the pretext of investigation and sexually abused her on November 6. He was under the influence of alcohol. He also allegedly told the transwoman that he would visit her whenever he wanted. The transwoman lodged a complaint with the Race Course police on November 8, based on which the head constable was booked for offences under various sections of IPC and Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019. T. Jayachandran, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), placed Moovendhan Velpari under suspension on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policeman-suspended-for-sexual-abuse/article37431085.ece
11 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Theft on PRS campus||In yet another case of theft at the Police Recruit School (PRS) campus in the city, a policeman found that his laptop and other valuables were stolen as he returned to the quarters after duty on Wednesday. The police said that a laptop, a power bank and a rain coat belonging to Ramesh, a policeman attached to the Armed Reserve, were stolen. He reached the quarters after duty on Wednesday morning and found the door of his unit broke open. He checked inside and found the three items missing. Mr. Ramesh lodged a complaint with the Race Course police. Sources with the Police Department said that several incidents of house break-ins and chain-snatchings have been reported on the PRS campus in the recent past. The police had arrested an ex-policeman in connection with two chain-snatching incidents reported on the campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theft-on-prs-campus/article37431100.ece
11 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Holiday for schools today||Collector G.S. Sameeran has announced a one-day holiday for schools in Coimbatore district on Thursday following the possibility of heavy rain as the Meteorological Department has issued orange alert for the district. Teachers need not report to their schools on Thursday, he said. The schools will be closed for the second consecutive day in Coimbatore district as the administration had declared a holiday for schools on Wednesday, too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/holiday-for-schools-today/article37431102.ece
11 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Train to Palani resumes||The train services between Coimbatore and Palani via Pollachi, which remained suspended for around 19 months due to the COVID-19 lockdown, resumed on Wednesday. Coimbatore South MLA Vanathi Srinivasan flagged off Train No. 06463 Coimbatore – Palani Unreserved Express Special train, which left from Coimbatore Junction at 2.10 p.m. In a statement, she said the trains would be useful for devotees visiting Dhandayuthapani Swamy Temple in Palani and Masaniamman Temple in Anamalai and tourists visiting Pollachi, Udumalpet and Kodaikanal. Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan issued a statement condemning Southern Railway for increasing the ticket fare from Rs. 10 to Rs. 30 for the train, which he claimed would impose a burden on devotees and tourists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/train-to-palani-resumes/article37431096.ece
11 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Power shut down on Friday||In view of the proposed maintenance and tree cutting works scheduled to be taken up at the Pappanaickenpalayam sub-station limits on November 12, there will be no power supply from 12 noon to 2 p.m. in the following areas that come under Parasakthi feeder and Gandhiji feeder: MG Road, Kamaraj Nagar, Kamadhenu Nagar, Balasundaram Street, Nava India Road, Therku Veedhi, Sri Valli Nagar, Avarampalayam, Hindusthan Avenue, Palani Andavar Koil Veedhi, Kumaran Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Kattapomman Veedhi, Kasthuribai Veethi, KRG Nagar, Maruthaiya Nagar, KK Nagar, VG Rao Nagar (Part I and II) and Chekkanthottam.  Coimbatore sub-station - Kalishwara feeder and Marakkadai feeder: Patel Road, Chellappan Road, Ansari Nagar and Kattoor, Brooke Field Road, Kikkani School, NH Road and Marakkadai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shut-down-on-friday/article37431098.ece
11 November 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Meet held on draft list of polling booths||An all party consultative meeting on the draft list of polling booth for the urban local body elections 2021 was held here under the aegis of District Collector S. Dhivyadarshini. Addressing the political party representatives, the District Election Officer and Collector Ms. Dhivyadarshini called upon the parties to file in writing any objections, recommendations, on the draft polling booth roll that has been designated as per the ward wise population. The objections shall be verified through field inspection. The draft lists of the polling booths are posted for public viewing at the district collectorate, municipality office and the offices of the town panchayats and the respective wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meet-held-on-draft-list-of-polling-booths/article37431185.ece
11 November 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 64,000 lost in online fraud recovered||Dindigul cyber crime police have recovered Rs. 64,000 that was siphoned off from the savings bank account of Sadaiyappan by a trickster who posed as a bank manager. In a statement, Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan said Sadaiyappan of Bethanaickenpatti in Palani taluk had received a call on October 27. The caller had claimed himself to be the bank manager and sought his bank account details for renewal of his account. In the process, Mr. Sadaiyappan had given the one-time password too to the caller. Consequently, Rs. 64,411 was siphoned off from his bank account. West Bengal accused Based on his complaint, the cyber crime police investigated the case and found that the unidentified accused from West Bengal had used the details given by the victim to buy a mobile phone from an online portal. The police took steps to abort the transaction, retrieved the money and returned it to the victim, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-64000-lost-in-online-fraud-recovered/article37431156.ece
11 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Odathurai lake in Bhavani taluk filled to the brim||Continuous rain in its catchment areas led to the Odathurai lake in Bhavani Taluk filled to the brim. The lake, located in Odathurai Panchayat, has an ayacut area of 172.64 acre and receives water through seepages from the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal. Also, during the southwest and northeast monsoon, the lake receives copious water which helps in improving its storage level which is 45.84 cubic feet. Eco-restoration works were executed at Rs. 3.20 crore, including de-weeding, desilting, strengthening bund, constructing retaining wall and deepening lake. Works were completed two years ago and the lake recently received both seepages and rain water. It led to the lake reaching its maximum storage capacity this week. Farmers said that the lake not only provides water for farming, but also helps in recharging ground water level thus solving the drinking water needs in over 10 villages in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/odathurai-lake-in-bhavani-taluk-filled-to-the-brim/article37431198.ece
11 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Bhavanisagar dam reduced to 1,400 cusecs||Following drop in inflow on Wednesday, the discharge from Bhavanisagar Dam was reduced to 1,400 cusecs. On Tuesday, the discharge was 10,000 cusecs. At 2 p.m. Wednesday, the inflow to the dam was 1,442 cusecs. The water level stood at 103 feet, against the full reservoir level of 105 feet. The storage was 31.13 thousand million cubic feet (tmc), against the capacity of 32.80 tmc. The discharge was 100 cusecs into River Bhavani and 1,300 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal. Discharge into Kalingarayan Canal and Arakankottai-Thadapalli canals has been stopped due to rain. Meanwhile, officials continued to warn people residing in low-lying areas along River Bhavani. The discharge could be stepped up if there was an increase in the inflow, they said. People were asked to stay away from the river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharge-from-bhavanisagar-dam-reduced-to-1400-cusecs/article37431190.ece
11 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Van falls into roadside stream||Four persons, including the driver, escaped with minor injuries after the van they were travelling in fell into a roadside stream at Sathyamangalam on Wednesday. The van transports workers to a private textile mill and was moving from Sathyamangalam to Bhavanisagar. While nearing Ayyan Road, the driver lost control of the vehicle and the van fell into the stream. Three workers and the driver suffered minor injuries. They were rescued by the villagers. The incident took place when the van was dropping workers at their houses after work hours. Police said that the road was slippery and it was raining when the incident occurred. Sathyamangalam police are investigating||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/van-falls-into-roadside-stream/article37431203.ece
11 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Drive to vaccinate 2.8 lakh cattle against FMD begins||A special drive to vaccinate 2.8 lakh cattle against foot-and-mouth-disease (FMD) began in the district on Wednesday. The camp was inaugurated by Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy at Periyasadayampalayam in the Corporation limits. Officials of the Department of Animal Husbandry said that the camp would be held for 21 days from November 10 to 30. A total of 96 teams were formed to vaccinate the cattle across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drive-to-vaccinate-28-lakh-cattle-against-fmd-begins/article37431201.ece
11 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 66 COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Wednesday reported 66 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,04,946. While 54 persons were discharged, 770 continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 47 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 1,00,441. While 47 persons were discharged, 588 continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 42 cases taking the tally to 52,665. While 34 persons were discharged, 468 continue to be under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-66-covid-19-cases/article37431191.ece
11 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Convert Thoppur–Mettur–Bhavani– Erode State highway into a four lane road’||With Thoppur – Mettur – Bhavani – Erode State Highway (89 km) witnessing heavy traffic, K. Subbarayan, Tiruppur MP, has urged the Central government to convert the road as a four lane and bring it under the control of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). In a letter to Minister for Road, Transport and Highways, Nitin Jairam Gadkari, the MP said that National Highway 544 connects important cities of Coimbatore, Pollachi, Tiruppur, Erode and Salem with Bengaluru. A road that diverts from the NH at Thoppur passes through Mettur Dam to connect Bhavani in Erode district reducing distance of 25 km when compared to Bhavani – Salem – Thoppur highway. Also, due to increase in traffic, there is a necessity of developing an alternative route which is Thoppur – Mettur – Bhavani highway. In 2018, steps were taken to handover the Thoppur – Mettur – Bhavani State highway to NHAI for converting it into four lanes. The road was also renamed as NH 544H. However, there is no progress in the project and the road continues to remain with the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/convert-thoppurmetturbhavani-erode-state-highway-into-a-four-lane-road/article37431194.ece
11 November 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Rain hits normal life||Office goers, students and others were inconvenienced due to rain across the district on Wednesday. Drizzling started from Tuesday night that continued till 10 a.m. on Wednesday morning causing hardship to the students and office goers who faced difficulty in reaching schools and work place respectively. Since schools and colleges functioned as usual, students faced difficulty while waiting for vehicles and buses at bus stops. In the absence of shelters, office goers also faced difficulty while waiting at bus stops as many were forced to take shelters at nearby shops. Meanwhile, rainfall recorded at various places in the district at 7 a.m. were Chennimalai 29 mm, Kodumudi 13.6 mm, Ammapettai 11.2 mm, Erode and Modakkurichi 10 mm each, Kavundapadi 8.2 mm, Bhavani 7.8 mm and Varattupallam 7 mm. In Salem district, Thammampatti recorded a maximum of 52 mm rainfall followed by Veeraganur 48 mm, Attur 28 mm and P.N. Palayam 25 mm. In Namakkal district, Rasipuram recorded a maximum of 80 mm rainfall followed by Senthamangalam 21 mm and Namakkal 20 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-hits-normal-life/article37431200.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TAMIL NADU||‘Hyderabad one of the most surveilled cities’||Hyderabad, by means of its CCTV network and facial recognition technology, is one of the most surveilled cities in the world, and extensive surveillance here is putting human rights at risk, Amnesty International said in a statement. The statement is a part of the Amnesty International (AI) Ban the Scan Campaign, which seeks to put an end to intrusive facial recognition technology. “The city in Telangana State – one of the most surveilled cities in the world – has begun construction of an ominous ‘Command and Control Centre’ (CCC), intended to connect the State’s vast facial recognition - capable CCTV infrastructure in real time. In addition, a study by the Internet Freedom Foundation found that Telangana State has the highest number of facial recognition technology (FRT) projects in India,” a statement on the human rights organisation’s website reads. The website quoted Amnesty International’s AI and Big Data researcher Matt Mahmoudi as saying that Hyderabad is on the brink of becoming a total surveillance city. “It is impossible to walk down the street without risking exposure to facial recognition,” he said. Touching upon the police’s practices, he further stated, “In addition to CCTV, we are concerned that law enforcement’s practice of using tablets to stop, search and photograph civilians without charge could be used for facial recognition.” “Authorities in India have a lengthy record of using facial recognition technology in contexts where human rights are at stake, with recent examples including enforcing COVID-19 lockdown measures, identifying voters in municipal elections, and policing protests. The rights of Muslims, Dalits, Adivasis, Transgender communities, and historically disadvantaged sections of society, are particularly at risk by mass surveillance,” the statement reads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hyderabad-one-of-the-most-surveilled-cities/article37430903.ece
11 November 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Training held for ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’||A training programme for teachers designated to teaching children under the Illam Thedi Kalvi programme was held here on Wednesday. The programme is being implemented in 156 government and government aided schools in Krishnagiri. According to the school education department, the programme is slated to benefit 31,446 students in the district. Earlier, Chief Education Officer K.P.Maheshwari inaugurated the training programme for teachers. The programme seeks to bridge gaps in learning for children between Class I to VIII, owing to the closure of schools due to the pandemic. Illam Thedi Kalvi envisions out of class teaching of children in their neighbourhoods in small groups after school hours. The programme to fill gaps in learning is envisioned as a six month intervention during which, learning is facilitated through dedicated attention to assigned teachers and volunteers. The out of school classes will be held between 5 p.m to 7 p.m. Earlier, teachers and volunteers signed up teaching under the programme were given training in the methodology to make learning fun and also ensure that children are engaged and committed to learning and understanding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-held-for-illam-thedi-kalvi/article37431189.ece
11 November 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Rice seized||A special flying squad seized 2.5 tonnes of rice from a tempo near Udhanapalli on Wednesday. The tempo was driven by Raja(22), a native of Kolampalli in Karnataka, was found transporting rice meant for fair price shops in Tamil Nadu. The accused was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rice-seized/article37431187.ece
11 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Special postal cover on Geographical Indication-tagged ‘Madurai Malli’ released||The Department of Posts released a special cover on Geographical Indication (GI)-tagged ‘Madurai Malli’ here on Wednesday. Speaking on the occasion, Postmaster General (Southern Region) G. Natarajan said the department had in the past released 14 such GI-tagged special covers in southern districts, including Karaikudi kandangi (saree), Pathamadai paai (mat), Srivilliputtur palgova (milk sweet) and Dindigul pootu (lock). Madurai Malli (jasmine), which got the GI tag in 2013, was synonymous with the district and a worthy product, he said, adding that the special postal cover was yet another recognition. Director of Postal Services (Southern Region) K. Raveendran said the department had been able to take the products globally through its network and thus bring in laurels for the ancient city. The GI tag for Madurai Malli protected both producers and the workforce in the sector. Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry president N. Jagatheesan, who was the chief guest, said from 2003-2021, 421 products had received the GI tag across the country and Tamil Nadu alone accounted for 43 products. Speaking about some of the benefits of GI tag for Madurai Malli , he said the farmers could fix the price for the produce. Most importantly, no other city could use the tag to the product and any violation would attract penalty of Rs. 2 lakh. A jasmine grower and an exporter of Madurai Malli, Mr. Jagatheesan said there was tremendous scope for the cash crop. At present, jasmine was grown on about 1,200 hectares in Madurai, he said and underlined job opportunities for women in the industry. Madurai Malli was also sought after by Indians living in the Middle East and European countries, he said and thanked the Department of Posts for releasing the special cover. Earlier, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices (Madurai Division) K. Lekshmanan welcomed the gathering. Assistant Superintendent of Posts K.S. Umarani proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postal-cover-on-madurai-malli/article37431079.ece
11 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Report given on probe into exam irregularities||The CB-CID on Wednesday submitted a status report to the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on the investigation into the 2019 TNPSC Group-IV services examination that was marred by malpractices. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan was informed that 118 persons, including 98 candidates, two TNPSC staff and a van driver, had been arrested in the case. One candidate died due to COVID-19. The CB-CID had registered a case on the malpractices that took place in Rameswaram and Keelakarai taluks in Ramanathapuram district. The offences were committed in connivance with a record clerk and a typist of the TNPSC. The accused enticed 99 candidates with the promise of securing government jobs for them and collected money for the same. The main accused in the case filled the answer sheets while the papers were on transit to Chennai. In the 2019 Group-IV examination, the main accused gave special pens with vanishing ink to 99 candidates to fill up the answer sheets. The ink would disappear in two to three hours and then the accused would fill up the sheets with the correct answers. The papers were on transit from Ramanathapuram to Chennai, under the supervision of two TNPSC staff and a police constable. On instructions from the main accused, the TNPSC staff stopped the van for dinner in Melur, Madurai district. The record clerk then opened the seal, secretly, using the key in his possession, and the answer sheets of the candidates were removed. The sheets were then filled with the correct answers by the main accused and his accomplices. Once the work was done, the answer sheets were placed along with the remaining sheets near the TNPSC office. No other TNPSC staff or officials were involved, the CB-CID said. But disciplinary action has been recommended for negligence on officials who were supposed to check the seals of the cover of the answer sheets before accepting them. The incriminating documents collected from the TNPSC [OMR sheets] and other materials like mobile phones and laptops seized from the accused have been sent for forensic analysis, and the reports are yet to be received, the CB-CID said. The investigation is progressing fast, and once the lab report is ready, the CB-CID will file the final report before the court concerned, the agency submitted. Earlier, the TNPSC and the Chief Secretary had also submitted status reports to the court. Further, the CB-CID submitted that the investigation into the case has brought to light similar malpractices in two other examinations. Taking cognisance of the reports, the judges said they would consider the same. The court was hearing a PIL petition filed by I. Mohamed Razvi, who sought a probe into the examination scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/report-given-on-probe-into-exam-irregularities/article37431042.ece
11 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Power supply to Pudumandapam shops snapped’||Shopkeepers and tailors at Pudumandapam opposite to Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple here complained that the temple authorities have cut off power supply to a majority of the shops since Monday. They demanded restoration of power supply till they moved to the nearby shopping complex at Kunnathur Chathiram. While the shopkeepers claimed that Kunnathur Chathiram lacked power supply, Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan said power supply, along with electrical fittings such as lights and fans, was established there. “It is for the traders to get the power connections activated by producing their shop allotment order to Tangedco officials,” he added. President of Madurai Pudumandapam Traders and Tailoring Workers Association G. Muthupandi said traders had been doing business at Pudumandapam for more than 175 years. “We are ready to shift, but the new shops do not have power now. Our plea to the temple Joint Commissioner [K. Chelladurai] to restore power till we shift has not evoked any positive result in the last two days,” he said. Meanwhile, Mr. Chelladurai said the shopkeepers had been asked to vacate immediately after their allotment was cancelled from October end. “We have to renovate the sculptures in Pudumandapam. We also have a plan to set up a museum there.” Some of the traders were hesitant to leave Pudumandapam even after getting the allotment orders for the new shops at Kunnathur Chathiram on October 11 and 12, he added. ‘No explicit order’ However, K. Raja, who runs a books stall in Pudumandapam, said there was no explicit written order given to individual shopkeepers by the temple authority to vacate the shops. “We have also not been issued any ‘no dues’ certificate for payment of arrears to the temple management. What if we get any notice for payment of arrears after some years,” he contended. Besides, the shopkeepers were wary of non-allocation of shops to 36 shopkeepers till now. The Corporation Commissioner said the local body had nominated an Assistant Engineer to liaise with Tangedco in getting the power connections activated at Kunnathur Chathiram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-supply-to-pudumandapam-shops-snapped-say-traders/article37431175.ece
11 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||No significant rainfall in southern region despite alert||Even as most of the southern districts declared a holiday for schools and colleges on Wednesday, no significant rainfall was reported in the morning. Senior officials, including District Collectors, inspected flood-prone and low-lying areas to oversee arrangements made to mitigate the impact of any possible floods. “The sun is out here in Tenkasi district and schools and colleges are functioning as usual,” said Collector S. Gopala Sundara Raj. The district received 2.6 mm till Wednesday morning, he added. Water was released from all dams for irrigation purposes. Educational institutions in Thoothukudi district functioned on Wednesday. Meanwhile, water was released from Vaigai dam after the third and the final flood warning level of 69 feet (maximum level 71 feet) was reached at 10 p.m. on Tuesday. People living along the river in Theni, Dindigul, Madurai, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts were asked to move to safer places. The second flood warning was issued on Tuesday morning when the storage level in the dam touched 68.50 feet. Vaigai dam had an inflow of 3,457 cusecs and the discharge was gradually increased from 1,000 cusecs on Tuesday night to 3,569 cusecs on Wednesday. While 3,000 cusecs was discharged through the river, 500 cusecs was released through canals and 69 cusecs drawn for drinking water purpose. Following incessant drizzle on Tuesday, Madurai Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar inspected the Sri Lankan refugees camp at Uchchapatti where waterlogging was reported. With some houses in dilapidated condition, as a precautionary measure, around 60 persons were shifted to a community hall. Already, 20 residents of Adi Dravidar Colony where waterlogging was reported, had been provided safe accommodation, District Revenue Officer G. Senthilkumari said. Around 900 of the 2,500 tanks irrigation tanks reached full storage and around 350 tanks had water up to 75% of their capacities, an official said. Rescue units  Special teams led by the Deputy Superintendents of Police had been informed to take up rescue work during the monsoon, said Thoothukudi Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar. Inspecting the machinery and equipment meant for rescue work during disasters here on Wednesday, Mr. Jayakumar said the men and machinery for rescuing people in district during storm and flood were kept ready. People need not have any fear about their safety during the northeast monsoon, he said. He also appealed to the people not to bathe in rivers and ponds.  Geared up All departments in the district were on high alert to face any hurdles and challenges during the monsoon, said Tirunelveli District Monitoring Officer Apoorva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-vaigai-dam/article37431178.ece
11 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 135.50 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 830.86 cusecs and a discharge of 1,163.50 cusecs. In Manimuthar dam, the level was 85.80 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 238 cusecs and a discharge of 10 cusecs. Rainfall recorded in various places during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Wednesday was (in mm): Palayamkottai 2, Manimutharu 1.80, Cheranmahadevi 1 and Tirunelveli 0.60.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37431488.ece
11 November 2021||Madurai/Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Water to be released from Vaigai dam for 58-village irrigation canal system||Water will be released from Vaigai dam to fill 37 irrigation tanks in Usilampatti taluk of Madurai district and Nilakottai taluk of Dindigul district under the 58-Village Irrigation Canal System from Saturday. Officials of the Public Works Department have planned to fill up all 37 tanks in the two taluks with the hope that Periyar dam and Vaigai reservoir would get huge inflow during the north-east monsoon. Vaigai dam has been overflowing since Tuesday night after the water level touched 69 feet. Besides, it got a high inflow of 3,457 cusecs on Wednesday. Learning from past experience, the PWD officials have planned to supply water to tail-end tanks first to ensure that water reaches all system tanks. “We can rush the flow to the tail-end tanks and fill them on priority. Last year, with the available water only 15 tanks could be filled,” said S. Leelavathi, Assistant Executive Engineer of Gundar Basin Division. Water can be released from Vaigai dam through the 58-Village Irrigation Canal System only when the level in Vaigai dam touches 69 feet. The sluice for the flood career facility has been set up at a sill level of 67 feet in the dam. “We expect the monsoon to bring rain until December and, hence, water can be used to fill up all 37 tanks,” Ms. Leelavathi said. Madurai Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar and Executive Engineer (Gundar Basin Division) N. Anbuselvan inspected the irrigation system on Wednesday. Maintenance of the right branch canal and left branch canal and their distributary canals was under way. Rainfall Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Wednesday was (in mm): Kodaikanal 14.2, Sothuparai dam 14, Natham 13.5, Veerapandi 12, Periyakulam and Manjalar dam 7 each, Dindigul 6.1, Vedasandur 5.7, Tobacco Station 5.6, Gudalur 5.3, Vaigai dam 5, Andipatti and Bodinaickanoor 4.2 mm each, Chathrapatti 4, Nilakotai 3.5, Aranmanaipudur and Tekkadi 3.6 mm each, Kamatchipuram 2.7 and Palani 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-plan-to-fill-up-all-37-tanks-in-usilampatti/article37431181.ece
11 November 2021||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea for train service||Mayiladuthurai Lok Sabha MP S. Ramalingam has represented to the Southern Railway seeking a new daytime train service between Tiruchi and Chennai-Egmore via the mainline section: Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai and Villuppuram stations. In a letter to its General Manager, he said the only day-train service (Train No. 06795/ 06796 Cholan Express) in the mainline section was not able to cater to the needs of public. Apart from being a fully-reserved train with more number of air-conditioned sleeper coaches, non-AC sleeper class coaches and a less number of ordinary second class coaches, the timing of the Cholan Express was also not suitable for people to reach Chennai. The demand of the people for introduction of an intercity day train without any reserved coaches, comprising only second-class sitting coaches suitably to reach the capital before noon has been pending for long, he said. Such a train could start from Tiruchi at 7 a.m. and reach Chennai Egmore at around 1 p.m. and in the return direction depart at 1.30 p.m. to reach Tiruchi Junction at 9 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-train-service/article37431164.ece
11 November 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||On a mission to protect hedgehogs||There was a time in Kanniyakumari when parents would treat persistent cough in children with “ Mulleli thailam ”, a medicated oil made with the spine of south Indian hedgehogs or the Madras hedgehogs. The practice still continues in many parts. “Though there is no scientific basis for the treatment, as the preparation has not been subjected to lipid or enzyme profile tests, the practice is among the factors that has contributed to the decline of the small mammal,” said R. Brawin Kumar, who has been tracking and studying the animal in the State. A native of Samithoppu in Kanniyakumari district, Mr. Kumar obtained a PhD from the Institute of Zoology in Beijing on desert rabbits. He said the decline in the population of the animal should be stopped, as it has a role in controlling insects. At present, he is working for the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Tirupati, and his articles on the mammal have been published in several scientific magazines. The Guardian has reviewed his book for children, Mullikattu ithikasam . While there are 17 types of hedgehogs across the world, India houses three species, of which one is endemic to south India. The animal lives in barren, arid and semi-arid lands, bushes and dry areas, associated with windmills and Theri land, particularly where palm trees grow in large numbers. The animal, weighing around 500 g, also lives close to human settlements. It is found in Erode, Karur, Coimbatore and the southern districts. “The Eastern Ghats is one of its habitats. It hides under the fronds of palm trees,” said Mr. Kumar, acknowledging the support of IDEAWILD, which has given him cameras and other equipment for tracking the animal. Unlike the hedgehogs elsewhere, the Madras hedgehogs do not hibernate, but estivate. “They become victims to road accidents too,” he said. There are 428 mammals in India, and 50% of them are small. “There is still no proper study of their habitats and ecology. Wildlife conservation, more often than not, involves big animals. But ecological balance requires the protection of all animals. Community-driven conservation efforts are needed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-a-mission-to-protect-hedgehogs/article37431046.ece
11 November 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Devasahayam to be canonised by the Pope||Devasahayam Pillai, the 18th century Roman Catholic convert and “martyr” from Kanniyakumari district, will be canonised on May 5, 2022, by Pope Francis at the Vatican. The message has been conveyed to Father Nazarene Soosai, the Bishop of Kottar Diocese, by Elphinston Joseph, a postulator, who presented a plea for the beatification or canonisation in the Roman Catholic Church. “He is being canonised 270 years after his martyrdom. It is an important event for the people of Tamil Nadu,” said former IAS officer M.G. Devasahayam, who wrote a letter to the Vatican in 2017 to drop the caste title “Pillai” from the “Blessed Devasahayam’s name”. Even though the Vatican refused to change the caste title in the beginning, it subsequently dropped it on a representation from the district. “It is not fair to retain his caste name since he revolted against it. Though the Vatican declined to change it, after our subsequent letters arguing that India’s Constitution and laws are against the caste system, they agreed,” Mr. Devasahayam said. According to CatholicSaints.Info, the canonisation miracle involves the resumption of the heartbeat of a 24-week foetus that had stopped earlier. It happened in 2013, the website says. “The mother, who was a Catholic and had a devotion to Lazurus, the baptismal name of Devasahayam, began praying for his intercession for the baby; within hours, she felt the baby kicking, and tests showed that the heartbeat had resumed, and the infant was later born with no complications,” says the website. In May, 2021, a consistory of cardinals called by Pope Francis approved his canonisation. Born Neelakanta Pillai, a high-caste Hindu, he knew Sanskrit, Tamil and Malayalam. He learnt about Catholicism from a French prisoner of war and converted to the faith. He was baptised on 14, May, 1745 and assumed the name Devasahayam Pillai. Folklorist A.K. Perumal, the biographer of Devasahayam, said he was born to a Namboothiri father and Nair mother in 1712. He was shot dead at Aralvaimozhi, on the border of the Kanniyakumari district, in 1752. Mr. Perumal said folklore had many versions on why he had converted to Christianity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/devasahayam-to-be-canonised-by-the-pope/article37431044.ece
11 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||NDRF team reaches Puducherry, Cuddalore||Teams from the National Disaster Response Force have reached Puducherry and Cuddalore to assist the civil administration in case of any monsoon-related disaster. The Puducherry region recorded 95 mm of rainfall till 8.30 a.m on November 10. While Thirukannur received 75 mm rain during the period, Bahour region received 72 mm. Two persons sustained injuries and 25 houses, including 21 huts, were damaged in rain-related incidents. Addressing a press conference in Puducherry on Wednesday, District Collector Purva Garg said since the onset of northeast monsoon, the region received a rainfall of 556.6mm. All the lakes and tanks in the region have almost reached their full capacity. The Oussudu tank has reached a level of 3.17 m and Bahour tank 2.46 m. Relief shelters in villages on the banks of rivers have been set up due to the release of water from Sathanur dam in Tiruvannamalai and Veedur dam in Villupuram, she said, adding necessary arrangements have been made to provide food to Scheduled Tribes people residing in Irulansandai, Kudiyiruppupalayam and Korkadu areas. A total of 194 relief shelters have been opened in the region. As on Wednesday, 12, 500 food packets have been distributed to the residents of Puducherry, Oulgaret, Villianur and Bahour taluks, she said. She advised the residents of Puducherry to move to the relief shelters in case of any emergency. The heavy rain on Tuesday night caused inundation in several residential areas including Chellan Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Rainbow Nagar, Pavanan Nagar and Sankaradoss Swamigal Nagar. The civic authorities used pumpsets on Wednesday to drain water from these areas, said a revenue official. According to an official in the Cuddalore district administration, shelter homes have been opened for people in case of an emergency. NDRF team has already reached the district to assist the administration in relief and rescue operations, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ndrf-team-reaches-ut-cuddalore/article37431084.ece
11 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||A film-making workshop anchored in principles of deep ecology held at Ladakh||From camps of close-knit indigenous communities to emerald lakes and moonscapes of the Lamayuru, the ruggedly charming Leh-Ladakh region served as an ideal locale for a documentary film-making workshop anchored in principles of deep ecology. Hosted recently by the Auroville Film Institute (AVFI), the workshop at Phyang was capped by the screening of 15 short films made by 27 participants from 11 States — Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, New Delhi, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttarakhand. If that was not diverse enough, the participants also included six Ladakhis, two aspirants from Auroville and one from Italy. The experiential workshop was a collaboration between the AVFI and the Himalayan Institute of Alternatives, Ladakh (HIAL). An important outcome of the AVFI-HIAL collaboration was the decision to establish chapters in both institutions to foster bi-annual student exchange programmes. The 45-day film-making workshop was anchored in an environmental philosophy where the self is deeply connected with nature, not disassociated with it, said Richa Hushing, a course director. “Like all AVFI workshops, this one too was designed in the exploration of 3Ss...self...surrounding and story. We encouraged the participants to look around in response to inner curiosities and concerns. We believed in the authenticity of narratives that would spring from an authentic interaction between the self and the surrounding,” Ms. Hushing said. She, along with Rrivu Laha, a founding directors of AVFI and Gitanjali J B, co-founder and Dean of HIAL, designed and delivered the workshop. “We pushed ourselves to question everything, including our own perceptions,” said Rrivu Laha. The brainstorming sessions threw up about 60 ideas for film. The hosts hoped to be able to make five films but ended producing three times more. Cinematographically, the light and the landscape of Ladakh offered much to explore in a technical-aesthetic sense. “The landscape itself is extraordinary, and it transforms with the light,” said Ms. Hushing, referring to moonland sobriquet of the Lamayuru mountains. In terms of sound too, there was great scope in villages, roads, marketplaces and monasteries. There were participants like Shiv who hiked his way to the workshop and made a film about the experience, which would be “the best thing I’ve ever made”. If Deepa Kiran, an oral story teller was pushed to discovering the kinship between the surrounding and the self. Hem Shah resorted to docu-fiction for his ‘Kane Duk Jor Jor’ that tracks the search for Jor Jor, a renowned comedian from Ladakh who mysteriously disappeared from public appearances over eight years ago. Phyang, where the workshop was anchored was tributed with films like Avinash Kumar’s ‘Village of Warriors’ tracing the memory of Kabali attack in 1948 through a search trek organised by the ex servicemen and politicians of the village. Vanshika Bhatnagar and Abhishek Stalinn’s ‘Midnight Mirage’ came alive as visual poetry as it dwelt on the dreams of the young monks of the Phyang Monastery. In fact, Leh city and the larger rural landscape of Ladakh, contemporary culture and burning concerns were also explored by a set of films. In fact, these films were like little windows to Ladakhi culture, painting an insightful picture of the land. So much so that Sonam Wangchuk, founder Director of HIAL, felt that the young filmmakers had shown him a mirror to Ladakhi culture, while Sonam Dorjey, associate facilitator from HIAL noted that all films were contemporary and had a distinct identity. Ms. Gitanjali, HIAL Dean found Ladakh and Auroville to be complementary in many ways. “What binds HIAL and AVFI is the value of integral education and commitment to an alternative life. The Auroville-HIAL collaboration will be a bi-annual student exchange programme, where we have Ladakh and Auroville chapters every year,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-film-making-workshop-anchored-in-principles-of-deep-ecology-held-at-ladakh/article37431170.ece
11 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Collector unhappy over plight of Kanakan lake||District Collector Purva Garg has sought a report from the irrigation wing of the Public Works Department on the state of desilting work at Kanakan lake. Ms. Garg visited the lake along with environmental activists following a report in The Hindu on Monday highlighting the present plight of the lake. According to members, who accompanied her to the lake on Tuesday, the Collector expressed her unhappiness over the dumping of garbage in the lake which was rejuvenated two years ago. She also asked a report from the health division of the PWD about the operations of the sewage treatment plant and mechanism available to monitor the quality of water in the lake. The Collector agreed to form a team comprising officials of departments concerned and civil society organisations for the proper upkeep of the lake. “Collaboration of all stakeholders will definitely pave the way towards making Kanakan lake a prime spot for water conservation, biodiversity and recreation,” Probir Banerjee of PondyCan said.  Collaboration of all stakeholders will definitely pave the way towards making Kanakan lake a prime spot for water conservation, biodiversity and recreation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-unhappy-over-plight-of-kanakan-lake/article37431447.ece
11 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rangasamy fulfils his vow at Murugan temple||Puducherry Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Wednesday gifted a golden ‘vel’ (spear) and ‘seval kodi’ (rooster flag) to Lord Murugan temple in Kadirgamam in fulfilment of a vow. Mr. Rangasamy donated them from his own money. Special yagna A special ‘yagna’ and ‘abhishekam’ were performed before the deity was adorned with the offerings. Mr. Rangasamy is reported to have made the vows to donate the ‘vel’ and the flag as an offering to the deity on returning to power as Chief Minister for another term and, on another occasion, when he prayed for recovery from a COVID-19 infection that led to his hospitalisation in May. KSP Ramesh, MLA, accompanied the Chief Minister, in offering prayers at the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rangasamy-fulfils-his-vow-at-murugan-temple/article37431444.ece
11 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records one death, 39 new COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death and 39 new cases on Wednesday. Puducherry reported the sole fatality to take the cumulative toll to 1,863. The toll by region is: Puducherry (1,457), Karaikal (250), Yanam (108) and Mahe (48). Puducherry logged 23 of the new cases, which were detected from 2,714 tests, followed by Karaikal (12), Yanam (2) and Mahe (2). With 33 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases stood at 272. This comprised 73 patients in hospital and 199 in home isolation.  The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,28,302 cases against 1,26,167 patients recovered. Meanwhile, 2,606 persons took the jab against the virus in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-one-death-39-new-covid-19-cases/article37431445.ece
11 November 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects rain-hit areas||Minister for Law S. Regupathy on Wednesday said that the administrative machinery has been geared up for a coordinated approach by line departments while carrying out relief and rescue operations. Necessary instructions had been given to officials concerned to continue to monitor water bodies which had got filled up due to the heavy rains and strengthen the bunds. Mr. Regupathy said after inspecting areas affected by heavy rains in Karambakudi taluk in the district. Accompanied by the District Monitoring Officer for Pudukottai and Principal Secretary, Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department Shambu Kallolikar; Collector Kavitha Ramu, and other senior officials, Mr. Regupathy visited Athiranviduthi to inspect water flowing out from Arasarkulam and Pudhumavadikulam due to heavy rains. He inspected water flowing over the Agni Aaru causeway in Thirumanancheri. The Minister listened to the grievances of a group of people belonging to Narikuravar community affected by the heavy rains. They had been accommodated in the government girls higher secondary school at Karambakudi and gave away relief materials. He instructed the officials concerned to provide them with basic facilities, a press release said. Meanwhile, a press release issued on Tuesday said that a total number of 121 rain-affected people including 58 women and 25 children residing at Thanthai Periyar Samathuvapuram at Thulaiyanur near Tirumayam were accommodated in the community centre at the Samathuvapuram and at government elementary school buildings. Mr. Regupathy who met them on Tuesday advised the officials to provide them with food and other basic facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inspects-rain-hit-areas/article37431155.ece
11 November 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Job mela to be held in Ramanathapuram tomorrow||A job mela will be held at the District Employment Office here on November 12. In a statement, Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat said private companies could participate in the job mela and select employees. Jobs would be offered to people with educational qualifications from Class X to graduation. Job aspirants having certificates from ITIs and diploma holders could participate in the mela. Interested candidates should visit the camp with their biodata, application seeking employment, original certificates of educational qualification, Aadhaar card, copies of family card and photographs. Seniority in registration at the District Employment Office seeking jobs in government sector would not be disturbed for those who got employment in private sector through the mela, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/job-mela-to-be-held-in-ramanathapuram-tomorrow/article37431179.ece
11 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Water level remains at 119 ft in Mettur dam||The water level at the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur Dam continues to remain at 119 feet, against the full reservoir level of 120 feet. The discharge was maintained at 20,000 cusecs on Wednesday. At 8 a.m. Wednesday, the storage was 91.88 thousand million cubic feet (tmc) against the capacity of 93.47 tmc. The inflow was 21,027 cusecs and the discharge was 20,000 cusecs into River Cauvery and 100 cusecs into the canal. Rainfall recorded in the area was 3.80 mm. Public Works Department officials said that they would continue to monitor the inflow and alert the district collectors in 12 delta region and also the collectors of Erode and Namakkal for taking necessary precautionary measures. They added that as per the guidelines of the State government, water level will be maintained at 119 feet. “Since there is not much rain in the catchment areas, inflow is not expected to increase,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-remains-at-119-ft-in-mettur-dam/article37431165.ece
11 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Speed up work on Yercaud –Kuppanur ghat road, says monitoring officer||With restoration work on Yercaud - Kuppanur ghat road, where landslip occurred on November 5, continuing for the sixth consecutive day, S. Sivashanmugaraja, Chairman and Managing Director, Poompuhar Shipping Corporation and monitoring officer for the district, inspected the works on Wednesday. Accompanied by District Collector S. Karmegam, Mr. Sivashanmugaraja inspected the spots where landslip occurred on the 17.4 km ghat road that disrupted the vehicle movement so far. He also held discussions with officials on the steps needed to be taken to prevent such happenings in the future. He instructed officials to expedite the works and complete at the earliest and reopen the road for traffic. Later, Mr. Sivashanmugaraja inspected Yercaud boat house where work is on to remove the water hyacinth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speed-up-work-on-yercaud-kuppanur-ghat-road-says-monitoring-officer/article37431193.ece
11 November 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Farmers told to pay premium for crop insurance at the earliest||November 15 is the last day for payment of premium for Rabi 2021-22 black gram and green gram under Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme. In a statement, Tenkasi Collector S. Gopala Sundara Raj said the last date for payment of premium for maize and cotton was November 30 and for sorghum, it was December 15. Farmers should pay their premium by December 31 for groundnut and for paddy III (summer paddy) by January 31, 2022 and for sugarcane by August 31, 2022. The deadline for payment of premium for paddy under pisanam season was December 1. The premium for paddy was Rs. 466 per acre. The premium for other crops was: maize Rs. 282, black gram and green gram Rs. 256, groundnut Rs. 323, cotton Rs. 534, sugarcane Rs. 2,600 and sorghum Rs. 177. The deadline for payment of premium to insure horticulture crops like plantain, shallot and chilli under Rabi season was January 31, 2022. The premium for banana plantain was Rs. 3,413, for shallot it was Rs. 1,073 and for chilli it was Rs. 1,129. The farmers had to get sowing certificate from village administrative officer concerned and submit their insurance proposal along with land documents, copies of Aadhaar card and the front page of savings bank passbook at the common service centre or at nationalised or cooperative banks. Farmers could approach the officials of the Departments of Agriculture/Horticulture in their respective regions to get further details, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pay-crop-premium-at-the-earliest/article37431369.ece
11 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Police ready with special rescue units||Special teams led by the Deputy Superintendents of Police had been informed to take up rescue work during the monsoon, said Thoothukudi Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar. Inspecting the machinery and equipment meant for rescue work during disasters here on Wednesday, Mr. Jayakumar said the men and machinery for rescuing people in district during storm and flood were kept ready. People need not have any fear about their safety during the northeast monsoon, he said. The Superintendent of Police appealed to the people not to bathe in rivers and ponds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-ready-with-special-rescue-units/article37431180.ece
11 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Schools remain closed as heavy rain disrupts life in delta region||As the heavy rainfall continued to disrupt the normal life of the people and submerged the standing samba crop in different parts of the delta districts including Tiruchi, Nagapattinam and Thanjavur districts, the Monitoring Officers appointed by the State government to supervise the disaster management relief works carried out inspection at various points to take stock of the situation. Thirupoondi in Nagapattinam district recorded the maximum rainfall of 306 mm in delta districts during the last 24 hours that ended at 8 a.m. on Wednesday, followed by 292.10 in Nagapattinam. Several areas of Tiruvarur, Mayildathurai and Thanjavur too recorded heavy rainfall, resulting in overflow of waterways and tanks. There were reports of several causeways overflowing in Thanjavur and Ariyalur districts, thereby disrupting the road traffic at various places. Schools were shut in Nagapatttinam, Tiruvarur, Mayiladuthurai, Thanjavur, Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur as a precaution. Nagapattinam The paddy crop raised on over 1,000 hectares were reportedly submerged in the rainwater in different parts of Nagapattinam district. While the rain damaged about 180 houses, about 150 sheep and goats were killed in the impact of flood in many areas. Thanjavur Traffic was disrupted between Pattukottai and Perugavalathan due to the overflowing of rainwater on the causeway at Kannanaru near Madukkur. As the water current was heavy, the district administration closed the causeway for traffic. S. Vijayakumar, Principal Secretary to the Government, who is the Monitoring Officer of the district, inspected the spot along with Collector Dinesh Oliver Ponraj. When they were returning to Thanjavur after visiting the causeway and flood-hit areas, a group of people stopped their vehicles at Mochikulam and complained that they had been facing tough time due to water inundation in many areas for more than three days. The officials assured them of prompt action on their grievances. While Peravurani recorded 196 mm, Eachenviduthu and Thanjavur registered 172 mm and 161 mm. According to a preliminary report, 45 houses were damaged due to torrential rain. It claimed the lives of at least 33 cattle in the district. Tiruchi Widespread rain continued in different parts of the district for the fifth consecutive day on Wednesday. The maximum rainfall of 70.40 mm was reported at Nandhiyar Head. Tiruchi town, Tiruchi airport, Lalgudi, Pullambadi and Thuvakudi received more than 50 mm rainfall during the last 24 hours ending at 8 am on Wednesday. The torrential rain that got intensified on Tuesday afternoon continued overnight. However, Manappara and Marungapuri recorded only moderate rain, thereby reducing the flow of rainwater in Koraiyur. Several low-lying areas in Tiruchi continued to face the water inundation for the knee to waist feet. Collector S. Sivarasu said that the inflow in Koraiyar had come down to 2,500 cusecs on Wednesday. As a precautionary step, the entire water inflow at Upper Anicut (Mukkombu) had been discharged into the Kollidam River. About 30,000 cusecs was discharged from Upper Anicut on Wednesday evening. S. Ramamoorthy, Chief Engineer, Water Resources Organisation, PWD, Tiruchi region, inspected the Upper Anicut and discussed with the officials the steps taken to regulate the discharge of water if the water level increased in the Cauvery River. Ariyalur Several low-lying areas in Ariyalur and Jayankondam were inundated in Ariyalur district due to the continuous rain on Wednesday. A causeway at Padainilai had been overflowing due to the flood in Sengarayan stream. Anil Meshram, Monitoring Officer, inspected the flood-hit areas along with Collector P. Ramana Saraswathy. Mayiladuthurai Hitesh Kumar Makwana, Monitoring Officer, inspected the arrangements being made in Mayiladuthurai district to drain out water from low-lying areas. Accompanied by Collector R. Lalitha, he visited various places, where standing paddy crop had been submerged in the rainwater. He said the official machinery had been put on high alert to mitigate the sufferings of the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-remain-closed-as-heavy-rain-disrupts-life-in-delta-region/article37431158.ece
11 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Drop in COVID-19 cases in central districts||The central region reported 125 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. Three patients succumbed to the viral infection: two in Tiruvarur district and one in Karur. Tiruchi district accounted for 38 newly infected patients on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the other eight districts in the central region reported less than 30 cases. In Thanjavur, 27 patients tested positive. In Karur, 19 patients tested positive. Tiruvarur, meanwhile, registered 17 fresh cases, and Nagapattinam 11. Pudukottai district registered seven cases. Ariyalur reported three, Mayiladuthurai two, and Perambalur one case- the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drop-in-covid-19-cases-in-central-districts/article37431161.ece
11 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Residents continue to struggle for essentials||The struggle of residents in some of the most affected localities in the city to access essentials continues as rainwater has not receded even after three days. Flushing out stagnant water from inside compounds is already an ordeal. At Fatima Nagar, along the banks of the Uyyakondan in Woraiyur, residents are yet to receive any help. While the Tiruchi Corporation began pump out water from the entrance of the locality near Vekkaliamman Temple, water continued to flow in from the other side. R. Prasad, a resident said that in over 72 hours, no help had reached them. The association is providing water cans, milk packets and meals. Not one person has turned up to inspect the situation, he said. Here, water continued to be knee-deep and homes on the ground floor continued to be water-logged. The residents had alerted the civic body on the day of Deepavali, to which they received no response. ‘We told them to stack sandbags along the banks so that water would not flow into the residential areas, but nobody paid any heed as it was a festival time,’ he said. The roads of Fathima Nagar were already in a sorry state prior to the rains and things have gone from bad to worse. There is no way to go out to buy medicines unless we wade through the water, S. Rosamma, a senior citizen, said. She had to contact her son, who lives elsewhere to deliver it to her house. The situation was no better in Lingam Nagar, Wins Anbu Avenue and surrounding areas where waist-deep water was yet to recede. The residents in these localities said that the civic body must take active measures to remove encroachments along the water bodies. ‘We had to compel the revenue officials to take action. We are forced to wade through the water to purchase all items. Children live here and require milk, it is a difficult situation,’ a resident said. Another resident urged the officials to take note of the inundated localities and bring about a permanent solution. ‘Monsoons in Tamil Nadu will continue till December. We cannot handle another similar situation. People could become susceptible to infections, allergies,’ they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-continue-to-struggle-for-essentials/article37431160.ece
11 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A village tank is brimming after 15 years||The continuing downpour has brought to fruction the strenuous efforts of farmers and other residents of Sengalkudi near Mathur on the border of Tiruchi-Pudukottai disticts to revive utility of a large water body all by themselves, without the support of government departments, after a gap of 15 years. Just a week ago, the Sengalakudi Big Eri was replete with extensive growth of plants, bushes and accumulation of silt along the 2-km long outlet channel from a dam bearing the same name, literally preventing water flow into the lake in the village. Repeated complaints made to the Public Works Department and other officials of Pudukottai district to desilt the channel had gone in vain, according to the villagers. When almost all tanks, ponds and Sengalakudi dam in the Viralimalai region brimmed to their capacity in the earlier spell of heavy rain, the Sengalakudi Periya Eri (big tank) had remained dry due to the blockages on the outlet channel. The situation triggered the farmers and youngsters of the village into getting their act together to desilt the channel and inlet points on a war-footing to streamline flow into the tank. While a section of residents came forward to offer manual work, others contributed money for the task. Their dream transformed into reality within three days. The tank gets copious inflow from Sengalakudi dam and other overflowing tanks. The tank on a 168-hectare spread is on the verge of reaching its maximum capacity. “It’s celebration time for us as the tank is getting filled up fast after 15 years. The credit goes to all like-minded residents of our village,” says M. Velusamy, former president of the village. It is expected to irrigate about 700 acres of agricultural fields in Melakadu, Seethapatti, Melapatti and Pudunagar besides fulfilling the drinking water needs of the village for at least one year. Mr. Velusamy said that the desilted channel has not only enabled flow into the tank but also regulates the watercourse. Else, the overflowing water from the dam and other tanks would have caused flooding in the village, he observed. Baluchamy, a village leader, said that the village tank could be filled despite the poor condition of a few metres of the channel bund near the the outlet point of the Sengalakudi dam. Corrective steps by PWD officials would pave way for further improving the flow into the Sengalakudi tank, he said. A senior PWD official acknowledged receipt of the petitions from the villagers and claimed that government funding was awaited for the works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tank-brimming-after-15-years/article37431082.ece
11 November 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘All districts will get minority welfare officers in five years’||All the districts in Tamil Nadu would have minority welfare officers in the five years, said Minority Welfare Board Chairman S. Peter Alphonse here on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters, he said that to begin with, minority welfare officers had been posted in five districts. “ I am hopeful that the new posting in all the districts will help minorities to come up in all spheres,” he added. The government had earmarked Rs. 2 crore towards this and soon more districts would get the officials in a phased manner. The welfare board would rope in people working in Madarsa. Those engaged in services at pallivasal and teaching Arabic would also benefit from the board, Mr Alphonse said and added that in Tirunelveli alone 628 persons had enrolled as members from the time of inception. He gave away identity cards to 35 persons. He said the board had disbursed Rs. 6.86 crore to 30,812 students during 2020-21 from the minority communities. For the current academic year, so far, 24,503 students had registered for getting the financial assistance, which would be credited to their bank accounts directly. Mr. Peter Alphonse disbursed wet grinders to 50 Muslim women valued at Rs. 5.25 lakh and gave orders to 257 women from the Christian community for Rs. 6,000 each to be credited to their bank accounts directly. The district administration had organised a seminar on the schemes for the minority community to be launched in the State. Speaker M. Appavoo, Collector V. Vishnu, Tirunelveli MP Gnana Thiraviam, board Member-Secretary Durai Ravichandran and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-districts-will-get-minority-welfare-officers-in-5-years/article37431078.ece
11 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Farm machinery available on nominal rent, says Collector||Collector V. Vishnu has appealed to farmers to make use of various machinery and farm equipment being rented out by the Department of Agricultural Engineering for their farming operations. In a statement, the Collector said the rotavator and plougher machinery and machinery for maintenance of bunds could be taken on a nominal rent of Rs. 400 per hour. The rent for paddy harvester machinery was Rs. 1,010 and Rs. 1,630 per hour. The rent for maize harvesting machinery along with tractor was Rs. 400 per hour and the rent for coconut plucking equipment was Rs. 650 per hour. Bulldozers meant for preparing farmland could be rented for Rs. 970. Those who required them could register themselves by paying an advance amount at the Department of Agricultural Engineering. Further information could be obtained from the Executive Engineer, Agricultural Engineering Department, over 94436-94245.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farm-machinery-for-rent/article37431370.ece
11 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Stop construction of sports stadium on college premises’||Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan has demanded the intervention of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to stop the construction of a sports stadium on the premises of Chikkanna Government Arts College in Tiruppur alleging irregularities. In a letter to the Chief Minister on Wednesday, he said that the college has around 40 acres of land and 3,657 students are currently studying in undergraduate and postgraduate courses. The letter alleged that during the previous AIADMK government, the district administration had ordered without consulting the stakeholders that the college’s land shall be used for other purposes and that five acres would be used for the construction of the indoor sports stadium. “The college students are not allowed inside the stadium,” Mr. Natarajan alleged. The Madras High Court had ruled in 2017 that the grounds of Chikkanna Government Arts College could be used to organise only education-related programmes, he wrote. “Amidst this situation, the contractors are attempting to start the construction activities [of the stadium] in spite of opposition from the students,” the MP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stop-construction-of-sports-stadium-on-college-premises/article37431092.ece
11 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||500-year-old stone sculptures discovered near Tiruppur||Archaeological enthusiasts have recently discovered two stone sculptures, both of which are estimated to be over 500 years old and remained previously unidentified, in a temple near Tiruppur. A team from Tiruppur-based Virarajendran Archaeological and Historical Research Centre visited Ponkaliamman temple at Poomalur in the first week of November, said the organisation’s director S. Ravikumar on Wednesday. The team visited the temple based on information given by a retired village administrative officer regarding the two sculptures that remained unidentified in the temple, he said. The team identified the first sculpture to be that of Ayyanar, a folk deity who was widely worshipped in the Kongu region during the rule of the Chera, Cholas and Pandyas, according to Mr. Ravikumar. “Once [Kongu region] came under the Vijayanagara Empire in the 14th century, worshipping of Ayyanar declined,” he said. Based on the previous discoveries of Ayyanar sculptures in this region, the team estimated that this sculpture might have been created at around 12th century, according to Mr. Ravikumar. Around 80 cm tall and 70 cm wide, the sculpture depicts Ayyanar in a seated posture. He is seen holding a weapon known as ‘sendu’ in his right hand and is flanked by his consorts Poorna and Pushkala. This deity might have likely been erected by merchants from Kongu region, who used the trade route that connected Mysuru in Karnataka and Pollachi in Coimbatore district, Mr. Ravikumar said. The second sculpture depicts a woman being carried in a palanquin by six bearers. Though the identity of the woman could not be ascertained, it is likely to be the sculpture of a woman who was influential in the region around 14th century, he said. While its height is nearly the same as the Ayyanar sculpture at around 80 cm, its width is around 90 cm and shows the palanquin bearers holding weapons such as arrows and spears.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/500-year-old-stone-sculptures-discovered-near-tiruppur/article37431089.ece
11 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||50% tanks in Vellore, nearby districts fill up||Farmers in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur have reasons to be cheerful as nearly 50% of all waterbodies, especially irrigation tanks, reached their full capacity on Wednesday. Together, these four districts have a total of 4,167 waterbodies, including 1,119 Minor Irrigation tanks maintained by the Public Works Department (PWD) and other waterbodies like ponds, lakes and uranis maintained by the Rural Development Department. Among the four districts, Tiruvannmalai has the highest number of waterbodies (1,886), including 600 irrigation tanks maintained by the PWD. It is followed by Ranipet district with 1,718 waterbodies including 369 PWD-maintained tanks. “We are continuously monitoring the situation, especially along Palar river, closely. So far, 39 persons have been moved to temporary shelters in the district,” Vellore Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian told The Hindu . Apart from 50% of the waterbodies in the district that reached full capacity, another 10% waterbodies reached 75% of their total capacity on Wednesday. Eight head of cattle, mostly milch cows, and four persons have died in Vellore and Ranipet since November 1. Crop damage in these districts is being assessed. On Wednesday, 38 rain-affected Irular families in Vellore and Ranipet, living along the Palar, were rehabilitated in government-run shelters having basic facilities like blankets, clothes and stainless steel utensils. Collectors were instructed to issue pattas to these families for houses constructed under centrally-sponsored schemes. Officials said that in Tirupattur, a special education loan mela was organised by the district administration and Rs. 4.05 crore was disbursed to 113 economically weak students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-tanks-in-vellore-nearby-districts-fill-up/article37431440.ece
11 November 2021||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||Vellore police to test seized country-made gun||The Vellore District Police have decided to send a seized country-made gun to the Ballistic Science Laboratory of the Forensic Sciences Department of the Tamil Nadu Police in Chennai to ascertain its previous usage. The decision comes a day after officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) found the weapon while searching the house of the Assistant General Manager (AGM) of Aavin (Vellore Region), Mr. Mahendra Mali, in Kazhunchur village, based on a complaint. During the searches, the DVAC also seized six cartridges and two .32 SAA along with the gun. An FIR was filed against Mr. Mali for illegal possession of weapons under the Indian Arms Act, 1878. “The seized gun will be assessed for its previous usage. We will also take the suspect [the AGM] into police custody for further investigation,” Albert John, Assistant Superintendent of Police, Vellore, told The Hindu . The police said such country-made guns were found in northern States, especially in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand, and even in Gujarat. These were illegal weapons, used mainly for the personal security of their owners. Interestingly, Mr. Mali, who has been suspended, was a native of Uttar Pradesh who settled in Tamil Nadu after getting into government service three decades ago in 1987.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-police-to-test-seized-country-made-gun/article37431442.ece
11 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports eight fresh COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 49,982 with eight new cases reported on November 10. With a total of 48,666 having been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 183. The district’s toll is 1133.  In Ranipet district, five fresh cases were reported and the total number of cases stood at 43,490. In Tirupattur district, three new cases were reported on Wednesday and the total number of cases stood at 29,346. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was six, which took the total number of cases to 55,069. Of this, 54,269 have been discharged. The number of active cases stood at 132.  In Ranipet district, five fresh cases were reported and the total number of cases stood at 43,490||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-eight-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37431168.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli geared up to face monsoon: Monitoring Officer||All departments in the district were on high alert to face any hurdles and challenges during the monsoon, said District Monitoring Officer Apoorva. After chairing a meeting on the state of preparedness during the northeast monsoon, Ms. Apoorva said that all the dams in the district were safe. “Since water from all dams is being released for irrigation, fresh inflow due to monsoon rain could be stored in the dams,” she said. Stating that 10% of the total number of irrigation tanks in the district had got water up to 90% of their capacities, she said officers had been instructed to keep a close watch on the steps to prevent any breaches on the bunds. Temporary maintenance of the roads that were damaged by the rain in Tirunelveli city was being done by the Corporation. The roads could be relayed after the monsoon, she said. Special Monitoring Officer Abhin Dinesh Modak, Collector V. Vishnu, Commissioner of Police N.K. Senthamarai Kannan, Deputy Inspector General of Police Praveen Kumar Abinapu, Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan, and Corporation Commissioner Vishnu Chandran were present. Meanwhile, Mr. Modak inspected various flood-prone areas in Tirunelveli district on Wednesday. Along with senior police officials, he inspected different parts of low-lying areas in Tirunelveli city and rural areas. He visited Kurukkuthurai, Karuppudurai and various dams in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirunelveli-geared-up-to-face-monsoon-monitoring-officer/article37431490.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 101 new cases in Coimbatore||A total of 101 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The Health Department said that 107 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,132 active cases. One more person from Coimbatore died of the disease, taking the toll to 2,433. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1.2 % on Tuesday. Tiruppur district reported 52 fresh cases, which took the tally to 96,050. In the Nilgiris, 14 persons tested positive.With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases stands at 33,743.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-101-new-cases-in-coimbatore/article37431101.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Inconvenience to road users||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inconvenience-to-road-users/article37431205.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Kasthuri Sreenivasan Trust: ‘Creator Series’ Art Exhibition, Kasthuri Sreenivasan Art Centre, 10 a.m.    Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: National Education Day celebrations, 10.30 a.m.  Sri Krishna College of Engineering and Technology: First-year MBA orientation programme, 10 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Elocution competition on ‘Recover and Revitalise Education for the COVID-19 Generation’, 2.45 p.m.  KPR College of Arts Science and Research: Webinar on ‘Orientation programme on Sustainable Development Goals’, 12 noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article37431093.ece
11 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Sudha Murty tells graduating students to come to the aid of the poor||Chairperson of Infosys Foundation Sudha Murty motivated students of Karnataka State Akka Mahadevi Women’s University to do well in their chosen field of activity and try and help the poor and needy whenever possible. She was delivering her convocation address online, to the graduating students of the university on Tuesday. “Women have been gifted with management skills naturally. These skills should be utilised in the right manner. We must always tell the truth. But we should learn to tell the truth in soft, gentle and soothing words,” she said. “This degree is not only an academic achievement but is also a reminder of your responsibility. You should help the needy, instil confidence in them and encourage them. You should console them with love, empathy and compassion,’’ she said. Ms. Murthy spoke of how Akka Mahadevi motivated millions of women to become writers. “One needs absolute focus of one’s mind, body and soul to achieve remarkable goals in life. If one possesses the courage to live in the real world, anybody can be an achiever. If you spend most of your time in pursuing your goals, you can definitely achieve the,’’ she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sudha-murty-tells-graduating-students-to-come-to-the-aid-of-the-poor/article37431226.ece
11 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Despite odds, Kushtagi girl does well in NEET||Rekha Adur, a young girl from the backward Kushtagi taluk in Koppal district, has braved the bereavement of her parents to excel in NEET. Despite being orphaned just before NEET, Rekha Adur has scored 591 marks to obtain an all-India rank of 22,883. Rekha Adur’s mother, Rajeshwari Adur, ended her life due to some problems in April this year. Rekha Adur’s father, Siddappa Adur, a school teacher, died of a heart attack in July. This affected her badly and she started feeling depressed. She was preparing for NEET at Shaheen Residential School in Bidar. Her fellow students and school counsellor helped her come to terms with her loss and face the examination boldly. She is confident that she will get a seat under government quota. She wants to study beyond MBBS and specialise in the treatment of heart diseases as she lost her father and grandmother to cardiac diseases. However, she faces difficulties in financing her studies. Shaheen College management has offered to pay for her tuition fees for the five-and-a-half year course, that comes to around Rs. 3 lakh. Abdul Quadeer, secretary of the Shaheen Education Society, handed over a cheque for Rs. 60,000 to her at a small ceremony in Bidar on Monday. Rekha Adur continues to live in the Shaheen College hostel in Bidar. Mr. Quadeer also promised her that the school will pay for her hostel expenses, if needed. Those wanting to help, can contact Tousif Madikeri, Shaheen School CEO on Ph: 9591802687.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/despite-odds-kushtagi-girl-does-well-in-neet/article37431218.ece
11 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Quality improvement programme||The department of Pharmaceutics and Pharmaceutical Quality Assurance in KLE College of Pharmacy launched an AICTE-sponsored two-week quality improvement programme (QIP) on “Focused Shift In Pharma Outlook: From Evolution To Revolution” here on Monday. Scientist E, NITM-ICMR, Belagavi, Bannappa Unger, who inaugurated the programme, spoke on developments in the pharma sector and acquirement of technical and soft skills. Rajashree Masareddy gave an overview of the QIP. Vice-Principal M.B. Patil welcomed the gathering. Anjana Adhyapak, Bhaskar Kurangi, Kishori Sutar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quality-improvement-programme/article37431214.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP schools and colleges see record rise in admissions||The reopening of physical classes in schools is proving to be a novel challenge to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The civic body is faced with the problem of plenty, given an increase in the number of admissions to the educational institutions it runs. The BBMP runs 91 nursery (pre-primary), 16 primary and 33 high schools, 16 pre-university colleges and five-degree colleges. This year, the number of admissions is upwards of 25,000, though the current infrastructure can support only around 18,000 students. Enrollment is likely to rise as the admission process to pre-primary schools that reopened only on November 8 is still under way. Apart from the shortage of teachers, the schools and colleges do not have the required infrastructure to support these many enrollments. “The current infrastructure can support only 18,000 students. Enrollment in primary schools has increased considerably when compared to pre-COVID times,” Umesh B.S., BBMP Assistant Commissioner (Education), told The Hindu . Citing the example of the primary school in Maruthi Mandir ward, he said there were over 600 students in classes I to VII. “We do not have enough classrooms to accommodate the students. We have borrowed three classrooms from the Government high school,” he said. Similar problems are faced in schools in Byraveshwaranagar, Cleveland Town, Magadi Road, Panchasheelanagar, Herohalli and Mahalakshmi Layout. Civic officials attributed the increase in attendance to parents unable to afford private schools due to salary cuts or job loss. Some private schools are also closing down, said Mr. Umesh. “It is a fact that there is a drop in the number of admissions to private schools. We are not rejecting any enrolment to our institutions,” he claimed. Since the schools re-opened, around 90% attendance was recorded in pre-university colleges, 80% in high schools and over 55% in primary schools. “We will know the attendance and enrollment rates in pre-primary only after a couple of weeks,” he said. However, though the schools have reopened, the civic body is yet to distribute uniforms, shoes, notebooks to the students. “We have already distributed the textbooks. The process to procure the required number of uniforms, shoes and notebooks has already been initiated and we will be able to distribute it to the students next month,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-schools-and-colleges-see-record-rise-in-admissions/article37431006.ece
11 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bitcoin scam: Cong. heightens attack as Bommai reaches Delhi||Hours after Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai left for New Delhi to meet party leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Opposition Congress heightened its attack on the Bitcoin scam, demanding that the Chief Minister should make public details on the status of investigation. This comes amidst speculations that the Chief Minister may brief the party top brass on the case. Though Mr. Bommai made it clear that the trip to Delhi is related to irrigation projects and a programme being organised by a media house, his statement that he would seek an appointment with Mr. Modi and BJP national president J.P. Nadda have triggered speculation that he may be trying to appraise them about the Bitcoin scam. The Congress has alleged that the scam, running to several crores, involves two top BJP leaders. Some leaders had even speculated it could lead to change of guard in the State again. Responding to this, BJP national general secretary and state in-charge Arun Singh on Sunday sought to put an end to speculations in this regard by saying that there was no question of effecting change of guard in the state. However, soon after the Chief Minister left for Delhi, the Congress heightened its attack with former Minister Priyank Kharge remarking again that Mr. Bommai was bound to lose his post in the coming days because of the scam. He told reporters in Kalaburagi that the children of BJP leaders, besides some officials, were involved in the scam. In Bengaluru, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar demanded that details related to the case including the quantum of Bitcoins seized, and those involved should be put in public domain. He claimed that whatever information the Congress had was, in fact, passed on by the BJP leaders and police officers. Responding to allegations that the son of a Congress leader was involved in the scam, Mr. Shivakumar said if it is true, the government could arrest him. Meanwhile, former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy accused both the BJP and Congress of trying to hush up the scam. He alleged that the national parties were trying to protect the guilty by indulging in mud-slinging. At the root of the political row is the speculation that an American agency had flagged the Bitcoin case with their Indian counterparts and the Prime Minister’s Office has sought details of the case. The scam unravelled after the city police chargesheeted hacker Srikrishna in three cases and alleged that he hacked multiple United States of America-based bitcoin exchange wallets and stole over 5,000 bitcoins, They said they had failed to recover any bitcoin, leading to questions on their whereabouts and alleged cover-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bitcoin-scam-cong-heightens-attack-as-bommai-reaches-delhi/article37431027.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 sewage surveillance to be done at micro level||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has decided to extend the COVID-19 sewage surveillance project to the micro level across all wards in Bengaluru. Earlier this year, in May, the Government had launched the initiative to track the emergence of COVID-19 clusters on a pilot basis in 45 wards. The civic body, with the assistance from the Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB), has been collecting sewage samples every day from across the city. The samples are processed by a molecular solutions laboratory and tested for the presence of COVID-19 virus and put through genome sequencing. K.V. Trilok Chandra, BBMP Special Commissioner (Health), told The Hindu that since the pilot was taken up, over 1,000 sewage samples had been processed. So far, no variant of concern had been detected, he said. “We have now decided to take it to the micro level. By testing random samples, we will not get any actionable intelligence. If done at the ward level, we will be able to increase testing and surveillance if traces of the virus are detected,” he said and added that to begin with, a few samples from each ward would be collected. This is likely to begin next week, he said. More cases Earlier, speaking to reporters, BBMP’s Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta admitted that four wards — Bellandur, Begur, Koramangala and Hagadur — in the city were reporting more cases than others. “We are monitoring the situation and have not relaxed surveillance. Genome sequencing is also being undertaken to ascertain if any new strain has been found, apart from continuing with containment activities,” he said. Asked about vaccination for children aged above 12 years, the civic chief said that there still was no clear direction in this regard from the State Government. “Discussions have happened and there is a clear-cut line of thinking about vaccinating children. Once the government issues guidelines or directions, we will put it in place,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-sewage-surveillance-to-be-done-at-micro-level/article37431019.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||After a long gap, BMTC to induct new buses||After a long delay, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is all set to induct nearly 1,000 buses into its existing fleet in six months. This includes 565 BSVI buses, which it is procuring with the support of the State Government. BMTC will be the first corporation in the State to introduce BSVI buses. In addition to this, under the Smart City project, the corporation will operate 90 non-air conditioned electric buses and another 300 electric-buses under the FAME 2 project. With the pandemic putting a strain on finances, the State Government had instructed BMTC not to make fresh capital investment for new buses. The last time the corporation made a significant addition to its fleet was in 2017-18 when it procured 1,406 buses. In the previous year (2019-20) only 361 buses were inducted, while none were procured in 2020-21. “BMTC is not spending any money for the induction of new buses. We are using subsidies available under Smart City projects and FAME to operate electric buses. Take the example of FAME 2: for each bus, the corporation gets a subsidy of Rs. 55 lakh from the Central government and 33 lakh from the State Government. The introduction of 300 e-buses will change the way we operate buses in the city,” said V. Anbukumar, Managing Director of BMTC. BMTC will operate e-buses through a private player, where it will pay the operator an operational cost. Electric buses under the Smart City project are likely to roll out next week with five buses. By December, all the 90 buses will be operational. Mr. Anbukumar said old buses will be scrapped once the new vehicles are inducted into the fleet. But with no new buses in recent years, the corporation is making do with its existing fleet. Many passengers have vented their ire on social media by complaining about poor maintenance of buses by sharing videos of the roof leaking during the rains. “After a bus completes 9 lakh kilometres of operations, we have to send it for scrapping. Owing to the non-induction of buses, we are making best use of the available fleet and not curtailing schedules for the benefit of our commuters. Every year, we have to scrap 700 to 800 buses,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/after-a-long-gap-bmtc-to-induct-new-buses/article37431004.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. must upgrade DIMHANS by March 1, 2022: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday directed the State Government to upgrade the Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (DIMHANS) as higher centre for psychiatry by March 1, 2022. Delay due to lack of fund or any other reason should not be there when the government has decided to upgrade the institute to a higher centre for psychiatry at a cost of Rs. 75 crore while making a provision of Rs. 10 crore in the 2021-22 Budget, the court said. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin shankar Magadum issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition, filed in 1996 by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority, through which the court is monitoring facilities being provided to treat mentally ill persons across the state. The government should take all the steps expeditiously to make DIMHANS a higher centre for psychiatry by March 2022 by following all norms that are required to be adhered to while setting up a higher centre for psychiatry, the court said. MRI machine While giving time till March 1, for the government to import and install an MRI machine at DIMHANS, the Bench said it was not at all satisfied with the explanation given by the Principal Secretary, Medical Education Department, for delay in procuring the machine. The court had on March 5, 2020, set a deadline of six weeks for the government to procure the MRI machine, and during last couple of days, the Bench had pulled up the officers for not complying with the court’s directions even after 18 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-must-upgrade-dimhans-by-march-1-2022-hc/article37431025.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Council polls: JD(S), Cong. have uphill task picking candidates||With just about a week before the Election Commission’s notification setting into motion the process of biennial elections to 25 seats of the Karnataka Legislative Council, the Opposition Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) are grappling with issues of candidature in seats that they have held so far. As 25 members are completing their term in the Upper House on January 5, 2022, the elections are being held on December 10, the Election Commission announced on Tuesday. These members include 14 from Congress, six from BJP, four from JD(S), and one Independent. Congress sources said some of its sitting members are disinclined to contest as they foresee difficulty to retain their seats owing to the changed composition in the gram panchayats. Not confident of victories, party sources said, Gopalaswamy in Hassan, Basavaraj Patil Itagi in Raichur, and M. Narayanaswamy in Bengaluru Rural, among others, have not shown interest. Former Council Chairman K. Prathapachandra Shetty in Dakshina Kannada has also indicated his unwillingness to contest citing health reasons though the Congress is likely to retain the seat. In Vijayapura, of the two seats, the party is likely to field only one candidate to enable victory for Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil, sources said. ‘Reservation expressed’ Congress sources said the members have expressed reservation because the BJP has improved its position in gram panchayats (though not fought on party symbols), and also precedence has it that the ruling party has an edge in the biennial polls to the Council from local bodies. In the light of the changed situation, sources acknowledged that it is hard for the party to retain the 13 seats that it held of the 25 seats going for polls. With less than 18 months for the Legislative Assembly polls, some of the members have also expressed their keenness to contest in 2023, skipping the ensuing polls, causing problems for the party leadership. Meanwhile, former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy said the party will finalise its candidate for Tumakuru after meeting local leaders, while candidates for Mysuru, Mandya, Ramanagaram, and Bengaluru Rural will be announced shortly. Of the five JD(S) members retiring, C.R. Manohar, Kanthraj, and Sandesh Nagaraj, are learnt to be leaving the party following which the JD(S) is looking for fresh faces. Mr. Manohar and Mr. Nagaraj are speculated to get ticket from BJP. “There is also demand from party leaders to contest in Raichur, Vijayapura, and Kalaburagi, which we are considering,” said Mr. Kumaraswamy. He also said that the candidate from Hassan will be decided by the former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/council-polls-jds-cong-have-uphill-task-picking-candidates/article37431029.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC concerned over delay in procuring hi-tech medical emergency system||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday expressed displeasure over the delay in taking a fresh approval from the State Cabinet for the revised tender to procure hi-tech medical emergency system with modern ambulances, despite an assurance given to the court on August 31 that fresh tender would be floated within four weeks. “We cannot appreciate the manner in which the State Government in proceeding with the matter of providing Emergency Medical Response Ambulances with GPS system although it is of utmost importance and in public interest,” the court observed. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum made these observation in its order during the hearing on a PIL petition filed by Bharat Punarothana Trust, Bengaluru. The Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, had on August 31 said that Cabinet approval would be obtained to float the new tender within two weeks and a fresh tender would be uploaded in the e-procurement portal of the Government within two weeks from the Cabinet approval. Failure to comply As the Government counsel on Wednesday sought 10 more days to comply with the undertaking given to the court on August 31 while stating that Cabinet approval is yet to be obtained, the Bench expressed its displeasure over the Government’s failure to stick to its commitment made to the court. The Bench also observed that it failed to understand as to why the GPS system cannot be installed in the existing fleet of 108 ambulance services as the Government counsel could not answer the questions on how the Government would modernise the ambulance system. The Bench adjourned further hearing by two weeks while hoping that the Government would act with utmost urgency in this matter of public interest.  The Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, had on August 31 said that Cabinet approval would be obtained to float the new tender within two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-concerned-over-delay-in-procuring-hi-tech-medical-emergency-system/article37431014.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka reports 293 new cases, four deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 293 new cases of COVID-19. With this the total number of positive cases rose to 29,90,528. Bengaluru Urban district recorded 187 fresh cases, the maximum across the State. Four patients succumbed to COVID-19 on Wednesday, two deaths were reported from Bengaluru Urban, one each from Belagavi and Dakshina Kannada. With this, the death toll rose to 38,122. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 323 people were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,44,422. At present, there are 7,955 active patients across Karnataka. The positivity rate for the day was 0.36%, while the case fatality rate was 1.36%. Around 79,996 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 56,4632 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,15,72,429.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-reports-293-new-cases-four-deaths/article37431016.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Apartment complex security guard stabs 65-year-old resident||A 65-year-old man was stabbed to death by a security guard of the apartment complex that he lived in. The incident took place in the basement of the building on Wednesday. “The victim, Bhaskar Reddy, was living with his son in an apartment at AECS layout. We have arrested the security guard, identified as Basanth, 20, and recovered the knife from him,” said the police. According to the police. Mr. Reddy was the secretary of the building association and was supervising the maintenance and security arrangements of the apartment. The accused, Basanth, who hails from Nepal, had taken up the job of security and maintenance duty three months ago. The probe revealed that Basanth was irregular at work and Reddy often pulled him up for tardiness and failing to do his job. On Wednesday, he inspected the basement to check on some routine building work that Basanth was supposed to have carried out. While Reddy was questioning him, the guard stabbed him with a knife that he was carrying. The elderly man collapsed on the ground and started bleeding profusely. Residents, on hearing the commotion, rushed him to a nearby hospital where he succumbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/apartment-complex-security-guard-stabs-65-year-old-resident/article37431017.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Potholes: AAP files over 75 complaints against BBMP ex-councillors||Citing inaction on the part of civic authorities in tackling the pothole menace, the Aam Aadmi Party-Karnataka has lodged over 75 complaints in around 40 police stations across the city against former councillors and officials of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). At a press conference on Wednesday, president of AAP’s Bengaluru unit Mohan Dasari said that despite several deadlines, the condition of city roads remains deplorable. “This year alone, eight persons have lost their lives in accidents caused by potholes. These are cases of ‘involuntary manslaughter’ and civic officials, contractors and elected representatives must be held responsible for deaths and injuries,” he said. A few weeks ago, AAP had launched a helpline and urged citizens to report potholes in their areas. “Over 1,000 people responded. We promised them legal aid to file cases against BBMP officials and elected representatives. However, none came forward as they were scared of the repercussions. Therefore, at the ward level, AAP members registered complaints in the jurisdictional police stations,” he said and added that complaints have been registered against 35 former councillors. Ashok Mrutunjaya from AAP’s Mahadevapura unit alleged that party members were made to wait for hours and that the police refused to register complaints. “Mahadevapura Assembly constituency has the worst roads and ironically generates the most tax in the city. The roads in Bellandur, Varthur and Kadugodi wards are in a deplorable condition. Bellandur police station did not register the complaint and we were made to wait for hours,” he alleged. Recently, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai stated that Rs. 20,000 crore had been spent on roads in the city. Demanding a detailed account on the spending, Mr. Dasari demanded an investigation by a high-powered committee. “Civic Chief Gaurav Gupta has given another deadline of seven days. At the end of seven days, if even a single pothole remains, we will lay siege to the BBMP,” he threatened. Naganna, vice-president of AAP’s city unit, said filing criminal cases was the preliminary stage. “We are contemplating filing a writ petition in the High Court seeking a CBI inquiry into the money that has been spent on roads,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/potholes-aap-files-over-75-complaints-against-bbmp-ex-councillors/article37431001.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Attempt to rob petrol station cashier foiled||The staff of a petrol pump station at Byatarayanapura foiled a robbery attempt by two armed men. The perpetrators attacked the cashier on Monday evening undeterred by the presence of people and motorists on the busy Mysuru Road. According to the police, the unidentified duo rode into the bunker on bike. One of the men, approached the cashier seeking directions to an address. While he was trying to help them, he tried to snatch the cash bag after pulling out a dagger. The cashier raised the alarm and dodged the dagger, while holding on to the bag. Other staff rushed to his help and pelted the men with stones as he was armed. The attacker joined his accomplice on the bike and the two rode off. The Byatarayanapura police rushed to the spot and conducted a probe and collected CCTV footage from in and around the area to identify the attacker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/attempt-to-rob-petrol-station-cashier-foiled/article37431010.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BU invites applications for posts of guest faculty||The Bangalore University has invited applications for posts of full-time/part-time guest faculties to teach in postgraduate departments under the faculties of arts, science, commerce, education, and physical education at BU, Bengaluru, and at the PG centre, Ramanagaram, for the academic year 2021-22. Candidates with a master’s degree in respective subjects can submit the applications in prescribed form by downloading from the university websitewww.bangaloreuniversity .ac.inalong with the relevant copies of documents to the respective directors, principals, chairpersons/coordinators of the postgraduate departments under the faculties of arts, science, commerce, education, and physical education, Bangalore University, Jnanabharathi campus, Bengaluru-560056 on or before November 16, 2021.  Candidates with a master’s degree in the respective subjects can apply by November 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bu-invites-applications-for-posts-of-guest-faculty/article37431023.ece
11 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||ABBS to hold online faculty development programme||Acharya Bangalore B School (ABBS), will organise an online faculty development programme, AICTE ATAL, on Application of Blockchain Technology and Artificial Intelligence in the Service Sectors (Advanced Level) starting from November 15 to 19. According to a release from ABBS, the sessions will be conducted by Professors of IIMs, IIITDM, other leading institutions and experts from industries. Those interested to participate may login to https://aicte-india.org /atalacademy/login for participants’ registration. No participation fee for this FDP. On successful completion, all participants will be provided a certificate from AICTE ATAL directly, the release stated. For details, contact C. Sengottuvelu, FDP coordinator and professor, ABBS, on dr.sengottuvelu@abbs.edu.in, or call +91 7358533819.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abbs-to-hold-online-faculty-development-programme/article37430999.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kadalekai Parishe to be allowed||Last year, due to the pandemic, Kadalekai Parishe (groundnut fair) was a low-key affair. This year, however, with the number of COVID-19 cases on the decline, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and the district administration have decided to facilitate the popular fair, following all protocols. BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said: “After the outbreak of pandemic, celebration of cultural and traditional fairs were restricted to curtail the spread of COVID-19. Now, as the number of cases has dropped, there is no necessity to impose a prohibition on these fairs. We will facilitate the festivities of the fair. The organiser is in consultation with the jurisdictional officer to plan the fair by following COVID-19 protocols.” Meanwhile, Dodda Basavanna temple administration has written to the higher-ups in the district administration seeking guidelines to organise the fair. “Last year, we allowed only darshan by following the queue system. The State Government in its guidelines had restricted fairs and other celebrations involving mass gathering at temples. We will go by the instructions from the higher-ups while organising the fair,” said a source. Usually, the fair is conducted for two days from the last Monday of Karthika Masa. Deputy Commissioner of Bengaluru Urban district J. Manjunatha, too, said considering the drop in the cases of COVID-19, the fair will be allowed. “After the drop in cases, the State Government has relaxed norms. Conducting the fair will benefit many farmers,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kadalekai-parishe-to-be-allowed-with-protocols/article37431012.ece
11 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water adalat today||BWSSB will hold a water adalat on Thursday from 9.30 a.m. to 11 a.m. to address grievances connected to water billing, delay in providing water supply, sanitary connections, delay in converting from domestic connection to non-domestic connection, and other related issues. According to a release, the adalat will be held at the following subdivisions: (East-2)-3, (East-1)-2, (South-2), (South East-4), (West-2), (South West-2), (South East-2), (North West-3), (Central -2), (North -2), (North East-1) and (North Village-1). Consumers can contact helpline number 1916 or WhatsApp on 8762228888.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-adalat-today/article37431000.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Proud to have celebrated Tipu Jayanti: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said that he was proud of having celebrated Tipu Jayanti as a state-sponsored event during his tenure as Chief Minister. Speaking to reporters, he said that Tipu, a 19th century king of Mysuru, had fought the British bravely and brought about many far-reaching reforms in administration and land laws. The Sangh Parivar was targeting him because of his religious faith, he said. ‘Patronised temples’ “Tipu patronised Hindu temples and institutions. He built temples even as he built mosques. It is only communal-minded organisations like RSS who cannot see it,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. During Mr. Siddaramaiah’s tenure, Tipu Jayanti was celebrated as a state event, which was scrapped by the BJP Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/proud-to-have-celebrated-tipu-jayanti-siddaramaiah/article37431021.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Survey of Wakf properties ordered||Haj and Muzrai Minister Shashikala Jolle has said that a survey had been ordered to ascertain the status of about 46,000 Wakf properties across Karnataka in a bid to protect them. Speaking to reporters, Ms. Jolle said there were more than 32,300 Wakf institutions and over 46,000 properties in the state. She suggested that if open Wakf spaces are developed, revenue can be generated, which can be utilised for the development of the community. “There is paucity of finance to appoint advocates to fight cases in court to protect hundreds of crores worth properties that are now under litigation. It would help if the Central Wakf Council bear the legal cost, and result in quicker resolution in courts,” she said. Haj registration begins After a gap of two years, she inaugurated the online registration process for Haj pilgrimage. Online application can be submitted till January 31, 2022, after which pilgrimage beneficiaries will be selected through a lottery system in the presence of the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/survey-of-wakf-properties-ordered/article37431022.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pourakarmikas stage protest||The BBMP Pourakarmikara Sangha, which launched its ‘Bengaluru Jatha’ last month, held a protest at Mayo Hall, M.G. Road on Wednesday, to draw attention to their long-pending demands. One of the demands is for wages to be increased to Rs. 35,000. They also want BBMP to regularise services of not just pourakarmikas, but drivers and helpers as well. Other demands include provision of housing, school fees for children and basic amenities including toilets and restrooms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pourakarmikas-stage-protest/article37430998.ece
11 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Obavva Jayanti postponed||The State Government has put off Onake Obavva Jayanti that was set to be observed on Thursday. The decision has been taken in view of the model code of conduct enforced due to the elections to 25 Council seats, states a circular. The government had given the green signal to celebrate the birth anniversary of Obavva, wife of a soldier in charge of the watchtower in Chitradurga fort, who fought the forces of Hyder Ali in 18th Century, as a state-sponsored event from this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/obavva-jayanti-postponed/article37431028.ece
11 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Model code of conduct in force||The model code of conduct in the wake of elections to the Legislative Council has come into effect, said Kavita Rajaram, Additional Deputy Commissioner, in Hassan on Wednesday. The election for the MLC representing local bodies will be held on December 10. At a press conference, Ms. Kavita Rajaram said the notification for the election would be issued on November 16. The nomination papers would be accepted until November 23. The scrutiny of papers would be held on November 24. The last day to withdraw papers would be November 26. The counting of votes would be on December 14, she said. Additional SP B.N.Nandini said the model code of conduct would be implemented effectively. The public and elected representatives had to adhere to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/model-code-of-conduct-in-force/article37431397.ece
11 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||29 fresh cases of COVID-19 in Hassan||Hassan reported 29 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. With that, the total number of cases increased to 1,11,853 in the district. Among the fresh cases, 12 were in Hassan, six in Channarayapatna, five in Arkalgud, three in Belur, two in Arsikere and one in Sakleshpur taluk. So far 1,376 people have died due to the infection in the district . As many as 109 people are under treatment. Shivamogga reported six fresh cases on the day. Of them, four were in Shivamogga and two were from other districts. So far 1,072 people have died in the district and 31 people are under treatment, said a bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/29-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-in-hassan/article37431398.ece
11 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Minor girl raped||A minor girl was allegedly raped by the father of her friend in N.R.Pura taluk on Tuesday. The police have arrested the accused. The 16-year-old girl had been to meet her friend when the incident happened. Her friend was not at home. The accused forced her to wait, stating that her friend would come back soon. Later, he raped her. The girl informed her mother about the incident. A complaint was filed with Balehonnur Police. The police have arrested Chandru, the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minor-girl-raped/article37431399.ece
11 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hasanamba fest collection Rs. 1.54 crore||Hasanamba Temple and Siddeshwara Temple in Hassan accrued Rs. 1.54 crore from various sources including hundi collections during the Hasanamba Festival that concluded on Saturday. The temple administration counted hundi collections on Monday. According to a communiqué from the district administration, the collection at Hasanamba Temple hundi was Rs. 83.89 lakh and at Siddeshwara Temple hundi, Rs. 6.5 lakh. The total hundi collection was Rs. 90.4 lakh. Besides that, the administration collected Rs. 63.97 lakh by selling tickets for special entry into the temple during the festival. The festival began on October 28. More than four lakh devotees visited the temple. Assistant Commissioner B.A. Jagadish, administrator of the temple, monitored the counting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hasanamba-fest-collection-rs-154-crore/article37431395.ece
11 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Congress Dalit CM issue will be decided by high command’||The former Deputy Chief Minister G. Parameshwar has said that the issue of a Dalit Chief Minister will be finalised by the party high command and they (Congress leaders) will not indulge in a public debate over it. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Wednesday, Dr. Parameshwar said that he had never discussed the issue of a Dalit Chief Minister in public and will not do that in future also. “The issue will be discussed on the party forum after winning 113 seats in the next Assembly elections. The issue will come up for discussion after winning the elections. And, the party high command will take a final decision on it,” he said. He said that the BJP is politicising the statement of the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah that some had gone to the BJP for the sake of livelihood. Although Mr. Siddaramaiah had clarified the matter, the BJP is trying to use it to politically malign him, he said. Regarding Priyank Kharge’s remarks about the Chief Minister’s name coming up in the bitcoin scam and seeking clarification from the Chief Minister on the issue, Dr. Parameshwar said that he concurred with Mr. Kharge and that he will also demand clarification from the Chief Minister. He said that there is misrule everywhere in the State and corruption is rampant in almost all departments. Files will move in the Vidhana Soudha only on the payment of a certain percentage of project cost and there are corrupt people everywhere in Mr. [Basavaraj] Bommai’s government, he said. Regarding the fuel prices hike and the subsequent reduction, Dr. Parameshwar said that the government should give details of tax collection on petroleum products so far and also details on how much of it has been spent for the people. This government is just trying to fool the people on the issue by telling blatant lies, he said. Dr. Parameshwar also sought to know who will bring down the prices of essential commodities that have skyrocketed due to the rising fuel prices and other wrong policies of the Union and State Governments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-dalit-cm-issue-will-be-decided-by-high-command/article37431222.ece
11 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||598.7 route kilometres electrification completed in record 16 months||The South Western Railway has completed electrification of over 598.7 route kilometres in the last 16 months to create a record of sorts. According to a press release issued here, from 5% of the railway network, i.e., 208 route kilometres in 2016, the railway zone has now achieved electrification of 1,233 route kilometres (till March 2021), which is 34% of the network, as part of its target of achieving net zero carbon emission. The zone plans to electrify 692 route kilometres by March 2022. As per the green initiatives being implemented across the Railways, the entire rail network is being electrified to provide greener transport and reduce carbon footprint. In South Western Railway, electrification work, being taken up jointly by Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd. (RVNL) and Central Organization for Railway Electrification (CORE), is in full swing. In the period from July 2020 to March 2021, 477 route kilometres of electrification work has been completed and the zone has also received authorisation from the Commissioner of Railway Safety. It includes 99 route kilometres between Rayadurga-Thalaku-Chitradurga, 103 route kilometres between Kariganuru-Harlapur-Hulkoti, 65 route kilometres between Hubballi and Alnavar, 85 route kilometres between Anekal-Periyanagathunai-Palakodu and 125 route kilometres between Kudgi and Hotgi. In the current financial year from April 2021, 122 route kilometres of electrification has been completed so far. It includes 33 route kilometres between Alnavar and Londa, 33 route kilometres between Chitradurga and Chikjajur and 56 route kilometres between Chikkabanavara and Tumakuru. Further, 570 route kilometres of electrification is targeted for completion in the current financial year ending by March 2022. The electric loco trial between Hulkoti and Hubballi Bypass East (39 route kilometres) was conducted successfully on November 4. As much as 76 route kilometres between Palakoddu-Sivadi-Omalur, 45 route kilometres between Yelahanka and Chikkaballapur, 20 route kilometres between Kalgurki-Wandal, 11 route kilometres between Londa and Tinaighat, 113 route kilometres between Arsikere-Birur-Chikjajur, 61 route kilometres between Mysuru and Chamarajanagar, 48 route kilometres between Gadag and Hole Alur, 60 route kilometres between Tumakuru and Kardi, 47 route kilometres between Tinaighat and Castlerock and Kulem and Madgaon and 44 route kilometres between Bangarpet and Srinivaspur are also targeted for electrification in the current financial year. Before 2017, only 208 route kilometres between Bengaluru and Jolarpettai was electrified in the zone. In 2016-17, electrification of 259 route kilometres, in 2017-18 electrification of 95 route kilometres, in 2018-19 electrification of 41.6 route kilometres and in 2019-20 electrification of 143.1 route kilometres have been completed. Electrification has now been completed between Hubballi and Ballari and Ballari and Rayadurga. Electrification between Hubballi and Bengaluru is expected to be completed by March 2023. As per targets, by December 2023, all the major routes of the zone will be electrified. As per the release, General Manager of South Western Railway Sanjeev Kishore, along with Additional General Manager P.K. Mishra, Principal Chief Electrical Engineer Manoj Mahajan, recently conducted a meeting through videoconference with divisional railway managers of all the three railway divisions under it and top officials of RVNL and CORE to review progress. They directed the officials to expedite the electrification work so as to complete it as per the targets set, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/5987-route-kilometres-electrification-completed-in-record-16-months/article37431216.ece
11 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Cong. defends Siddaramaiah’s statement on Dalit leaders||Defending Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah over his remarks on Dalit leaders who had left the Congress and joined the BJP, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesperson Sharan Prakash Patil has said that the BJP is making an attempt to show the former Chief Minister in bad light by distorting his statement and project him as anti-Dalit. “It is true that Mr. Siddaramaiah referred to a few Dalit leaders by name and said that they had joined the BJP, an anti-Dalit party, for the sake of livelihood. The BJP leaders are, however, trying to project him as anti-Dalit by distorting his statement and conveniently applying it to the entire Dalit community,” Mr. Patil said at a press conference that he, along with another KPCC spokesperson Priyank Kharge, attended at the District Congress Committee office here on Wednesday. Hailing Mr. Siddaramaiah as a man of integrity and commitment towards the poor and unprivileged masses, Mr. Patil said that it was the Siddaramaiah government that had introduced an Act making a provision for allocation of budgetary funds under Special Component Plan (SCP) for Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Tribal Sub Plan (TSP) for Scheduled Tribes (STs) proportionate to the population of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. “Karnataka was the second State in the country to come up with such a radical law to ensure adequate fund flow for the development of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. In his prolonged political career, Mr. Siddaramaiah had always displayed genuine concerns in words and deeds for the development of the poor and marginalised sections. A number of programmes and initiatives that Mr. Siddaramaiah implemented in his five-year term as Chief Minister themselves speak volumes about his commitment to the downtrodden. The irony is that the BJP leaders who are accused of various frauds and have no moral rights are attacking Mr. Siddaramaiah for his remarks,” he said. Referring to the recent Supreme Court decisions in the Pegasus spyware case and the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which four farmers were killed after an SUV in the convoy of Union Minister of State for Home Affairs and MP Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish ran over them, Mr. Patil said that the appointment of panels by the Supreme Court for investigation in the cases is a big slap on the BJP Governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Kharge, when asked about the bitcoin scam in the State, said that the government is deliberately denying investigation as many BJP leaders are involved in the scam. “It is a gigantic scam involving transactions of thousands of crores rupees. The government is making all efforts to deny and derail the investigation as many BJP leaders are involved in it. The scam will force Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to step down. The BJP had three Chief Ministers last time when it formed the government and the same will repeat this time also,” Mr. Kharge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-defends-siddaramaiahs-statement-on-dalit-leaders/article37431221.ece
11 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Kalaburagi emerging as Kalyana Karnataka’s crime capital under BJP rule’||Presenting data on increasing crimes in Kalaburagi district, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesperson Priyank Kharge said that Kalaburagi city has turned into the crime capital of Kalyana Karnataka. “The Congress government had realised the long-pending demand of establishing a Police Commissionerate in Kalaburagi hoping that it would contribute to the city’s development by improving the law and order situation. However, the city, under the last two-and-a-half years of BJP rule has emerged as the crime capital of Kalyana Karnataka,” Mr. Kharge said at a press conference here on Wednesday. Alleging the connivance of the police in criminal activities, Mr. Kharge said that smuggling and sale of ganja, gambling, cricket betting and illegal sale of liquor that had significantly flourished in a short span was thriving with the patronage of the police. “The police should be renamed as collection department as it shifted its primary task from maintaining law and order to collection of money from criminals in exchange of its protection to their criminal activities. For BJP leaders, the police has become the biggest source of revenue generation as they charge a huge amount of money for the transfer of police officers to particular posts of their choice. Soon after getting the postings by paying huge bribes, the officers in question start recovering the investment and making profits by allowing the mafias of drugs, gambling and cricket-betting to operate without any disturbance and exploit the common people,” Mr. Kharge said, adding that the drug peddlers had, with active support and protection from the police, established a systematic and well-oiled machinery for the distribution of drugs in every part of the city and district. Mr. Kharge also said that the higher officers in the police had, as a means to increase their revenues, set a target for each lower officer to report 50 cases every day and the lower officers target ordinary people like bike riders and fine them for petty offences as a bid to meet their target. “The police, which is hand in hand with the big criminals. is harassing the common people for money,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-emerging-as-kalyana-karnatakas-crime-capital-under-bjp-rule/article37431229.ece
11 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah’s comments are insulting not only to Dalits but also Ambedkar: BJP||Taking exception to comments on Dalits by Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah, who had said that Dalit leaders had quit the Congress and joined the BJP for the sake of livelihood, BJP State unit spokesperson and Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur questioned whether the former had switched parties for his livelihood. “Mr. Siddaramaiah’s words are insulting not just to Dalits but the Constitution drafted by Dr. B.R. Ambedkar as well. Politicians switch parties, just as Mr. Siddaramaiah himself did, for better positions to serve society and not for livelihood. Switching parties is a right of every politician,” Mr. Telkur said at a recent press conference here. Mr. Siddaramaiah had at an election rally in Sindgi recently said that the Dalits had quit the Congress and joined the BJP to secure their livelihood. Mr. Telkur also said that the Congress had humiliated Dr. Ambedkar by defeating him in an election and not allowing him to perform independently as a Law Minister in the Jawaharlal Nehru Cabinet. “Dr. Ambedkar was humiliated by the Congress. He was defeated by the Congress in an election. He was not allowed to work independently as a Law Minister. Even today, the Congress continues to display anti-Ambedkar and anti-Dalit approaches. The Congress, which had been treating Dalits, minorities and poor sections as its votebank, need not teach lessons to us on respecting these oppressed and marginalised communities,” Mr. Telkur said, calling upon the Dalits to be aware of the designs of the Congress. State vice-president of BJP’s Scheduled Caste Morcha Ambaraya Ashtagi warned of intensifying agitations across the State if Mr. Siddaramaiah did not tender an apology. “We have already had Statewide agitations condemning Mr. Siddaramaiah’s remarks. If he doesn’t tender a public apology, we will intensify the protests. Mr. Siddaramaiah became Chief Minister just six years after joining the Congress. He did it by sidelining all Dalit leaders, including Congress veteran M. Mallikarjun Kharge. He ensured the defeat of G. Parameshwara, a Dalit leader, in the 2013 Assembly elections to clear his way for the Chief Minister’s post. Taking Dalits for granted and treating them as its votebank without doing anything substantial for the development of the Dalit community has become a norm in the Congress. This approach towards Dalits in the Congress has been driving Dalit leaders to join other political parties,” Mr. Ashtagi said. BJP MLA from Gulbarga Rural Basavaraj Mattimadu and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiahs-comments-are-insulting-not-only-to-dalits-but-also-ambedkar-bjp/article37431224.ece
11 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Airlines urged to add more destinations from Kalaburagi||To fulfil the increasing demand of passengers, the officials of the Airports Authority of India have written to several airlines requesting them to introduce flights services on new routes from Kalaburagi Airport. As Kalaburagi Airport has helped commuters in this area, getting a very positive response, the officials have asked Star Air and Alliance Air to add three new destinations — Mumbai, Goa and Ahmedabad — to be served from Kalaburagi. Director of Kalaburagi Airport S. Gyaneshwar said that on an average, flights from Kalaburagi to Bengaluru, Delhi and Tirupati are operating with 85% occupancy. Providing passenger data, he said that 17,900 passengers travelled through this airport during the pandemic from April to September 2020. The number of passengers who travelled between April 2021 and September 2021 was 40,443, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/airlines-urged-to-add-more-destinations-from-kalaburagi/article37431227.ece
11 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Priyank Kharge invites BJP for public debate||Terming the BJP allergic to Kalyana Karnataka, especially Kalaburagi district, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson Priyank Kharge called upon the ruling party leaders to have a public debate on development works. “The contribution of the BJP to the development of Kalyana Karnataka is a big zero. The BJP is allergic to the region, especially Kalaburagi district. Having two Chief Ministers in its two-and-a-half years in the State is the BJP’s biggest achievement. The Congress, when it was in power, had worked hard for the development of the entire State and implemented many revolutionary welfare programmes benefiting the millions of poor,” he said. “Let the BJP leaders have a public debate with me on development initiatives taken up by the BJP and the Congress governments in the State, especially in Kalyana Karnataka,” Mr. Kharge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/priyank-kharge-invites-bjp-for-public-debate/article37431225.ece
11 November 2021||Kannur/Hassan,KARNATAKA||Maoist leaders sent to Kerala’s Viyur jail||Amid tight security, Maoist leaders B.G. Krishnamoorthy and Savitri were remanded to custody in Viyur jail, Kerala, after they were produced before the Thalassery Principal Sessions Court on Wednesday. Krishnamoorthy and Kabani Dalam Area Commander Rajith alias Savitri were arrested from the area adjoining the Karnataka and Kerala border by the National Investigation Agency on Tuesday. Tight security of police personnel in mufti was deployed when they were brought to the court by 10.25 a.m. While taking them through the court hall, Krishnamoorthy shouted hailing Maoism and condemning capitalism. They were produced before the court for Maoist activities charged under various sections of IPC and UAPA. While three cases have been are registered against Krishnamoorthy, Savitri is accused in more than six cases, which include five cases in Kelakam and one in Aralam. Besides 12 other cases have also registered for Maoist activities in Kannur and other places. Though district judge Jobin Sebastian initially remanded them for a month to Kannur Central jail, he changed the decision and remanded them to Viyur jail until December 9, after the prosecution pointed out certain security issues. Krishnamoorthy took over leadership after eight people were killed, including Kuppudevaraj, who was the secretary of the Western Ghats Zonal Committee of the Maoists. Meanwhile, the Chikkamagaluru police are expected to seek custody of Krishnamoorthy and Savitri. Both are facing several cases in connection with Naxal activities in Chikkamagaluru and other districts. Krishnamoorthy is a native of Sringeri and Savitri is from Kalasa. A senior police officer told The Hindu, Krishnamoorthy is wanted in 30 cases, including those registered under the Arms Act and UAPA in Chikkamagaluru. Similarly, there were around eight cases against Savitri. Krishnamoorthy was associated with Save Kudremukh and other struggles in the Malnad region since 2000. He is said to have been leading the Naxal movement in Karnataka and moved to the neighbouring states in recent years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/maoist-leaders-sent-to-keralas-viyur-jail/article37431033.ece
11 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Daily performances of Yakshagana melas begin||A series of daily Yakshagana performances of 2021-22 by melas (touring troupes) began in the coastal region on Wednesday with more-than-a-century-old Dharmasthala Manjunatheswara Krupaphoshita Yakshagana Mandali launching the first of the season’s shows. Manager of the Dharmasthala mela Girish Hegde said that the mela will stage its performances in Dharmasthala itself for 25 days till December 4. It will set out on a tour on December 5. The mela will continue to present short duration shows between 7 p.m. and midnight. A majority of its shows are “harake bayalatas” (organised and sponsored by those fulfilling their vows). “Our shows are booked for the next about 10 years,” he said. Another over-a-century-old mela, Kateel Durgaparameshwari Prasadita Dashavatara Yakshagana Mandali, will start its journey on November 29. It has now six troupes. Its Devi Mahatme show is the most sought-after and widely performed. The mela continues to perform all-night shows. P. Kishen Hegde, who owns five melas — Saligrama, Soukuru, Hiriyadkka, Madamakki and Megaravalli — told The Hindu that his over-a-50-year-old Saligrama Mela will begin its tour on December 6. The five troupes together is a team of about 300 persons. The Soukuru troupe will set out on its journey on November 29, Hiriyadkka on December 9, Madamakki on December 13 and Megaravalli tentatively on December 20. Mr. Hegde said that the Hiriyadkka troupe will present short duration shows. Occassionally, it will perform all-night shows. Otherwise, the short duration shows are performed between 8.30 p.m. and 1.30 p.m. A unique feature of the Hiriyadkka Mela is that a majority of its artistes are youngsters who are graduates, including B.Com degree holders, students and professionals working in banks. It includes an artiste who is pursuing Chartered Accountancy. “It is a troupe of youths who perform in the Tenku Thittu (southern school) style,” he said and added that the other troupes are from the Badagu Thittu (northern school). Mandarthi Sri Durgaparameshwari Dashavatara Yakshagana Mela attached to Mandarthi Durgaparameshwari Temple is another mela which is over a century old. Managing trustee of the temple H. Dhananjaya Shetty said that the five troupes of the mela will commence their daily performances on November 28. Like the Dharmasthala mela, the five troupes of the Mandarthi mela too will perform only in Mandarthi for about 15 to 20 days. They will go on their tour later. The five troupes put together is a team of about 250 persons, Mr. Shetty said and added that the shows are all-night ones. The coastal and Malnad belt have over 40 touring troupes of Yakshagana. During the 2020-21 season, they were forced to end their performances by March-end due to the lockdown. “The response to bookings this year is not that bad,” Mr. Hegde said. The daily shows, for about six months, will go on till May-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/daily-performances-of-yakshagana-melas-begin/article37431381.ece
11 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||English book on richness of Kannada literature||An English book on medieval Kannada poetry, which shows how Kannada literature flourished between the 12th and 19th centuries, is ready for release. Written by scholars B.A. Vivek Rai and C.N. Ramachandran, the work of about 400 pages, under print, is being brought out by Kannada University, Hampi. There are 10 chapters on vachana , ragale , satpadi , Dasa literature, sangatya , tripadi , tatwapada , sataka poetry, Yakshagana literature, and medieval prose. Begins with discussion Each chapter begins with a discussion on the nature and history of the particular form, followed by a brief introduction to major writers and works in that form. It concludes with selected verses translated into English. Mr. Ramachandran is a well-known critic, writer, and former professor of English at Mangalore University. Mr. Rai is a former Vice-Chancellor of Kannada University and Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), and also a former professor of Kannada at Mangalore University. The authors said that linguists trace, roughly, three stages of Kannaa as a language, spoken and written: Haagannaa (old Kannada, 5th century to 12th century), Naugannaa (middle Kannada, 12th to 19th century), and Hosagannaa (modern Kannada, 19th century onwards). The scholars have designated a phase roughly from the 9th century to the end of the 11th century as the classical period. The authors argue that medieval Kannada literature can be considered the richest period both in quality and quantity, owing to its different politico-religious ideologies, new metrical forms, constant experimentation, abundance of varying forms of literature, and writers of different religious identities. ‘Poetry was inclusive’ “Medieval Kannada poetry was inclusive, multi-faceted, and democratic,” Mr. Rai and Mr. Ramachandran told The Hindu . The first work on poetics in Kannada ( Kavirajamarga ), the first work in prose ( Voddaradhane ), the two epics by the great poet Pampa ( Adipurana and Vikramarjuna Vijaya ), the works of Ponna, Ranna, Chavundaraya, Nagavarma – and others who came a little later than Pampa – were all written during this period, they said. The authors said that three Bhakti-centred streams (Vachana, Haridasa compositions, and Tatwapada) flourished through the medieval period. People of all castes and classes got an opportunity to enter the literary field and write poetry during this period. For the first time in the history of Kannada literature, Dalits, socially mariginalised classes, and all those who depended on manual work and occupations considered “low” could claim equal status in Anubhava Manapa (in the 12th century) and compose vachanas. Similar social awareness was to be found during the period of Haridasa literature too. Many women writers emerged during this period. It was also during this period that Muslim poets, such as Motnahalli Hassan Sab, Channura Jalal Sab, and Bada Saheba, began to write in Kannada, in the 17th century. In Haridasa sahitya, Bada Saheba got initiated into the sect and composed about 700 songs. The most famous Muslim poet in the early part of the 19th century was Shishunala Sharif. Grammatical bonds Kannada, in the medieval period, not only freed itself from rigid grammatical bonds, but also opened itself freely to other languages. The tradition of reading, singing poetry in public, and explaining it in simple words, known as gamaka , began during this period and continues even today, the authors say. Yakshagana prasangas (performance texts) became a part of literature in the medieval period. The Yakshagana texts, available from the 16th century, are simultaneously a literary form and performance texts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/english-book-on-richness-of-kannada-literature/article37431032.ece
11 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Some trains on Konkan Rly. network to be regulated||Some trains running on the Konkan Railway network will be regulated for one hour to three hours from Thursday to facilitate upgrading work on Zuari Bridge and Mandovi Bridge in Goa. A release from Konkan Railway here said that the existing PTTE bearing of steel girder spans of both the bridges will be replaced during the upgrading work. Train No 04695 Kochuveli-Amritsar Special with journey commencing on November 10 will be regulated between Udupi and Madgaon for 180 minutes. Train No 02617 Ernakulam-H. Nizamuddin Special of November 10 and November 11 will be regulated between Karwar and Verna for 60 minutes. Train No 06072 Tirunelveli-Dadar Special of November 10 will be regulated at Madgaon for 60 minutes. Train No 06164 Kochuveli-Lokmanya Tilak (T) Special of November 11 will be regulated between Udupi and Madgaon for 180 minutes. Train No 09423 Tirunelveli-Gandhidham Special of November 11 will be regulated at Madgaon for 60 minutes. Train No 04695 Kochuveli-Amritsar Special of November 17 will be regulated between Karwar and Karmali for 140 minutes. Train No 02617 Ernakulam Jn.-H. Nizamuddin Special of November 17 will be regulated at Madgaon for 30 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/some-trains-on-konkan-rly-network-to-be-regulated/article37431379.ece
11 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MESCOM meeting||MESCOM will hold a consumers meeting at its Kaup sub-division office in Udupi district on November 15 from 10.30 a.m. to noon. It will be in the virtual mode. The link to participate is:https://meet.google.com/a- qo-vpxu-bhd. Call Ph: 0820-2579977.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mescom-meeting/article37431378.ece
11 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Woman dies in road accident near Maroli||A 34-year-old employee of a private speciality hospital died after she came under the wheels of a ready mix concrete vehicle near Maroli on Wednesday. The Mangaluru Traffic South Police gave the name of the deceased as Poornima. The police said that Poornima finished her work in First Neuro Hospital and was returning home in Kavoor on her scooter in the evening. Going straight from Padil Junction, Poornima lost control while taking a left turn towards Maroli and came under the rear wheels of the ready mix concrete vehicle that was ahead of her. Poornima died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-dies-in-road-accident-near-maroli/article37431383.ece
11 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Show-cause notice to NHAI official for skipping road safety meeting||Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao on Wednesday directed issuance of show-cause notice to the project director of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Mangaluru, for not attending the district road safety committee meeting, despite being informed about it. Chairing the meeting at Rajatadri, Manipal, Mr. Rao also directed the NHAI and National Highways Division of the State Public Works Department to eliminate all 34 black spots identified on national highways within two months. The Regional Transport Officer, police officers concerned, and NHAI officials should visit these spots again and submit a report on corrective measures. They should take all necessary steps to ensure safety of road users by erecting necessary direction boards, safety warnings, etc. He also stated that agencies involved in road construction should provide all facilities for the smooth commute of vehicles during the construction stage itself. The DC asked the police and the Transport Department to train one teacher each in every school and college on road safety measures so that the teachers would impart the same to students. Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhana directed the NHAI and the NH officials to remove all construction material and debris on the flanks of national highways forthwith. Such material remain dumped on highway flanks thereby causing many accidents, the SP said. Meanwhile, the department has registered 48,000 traffic violation cases from January to September in the district and collected Rs. 2.26 crore fine, he added. RTO Gangadhar and other officials were present. Meanwhile, chairing the district transport authority meeting, Mr. Rao said the authority would redress public complaints on transport issues at the earliest. Social worker Sudhir Kanchan Shiriyar urged the authority to provide more KSRTC bus services to rural areas and cancel permits of private bus operators who do not ply buses in rural areas. Shashidhar from Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha demanded roll back of bus fares in view of diesel price reduction and urged the authority to direct KSRTC to reintroduce Manipal-Mangaluru bus services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/show-cause-notice-to-nhai-official-for-skipping-road-safety-meeting/article37431385.ece
11 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Bank employee sentenced to four years for cheating retired schoolteacher||The I Additional District and Sessions Judge T.P. Ramalinge Gowda on Tuesday sentenced a bank employee to four years imprisonment and imposed a total fine of Rs. 15,000 on finding her guilty of cheating a retired school teacher. According to the charge sheet, Theresa D’Souza, the retired teacher, gave her pension to her relative Gracie Fernandez and asked her keep it in her (Ms. D’Souza’s) account in the bank’s branch in Milagres, where the latter was working. When Ms. D’Souza sought update of her account in the passbook, Ms. Fernandez made a manual entry in it and also issued a fake receipt. A few days later, when Ms. D’Souza checked the account details she realised that her account only had Rs. 15,571 instead of Rs. 5.46 lakh. When she went to Ms. Fernandez’s house to inquire about the amount, she was threatened by the latter and her husband. On a complaint, Ms. Fernandez was arrested and the charge sheet was filed. On November 2016, the II Additional Senior Civil Judge and Chief Judicial Magistrate acquitted Ms. Fernandez. Allowing the appeal by the State Government, Mr. Gowda sentenced Ms. Ferandez to four years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bank-employee-sentenced-to-four-years-for-cheating-retired-schoolteacher/article37431387.ece
11 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Stone quarrying a threat to Karijeshwara temple’||The Hindu Jagarana Vedike, Bantwal taluk unit, said here on Wednesday that the stone quarrying in the sorrundings of Karijeshwara temple hill is threatening the safety of the temple. It will organise a public awareness programme on the temple premises on November 21 to highlight the need to stop the quarrying activities. Talking to reporters here on Wednesday, HJV Puttur district unit’s Sampark Pramukh Narasimha Mani said for over several weeks stone quarrying is going in the vicinity of Karinja hills, on which the temple is situated. “Despite a number of representations to the authorities, quarrying has not been stopped and this is threatening the safety of the hillock. We want the district administration to forthwith stop stone quarrying in the vicinity,” Mr. Mani said. HJV organisation secretary Jagadish Karanth will take part in the awareness programme.    Meanwhile, the Punjalkatte police have put up banners on the way leading to the temple banning drinking alcohol and other activities that spoils the sanctity of the place. “If anybody is found indulging in activities that are banned, people can contact (Emergency Response Support System) 112 or call the police station on 08256279375),” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stone-quarrying-a-threat-to-karijeshwara-temple/article37431386.ece
11 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Rains give impetus to agriculture||Continuing rains preceded by an active south west monsoon has given an impetus to agriculture activity for the rabi season in the district which has achieved 81 per cent of the sowing target as on Wednesday. The target is 60,305 hectares across Mysuru against which sowing has been completed on 48,836 hectares so far. As per the statistics available from the Department of Agriculture, sowing has been completed on 47,731 hectares of land coming under rain-fed areas and 1,105 hectares under irrigated area. Nanajngud taluk leads in sowing and has achieved 116 per cent of the target and sowing has been completed in 22,010 hectares against a target of 8,100 hectares. In Hunsur, sowing has been completed on 9,695 hectares against a target of 9,800 hectares followed by Mysuru taluk where farmers have completed sowing on 2,960 hectares against the target of 3,275 hectares. In Periyapatna, against a target of 24,850 hectares, sowing has been completed in 22,010 hectares. Sowing was in full swing in T.Narsipur and K.R.Nagar while the figures from H.D. Kote were yet to be updated. Ragi, horse gram, cow pea, sugarcane, green gram, maize etc were the major crops being sown for the rabi season. Agricultural activity has been abetted by continuing rains and as against the normal rainfall of 796.3 mm of rains for the district from January 1 to November 9, Mysuru has received 824.6 mm. The district had received 795.2 mm of rainfall during the same period last year. The rainfall has been widespread and uniform across all the 8 taluks of the district shoring up the farm sector. H.D. Kote has received 889.8 mm from January 1 to November 9 against a normal of 889.8 mm for the same period. Even last year the region had received 813.5 mm, which was above normal. Hunsur has received 808.2 mm against a normal of 751.9 mm for the same period (Jan-Nov 9) and K.R.Nagar has received 755.9 mm against a normal of 696.9 mm. Mysuru taluk received 902.5 against a normal of 763 mm; Nanjangud 716.2 mm (691 mm normal), Periyapatana 876.8 mm (809.4 mm normal); T.Narsipur 844.4 mm (693.2 mm – normal). Only Sargur has received 791.3 mm against a normal of 910.7 mm. Meanwhile, the water level of the two major dams in the region – KRS and Kabini - continue to be at the Full Reservoir Level of 124.80 feet and 2,284 feet respectively. The quantum of water stored in the KRS is 49.45 tmc feet and at Kabini it is 19.52 tmc feet, according to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rains-give-impetus-to-agriculture/article37431402.ece
11 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah hits out at Nanjangud BJP MLA||Accusing BJP MLA representing Nanjangud reserved Assembly segment B. Harshavardhan of doing precious little for the development of the constituency, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has claimed that the MLA was only laying foundation stones for the programmes sanctioned during the previous Congress regime. In Nanjangud on Tuesday to unveil the statue of Sangolli Rayanna in Hosavidu village, Mr. Siddaramaiah lashed out at Mr. Harshavardhan, who had recently demanded a clarification or an apology from the former Chief Minister for his reported remarks on Dalit leaders joining the BJP. The former Chief Minister claimed that he had announced a series of developmental works in Nanjangud which went to by-polls in 2017 after former Minister V. Srinivas Prasad quit the Assembly. The Congress leader recalled that his government had approved and released funds for the multi-village drinking water project benefiting 126 villages, project to fill up 26 lakes in Hullahalli region, laying concrete roads in rural parts of Nanjangud, underground drainage project in different parts of the constituency and other civic amenity works. ‘No new projects’ Mr. Siddaramaiah alleged that Mr. Harshavardhan was spending his time laying foundation stones for the projects sanctioned in the previous Congress regime. Neither has he taken up any new project nor has the BJP Government sanctioned any new work in Nanjangud constituency, Mr. Siddaramaiah claimed before calling upon the people of Nanjangud to vote out the BJP MLA in the next Assembly elections and re-elect the Congress. Though Congress candidate Kadale Keshavamurthy managed to win the by-polls in 2017 defeating Mr. Srinivas Prasad, the Congress lost the elections in Nanjangud in 2018, paving the way for the election of Mr. Harshavardhan, who is incidentally related to Mr. Prasad. Mr Siddaramaiah’s criticism came close on the heels of the BJP MLA’s statement earlier this week demanding a clarification or an apology from the former Chief Minister’s remarks on Dalit leaders joining BJP. The MLA said that Mr. Siddaramaiah, who projected himself as a leader of Ahinda, should bear in mind that he became the Chief Minister with the support of Dalits. “The entire community had stood by him. In addition, senior leaders like Srinivas Prasad and G. Parameshwara had extended their support to him”, Mr.Harshavardhan said before remarking that the community had not forgotten how Mr. Siddaramaiah had treated these two senior leaders. Referring to former MLA A.R. Krishnamurthy’s claims that he had quit the saffron party after BJP MP Ananthkumar Hegde’s statement on changing the Constitution, Mr. Harshavardhan said Mr. Krishnamurthy should have stayed in the BJP itself and raised his concerns if “he had guts”. He claimed that Mr. Prasad had expressed his ire against Mr. Hegde’s statement at a public meeting in the presence of senior BJP leaders Amit Shah, Muralidhar Rao and late Union Minister H.N. Ananth Kumar. “Mr. Srinivas Prasad was bold enough to speak out. If Mr .Krishnamurthy was bold enough like Mr. Prasad, people would have appreciated him”, Mr. Harshavardhan remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-hits-out-at-nanjangud-bjp-mla/article37431403.ece
11 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Saying ‘no’ to cake and champagne||The Kodava Samajas of Ponnampet and Virajpet in Kodagu district have adopted resolutions against the practice of cutting cakes and uncorking champagne bottles at Kodava weddings. Soon after the Ponnampet Kodava Samaj adopted a resolution recently banning the “non-Kodava” customs, Virajpet Kodava Samaj followed suit. Speaking to The Hindu , President of Ponnampet Kodava Samaj C. Rajiv Bopaiah said the decision was aimed at protecting the Kodava culture, which is distinct and unique. The ban will be implemented in the Kodava Samaj community hall in Ponnampet where Kodava weddings are held. Though weddings of non-Kodava communities are rarely held at the venue, the ban does not apply to non-Kodava weddings on the premises. Mr. Bopaiah said the Samaj has also given a call against bridegrooms sporting a beard and womenfolk letting their hair loose when ascending the stage at Kodava weddings to bless newly married couples. “We have not banned it, but we have sought to create an awareness against these inauspicious practices”, he said. “Similarly, lighting candles is considered auspicious and not blowing them”, he said while adding that the resolution was adopted at the 34th general body of the Ponnampet Kodava Samaj recently, where the Kodava customs and practices were discussed. Meanwhile, the Virajpet Kodava Samaj, which held its general body meeting on Sunday, too passed similar resolutions against the practices. ‘Dogmatic’ However, Bengaluru-based writer and freelance journalist P.T. Bopanna Palanganda has taken exception to the resolutions. Pointing out that societies evolve with passage of time, he said people are exposed to different cultures and they cannot afford to be ‘dogmatic’ in a global world. “Ours is a very progressive community comprising highly educated and qualified people, who are exposed to other cultures in a global world. We cannot be very dogmatic. What applied a few decades ago cannot be enforced now”, he said while adding that their customs had not been codified, but passed orally, giving sufficient room to adopt new practices. There are more than 30 Kodava Samajs out of which two have adopted the resolution. The Kodava Samaj in Mysuru has not taken any such decision. “We have not yet discussed the issue”, said M. Belliappa, who heads the Mysuru Kodava Samaj. The resolutions adopted by the two bodies were only advisory in nature so that the customs and practices of the community are protected, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/saying-no-to-cake-and-champagne/article37431401.ece
11 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Farmers demand procurement||Farmers belonging to Akhila Karnataka Kabbu Belegarara Sangha urged the government to initiate the paddy procurement process by the first week of December. The Sangha leaders who addressed a media conference here on Wednesday said that paddy, ragi and maize procurement should receive priority and should commence by the first week of December and the payment to the farmers should be completed within a fortnight after the procurement. They said incessant rains in the region had resulted in crop loss especially ginger and horticultural produce and hence the government should announce compensation to help the farmers tide over the financial crisis. The farmers also urged the government to intervene and help in reopening the Sri Rama Sugarcane Factory and also increase the sugarcane procurement rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-demand-procurement/article37431400.ece
11 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Session on brain damage and communication disorders||The All India Institute of Speech and Hearing (AIISH), Mysuru has organised a phone-in programme on November 12 on the topic of ‘Brain damage and communication disorders- Identification and Management.’ Those interested can call 0821-2502536 between 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. to participate in the session. A release from the AIISH said communication disorders can occur when certain parts of the brain are damaged. The problems vary depending on the affected areas and the severity of the injury. Also, such problems may occur with changes in physical, mental, emotional and behavioural functions. Along with this, defects in mental processes like attention, memory, organisation, problem-solving, reasoning, and language skills like speaking, listening, reading, writing, and social skills can be observed, the release added. Problems with communication due to brain damage can affect an individual’s activities of daily living, academic, and work performance. People with such problems often benefit from assessment and treatment by speech-language pathologists. The live phone-in programme will focus on the identification and management of communication disorders due to brain damage. R. Rajasudhakar, Associate Professor in Speech Sciences, Department of Speech Language Sciences, and N. Hema, Assistant Professor in Speech Sciences Department of Speech Language Sciences, are the resource persons for the programme. The session will be moderated by Geetha M.P., Speech-Language Pathologist, Department of Clinical Services, and the programme will be co-ordinated by Jayashree C. Shanbal, Head- Tele-Center for Persons with Communication Disorders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/session-on-brain-damage-and-communication-disorders/article37431396.ece
11 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Appeal to widows of ex-servicemen||President of Mysuru-based VeKare Ex-Servicemen Trust Mandetira N. Subramani has called upon the widows of ex-servicemen to wear the medals of their deceased husbands during important military functions and national festivals. In a statement here, Mr. Subramani said there is no bar on Veer Naaris or widows proudly wearing their deceased husband’s authorised military medals on their chest in a befitting manner while attending military functions, Army, Navy and Air Force Days, besides national festivals like Republic Day and Independence Day. “Veer Naaris and widows of ex-servicemen wearing the military medals at important military functions and national festivals would send signals loud and clear that their husband’s life was sacrificed for the nation.” Mr. Subramani’s observations were made at the recently held 7th annual general body meeting of Kodagu Ex-Servicemen Association in Mysuru. Association President and Army veteran Kanjithanda Aiyappa, while addressing the meeting, said that the Association would take up common cause of ex-servicemen irrespective of their caste, creed, religion and region. The Association had submitted an application to Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) for allotment of a Civic Amenity (CA) site as per the recent notification inviting applications from MUDA for CA sites. The statement also said that V. Puttalingamma, a retired scientist from Defence Food Research Laboratory (DFRL), handed over a cheque of Rs. 25,000 as donation for the welfare activities of the Association. She urged the military veterans to save enough money from their own earnings for themselves and their wives to meet their needs during old age.  Kodagu Ex-Servicemen Association to take up common cause of fraternity irrespective of caste, creed, religion and region  It has submitted an application to MUDA for allotment of a Civic Amenity site||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/appeal-to-widows-of-ex-servicemen/article37431404.ece
11 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Freight, passenger traffic growth underlines economic rebound||The Mysuru division of South Western Railway notched up a record freight loading during October, underlining the spurt in economic activity amidst the declining trend in the pandemic. The division loaded 0.805 million tonnes of freight and the revenue of Rs. 72.52 crore was the highest monthly turnover. On the passenger front, steady growth was witnessed at all the important stations across the division, leading to revenue of Rs. 22.34 crore from transporting 1.54 million passengers in the last month. The total revenue in the ‘reserved’ segment stood at Rs. 18.7 crore, the highest ever recorded in a month. The passenger revenue in the first seven months of the current fiscal is Rs. 87.73 crore. The division booked a total of 14,938 cases in the month of October for all forms of irregular travel, ticketless travel included, collecting Rs. 71 lakh as penalty, the highest recorded in a month. Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, said the role of Railways in the country’s economic revival, during the pandemic, was pivotal and, therefore, there was no room for complacency. Manjunath Kanamadi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, said that a total of 66 rakes containing petroleum products were loaded, marking the best loading of any commodity in the division in a month. The tonnage recorded growth of 14.18%, and the revenue saw a surge of 44.3%, as compared to the figures of the corresponding month in the last fiscal year. The cumulative freight earnings in the current year - up to October 2021 - stood at Rs. 381.4 crore. Inward traffic of 0.329 million tonnes handled in the month was marginally higher compared to 0.306 million tonnes recorded in the corresponding month of last year. The inward commodities with spectral distribution across the division include food grains, fertilizers, and cement and provided fresh impetus for reviving the economy battered by the COVID-19 pandemic. In the parcel segment, the division earned revenue of Rs. 1.38 crore in the month, which is the highest ever monthly revenue.  Three rakes were transported under Kisan Rail, launched as per the Government’s policy of transporting perishables at 50% subsidy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/freight-passenger-traffic-growth-underlines-economic-rebound/article37431406.ece
11 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru’s animal rescue centre gets hi-tech veterinary hospital||Rescued, captured and injured wild animals are now being treated at the Chamundi Animal Conservation, Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre on the city outskirts instead of the hospital inside the Mysuru zoo, as a hi-tech wildlife veterinary hospital has come up at the rescue centre. The centre was established at Koorgalli village, off Mysuru-Hunsur Road about six years ago. This is the second such centre in the State after the one at Bannerghatta Biological Park in Bengaluru. The third is coming up at the Hampi zoo. The centre was built as the zoo lacked space to accommodate wild animals brought for treatment. Moreover, there would be chances of spread of infection and therefore the centre was set up at Koorgalli, where 113.21 acres of land was allotted to the Zoo Authority of Karnataka for setting up the country’s biggest Gaur (Indian bison) conservation breeding centre. The centre has eight holding rooms. “In the absence of an exclusive vet hospital, animals were brought to the zoo for treatment and taken back to the centre. By establishing the vet hospital, all care is taken at the rescue centre,” said Zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysurus-animal-rescue-centre-gets-hi-tech-veterinary-hospital/article37431407.ece
11 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Gas leak: Six who fell sick discharged after treatment||At least six persons, including three fire service personnel, who fell sick after inhaling chlorine that leaked from a water filtering unit at T. Narsipur on Tuesday evening, resulting in some tense moments in the town, were provided treatment and later discharged. The incident occurred late in the evening and district health officials who rushed to the spot on receiving information shifted the sick to a local hospital for treatment. District Health Officer Dr. K.H. Prasad said they received the information around 9.30 p.m. and arrangements were made to shift and treat the affected persons locally. He said they were under observation for 30 minutes after which they were discharged. Other sources said the staff handling the water filtering unit noticed the leakage and the pungent smell emanating from the chorine gas cylinder around 6 p.m. and informed the fire service personnel at T. Narsipur. The fire personnel who reached the spot to plug the leak inhaled the gas and complained of nausea. Another team of fire service personnel reached the town and after taking precautionary measures plugged the gas leak. The filtering unit is located on the Mysuru-T. Narsipur road and people living in the residential area surrounding were alerted of the leak. They were urged to stay indoors while the road leading to the filtering unit was barricaded till the leak was plugged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gas-leak-six-who-fell-sick-discharged-after-treatment/article37431408.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Religious fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/religious-fervour/article37431009.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,KERALA||TRS spent Rs. 600 cr. for bypoll: Eatala||Former Minister and re-elected as MLA from Huzurabad under the BJP flag, Eatala Rajender has accused the TRS of spending about Rs. 600 crore of ‘ill-gotten wealth’ and another Rs. 2,500 crore disbursed under Dalit Bandhu, besides using scores of police personnel in civilian clothes to lure and pressurise voters. Yet people have punished Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for his ‘arrogant and tyrannical’ rule. “Mr. Rao is desperate and in a shock post the bypoll verdict. He has been holding press conferences lashing out as if he has done nothing wrong. Telangana people are ready to show him his place as he has lost their faith, has deceived those who fought in the separate State agitation by handing over power to traitors and throttling democracy and constitutional bodies,” the newly-elected MLA claimed on Wednesday. Mr. Rajender stated that there was “more freedom of expression” during the united Andhra Pradesh days and KCR was crushing down any kind of dissent. “Protocols for present and past MLAs too, are not being adhered to. I was even denied the opportunity to present my resignation to the Speaker earlier and from speaking at the media point today,” he said, talking to the media at the Telangana Martyrs’ Memorial after being sworn in as the MLA. He said he was sure of BJP gaining strength across the State and urged Telangana intellectuals and those who believe in democracy and constitutional rights to come together to defeat the ‘tyrannical’ rule of TRS since KCR’s ‘true colours’ got exposed. “I have been unfairly removed from the ministry and no debate was allowed. Mr. Rao had not only insulted me but also the Constitution. This practice of silencing freedom of thought and expression will not last,” he added, flanked by top BJP leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trs-spent-rs-600-crore-for-huzurabad-bypoll-eatala/article37431272.ece
11 November 2021||Idukki,KERALA||Water level remains steady at Mullaperiyar||The water level continued to be steady in the Mullaperiyar dam, with Tamil Nadu drawing water at the same level of inflow on Wednesday. The water level was 138.70 ft and the inflow was 1,867 cusecs. Tamil Nadu has opened the Vaigai dam where water from Mullaperiyar is stored after power generation. The Vaigai dam has been opened following heavy rainfall and an increase in inflow, according to a Tamil Nadu Public Works Department official. Though rainfall subsided, the inflow had remained high, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-level-remains-steady-at-mullaperiyar/article37431359.ece
11 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki DCC president lands in a row||Idukki District Congress Committee president C.P. Mathew has landed in a controversy, with the district unit of the Barbers and Beauticians Association taking umbrage at some remarks made by him at a function recently at Vandiperiyar. The association said it had decided to boycott him for the remarks that it termed as belittling the profession. Though the association sought an apology, he did not oblige. Mr. Mathew told mediapersons that he did not want to comment on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/idukki-dcc-president-lands-in-a-row/article37431360.ece
11 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Arrested Maoists remanded in custody||Amid security, Maoist leaders B.G. Krishnamoorthy and Savitri were remanded in custody in the Viyyur jail after they were produced before the Thalassery Principal Sessions Court on Wednesday. The National Investigating Agency arrested Krishnamoorthy and Savitri, alias Rajith, the Kabani Dalam area commander, from an area adjoining the Karanataka and Kerala border on Tuesday. On Wednesday, police personnel in mufti were deployed on the premises when they were brought before the court by 10.25 a.m. Slogans While being taken through the court hall, Krishnamoorthy began shouting slogans hailing Maoism and condemning capitalism. While three cases are registered against Krishnamoorthy, Savitri is accused in over six cases, which include five cases in Kelakam and one in Aralam. Besides, 12 other cases have also been registered for their Maoist activities in Kannur and other places. Remand Though District Judge Jobin Sebastian initially remanded them for a month in the Kannur Central Jail, the judge decided to change the decision and remanded them in the Viyyur jail until December 9 after the prosecution raised security issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/arrested-maoists-remanded-in-custody/article37431319.ece
11 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Survey finds encroachments along Konothupuzha stretch||A survey by the Revenue Department has found nearly 21 cases of encroachment of the Konothupuzha along the river stretch coming under the jurisdiction of the Thripunithura Municipality. Notices have been issued to persons responsible for encroaching upon the waterbody. The action follows a stringent directive by the National Green Tribunal to initiate measures to save the river from pollution and encroachment. The 17-km-long Konothupuzha lies between the Champakkara canal and the Vembanad lake and runs through Thripunithura municipality, and Chottanikkara, Mulanthuruthy, Udayamperoor and Amballoor grama panchayats. The report by the Revenue Department found that 10 buildings were constructed by encroaching upon the river. Seven of these were residential buildings. The municipality authorities have informed the tribunal that a joint effort by the district administration and the Irrigation Department was essential to clear the encroachments. The Secretary of the civic body said that a draft estimate had been submitted before the District Collector and the Government. The eviction drive is expected to cost around Rs. 50 lakh. The municipality has issued a letter to the Tahsildar of Kanayannur taluk requesting to depute an officer not below the rank of Deputy Tahsildar for conducting enquiry proceedings before eviction as per Section 12 of the Kerala Land Conservancy Act, 1957. Similar communications have gone to village officers in Nadama, Thekkumbagom and Thiruvankulam requesting for a report identifying encroachments and valuations of encroached buildings. The Secretary said that further proceedings for eviction could be initiated only after receiving the reports and enquiry proceedings from revenue officials. A field study has revealed that around 45 establishments had flouted norms under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 by resorting to illegal dumping of wastewater and sewage into the river. Notices were issued to violators asking them to comply with the standards prescribed by the State Pollution Control Board. The authorities had also directed residential and commercial establishments to install on-site sewage and waste treatment plants. The municipality claimed that several erring units had now set up effluent treatment plants/sewage treatment plants and stopped discharge of untreated water into drains and the river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/survey-finds-encroachments-along-konothupuzha-stretch/article37431307.ece
11 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Residents’ associations likely to have a role in waste management in corpn.||Residents’ associations in the Kochi Corporation may get legal recognition and a role in the waste management efforts of the civic body if the proposal in the draft waste management by-law is approved. The draft plastic-solid-liquid-waste management by-law 2021, which is under the active consideration of the Kochi Corporation, also envisages residents’ associations as beneficiary agencies in the waste management efforts of the city. The draft legislation suggests that all the regional associations of both the temporary and permanent residents within the Kochi Corporation limit register themselves with the civic body and obtain register numbers. The registration of the associations have also been made mandatory in the legislation. The by-law, which will soon come up before the consideration of the Kochi Corporation council, has also defined the responsibilities of the associations regarding waste management. It will be the mandate of the associations to ensure that solid, liquid and e-waste and construction waste generated from households within their limits are managed as per rules or handed over to collection agents. The associations shall strive to reduce the generation of waste at source in all the households. It will be the responsibility of the collectives to ensure that plastic products that are banned by the civic body are not used by residents. The activities for promoting the use of recycled and cloth bags in place of plastic carry bags shall also be taken up by the associations, according to the draft legislation. Segregation of waste The by-law also lays emphasis on segregation, collection and storage of refuse at the points of origin into bio-degradable, non-biodegradable and hazardous ones for its scientific management and recycling. Construction waste, which is generated during the time of repair or demolition of buildings, shall be managed with the clearance of the civic body, it suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residents-associations-likely-to-have-a-role-in-waste-management-in-corpn/article37431303.ece
11 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Film fraternity downplays denial of nod for shooting||Malayalam film fraternity has downplayed the development in which the Thrikkakara Municipality on Tuesday allegedly denied permission for shooting some scenes for a Malayalam film in locations in the municipality. While Municipal Chairperson Ajitha Thankappan said she had not outrightly denied permission for using a location near the municipal complex for the film shoot, sources in the Film Employees’ Federation of Kerala (FEFKA) said that the film fraternity did not want to get into any controversy on the issue. The Congress party leadership in the municipality said that permission was being granted for the film shoot on Wednesday and that the initial denial was only a form of expressing the party’s protest. The development assumes significance in the wake of the arrest of Congress party leaders and workers, including former Kochi Mayor Tony Chammany, for the alleged attack on a car belonging to actor Joju George on November 2 during a Congress party protest against the fuel price hike. The protesters blocked the national highway between Edappally and Vyttila causing a massive traffic jam.  Ms. Thankappan said she only expressed her protest when an application was submitted seeking permission for the film shoot. She said she requested the applicants to leave the file with the municipal office, and the application would be considered after consultations with Congress party leaders. The municipality is ruled by the United Democratic Front and Ms. Thankappan is a veteran Congress party leader in the municipality.  FEFKA sources said that the film fraternity did not want to work against or antagonise any political party and there was no need for any confrontation on the issue of the film shoot. They also pointed out that the Congress party’s top leadership did not favour obstruction of film shoots as had happened in some other parts of the State during the week. The Opposition Left Democratic Front in the municipal council slammed what it said was the denial of permission for the film shoot. M.K. Chandrababu of the CPI(M) said that permission should have been granted for the film shoot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/film-fraternity-downplays-denial-of-nod-for-shooting/article37431304.ece
11 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Crime Branch probe reveals Monson’s links with IG||The Crime Branch probing cases against the fake antiques dealer Monson Mavunkal has stumbled upon evidence allegedly linking Monson with Inspector General of Police G. Lakshman. According to official sources, Mr. Lakshman has since been placed under suspension. It is learned that the evidence suggests that Mr. Lakshman was privy to some of the dealings struck by Monson for his “antiquities” and may have even intervened in such cases. As per sources, the Crime Branch is processing the information that Monson met with a woman from Andhra Pradesh through Mr. Lakshman. Screenshots Screenshots of WhatsApp chats sharing images of antiquities presumably with the woman for their proposed sale also emerged on Wednesday. Complainants against Monson had also reportedly handed over screenshots and voice clips suggesting this to the investigation team. The Crime Branch is also looking into the allegation that Mr. Lakshman had arranged accommodation for Monson at the Police Club and that he had met with a group from Andhra Pradesh in Thiruvananthapuram for the alleged antique deals. Incidentally, the officer also hails from Andhra Pradesh. Visits The Crime Branch is probing the visits and communications between Monson and the personal staff of the officer who, the complainants say, had visited Monson’s home more than a dozen times the past year alone. A photograph of the officer and Monson in a group inside a houseboat has also emerged, further stacking the odds against the former. The complainants also accused, and shared WhatsaApp screenshots of the same, that the officer had arranged for the issue of travel passes to Monson and his friends amidst travel restrictions during the lockdown. Mr. Lakshman’s name first surfaced in connection with Monson over his alleged intervention to transfer a cheating case against the fraudster back to the local police from the Crime Branch in Alappuzha. The Crime Branch had recorded the statement of the officer during which he denied having any financial or business deals with Monson. A more detailed probe against Mr. Lakshman by senior officials looks increasingly likely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cb-probe-reveals-monsons-links-with-igp/article37431296.ece
11 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Despondent Man United fans seek solace in quiz||Fans of Manchester United (MU) perhaps desperately need a diversion, taunted as they are on social media for their team’s chastening defeats at the hands of archrivals Liverpool and Manchester City in the English Premier League. For the fans in Kerala, that seems to have come in the form of a football quiz to be held on WhatsApp over a period of two months by the Manchester United Supporters Club Kerala (MUSCK), one of the few officially recognised MU fans club in the country. The quiz will be organised like a football match between two teams of seven members each or eight if a team opts for a non-playing manager. While five will be first-team members, two will be substitutes. “If we have 16 teams at the end of the registration period on November 12, then the teams will be split into four groups and the contest will be held in a round-robin format followed by knock-outs. Else, there will be two groups and the top two teams from each will proceed to the semi-finals. Based on the success of this one, we will organise a bigger contest involving fans of other clubs as well,” said Akash Keshav, chairman, MUSCK. Each round will have eight questions with each symbolically representing the various stages of a 90-minute football match and points will be considered as goals. So, the first question will represent the kick-off and the next 7 questions the 15th minute, 30th minute, half time, 60th minute, 75th minute and then the 90th minute respectively. Final question “The final question, which is image-based, will represent the injury time and has been christened ‘Fergie Time’ after the legendary MU manager Sir Alex Ferguson whose teams used to wrest matches in the injury time,” said Saeed Muhammed, quiz master and secretary, MUSCK. Questions will be mostly indirect ones and in Malayalam, making it tough for teams to Google for them within the allotted 12 seconds. Points will be awarded either on the basis of the most number of right answers from a team or the fastest team to the answer. “Though WhatsApp quiz has been there for a while, its popularity seems to have gone through the roof over the last year when many were confined to work from home,” said Mr. Saeed who has hosted such quizzes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/despondent-man-united-fans-seek-solace-in-quiz/article37431326.ece
11 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,151 fresh COVID cases in Ernakulam; test positivity rate stands at 9.9%||A total of 1,151 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Wednesday. As many as 1,128 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 20 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 9.9%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 30 included Puthenvelikkara (61), Thrikkakara (42), Pallipuram (40), Kothamangalam (33), Piravom (32), Vadakkekara (32), and Thripunithura (31). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Cheranelloor, Vyttila, Edavanakad, Perumbavoor, Maneed, Edakochi, Pachalam, and Vennala, according to an official release. Around 8,180 persons are under treatment for the disease in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1151-fresh-covid-cases-in-ernakulam-test-positivity-rate-stands-at-99/article37431313.ece
11 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No insurance cover for person sharing driver’s seat in autos||The Kerala High Court has held that persons sharing driver's seats in autorickshaws are not covered under the insurance policy of the vehicle. The court on Wednesday observed that the insurance company was not liable to pay any compensation when a person travelling in an autorickshaw in the driver's seat was injured. In fact, the liability was upon the owner of the vehicle. Policy conditions The court observed that no person, whether a passenger or an owner of the vehicle, was supposed to share the seat of the driver and any such action was a violation of the vehicle insurance policy conditions. In a three-wheeler goods carriage, the driver could not have allowed anybody else to share his seat. Justice A. Badharudeen passed the verdict while allowing a petition filed by a private insurance company against the order of a Motor Accidents Claim Tribunal directing the company to pay compensation to a person who was injured while travelling on the driver's seat.  Sharing driver’s seat was a violation of the vehicle insurance policy conditions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-insurance-cover-for-person-sharing-drivers-seat-in-autos/article37431318.ece
11 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Municipality mulls collecting sanitary refuse||The Thripunithura Municipality authorities have informed the National Green Tribunal that they are planning to entrust Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Ltd (KEIL) with the biomedical incineration of sanitary napkins and diapers collected from households. Presently, the civic body has no facility for collection and disposal of sanitary napkins and diapers generated in households. In its updated status report on the implementation of Solid Waste Management norms submitted before the tribunal, the municipal authorities stated that they had received a proposal to collect sanitary waste from individual households. It will be handed over to KEIL for incineration at its Common Biomedical Waste Treatment Facility in Ambalamedu. Rema Santhosh, Chairperson of the municipality, said on Wednesday that the plan was to entrust an agency shortlisted by the Government’s Suchitwa Mission to collect sanitary waste from the households. “We have received a proposal from an agency for collection of sanitary waste from the doorstep. The Health Standing Committee will meet to discuss the project implementation,” she said. The municipality informed the tribunal that it has plans to set up decentralised mini aerobic compost units in various areas with the cooperation of residents’ associations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/municipality-mulls-collecting-sanitary-refuse/article37431310.ece
11 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Death of models: CCTV footage in hotel missing||The Palarivattom police have found missing the CCTV footage from the hall in a hotel in Fort Kochi where the victims of the tragic accident at Chakkaraparambu had reportedly attended a party late into the night on October 31. Three, including two promising models, died in the accident after the car, driven allegedly under the influence of alcohol by the lone survivor, rammed a tree along the national highway in the early hours of November 1. The police arrested the survivor Abdul Rahmam, a resident of Mala, and charged him with culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Though the police had seized the hard discs of CCTV footage from the hotel on Tuesday, the visuals from the party hall were reportedly missing. So, the police held a fresh search at the hotel on Wednesday but could not find the hard disc containing the footage of the party. They even searched for it at the hotel owner’s house at Eda Kochi but with little success. The computers at the house have been reportedly taken for analysis. Foul play is suspected behind the alleged failure of the hotel to hand over the footage concerned despite repeated demand. The owner is likely to be questioned again. The Excise Department had suspended the bar licence of the hotel for serving liquor beyond the permissible time of 9 p.m. on October 23. Though a notice was served immediately thereafter, the licence was cancelled only on November 2. The police suspect whether the CCTVs in the hall were disconnected shortly after the excise inspection on October 23. Meanwhile, the city police have intensified the drive against drunk driving in view of the accident with control room vehicles being deployed, especially along highways, where motorists tend to overspeed. Since the usage of breath analysers remains restricted in view of the pandemic, those suspected of drunk driving will be taken straightaway to hospitals for a blood test, senior police sources said. If blood tests confirm the suspicion, the offenders will be strictly dealt with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/death-of-models-cctv-footage-in-hotel-missing/article37431311.ece
11 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Passenger, cargo fares to Lakshadweep hiked||The Lakshadeweep administration has hiked both passenger and cargo charges with effect from November 10. The charges have been raised for all classes of travel, inviting protests from political parties such as the Nationalist Congress Party, Lakshadweep unit. The first class fare for Kochi-Kavaratti route, a distance of 404 km, has been hiked from Rs. 2,340 to Rs. 3,510 while second class rates have gone up from Rs. 650 to Rs. 1,300 and the bunk rate is up from Rs. 220 to Rs. 330. The Kochi-Agatti route rates have been hiked. The first class fare for the 459-km route has been hiked from Rs. 2,650 to Rs. 3,950, second class from Rs. 730 to Rs. 1,460 and bunk charges are up from Rs. 270 to Rs. 410. Kochi-Kalpeni route, a distance of 287 km, too has seen substantial raise. The first class rate has been raised from Rs. 1,710 to Rs. 2,570, the second class rate from Rs. 470 to Rs. 940 and bunk rates from Rs. 170 to Rs. 260. Abdul Gafoor A.K., general secretary of the NCP, said that protests would be held on November 13 and 15 at different locations, including the headquarters of the 10 inhabited islands, against the hike in the charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/passenger-cargo-fares-to-lakshadweep-hiked/article37431314.ece
11 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Milk powder plant in Malappuram to boost farmers’ confidence||The Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union has welcomed the move to commission a milk powder unit at Moorkanad in Malappuram district in early 2023. The unit, with capacity to process around one lakh litres of milk a day, will address the issue of increasing procurement, especially in the Malabar region. It is being set up with support from the State Government and the Malabar Regional Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union. Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (Milma) Chairman K.S. Mani said that the plant would be established at an estimated cost of Rs. 54 crore. Milma is also working to accommodate other facilities like storage and packing wings within the same complex. It will help reduce the cost of the project, Mr. Mani said. The setting up of the plant will help the State milk marketing federation aggressively intervene to increase milk production, said Mr. Mani. According to Mr. Mani, the rise in milk consumption will make it possible to increase sales to at least 14.50 lakh litres a day by the end of the current fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milk-powder-plant-in-malappuram-to-boost-farmers-confidence/article37431300.ece
11 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||People of two panchayats in grip of fear over suspected leopard on loose||People in multiple wards of two local bodies along the eastern suburbs of the district remain in the grip of fear over what is suspected to be a leopard on the loose. The first incident was reported from Plamudi, a ward in Kottapady panchayat, around three weeks ago when the remains of a dog were left behind by an unidentified creature that attacked it. At least three more incidents were reported in quick succession including that of a lady who claimed to have been mauled by what she vouched was a leopard in broad daylight. People are definitely in a state of fear as the ward remains in the neighbourhood of forest, said Saramma John, member of Plamudi ward. “Since the animal has been cited even during the daytime, there is no point in issuing any advisory to people to remain indoor during nights. We have asked Forest Department officials to trace the animal and tranquillize it,” said Mini Gopi, president, Kottapady panchayat. Since then the animal seems to have shifted to Paniyeli, a ward in the neighbouring Vengoor panchayat where two dogs in as many households came under attack in two successive nights this week. A cage was set up in the ward after a delegation of people’s representatives and local residents met the forest divisional officer and the range officer. “We have been asked to wait for a day and if the animal isn’t trapped in the case, forest officials have promised to put out a search party with the assistance of locals,” said Shilpa Sudheesh, president of Vengoor panchayat. Though the Forest Department already has a network of about 13 cameras covering the affected areas, the animal has not been captured in any of them. “We suspect it to be a small leopard from the pug marks. None has seen the animal though except for the lady who came under its attack and claims it to be a leopard,” said K.R. Ajayan, Deputy Range Forest Officer, Kodanad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/people-of-two-panchayats-in-grip-of-fear-over-suspected-leopard-on-loose/article37431309.ece
11 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Fire breaks out at shopping complex||A tragedy was averted when fire engulfed the first floor of the municipal shopping complex on the bus stand premises in Kothamangalam on Wednesday morning as the building was deserted. The Kothamangalam fire force was alerted about the fire breakout at around 6.20 a.m. Short circuit seems to have caused the fire in the very old building. Two units from the fire station doused the fire in less than an hour as firefighters successfully managed to check its spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-breaks-out-at-shopping-complex/article37431308.ece
11 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Vandalisation case: five Cong. leaders get bail||Five Congress leaders, including former Mayor Tony Chammany, who were arrested in connection with the damaging of actor Joju George’s car, were released on bail on Wednesday. Releasing the accused on bail, the Judicial First Class Magistrate 8, asked them not to interfere in any manner with the peaceful living of the actor, who was the de facto complainant in the case. The accused were also asked not to obstruct his free movement or disrupt his profession, failing which the bail will be cancelled. The accused were asked to execute a bail bond of Rs. 50,000 each with two solvent sureties, each for the same amount. They were also asked to deposit Rs. 37,500 each in court or together furnish a bank guarantee of Rs. 1,87,500 in due compliance with the provisions of the Kerala Prevention of Damage to Private Property and Payment of Compensation Act 2019. Besides Mr. Chammany, Manu Jacob, Jerjas Jacob, Shereef, and Joseph Maliyekkal were released on bail on the day. The court will consider the bail application of three others on Friday. The vehicle of the actor was allegedly damaged by the Congress workers after a row of vehicles was caught in the traffic block on the Aroor-Edappally stretch of the National Highway on November 1 following the protest organised by party workers against the fuel price hike. While granting them bail, the court observed that the accused, who were the leaders or members of a prominent political party in Kerala, were unlikely to abscond if released on bail. None of the accused had any criminal antecedents, the court observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-congress-leaders-get-bail/article37431302.ece
11 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Olympian moves court to quash case||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday sought the response of the State Government on a petition by Olympian Mayookha Johny seeking to quash the FIR registered against her on charges of raising false rape allegations concerning her friend. Support for friend In her petition, she said that the case was registered against her to pressurise her into withdrawing her support extended to a friend, who was raped by a man who also took her nude photos and used them to blackmail her.  The case was registered against Ms. Johny and nine others by the police on a complaint that the allegations of rape levelled by the sportsperson and others were false. The complaint was lodged by a former trustee of a local religious outfit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/olympian-moves-court-to-quash-case/article37431295.ece
11 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Exhibition on legal awareness gets under way||A three-day exhibition on 75 years of judicial administration and various legal aid activities undertaken in the country began at the Kerala High Court on Wednesday. S. Manikumar, Chief Justice of Kerala High Court, inaugurated the exhibition, which is being jointly organised by the Kerala State legal Services Authority (KELSA) and the Kerala High Court as part of the pan-India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign. K. Vinod Chandran, A. Muhamad Mustaque, and P. Gopinath, judges of the High Court; K. T. Nisar Ahamad, member secretary of the authority; and Johny Sebastian, director, Alternative Despite Resolution Centre, were among those who attended. The expo will conclude on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exhibition-on-legal-awareness-gets-under-way/article37431305.ece
11 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Scores in Kollam miss Covaxin second dose||Several persons in Kollam district have missed the second dose of Covaxin due to the failure of certain vaccination centres in arranging schedules. While the Health Department maintains that there is enough stock, there are many who could not receive the second shot within the recommended window. Reportedly, people are not able to get Covaxin in some places as primary health centres (PHCs) are not willing to open the 10-dose vials. "We have been trying to book a slot for the last two weeks in vain and we have also tried through the local body representative. The PHC officials said only Covishield was available and they could not arrange Covaxin due to short supply," said a resident of Pattazhy. According to the Health Department, 9,110 doses of Covaxin and 81,780 doses of Covishield are available in Kollam district. The department has already circulated a list of persons due for the second dose to nodal officers of each centre. They have been instructed to hand over the list to ASHA workers and ward members and mobilise the targeted beneficiaries to vaccination centres. However, beneficiaries say no one has contacted them so far despite informing the vaccination centres that they have crossed the ideal gap between doses. Vaccine drive Though the Kollam Corporation resumed its vaccination drive from November 7 in three centres, including the Primary Health Centre at Mundakkal, Corporation stadium and T.M. Varghese Memorial Hall, only Covishield was made available. "Two or more PHCs can coordinate and set sessions for Covaxin second dose and we have now directed all vaccination centres to ensure that the second dose is administered. Both the vaccines are available in all centres in the district and there is no shortage," said an official. Inoculation status Meanwhile, the vaccination status of Kollam district shows that around 93% persons have taken the first dose and 54% have been administered the second. While 100% of health workers and front-line workers have received the first dose, along with 86% of senior citizens, the percentage in the 18-45 age group who have been administered the first dose is 82%. While all residents of various old-age homes have been administered the first dose, 82% persons have received the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scores-in-kollam-miss-covaxin-second-dose/article37431351.ece
11 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Final list of LIFE beneficiaries by Nov. 30||The final list of LIFE Mission 2020 beneficiaries in Kollam district will be submitted by November 30 after completing the scrutiny of eligible applications. The district monitoring committee convened a meeting of local body heads and district-level officials recently to assess the progress of the proceedings and take steps to prepare the list at the earliest. It was decided in the meeting to check the applications directly to identify eligible candidates and the draft will be published on December 1. The field inspection for the survey, which began in the district on Wednesday, will be completed in a time-bound manner. Panchayat assistant secretaries, Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) supervisors and agricultural assistants have been entrusted with the responsibility of checking the applications. At present, Kollam has 53,559 homeless people who own land. Among them, 49,828 belong to panchayats, while 3,731 are from the Corporation area. There are 29,754 landless people in the district, including 20,758 at the panchayat level and 8,496 at the Corporation level. Mayor Prasanna Ernest, who presided over the meeting, said the project for the homeless would be implemented in a flawless manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/final-list-of-life-beneficiaries-by-nov-30/article37431353.ece
11 November 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Vacancies of guest lecturers||Model Polytechnic College, Karunagapally, under the Institute of Human Resources Development (IHRD), has invited applications for vacancies of guest lecturers in Computer and Tradesman Electronics. Interested candidates may walk in for an interview at 10 a.m. on November 12 with original certificates and attested copies. For details, call 94474 88348.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacancies-of-guest-lecturers/article37431357.ece
11 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Women’s commission adalat settles 22 cases||A total of 22 cases were settled at a Kerala Women’s Commission adalat held at the Asramam Government Guest House here on Tuesday. While a total of 100 complaints were considered, reports were sought in four and 74 were rescheduled for the next hearing. Commission members Shahida Kamal, E.M Radha, M.S Tara,and counsellor Sangeetha were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/womens-commission-adalat-settles-22-cases/article37431358.ece
11 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Orthodox Church against parish referendum||Urging the State Government to turn down the proposal to hold referendum in parishes under the Malankara Church, the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church has held that any attempt to implement this recommendation of the Law Reform Commission will have far-reaching consequences. In a statement on Wednesday, Yuhanon Mar Dioscoros, synod secretary of the Orthodox Church, noted that the draft Bill submitted by commission chairman K.T. Thomas is unconstitutional and unethical as it seeks legislation against a decision of the Supreme Court. “The apex court has stated in more than one occasion that the Malankara Church is a trust and that it should be governed in accordance with the 1934 constitution of the Malankara Church. No one can take over, transfer or divide the assets of the trust in the interest of the majority,” noted the Metropolitan. The majority is not determined by a referendum in parishes. Instead, it should be in the Malankara Syrian Christian Association, which is the general assembly of this trust, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/orthodox-church-opposed-to-referendum-in-parishes/article37431361.ece
11 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Reservations for differently abled a rarity in aided schools||Reservations for differently abled teachers are a rarity in aided schools in Kerala despite a Supreme Court order and Government directives. Three per cent reservation was mandatory for them under the People With Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995, from February 7, 1996. Under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, the quota was raised to 4% from April 19, 2017, with retrospective effect. According to K.N. Anand, vice president of Differently Abled Association, aided school managements have not been following the provisions, claiming that the Kerala Education Rules (KER) do not have provisions for appointment of differently abled persons. Though the Social Justice Department issued an order in November 2018 to protect the rights of differently abled persons, a section of managements approached the Supreme Court against it. When the association sought details of differently abled teachers in aided schools in Kannur and Kozhikode districts under the Right to Information Act, some managements claimed that they did not come under the purview of the Act. Some others said there were no provisions for reservations for the differently abled in the Education Department’s rules or laws. Though various organisations approached the Government against the alleged violation of norms, it did not yield results. Later, the Kerala High Court and the Supreme Court upheld the views of the differently abled with retrospective effect, while dismissing the contention of aided school managements. The courts pointed out earlier this year that all institutions receiving funds from the Government for disbursing salaries should follow the rules related to reservations. The apex court also said the managements should not harp on the argument that the manager was the appointing authority, and that there were no provisions for reservation in the KER to deny benefits. Meanwhile, the General Education Department issued a fresh order on November 8 to all aided school managers to follow the rules. Immediate steps should be taken to calculate the backlog and fill them. The Director General of Education has been asked to ensure that the order is implemented properly. Mr. Anand pointed out that the order did not have any reference to the KER. It also does not stipulate a clear mechanism to clear the backlog of vacancies.  Courts had pointed out that all institutions receiving funds from the Government for disbursing salaries should follow rules related to reservations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reservations-for-differently-abled-a-rarity-in-aided-schools/article37431287.ece
11 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Polytechnic teachers allege pay disparity||Lecturers in government polytechnic colleges in the State are bogged down by the anomalies in their pay structure after the implementation of All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) norms in 2013. Those who have higher qualifications prescribed by the council were compulsorily shifted to the “AICTE scheme” and those without them were allowed to continue in the “State scale” then. A retired lecturer in a polytechnic college in Central Kerala told The Hindu that this had led to serious disparities in their salaries. The pay structures of qualified lecturers with years of experience were fixed in the base-level band along with junior lecturers. Difference of Rs. 30,000 “Some teachers who had only diploma in engineering enjoyed huge salary hikes and pension benefits when compared to teachers with higher degrees such as M.Tech and B.Tech,” he said. The difference in pay scale between the unqualified and qualified is in the range of Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 30,000. When they retire from service, their pension benefits are not in line with their experience and qualification. Those who are part of the “State scheme” get a higher grade in salary and other benefits automatically, first after eight years and then after 15 years in service even without a promotion. However, those in the “AICTE scheme” have to follow all the norms such as acquisition of more degrees and presentation of research papers with retrospective effect and wait for years to reach the grade. There is no government support for the lecturers’ quality improvement programme either. Quite often, a senior lecturer is found to have a similar pay structure as that of a junior lecturer. For engg. colleges The original AICTE norms for engineering colleges have grades such as lecturer, senior grade lecturer, and selection grade lecturer. Principals must take six hours of class a week and the appointment of heads of departments must be on a rotation basis. This was not implemented in polytechnic colleges and the provisions in the “State scheme” for elevation of lecturers as HoDs and principals were retained. It was pointed out that though there were anomalies in the implementation of the University Grants Commission norms in colleges and AICTE norms in engineering colleges, they were rectified later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/polytechnic-teachers-allege-pay-disparity/article37431299.ece
11 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||CPI(M) amicably settles dissent in Kuttiyadi; retains rebels, seniors||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI-M] has done a balancing act to amicably settle dissent in its Kuttiyadi unit by accommodating rebels as well as old members in the newly constituted local committee. Earlier, the district leadership of the party had disbanded the Kuttiyadi local committee and constituted an ad hoc committee to replace the dismissed body in the wake of open protests before the Assembly polls. A few members who had been censured for their participation in protests have been retained in the committee. At the same time, none was demoted or excluded from the expanded committee. DYFI State committee member A.M. Rasheed, who was the convener of the ad hoc committee, has taken charge as secretary of the Kuttiyadi local committee. In the 13-member committee, seven were in the ad hoc committee. The CPI(M) district leadership had initiated action against local leaders by either expelling or suspending them after the Kuttiyadi seat was offered to the Kerala Congress (M) as per the seat-sharing pact in the LDF. Some of them put up posters and banners in support of incumbent legislator K.P. Kunhammed Kutty. Branch conferences and local committee meetings have almost concluded in the district. As of now, women are secretaries in 345 of the 2,410 branches and five of the 157 local committees. Meanwhile, area committee meetings commenced on Wednesday. There are 16 area committees in the district. It remains to be seen whether local-level factionalism witnessed in branch and local committee meetings will come to the fore in area committee meetings. The district meet of the party will be held in Kozhikode on January 10, 11, and 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-amicably-settles-dissent-in-kuttiyadi-retains-rebels-seniors/article37431288.ece
11 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||UAE amends law decriminalising cheque bouncing||The United Arab Emirates’ (UAE) move to amend the Commercial Transaction Law that decriminalises bounced cheque cases is expected to come as a huge relief to hundreds of Non-Resident Indians who earlier had to pay hefty fines and undergo imprisonment without trial in the Gulf nation. The new decree will come into force on January 2, 2022. The present law states that bouncing cheques is a criminal offence. “In future, it will be a civil offence where people can discuss and settle the case amicably,” Indian expatriate, K.V. Shamsudheen, who is also the chairman of UAE-based Pravasi Bandhu Welfare Trust, said. One of the key changes is decriminalisation of cheques issued without sufficient funds. However, criminalisation of bounced cheques due to insufficient funds in cases of fraud, forgery and bad faith will stay. Also, partial payment of cheques will become mandatory. This apart, the bank must pay the drawee the partial amount if the amount in the account is less than the value mentioned in the cheque unless the drawee rejects it. Mr. Shamsudheen said that earlier, when a cheque bounced, the defaulter would end up in jail, leading to the collapse of his business. “Now, investors can find a solution to the problem. It is a great relief for the businessmen in UAE,” he said, adding that new investors from India could use the opportunity. Nearly half of the 8,000 Indian citizens lodged in foreign jails are in the Gulf Cooperation Council nations. And about 1,300-1,500 each undertrials are in Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates for alleged violation of local laws pertaining to economic offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uae-amends-law-decriminalising-cheque-bouncing/article37431292.ece
11 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||NRI Global to hold meet on Dec. 4||The Indo-Arab Confederation Council is resuming its NRI global meet this year after the pandemic-induced gap. This year’s meet will be held in Bengaluru on December 4 and will be opened by Governor of Goa P.S. Sreedharan Pillai. Union Minister Ramdas Athwale will preside over the event. Several State Ministers, diplomats, expatriate industrialists, socio-economic experts, and academicians are expected to take part in the event. The council, with its roots in Kozhikode, is now spread across the country with offices in Mumbai and UAE. It has branches in all Arab countries, besides the UK and the USA. Attakkoya Pallikkandi, general secretary of the council, told reporters here on Wednesday that the housing project for expatriates was one of the prestigious projects being undertaken by the council this year and that the keys of the first completed house would be handed over at the global meet. “Addressing the problems faced by expatriate Indians across the globe, rehabilitation of those returning home, and projects involving expatriate Indians in strengthening the country’s economy are part of the agenda of the global meet”, Mr. Pallikkandy said. M.V.Kunhamu, president of the council, said that the governments were not paying much attention to the problems of the NRIs despite their being one of the main sources of remittances. He said that the council was constructing five houses for expatriates in different parts of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nri-global-to-hold-meet-on-dec-4/article37431293.ece
11 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Revoke suspension, says chess association||Chess Association-Kerala, which was suspended by the Kerala Sports Council in 2017, has demanded reinstatement immediately following a verdict of the Supreme Court in favour of the association. Rajesh R., president of the association, told reporters here on Wednesday that the Sports Council had suspended the association without any notice in 2017 following complaints from some players. Though the decision was cancelled by the Kerala High Court, a division bench of the court later approved the suspension on grounds that the State Government had the power to suspend any organisation without notice. Later, the association office-bearers moved the Supreme Court where it argued that the State had no powers over the Chess Association which was governed by the All India Chess Federation. They said that the suspension would prevent several players from availing of their due benefits. The Supreme Court subsequently served an injunction order on the suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revoke-suspension-says-chess-association/article37431297.ece
11 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||‘Kuprasiddha Payyan’ in custody again||Jayesh of Chakkumkadavu in Kozhikode city, whose life story inspired the Tovino Thomas-starrer Oru Kuprasiddha Payyan, was arrested on Tuesday on the charge of attempting to abduct three children from Kuttichira. According to police sources, the incident happened on October 26. The three children, aged 12, 10, and 8, were going for their tuition classes. Jayesh promised to get them ornamental fishes and abducted them from Kuttichira. He took them to a deserted area on Gujarati Street. Two of them ran away from there. Jayesh promised to take the boy, aged 10, around Kozhikode beach and placed him in a stationary goods autorickshaw. However, the boy got scared and ran away. The police identified Jayesh from CCTV footage and the statements given by the children and arrested him from Mukhadar on Tuesday. He was produced in court and remanded in judicial custody. Jayesh, who was working as a waiter at a small restaurant in Kozhikode, was arrested on the charge of murdering 69-year-old Sundariamma from whom he used to collect idlis. He was reportedly tortured in custody by the police after the arrest. The court however, acquitted him in 2014. The movie directed by Madhupal was released in 2018, and Tovino played the lead role. Nimisha Sajayan played the role of Anil Thiruvannur, the advocate who helped him prove his innocence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kuprasiddha-payyan-in-custody-again/article37431298.ece
11 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Govt. colleges under CU unwilling to raise UG seats||Government colleges affiliated to the University of Calicut are reportedly not following a Government directive and a resolution of the Syndicate to increase the number of seats in undergraduate courses for the 2021-22 academic year. The Government issued directives to increase the number of seats in undergraduate courses in Government and aided colleges in view of the high pass percentage in Plus Two exams. The Syndicate resolved to allot maximum number of statutory seats to these colleges on October 20. However, Government colleges are reportedly paying scant regard to these. For example, Government College, Chittur, Palakkad, has seven B.Sc and seven B.A. programmes. It can admit 875 students if the seats are increased (7x55=385 + 7x70=490). But only 496 students have reportedly got admissions there. Only 33 students have got admissions to the BA Malayalam course though it could have admitted 70 students in total. According to P. Rasheed Ahammed, UDF-aligned Syndicate member, if Government colleges had increased seats, 5,124 more students could have benefited from it. He pointed out that not admitting students would have a bearing on the Malabar region where the number of Government and aided colleges and the gross enrollment ratio were comparatively low. Mr. Ahammed claimed that many students might have to depend on self-financing colleges, which is expensive and beyond the reach of those from economically weaker sections. He urged Higher Education Minister R. Bindu to instruct the colleges to fill the seats as directed by the Government. Guest faculty could be appointed by the principals if the increased strength of students is causing inconvenience during common sessions for language classes. The Government should also seek explanation from principals why its orders were not followed. Steps should also be taken to improve infrastructure if it was lacking in the colleges. Meanwhile, students’ organisations such as the Muslim Students Federation and the Campus Front of India too have demanded that the seats be increased in Government colleges. They claimed that of the 33,000 students from the region who scored over 90% marks in Plus Two exams, only 22,000 managed to get admissions in Government and aided colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-colleges-in-calicut-varsity-unwilling-to-increase-ug-seats/article37431289.ece
11 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||2.4 kg of gold, foreign currency seized at airport||Sleuths of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence and Air Intelligence Unit on Wednesday seized 2.4 kg of gold in compound form from a woman who tried to smuggle the contraband through the Calicut international airport. Officials said P. Shahana (30) of Malappuram hidden the gold valued at nearly Rs. 1 crore inside her undergarments. She arrived on an Air India Express flight from Sharjah. She was arrested. Meanwhile, the Customs, with assistance from officials of the Airports Authority of India, seized foreign currency — Omani riyal and Saudi riyal — worth Rs. 30.32 lakh from a passenger bound for Dubai. The passenger, Abdu Rasheed (49) of Malappuram, had hidden the currency in his baggage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/24-kg-of-gold-foreign-currency-seized-at-airport/article37431317.ece
11 November 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Parents in tribal hamlet up in arms against ITDP||Parents in Kumbalappara tribal hamlet off the Government Seed Garden Complex at Munderi in Pothukal grama panchayat near Nilambur are up in arms against the officials of the Integrated Tribal Development Project (ITDP) for not admitting their children at a tribal hostel of their choice. The parents want their children to be admitted to the Tribal Pre-Metric Hostel at Nettikulam. However, the ITDP officials insist that the children of Kumbalappara be admitted to the Indira Gandhi Memorial Model Residential School (IGMMRS) at Veliyamthode, Nilambur. CWC sitting The parents, led by Chemban and Matha from Kumbalappara, raised a banner of protest in front of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) when it held a sitting at Manjeri on Wednesday. After hearing their complaint, CWC Chairman Shajesh Bhaskar asked the Child Development Programme Officer, IGMMRS officials and the ITDP officials to appear before the CWC on Monday next. Mr. Bhaskar has also sought a detailed report from them about the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parents-in-tribal-hamlet-up-in-arms-against-itdp/article37431294.ece
11 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Kalpathy chariot movements banned||The district administration has banned the chariot movements and the convergence of chariots as part of the Kalpathy festival to be held on Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday. It has also banned opening of any new shops or allowing street vendors, and mass food distribution during the festival. The responsibility of restricting the crowds below the permitted number of 200 will be that of the organisers. The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) reviewed the situation in the light of a Government order permitting the conduct of the festival with 200 people in the open and 100 people inside the temple. COVID protocol The DDMA evaluated that it was practically impossible to conduct the festival by taking out the deities in chariots and by restricting the crowds to 200 as per an action plan submitted by the organisers. The organisers had asked the district administration to restrict the crowds for the festival. However, an order issued by District Collector Mrunmai Joshi on Tuesday said Kalpathy festival would not be considered as that of the people of Kalpathy villages, but devotees from other Tamil Brahmin villages and neighbouring districts would throng the narrow lanes of Kalpathy. Onus on organisers The DDMA shifted the responsibility of crowd controlling to the organisers, and warned that punitive action would be initiated against them under the Disaster Management Act of 2005 and the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance of 2020 if the conditions were violated. The people of Kalpathy had prepared the chariots for taking the deities of Kalpathy Sri Visalakshi Sametha Sri Viswanatha Swami Temple, Old Kalpathy Sri Lakshmi Narayana Perumal Temple, Chathapuram Prasanna Mahaganapathi Temple, and New Kalpathy Manthakkara Mahaganapathi Temple along the villages on Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday. Thousands of people used to witness the auspicious movements of giant wooden chariots being pulled by the people with the deities in them. The DDMA observed that it would be impossible for the devotees to pull the chariots by maintaining physical distancing and by restricting the total number to 200.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kalpathy-chariot-movements-banned/article37431481.ece
11 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAAPURAM,KERALA||Cinema Tourism to tap popularity of film locations||The Tourism Department is all set to tap the popularity of locations in the State where memorable film sequences have been filmed. The department has initiated talks with the Department of Culture to identify such locations as part of a Cinema Tourism project, following a model which has proved to be successful in many countries and other Indian states. In a Facebook post on Wednesday, Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas said locations such as Bekal Fort in Kasargod, where the Uyire song from Mani Ratnam’s Bombay was shot, or the Kireedom bridge across the Punchakkari canal in Kalliyoor panchayat in the capital, named so after some scenes of the 1989 Mohanlal-starrer Kireedom were shot there, were places where many tourists would like to pay a visit at least once, to relive moments from these popular films. Talks between Ministers Mr.Riyas held a discussion with Minister for Culture Saji Cherian on the initiative. Film stars would also be made part of the project, to promote these locations. Consultations would also be held with experts from the field of culture and cinema. Several hitherto unexplored or unknown locations across the world have witnessed a sudden spike in popularity after their appearance in popular films and television series. The Lord of the Rings series of films led to a huge spike in tourism to New Zealand, where the films were set, that the phenomenon came to be known as Tolkien Tourism, after the author of the series. Phi Phi Island in Thailand witnessed a similar phenomenon after the release of The Beach in 2000. Closer home, Goa witnessed a tourism revival after the release of Dil Chahta Hai in 2001.  Film stars will also be made part of the project, to promote these locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cinema-tourism-to-tap-fame-of-film-locations/article37431362.ece
11 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tax defaulters’ list for two more zones out||The city Corporation on Wednesday published the ward-wise list of those in the Pattom and Medical College zones with pending building tax payments. The list includes those who have pending tax for the past several years as well as those who have not paid the tax for the first six months of 2021-22. The lists are available on the Corporation’s website, the Sanchaya website and at the zonal office. Those who have objections to the list can submit the same in an application form available at the zonal offices, main office and the Corporation website, within 15 days. The civic body had on Monday published a similar list for the Thiruvallam zone. Mayor Arya Rajendran said that the lists for all the zones would be published before November 20. Adalats from Nov. 22 Adalats for sorting out the issues faced by those whose tax payments have not been recorded will be held from November 22. The Sanchaya online system has been plagued with issues, including database discrepancies. Technical issues Some of the payments made offline as well as online were not getting reflected in the system. These technical issues are being corrected and the database cleaned up for each ward. The software issues were revealed at a time when a controversy over fund misappropriation by some officials at the zonal offices was raging at the Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tax-defaulters-list-for-two-more-zones-out/article37431470.ece
11 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||40.6% breakthrough infections in State||Kerala reported 7,540 new cases of COVID-19 when 76,380 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. With the proportion of fully vaccinated people increasing in the community, a chunk of these new cases are occurring in fully vaccinated people, taking the proportion of breakthrough infections in the State to 40.6%. Of the 7,540 new cases reported on Wednesday, 3,066 were fully vaccinated individuals. At the same time, the proportion of unvaccinated individuals who got infected was 25% (this could include individuals who are not eligible for vaccination as well). Between November 3 and 9, active cases dropped by 6%, while new cases dipped by 8% (4,320 cases), in comparison to the week before. Of the active cases, only 1.7% needed to be admitted to oxygen beds and 1.4% in ICUs. Hospitalisations reduced by 12%, indicating that vaccination is indeed helping to reduce the severity of the disease. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 50,34,858 cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 34,621 with the State adding 259 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Wednesday. These include 48 deaths that occurred in the past few days and 211 deaths that have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. The State’s active case pool had 70,459 patients on Wednesday, with 7,841 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. According to the Health Department, only 7% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals like COVID first-line/second-line treatment centres. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals in the State dropped below the 1,000 mark again on Wednesday to 962, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support also dipped sharply from 431 to 393 on the day. On Wednesday, the number of patients in the State newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 400. Hospitalisations are declining and at present, 5,687 persons are being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals across the State. Districts Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases at 1,151, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 1,083, Kottayam 812, Kozhikode 806, Thrissur 802, Wayanad 444, Idukki 408, Kollam 401, Pathanamthitta 348, Kannur 335, Alappuzha 326, Palakkad 287, Malappuram 173, and Kasaragod 164 cases.  Between November 3 and 9, active cases dropped by 6%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/406-breakthrough-infections-in-state/article37431323.ece
11 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM conceded advantage to T.N.: Satheesan||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) walked out of the Assembly on Wednesday holding Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan responsible for the sanction accorded to Tamil Nadu on November 5 to fell trees to strengthen the baby dam at Mullaperiyar. Moving a submission in the House, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said Mr. Vijayan had, at a stroke, scuttled Kerala's chances for a new dam at Mullaperiyar. The “self-defeating” Forest Department order ran against the grain of the State’s contention in the Supreme Court that Central sanction was required to fell trees in the Periyar Tiger Reserve and Tamil Nadu had not submitted the mandatory clearances. The Government had also inadvertently buttressed Tamil Nadu’s case to raise the water level in the 126-year-old Mullaperiyar to a “perilous” 152 feet by allowing it to fortify the baby dam. “Kerala’s case is floundering and the State is bound to lose the case for a new dam because of its mistakes,” he said. He said the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Home, who answers to Mr. Vijayan, held Water Resources charge. The ACS was party to the decision in June to allow a joint team of officials of the States to inspect the baby dam to identify the trees that impeded its reinforcement. Subsequently, a joint meeting via videoconference sanctioned the felling of the trees. He said that on November 5, the Forest Department allowed Tamil Nadu to cut the trees. Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran had told the Assembly that the “erroneous” order was possibly based on the misreading of the minutes of a November 1 meeting between Forest and Water Resources officials. However, Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine said no such meeting had occurred. Mr. Satheesan said both the Ministers spoke about the life and death issue of Keralites in conflicting terms. The Government was yet to cancel the order. “It has merely kept it in abeyance,” he said. Power Minister K. Krishnankutty said the Government had frozen the controversial order because it contradicted Kerala’s stance on the apex court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-conceded-advantage-to-tn-satheesan/article37431316.ece
11 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PWD dashboard for road projects||The Public Works Department (PWD) will implement from next year a project management system which would enable MLAs and the public to track the progress of road projects at every stage, Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas told the Assembly on Wednesday. Replying to questions, he said specific timelines would be fixed for each stage of road projects to fix responsibility on delays. The dashboard of the system would provide the MLAs and the public all details regarding various ongoing road projects. Contractors could flag various issues through the system. Update details Department heads, District Collectors, State nodal officer and other officials could update the details in the system. Mr. Riyas said the PWD 4U mobile application, launched recently, had proved to be popular, with 15,000 complaints received from the public till date. After the launch of online booking at the PWD rest houses across the State, 991 bookings were received for Rs. 5.76 lakh over the past nine days, out of which 794 bookings were done through the online booking system. He said a working calendar would be prepared to cut down on delays in various works. Discussions were held with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Leader of the Opposition V.S. Satheesan and leaders of various parties over its implementation, which was expected to be completed soon, the Minister added. Delays To avoid delays, most of the steps of the projects, including tendering, revised estimates and bill preparation, were integrated into the PRICE software. District-level Infrastructure Coordination Committees had been formed as per an order issued in September this year, he said. The Minister added that these committees were holding frequent meetings for monitoring the progress of the projects in the respective districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pwd-dashboard-for-road-projects/article37431324.ece
11 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Panel inspects ABC facility||A three-member panel consisting of three Government veterinary doctors, an Executive Magistrate and police officials conducted an inspection at the city Corporation’s Animal Birth Control (ABC) facility, near Thiruvallam, on Wednesday, following allegations by an animal lovers’ group that stray dogs bought for sterilisation have mysteriously disappeared from the centre. The team exhumed 10 dog carcasses from the centre. The viscera samples have been sent to the Chief Chemical Examiner’s Lab to check whether they were poisoned. Vets’ claim  The veterinarians at the facility have been maintaining that some stray dogs do die during the sterilisation procedure as they might already have some health issues. These small numbers of stray dogs are buried in the centre’s compound because there is no other space. The complainants had alleged that they had noticed a mismatch in the number of stray dogs brought in and the number marked in the register. They had also alleged that the dogs were kept in pathetic conditions before and after sterilisation. They had filed a complaint with the Kovalam police after noticing a dog carcass in the compound.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-inspects-abc-facility/article37431471.ece
11 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Anupama moves panel, SPC||Anupama S. Chandran, a young mother who has alleged that her child was given up for adoption by her parents without her consent, has written to the District Child Welfare Committee and the State Police Chief seeking urgent measures to get the child back from the adoptive parents and house him safely under the State Government till the family court pronounces a judgment in the case. In her letters on Wednesday, Anupama said that on her petition the court had directed the District Child Welfare Committee (CWC) to re-examine the adoption procedures. However, her child was still with the adoptive parents and she feared that they would try and take the child out of the country or harm him. The family court had earlier put on hold the adoption procedures considering the plea of the mother. Anupama had come out against Kerala State Council for Child Welfare general secretary Shiju Khan and CWC chairperson N. Sunanda demanding that they be removed from their positions. A departmental probe when the people against whom she had complained remained in positions of power would provide them opportunities to destroy evidence, she had said. ‘No deliberate misstep’ CWC chairperson N. Sunanda, however, underlined there had been no deliberate misstep on the part of the CWC. “There has been no lapse at any point. We have been mandated by the court to provide Anupama justice, and we will provide her all the help we can. We will summon everyone concerned, conduct hearings, and ask for relevant files. All directions given by the court will be followed.” Ms. Sunanda said that when Anupama first approached her on April 22, she said she did not know where the child was. Asked if a police complaint had been filed, Anupama had replied that she had lodged a complaint with the Peroorkada police and a complaint to the State Police Chief. Since a police complaint had already been filed, Anupama was asked to come for a direct hearing on May 4. She was also asked to try and get her father to reveal the child’s whereabouts. However, Anupama did not come to the CWC hearing. “An online hearing is not enough to ascertain all facts. There are a lot of procedures that need to be followed. Without people turning up, how will all that be completed.” The CWC chairperson denied any knowledge of Anupama being dissuaded from filing a direct complaint since she did not know where the child was. “We could have extended more help if she had come directly. Even if she was told by some staff member not to come, she still should have come and met us.” DNA test Anupama, she says, came to CWC only on August 11 after coming to know from the police that the child had been abandoned in the Ammathottil cradle of the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare. She had applied for a DNA test, but as the allotted date of September 15 was not convenient for her, she was given a fresh date of September 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anupama-moves-panel-spc/article37431463.ece
11 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||First Indian layman to be conferred sainthood||Devasahayam Pillai, the 18th century Roman Catholic convert and “martyr” from Kanyakumari district, will be canonised on May 5, 2022 by Pope Francis at the Vatican. The message has been conveyed to Father Nazarene Soosai, Bishop of the Kottar diocese, by Elphinston Joseph, a postulator, who presented a plea for the canonisation in the Roman Catholic Church. “He is being canonised 270 years after his martyrdom. It is an important event for the people of Tamil Nadu,” said former IAS officer M.G. Devasahayam, who wrote a letter to the Vatican in 2017 to drop the caste title “Pillai” from the “Blessed Devasahayam’s name”. Even though the Vatican refused to change the caste title in the beginning, it subsequently dropped it on a representation from the district. “It is not fair to retain his caste name since he revolted against it. Though the Vatican declined to change it, after our subsequent letters arguing that India’s Constitution and laws are against the caste system, they agreed,” Mr. Devasahayam said. According to CatholicSaints.Info, the canonisation miracle involves the resumption of the heartbeat of a 24-week foetus that had stopped earlier. It happened in 2013, the website says. Folklorist A.K. Perumal, the biographer of Devasahayam, said he was born to a Namboothiri father and Nair mother in 1712. He was shot dead at Aralvaimozhi, on the border of the Kanyakumari district, in 1752. His remains were buried in front of the altar at the St. Xavier’s Church in Kottar.  The canonisation mass will be held at St. Peter’s Basilica in the Vatican on May 15, 2022||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-indian-layman-to-be-conferred-sainthood/article37431236.ece
11 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Distribution of digital equipment on: CM||The distribution of digital equipment for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe students has been progressing well, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the Assembly. The Scheduled Caste Development Department contributed to identifying those in need of aid in various areas. However, there were isolated issues remaining and these would be addressed. Referring to Eldhose Kunnappilly's claim that he had personally donated digital equipment to students, while the Government had not been able to do much in this regard, he said individual members may be able to buy equipment from the market directly, but a Government had to follow certain procedures and guidelines. This was why digital equipment had not reached students in the pace that the Government wished for.  Earlier, replying to a question, General Education Minister V. Sivankutty said there were 4.7 lakh students requiring digital equipment as per the figures at the end of July this year. However, this number had come down to 3.53 lakh by the first week of November, after the launch of the Vidyakiranam project, which led to contributions from the public. As many as 36,999 Scheduled Tribe students were found to have been lacking digital equipment. A total of 45,313 laptops were being distributed to Scheduled Tribe students from Classes 1 to 12 and Scheduled Caste students in Classes 10 and 12. He said six meetings were held with industrialists, non-resident Keralites and others who are capable of donating digital equipment for students. The Government was expecting that more funds would arrive in a phased manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/distribution-of-digital-equipment-on-cm/article37431484.ece
11 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Byelections in 32 local body wards to be held on December 7||Byelections in 32 local body wards, including two Corporation wards and three district panchayat wards, will be held on December 7, the State Election Commission has said. The votes would be counted on December 8, it said on Wednesday. The model code of conduct for the bypoll had come into force in the respective areas. Nomination papers could be filed from November 12, when the election notification would be issued, to November 19. The papers would be scrutinised on November 20. November 22 was the last date for withdrawing the nominations. The bypolls would be conducted by strictly adhering to the COVID-19 protocol, State Election Commissioner A. Shajahan said. Vettucaud in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, and Gandhi Nagar in Kochi Corporation were the two Corporation wards in the list. The district panchayat wards were Aroor in Alappuzha, Sreekrishnapuram in Palakkad, and Nanmanda in Kozhikode, the panel said. Ozhinjavalappu in Kanhangad municipality, Chalampadam in Irinjalakuda municipality and Edapallychira in Piravom municipality would also be going to polls. The rest were block and grama panchayat wards, the State Election Commission said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bypolls-in-32-local-body-wards-on-december-7/article37431312.ece
11 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM releases book on cooperative movement||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday released a book on the cooperative movement in the State written by former Minister for Cooperation and MLA Kadakampally Surendran. Cooperation Minister V.N. Vasavan received the first copy from the Chief Minister. He said the book, Kerala Sambath Vyavasthayum Sahakarana Meghalayum: Saarthakamaya Anju Sahakarana Varshangal , illustrated the strides made by the cooperative sector in the State in the face of the widening economic inequalities triggered by the policies of the Union Government. V. Joy, MLA, and Secretary, Cooperation, Mini Antony were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-releases-book-on-cooperative-movement/article37431476.ece
11 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Class X equivalency SAY||The Pareeksha Bhavan will conduct Class X equivalency Save-a-Year (SAY) examinations from December 6 to 10. The fee has to be remitted at the SAY centres concerned between November 11 and 17. For details, visit the website www.keralapareekshabhavan.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/class-x-equivalency-say/article37431464.ece
11 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Farmer’ to grace Children’s Day stamp||Twelve-year-old Akshay B. Pillai’s painting of an Indian farmer gazing out at his farmland will grace this year’s Children’s Day stamp brought out by the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare in connection with Children’s Day. A resident of Kanjaveli in Kollam district, Akshay is a Class VII student of NSS Higher Secondary School, Prakkulam, Kollam. Competition He had participated in a painting competition with the theme ‘Indian farmer’ that was organised by the council for designing the Children’s Day stamp. As many as 529 students had participated in the contest, with Akshay’s painting being selected for the stamp brought out by the council as per a Government order. Kerala Lalithakala Akademi chairperson Nemom Pushparaj selected the best painting. Akshay, son of Anju and Biju P. Pillai, is very interested in painting and is also proficient in origami. The Children’s Day stamp will be released at the State-level Children’s Day celebrations organised here on November 14. Akshay will be be presented with a trophy and cash award on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmer-to-grace-childrens-day-stamp/article37431467.ece
11 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pledging fake gold: two held||The Neyyar Dam police on Wednesday arrested two men on the charge of defrauding money from a private financial institution at Kuttichal after pledging fake gold ornaments. The accused have been identified as Binu (42) and Vinod (44) from Mannoorkara, near Kuttichal. According to the police, the duo had allegedly pledged an iron ring coated with gold. They had been involved in similar operations at various private finance institutions at Kariyode, Kottur and Kuttichal, said the police. They went back to the institution at Kuttichal to pledge one more fake ornament, when the staff there sensed something amiss and informed the police. Two more men, Shahjahan and Raashid, are allegedly part of the gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pledging-fake-gold-two-held/article37431469.ece
11 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fishers stage protest||The Theera Bhoosamrakshana Vedi organised a protest in front of the Secretariat on Wednesday against the Government’s coast-related policies. K.K. Rema, MLA, inaugurated the valedictory of the day-long protest. She expressed solidarity with the struggles of the fisher community. M. Vincent MLA was the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-stage-protest/article37431438.ece
11 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,083 COVID cases in district||The district registered 1,083 new COVID-19 cases and 951 recoveries on Wednesday. The test positivity rate stood at 11.8%. In all, 10,148 people are currently under treatment for COVID-19 in the district. The Anjanakuzhikkara settlement area in Adappupara ward of Pangode panchayat has been declared micro-containment zone, the district administration said. Devi East Residents Association and Devi Nagar Residents Association in Palkulangara ward of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Thrikkovilvattom in Pangode panchayat; and Mulankad region in Vembayam panchayat have been removed from the list of micro-containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1083-covid-cases-in-district/article37431472.ece
11 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PWD roads suffer damage of Rs. 210.73 cr. in rain||Incessant rain and natural disasters have caused damage amounting to Rs. 210.73 crore this year to the Public Works Department’s roads, Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamad Riyas told the Assembly on Wednesday. Out of this, a large part of the damage was sustained during the heavy rain across the State in October, with damage amounting to Rs. 158.5 crore happening during this period. In addition, the roads coming under the National Highways Authority of India sustained damage amounting to Rs. 14.60 crore this year. Mr. Riyas said the damaged roads in disaster-prone areas were being rebuilt with various technologies which would ensure that they could survive such disasters in the future. Cement concrete Road construction with white-topping technology, which involves covering of an existing asphalt road with a layer of Portland cement concrete, could give roads a life of 15 to 20 years. In areas prone to landslips, gabion walls, geotextiles, and turfing were being carried out to strengthen the slopes. A road maintenance and management system was being prepared under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative to build roads roads which could withstand damages due to rain and natural disasters. The focus would be on constructing roads based on the peculiarities of the specific area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pwd-roads-suffer-damage-of-rs-21073-crore-in-rain/article37431473.ece
11 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Webinar on climate change, its impact||A webinar on climate extremes, economic loss, and farmer resilience will be held on November 11 and 12. It will discuss the major issues under four themes - climate extremes and economic loss in agriculture; climate extremes and livelihood impact; climate resilience in agriculture — adaptation and mitigation strategies; and revisiting the methods to assess economic loss due to extreme climate events. The webinar is organised jointly by the Kerala Agricultural University and the Indian Society of Agricultural Economics, Mumbai. Over 40 research papers will be presented at the webinar. R. Chandrababu, Vice Chancellor, KAU, will inaugurate the function. Researchers and students can participate in the webinar through the following link. https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84640756279?pwd= VTBUamNSV1JrUStxdDFr bkVPa0lEZz09||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar-on-climate-change-its-impact/article37431436.ece
11 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thiruvizha Jayashankar gets Chembai Puraskaram||Nadaswaram artiste Thiruvizha Jayashankar has won the Sree Guruvayurappan Chembai Puraskaram instituted by the Guruvayur Devaswom in connection with Guruvayur Ekadasi. The award is given in honour of his contribution to the field of nadaswaram for the last seven decades. The award carries a purse of Rs. 50,001, gold locket and citation. Nadaswaram concert Devaswom Minster K. Radhakrishnan will present the award to the 83-year-old artiste at the inauguration of the 47th Chembai music festival at Melpathur Auditorium at Guruvayur on November 29. This will be followed by a nadaswaram concert by Mr. Jayashankar. The award has been decided by a jury with Guruvayur Devaswom chairman K.B. Mohandas as convener. “It is one of the precious moments in my life. It is the blessings of Guruvayurappan and Chembai Swamigal. Thanking all, especially Gururvayurappan and the Devaswom,” said Mr. Jayashankar. He is a disciple of Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer and has several awards to his credit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thiruvizha-jayashankar-gets-chembai-puraskaram/article37431321.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Heated reaction||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heated-reaction/article37431356.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In perspective||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-perspective/article37431291.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||When price goes skyward||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-price-goes-skyward/article37431475.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back on track||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-on-track/article37431328.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Against rising fuel prices||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/against-rising-fuel-prices/article37431483.ece
11 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aided colleges: TDP puts govt. on a week’s notice||The Telugu Desam Party has (TDP) on Wednesday put the YSRCP government on a week’s notice, asking it to rescind the G.O. 42 pertaining to withdrawing support to the aided educational institutions in the State. The party also warned to launch a prolonged agitation unless the G.O. was revoked. Sounding the bugle for the agitation in Anantapur on Wednesday, TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh put forward three demands that he felt should be fulfilled immediately for not kicking off their proposed agitation along with the Communist Party of India (CPI). After a two-hour public meeting on the city outskirts, Mr. Lokesh came in a rally to the SSBN College and spoke to the students to understand their problems. The three demands included withdrawal of government orders in relation to the proposed change in the status of the aided educational institutions, immediate action against the police personnel responsible for the lathi-charge on the SSBN College students, and withdrawal of all ‘false cases’ against the student union leaders across the State. In a meeting attended by the SSBN College students and the CPI and the TDP cadre, CPI State Secretary K. Ramakrishna and Mr. Lokesh expressed concern that a majority of the close to 2 lakh Intermediate and degree students of aided colleges would not be able to afford fees in private colleges as they came from poor financial background. “The aided system brought in by the Woods Commission in 1854. The government is eyeing the properties of the aided institutions by privatision or merger,” said Mr. Lokesh. Condeming the police action, he said there was no need for them to enter the college premises when students were staging a sit-in peacefully, adding that there was an ‘evil design’ in privatising the SSBN College, which was set up by philonthrophic contribution of Sirivaram Adinarayana and donations from several local citizens. Mr. Ramakrishna questioned the managing committee as to what was it doing when the police were ‘beating up’ their students and that why did its chairman P.L.N. Reddy did not protect the students. The CPI leader found fault with Anantapur DSP G. Veeraraghava Reddy’s actions, saying that it instigated the other police personnel including special party police to ‘go berserk’ on the students. “As alleged by Education Minister A. Suresh, the Opposition will resort to politics to protect the interests of the students,” Mr. Ramakrishna added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aided-colleges-tdp-puts-govt-on-a-weeks-notice/article37431428.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to take court cases seriously||In the light of Karnataka High Court taking serious exception to the absence of officials during proceedings even when their presence is mandatory, Chief Secretary P. Ravikumar has issued a circular instructing them to comply with court direction when their presence is sought or when they are summoned. ‘Top priority’ In the circular, Mr. Ravikumar instructed officials to give top priority to court cases. In the event of an official being unable to attend a hearing personally, the government advocate should be informed in advance. Failure to attend a court hearing when summoned will be viewed seriously, according to the circular. In recent months, there have been several instances of the High Court pulling up officials for their absence or inability to comply with a court direction. On Tuesday, the High Court had orally observed that one or two officers of the State Government may have to be sent to jail for not complying with repeated orders to set an example to others about the consequences. “We cannot tolerate non-compliance of court’s directions by the officers every day. You [the officers] have started taking the court very lightly...” Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi had orally observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/take-cases-seriously-court-officials-told/article37430908.ece
11 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC upholds Centre’s notification on OCI students||The High Court of Karnataka has upheld the legality of the March 4, 2021 notification issued by the Union Government under the Citizenship Act, restricting admission of Overseas Citizenship of India (OCI) students to professional courses only under the non-resident of India (NRI) quota. However, the court allowed the petitioner-OCI students to stake claim to admission to engineering and other professional courses in Karnataka only for the academic year 2021-22 even under the general merit category under government quota in the light of an interim order passed by the apex court. The Supreme Court had recently allowed OCI students to seek admission to medical and dental courses even under general merit category only for 2021-22. Justice Krishna S. Dixit delivered the verdict while rejecting the challenge by Alekhya Ponnekanti and 123 OCI student-petitioners to the March 4, 2021 notification. The court said all the petitioners could stake claim for admission for 2021-22 consistent with the interim order passed earlier in the petitions allowing them to participate in the selection process initiated by the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA), subject to their individual eligibility. The petitioners had claimed that though they have foreign citizenship by virtue of their birth in foreign countries when their parents were working outside India for a temporary period, they should be treated on a par with Indian citizens for admission to professional courses as they have domicile in India. They pointed out that they had studied minimum of seven years in Karnataka to stake claim for admission under government quota seats. Refusing to accept their argument, the court agreed with the Union Government’s contention that the condition imposed on OCI students that they would be eligible for admission only through NRI quota was “consciously incorporated with intent to protect the interest of the domiciling natives [Indian citizen] who lack the competitive edge qua the OCI cardholders and the NRIs”. “Both these classes, that is the OCI and the NRI who are now equated to each other, obviously have greater exposure to the outer world, by virtue of birth and upbringing in the case of former, and by virtue of residence in the case of the latter. The classification between the natives on the one hand and the OCIs and the NRIs on the other cannot be faltered by invoking equality clause...”, the court observed. While upholding the power of the Centre to issue such a notification under the Citizenship Act, the court also said: “It hardly needs to be stated that the foreigners and the native citizens apparently belong to two different classes, and therefore, treating them alike would fall foul of the principle of equality.” The court did not find merit in the petitioners’ contention that the March 4, 2021 notification was contrary to judgments of the High Court on the right of OCI students to seek admission under general merit seats under government quota based on the 2005 and 2009 notifications issued under the Citizenship Act. The 2021 notification, the court said, had only restructured the educational rights of OCI cardholders by superseding the notifications of 2005 and 2009, and it was not a case of the executive reversing the judicial verdicts as earlier judgments did not interdict the issuance of present notification or the like.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-upholds-centres-notification-on-oci-students/article37430905.ece
11 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Diarrhoea outbreak near Tirupati, 11 rushed to SVRR hospital||The outbreak of diarrhoea was reported in Renigunta and Vadamalapeta mandals, with 11 people undergoing treatment in SVRR Hospital at Tirupati, while two deaths were reported, the cause of which is yet to be ascertained. Medical authorities said another 60 patients suffering from diarrhoea were provided treatment and were either discharged from hospitals or treated as outpatients. District Medical and Health Officer U. Sree Hari told The Hindu that an expert committee was formed and the officials had rushed to the affected localities. The official said that of the two deaths, one was that of a man aged above 90 with multiple health complications. “The cause of the deaths is yet to be ascertained,” he said. Deputy DMHO P. Ravi Raju inspected the localities around Vadamalapeta mandal headquarters on Wednesday, after seven cases were reported from the area. He said that water and food contamination was likely to be cause for the outbreak. Due to incessant rains in Chittoor district for the last one week, coupled with the heavy rain alert on November 11 and 12, the official urged people to drink boiled water and avoid junk food and those stored in the refrigerators for long. He said that, in coordination with the civic authorities, the broken and leaking water pipelines would be repaired immediately. Dr. Ravi Raju warned the public in low-lying areas prone to water-logging to be doubly cautious and avoid unprotected drinking water. Heavy downpour Meanwhile, heavy downpour was reported in the eastern parts of the district on Wednesday, while the sky remained cloudy from the afternoon with intermittent drizzle. In view of heavy rainfall warning in the next 48 hours, the district administration had put the revenue and police personnel on alert in Satyavedu, Varadaiahpalem, BN Kandriga and KVB Puram mandals. A note of caution In Chittoor, Municipal Commissioner P. Viswanath formed a special team to inspect the residential localities along the Neeva river, which reported steady inflows since a couple of days. He cautioned the residents to be careful and move to the rehabilitation centres as and when the situation warranted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/diarrhoea-outbreak-near-tirupati-11-rushed-to-svrr-hospital/article37431414.ece
11 November 2021||CORINGA (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||India’s first fishing cat collaring project to begin in Coringa||Conservation biologists of the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, will begin collaring 10 fishing cats (Prionailurus viverrinus ) in the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary (CWS) in Andhra Pradesh next week. The country’s first such project will be led by Bilal Habib. In Asia, a similar project had been done in Bangladesh. The project that was planned in 2020 had to be postponed due to the spread of COVID-19. The State Forest Department had already released Rs. 45 lakh of the Rs. 75 lakh total project cost being entirely funded by the Vedanta group. The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had also permitted the the project. “Our team of researchers will begin the fishing cat collaring project next week in the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary. The project begins with enumerating the fishing cat in the sanctuary before selecting the animals for collaring,” Dr. Bilal Habib, the principal investigator, told The Hindu over phone on Wednesday. “The project involves the fishing cat estimate and collaring, and how it survives in the sanctuary,” Dr. Bilal Habib said. “The three-year project will also study its habitat, feeding habits, threats, and movements,” he added. The census conducted in 2018 had recorded the existence of 115 fishing cats. A significant portion of the Coringa mangrove ecosystem had recently been disturbed because of the clandestine manufacturing of ID liquor in the Godavari estuary. There is, however, no scientific study on the impact of the illegal activity on wildlife in general and the fishing cat in particular. The sanctuary spreads above 235.7 square km. In October, 177 square km area surrounding the sanctuary was declared as eco-sensitive zone. “The collars to be used in the project are imported,” C. Selvam, Divisional Forest Officer (Wildlife), Rajahmundry, said. Breeding centre “According to a senior official, who was earlier associated with the project, the research will offer more scientific clues on the species and facilitate the setting up of a national-level breeding centre for fishing cat,” Mr. Selvam said. The Coringa sanctuary is yet to be declared as a Ramsar site, despite facing various threats to its ecology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/coringa-set-for-fishing-cat-collaring-project/article37430942.ece
11 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP names candidates for Council election||The YSR Congress Party has announced the names of candidates for the elections to the MLC posts. Adviser to government (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy announced at a press conference at Tadepalli that the party had finalised the names of former DCCB chairman Palavalasa Vikrant from Srikakulam, AMC chairman Ishaq from Nandyal, former MLC D.C. Govind Reddy from Badvel constituency in YSR Kadapa district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-names-candidates-for-council-election/article37431430.ece
11 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dasari Sudha calls on Jagan||Badvel MLA Dasari Sudha, along with Kadapa MP Y.S. Avinash Reddy and former MLC D.C. Vividha Reddy, called on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office here on Wednesday. Mr. Jagan congratulated Dr. Sudha for winning the recent Badvel bypoll with a huge majority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dasari-sudha-calls-on-jagan/article37430958.ece
11 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Essentials distributed||Chennai-based Olam Agro-Spices has distributed essential commodity kits to migrant workers at YSR Cold Storage, Medikonduru. The distribution of 100 kits enough to sustain families for two months was taken up with the support of GAIN (Switzerland) and Akshaya Patra Foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/essentials-distributed/article37430959.ece
11 November 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman IPS probationer to lead Dikshant Parade, again||For the third consecutive year, a woman IPS probationer on Friday will command the Dikshant Parade at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA), considered to be a prestigious honour. Darpan Ahluwalia, borne on Punjab cadre, is the sixth woman in the history of the academy to command the parade. In August 2021, Ranjitha Sharma of Rajasthan cadre and the year before, Kiran Shruthi D.V. of Tamil Nadu cadre had led the parade. Ms. Ahluwalia is the overall topper of Basic Course Phase-I training and had bagged Martyr K.S. Vyas Trophy for Internal Security and Public Order and Field Crafts and Tactics. Around 20% of the IPS probationers of 73 Regular Recruit passing out from the SVPNPA on Friday are women. National Security Adviser Ajit Doval would review the Dikshant Parade (passing out parade) of 132 IPS probationers of the latest batch, including 27 women, academy director Atul Karwal said on Wednesday. Along with them, 17 foreign officials — six each from Royal Bhutan Police and Maldives Police Services, and five from Nepal Police — would also take part in the parade. The batch began their basic training on December 28 last year, and will be sent to their respective cadres from December 20 till July 9, 2022, for District Practical Training (DPT). The trainee officers will return to the academy for their Basic Course Phase-II Training on July 18 next year. Phase II will conclude on October 7, 2022. The trainees had completed their 10-week foundation course at LBS NAA, Mussoorie, and underwent 50 weeks of phase-I basic course training at SVPNPA, which includes other attachments to Border Security Force, Central Reserve Police Force and Indo-Tibetian Border Police, apart from attachment with Telangana police’s anti-Left Wing Extremism elite force Greyhounds and Central School of Weapons and Tactics to ensure an all-round training. Attachment with Greyhounds was for exposure to jungle operations, including camping in the jungle, while attachment with CRPF in Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand was to give exposure to LWE and internal security challenges in the country, Mr. Karwal said. They were also sent on election attachment with a view to observe and learn election bandobast , to acquaint themselves with the mobilisation and deployment of forces, how security concerns are addressed and how efficiently and effectively the civil and police administration ensure free and fair polls. “Here they learn to handle any and every weapon effectively. They learn tactics for urban and rural situations, apart from various sports and games,” the director said. Mr. Karwal added that over 90% trainees are sharp shooters. Modular approach In addition to their regular curriculum, special inputs were imparted in modular format on Module on Crime against Women and Children, investigation simulation on heinous crimes, property crimes and NDPS cases and public speaking module, riot control simulation, fire safety drill and court craft and mock trails. Unlike previous years, this time, the passing out part is held after completion of phase I of basic training course, and then the probationers will go to their respective cadres for DPT. Meanwhile, four officers (probationers) —Patil Kantilal Subhash from Maharashtra, Sirisetti Sankeerth from Telangana, Pooka Gupta from Delhi and Paritosh Pankaj from Bihar — were allotted to the Telangana cadre, while five were allotted to Andhra Pradesh. Engineers in batch In a significant shift, the current batch is dominated by tech-savvy candidates as 92 of the 132 are from different disciplines of engineering. While 12 trainees are from arts background, 11 are from science, five from commerce, six are MBBS graduates, two each have completed law and post graduation while one has done M.Phil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-ips-probationer-to-lead-dikshant-parade-again/article37431245.ece
11 November 2021||KALPETTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kalaris back on track post-lockdown||Kalari units that impart Kalaripayattu, an ancient martial art form, are getting back on track in the State after an interval of two and a half years. More than 10,000 Kalari units in the State had stopped functioning abruptly after the outbreak of COVID-19 in the country. Most of the Kalari units, except those in containment zones, in the State started operation by the second week of November adhering to COVID-19 protocols, A.K. Ibrahim Gurukkal, vice president, Kalaripayattu Federation of India (KFI), told The Hindu . “Kalaripayattu is an ancient martial art that originated in the country as a part of military training for warriors. There are 400 Kalari units in the State under the organisation and close to 4,500 students learn the basics of the martial art form,” Mr. Gurukkal, who runs three Kalari units in Bengaluru, Koodathai in Kozhikode district, and here, said. Overseas chapters The KFI has also opened its chapters in Lakshadweep, Indonesia, Japan, Germany, France, and Dubai. “Today, it is used for everything from self-defence and becoming self-aware and alert, to a way of losing weight and flexibility training,” he said. He has been an instructor of Vadakkan Kalaripayattu for the past 34 years. Close to 200 new learners have enrolled in his Kalari units in a week, he said. “I have a lot of disciples in Italy, Russia, Ukraine, and South Africa. Every year, till the outbreak of the pandemic, they used to come here with new learners and spend a few weeks with me to learn the new techniques,” he said. Determination Kalaripayattu has complex movements. But the Gurukkal maintained that it was one of the easiest martial art forms to learn. “All you need is a determined mind,” he said. When the KFI had organised a national event at Mysuru in 2019, as many as 800 participants from 22 States in the country took part in the programme, he said.  Most Kalari units, except those in containment zones, in the State have begun operations adhering to protocols||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kalaris-back-on-track-post-lockdown/article37430920.ece
11 November 2021||KALPETTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Voice test: court dismisses Kerala BJP president’s plea||The first class judicial magistrate court at Sulthan Bathery on Wednesday dismissed a petition filed by BJP Kerala president K. Surendran for conducting his voice test in a Central forensic laboratory instead of the State forensic laboratory in Thiruvananthapuram. The case relates to the allegation that Mr. Surendran had bribed Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party leader C.K. Janu to field her as a National Democratic Alliance candidate in the last Assembly elections. Mr. Surendran said there were chances of fabrication if the test was conducted in the State. Assistant public prosecutor Aneesh Joseph opposed the application stating that the State laboratory had adequate facilities and the accused had no right to dictate the course of the investigation. The Crime Branch had collected his voice sample to verify the authenticity of an audio clip released by JRP treasurer Praseeta Azhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/court-dismisses-surendrans-plea/article37430918.ece
11 November 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC to hear Church cases on Nov. 16||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday observed that it would decide on the petitions filed by vicars of various parishes of the Malankara Church seeking police protection for performing services on merit on November 16, as its efforts to drill sense into the Orthodox and Jacobite factions and find a peaceful solution to the disputes did not succeed. When the cases came up before Justice Devan Ramachandran, the Additional Advocate General submitted that there was no possibility of a reconciliation of the disputes. In fact, the heads of both the factions had been contacted and the Patriarch faction was not willing to concede. During the hearing, the judge orally observed that it was a tragedy that one of the factions did not want to end the disputes. The court did its best to end the disputes as it was trued to its constitutional conscience. But nobody wanted to hear and understand. As the saying went, good pieces of advice were rarely heeded to. The court added that it was unfortunate that the court was forced to implement the Supreme Court verdict in the Church case by sending the police. It was the subjective discretion of the court that prompted it to hold back on sending the police force to enforce the judgment. It should not have been treated as a weakness of the court. The court had attempted to drill some sense into one of the factions. The court did it because it felt that it was high time the State needed peace. Court observation The Supreme Court had ruled that the 1934 Church constitution was applicable to all Malankara churches. The Jacobite faction was bound to abide by the 1934 constitution. As per the judgment, it was the vicars appointed by the Catholicos of the East who had to conduct elections in the parishes and appoint clergies. If the Jacobite faction was abiding by the judgment, it should withdraw the clergies appointed by it. As the hearing progressed in the case, a picture of a shirtless attendee of the virtual court was flashed on the screen. This prompted the court to tell the attendee that this was a court, not a circus or a cinema. The court said if such things happened, it would remove such persons from virtual hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-to-hear-church-cases-on-nov-16/article37430911.ece
11 November 2021||KURNOOL / ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four TDP activists injured as car hits pole||Four TDP activists sustained injuries when the car they were on board hit a cement pole on the National Highway-44. One activist who was grievously injured was shifted to a private hospital in Anantapur. The TDP activists, all followers of Tadipatri Municipal Chairman J.C. Prabhakar Reddy, were accompanying him to the Gooty check-post, where the TDP cadres were waiting for the arrival of party national general secretary N. Lokesh. Mr. Lokesh, who was travelling from Hyderabad to Anantapur to meet the students of SSBN College, was given a rousing reception en route. He was welcomed by TDP leaders and sympathisers at the Panchalingala check-post. Led by TDP Kurnool district president Somisetty Venkateswarlu, State secretary Y. Nageswara Rao Yadav and Nandyal district president Gouru Venkata Reddy, party cadres assembled in large numbers and showered flowers on Mr. Lokesh as his convoy proceeded after a brief stop.  Mr. Lokesh met the injured activists after meeting the SSBN College students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-tdp-activists-injured-as-car-hits-pole/article37431429.ece
11 November 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three students test COVID-19 positive||Three students of AP Balayogi Gurukula Balikala Patasala, located at Balliparru village in Krishna district, tested positive for COVID-19. The students were sent home after alerting their parents, on Wednesday. The Pedana Primary Health Centre staff conducted medical tests on the remaining students who were suffering from fever and other symptoms. The students fell sick after returning from Deepavali vacations, the school staff said. “Reports have been sent to the Social Welfare, Education and other departments on the spread of the disease in the gurukula patasala. Instructions have been given to the school management to sanitise the entire premises and take all precautions to prevent the spread of the virus,” said an officer in the Education Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-students-test-covid-19-positive/article37431494.ece
11 November 2021||NUZVID,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special category counselling at RGUKT||Altogether 806 students attended the counselling under special category at the Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) in the State, said University Chancellor Prof. K.C. Reddy. The university officials were verifying the certificates of the candidates who attended the counselling under the NCC, sports, children of defence personnel and physically challenged quotas. “For all the four campuses, R.K. Valley, Nuzvid, Srikakulam and Ongole counselling is being done at Nuzvid IIIT Campus,” Prof. Reddy said on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-category-counselling-at-rgukt/article37430957.ece
11 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Padayatra of ryots enters 10th day||Crowd kept pouring in the 45-day ‘maha padayatra’ by the farmers from Amaravati resumed after the night halt from Duddukuru village in Prakasam district on Wednesday. Thousands of people from different walks of life including farmers, farm labourers, women and techies joined the march by 157 farmers who had parted with their land for the capital. The padayatra meandered through the dusty lanes of villages in the Assembly segments of Parchur, Addanki and N.G.Padu for a distance of 14 km. A large number of people including women from not only from different parts of the State but also from neighbouring States including Telangana followed the ryots for a distance up to 3 km at any given point of time, till N.G. Padu. They greeted the farmers and offered prayers at the Lord Venkateswara chariot for the farmers. Women broke coconuts and washed the feet of the farmers . The admirers of the Amaravati farmers stood on the either side of the road and showered flowers the ryots who marched for the 10th day even as drummers kept up the tempo. Wearing a smile, the farmers led by Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti convenor A. Siva Reddy expressed the hope that they would get justice during the hearing in the case by Andhra Pradesh High Court from November 16. A group of IT professionals hailing from the State and working in an IT firm in Chennai urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to retain Amaravati as the single capital and turn it into an IT hub so that youth from the State need not go to other cities for job. “Land has always been dear to farmers and those who had given it for the capital deserve a fair deal,” said a woman hailing from a farmer’s family while following the Amaravati ryots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/padayatra-of-ryots-enters-10th-day/article37431431.ece
11 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police swiftly crack murder case||The Prakasam police swiftly cracked a murder case on Wednesday with the arrest of the accused who had made it appear as a road accident. On recovery of the mutilated body of a 39-year-old Dalit man who was run over by a tractor near Mutukala village on Sunday last, the police nursed a suspicion over the cause of the death as the body bore boulder injury marks. A probe by a special police team led by Markapur DSP M. Kishore Kumar led to a breakthrough in the case and the arrest of the accused Ch. Mallikharjua Rao (27), a friend of the deceased, G. Pichaiah, who was working as a Field Assistant in MGNREGS. He allegedly made the death appear as an accident by placing the body near the motorcycle. Investigation revealed that the accused had allegedly hit his friend, who had reportedly objected to the former meeting his wife frequently, with a boulder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-swiftly-crack-murder-case/article37431415.ece
11 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sabarimala bookings cross 12-lakh mark||With less than a week left for the annual pilgrimage season at Sabarimala to kick off, the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) counts on a turnaround in its fortunes with a marked improvement in footfall at the holy hillock. According to TDB officials, the slots booked for darsan through the virtual queue system has crossed 12 lakh mark. The number, though it remains well below what the temple typically received during the pre-pandemic years, still stands in stark contrast to the footfall of less than one lakh last year. The income from Sabarimala, which used to be the TDB’s mainstay for long, had fallen to Rs. 21 crore during the last pilgrimage season as against Rs. 270 crore in the previous year. “The quota of daily bookings is set at 30,000 against the actual limit of 25,000 to account for the cancellation margin, and if a significant percentage of these bookings converts into actual turnouts, the board may be able to offset a portion of the economic ruin that it has suffered since last year. The daily limit of pilgrims too may witness an upward revision with the subsiding pandemic situation,” says TDB president N. Vasu. The restrictions imposed due to COVID-19 are having a drastic effect on its revenue sources with the board suffering a loss of over Rs. 600 crore since March last year. Following this, the board had to approach the State Government seeking a financial assistance to prepare for the pilgrimage season this year. Despite the anticipated rise in footfall, efforts to auction off the stalls at Sabarimala, Pampa and Nilackal have witnessed a rather lukewarm response this year. The restaurants, which used to receive the highest bids every year, have registered a near-zero demand in the absence of a permission for overnight stay of devotees. Meanwhile, the High Court of Kerala, which is hearing a petition to bring the virtual queue system under direct control of the TDB, has directed the State Police Chief and Tata Consultancy Service to explain the measures taken to maintain privacy of the booking data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sabarimala-bookings-cross-12-lakh/article37430913.ece
11 November 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre denying State’s 41% share in fuel tax, says Bharat||Rajamahendravaram MP Margani Bharat on Wednesday appealed to Opposition parties and the State unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to fight against the Centre for reportedly denying the State its 41% share of fuel tax being collected by the Centre. Speaking to reporters at a press conference here, Mr. Bharat alleged that the Centre was only releasing a 5% share of the fuel tax to Andhra Pradesh as against the actual share of 41%.  Polavaram project “The BJP at the Centre has betrayed Andhra Pradesh in every aspect. It is still to reimburse the grant spent on the construction of the Polavaram irrigation project,” Mr. Bharat added. On the merger of aided institutions including institutions of Rajamahendravaram Hithakarini Samaj, Mr. Bharat stated that the merger of the Hithakarini Samaj institutions was being considered as per the ‘will note’ of Kandukuri Veeresalingam. The MP said that it was unfortunate that the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) was instigating students across the State to protest against the merger of the aided institutions with the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-denying-states-41-share-in-fuel-tax-says-bharat/article37431448.ece
11 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala CM backs Joju, terms protest against him fascist||A bid by some Kerala Youth Congress workers to disrupt a film shooting in protest against actor Joju George’s fallout with Congress workers at a public protest against fuel hike in Kochi last week figured in the Assembly on Wednesday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan termed the bid to browbeat artistes and disrupt cinema production fascist, without naming the party. CPI(M) legislator and actor M. Mukesh moved a submission, spotlighting Mr. George’s “ordeal” after protesting against the roadblock. “Threatening calls beset Mr. George. His children are afraid to go to school, and his aged parents and family are worried,” Mr. Mukesh said. Some persons had derailed the shooting of a Prithiviraj and Sreenivasan movie. The Malayalam cinema industry was struggling to survive the COVID-19 downturn, and the flailing industry could ill endure such production stoppages, he said. ‘Will not show mercy’ Mr. Vijayan said “Kerala is not a fertile ground for fascism and strong-arm measures would not pass the muster in the State. The Government would show no mercy to entities which violate the right to freedom of speech and expression,” Mr. Vijayan said. “Nobody could arbitrate on what individuals should eat, wear or speak. Kerala swore by creative freedom and individual liberty. It will not allow anybody to take the law into their hands or bully dissenters,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-cm-backs-joju-terms-protest-against-him-fascist/article37430915.ece
11 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala formally revokes order to chop trees in Mullaperiyar||The State Government has cancelled the controversial order allowing Tamil Nadu to cut 15 trees and clear the undergrowth near the baby dam at Mullaperiyar to commence civic work to strengthen the ageing barrier. The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) Opposition had alleged that the “dubious order” had served the interests of Tamil Nadu and imperilled that of Kerala in the interstate Mullaperiyar dam dispute. A top government source told The Hindu that the Cabinet had suspended Chief Wildlife Warden (CWW) Bennichen Thomas who issued the order for cutting the trees pending an inquiry.  It has tasked Chief Secretary (CS) V.P. Joy to investigate the circumstances that led to the promulgation of the order that ran against the grain of Kerala’s stance on Mullaperiyar and identify the officials responsible for the faux pas. Cabinet nod must The administration pointed out that the business rules insisted that officials submit issues concerning interstate relations before the Cabinet. The order had no legal sanctity because Tamil Nadu had not submitted the mandatory clearances required for felling trees inside Periyar Tiger Reserve. The CWW’s order had come as a major embarrassment for the Government. Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran told the Assembly that it had caught the Government unawares. Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine said his Ministry was not a party to the order or the process that preceded it, including a Kerala-Tamil Nadu joint inspection of the baby dam in September. Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan saw a plot to undermine Kerala’s interest and blamed Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Mr. Satheesan also demanded a judicial inquiry and said the Left Democratic Front Government had sacrificed Kerala’s interests at the altar of political expedience, the CPI(M) being a DMK ally. Panel for water disputes The Cabinet on Wednesday set up a new system to guide-decision making in interstate river water disputes. It has formed a three- tier committee for the purpose. Henceforth, the Interstate River Water Strategic Council, Interstate River Water Monitoring Committee, Interstate River Water Legal and Technical Cell would inform government’s policy and decisions. The Chief Minister would chair the strategic council. The Water Resources Minister is the vice chairman. The Chief Secretary will chair the Interstate River Monitoring Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/order-to-cut-mullaperiyar-trees-officially-revoked/article37430916.ece
11 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD plans to construct more temples in northern States||Even as the construction of Lord Venkateswara temple in Jammu is under way, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Wednesday said the TTD would work towards expanding their temples in the northern States The construction work on the temple in Jammu would likely be completed within 18 months, he said. The TTD has already constructed temples in New Delhi and Kurukshetra. He was speaking as the chief guest at a programme where Vemireddy Prashanti Reddy took charge as the new chairman of TTD Local Advisory Committee (LAC) in New Delhi on Wednesday. The TTD has already made a request with the Sri Rama Janmabhoomi construction committee for allotment of land in Ayodhya. Whether the TTD shall construct a temple of Lord Venkateswara or limit itself to the construction of a bhajana mandir depends on the response from the committee. He further said that the TTD is determined to encourage natural farming in the agrarian sector, and that it has reached an understanding with the farmers on this in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-plans-to-construct-more-temples-in-northern-states/article37431416.ece
11 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Greenman’ wraps up a fruitful visit to Tirupati||The city got greener by two saplings when ‘Greenman’ Narpat Singh Rajpurohit planted them during his Tirupati stay. The ace cyclist from Barmer (Rajasthan) is currently on what is touted as the world’s largest cycling tour for environmental protection. His nationwide ‘Cycle Yatra’ started in Kashmir on 27 January, 2019 and he has covered fifteen States and four union territories so far, while entering Andhra Pradesh via Palamaner. He has already covered 22,123 km out of the intended 31,000 km, and is eyeing a place in the Guinness Book of Records. Having covered Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, the marathon trip will end in Jaipur after passing through Odisha, West Bengal and Bihar. Mr. Rajpurohit’s trip was delayed after he was stranded for several months in Hosur during the nationwide lockdown. Instead of passing through the national highways, Mr. Rajpurohit chose a zig-zag route to touch the hinterlands and cover as many rural lives as possible. His massive efforts in planting 90,000 saplings earned him the prefix of ‘Greenman’. “During my cycle trip, I buy two saplings from the nearest nursery and plant them in a place that is assured of water supply, safety and upkeep,” he told The Hindu in an informal chat on Wednesday. He chooses school compounds, government buildings or reliable traders and vests them with the responsibility of the plants’ maintenance. Going beyond plantation, Mr. Rajpurohit has developed many water harvesting pits back home, and saved hundreds of animals like deer, chinkara, peacock, rabbits, nilgai, owl and jackal during his trip, dug up 21 water pools for the benefit of wild animals during the summer and donated blood 18 times. Mr. Rajpurohit has made it a habit to donate saplings as dowry in family weddings in his home State, where he says the social malady is rampant. “I gave 251 saplings to my sister and 151 to my niece as dowry,” he says with a wide grin. After planting two saplings of fruit-bearing trees in a private school compound in Tirupati, he left for Nellore with ‘fruitful’ memories. “I will come here again to see these grown up trees”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/greenman-wraps-up-a-fruitful-visit-to-tirupati/article37431419.ece
11 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||ABVP demands withdrawal of order on aided institutes||Students under the banner of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) demanded that the State government cancel the government orders 35 and 42 pertaining to aided schools and colleges. Staging a demonstration at the Sub-Collector’s Office here on Wednesday, the students belonging to ABVP’s Tirupati unit wondered how could the government take a unilateral decision on the future of the aided institutions functioning for several decades. “Such a mindless decision with the stroke of a pen can not only endanger the lives of thousands of students, but also shut down such institutions,” regional organiser M. Nagesh rued, demanding its immediate withdrawal. They expressed protest against the police lathi charge on students demonstrating at SSBN college in Anantapur. In a representation to Sub-Collector, they demanded action on the police officials responsible for the assault on students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/abvp-demands-withdrawal-of-order-on-aided-institutes/article37431417.ece
11 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conduct special eye-screening drive under Kanti Velugu: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday directed the officials of Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department to expedite the construction of YSR Health Clinics and augmentation of infrastructure in government hospitals under the Nadu-Nedu programme. The Chief Minister was reviewing the vaccination, health hubs, construction of new medical colleges, YSR Kanti Velugu and other programmes. Works related to 8,585 health clinics were in progress and repairs undertaken as part of the Nadu-Nedu programme would be completed by December 2021, the officials told the Chief Minister. The construction of 146 Primary Health Centres was likely to be completed by March 2022, they said. Taking stock of the YSR Kanti Velugu scheme, the Chief Minister directed the officials to initiate a week-long eye-screening special drive and provide eyeglasses to those having problems, and monitor them regularly by connecting them with the ‘104’ service and village health clinics. The officials said that 13,58,173 people aged above 60 had so far been tested and spectacles were given to 4,69,481. Surgeries were performed on 1,00,223 people. Of late, implementation of the scheme was interrupted due to COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed the officials to properly implement the YSR Aarogyasri scheme, which was intended to provide free treatment for various diseases, including cancer. The number of services provided under the scheme was increased to 2,446 medical procedures from 1,059 earlier. Similarly, the number of network hospitals was increased to 1,717 from 919. Almost 3,18,746 new beneficiaries were brought into the purview of the scheme. Financial support of Rs. 439.40 crore was extended to 7,82,652 beneficiaries of Aarogya Asara scheme. Referring to the prevalence of COVID-19, the officials said there were 3,366 active cases in the State and the positivity rate was hovering over 0.7%. A total of 23,457 oxygen concentrators and 27,311 ‘D’ type oxygen cylinders were made available. The government was in the process of setting up oxygen generation plants in 140 hospitals, they said. So far, vaccine was administered to 3,35,59,940 people, of whom 1,17,71,458 received a single dose, while 2,17,88,482 were given both the doses. As on date, 5,53,48,422 doses of vaccine had been utilised in the State. Deputy Chief Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas and Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma, and a host of other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conduct-special-eye-screening-drive-under-kanti-velugu-cm/article37431424.ece
11 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||U.K.’s Royal Photographic Society fellowship for journalist||City-based photojournalist T. Srinivasa Reddy has been honoured with the prestigious “Fellowship of The Royal Photographic Society (FRPS)” by the Royal Photographic Society, United Kingdom, one of the world’s oldest photographic societies. The Andhra Pradesh Photography Akademi (APPA) announced Mr. Reddy's global honour at a press conference here on Wednesday. Speaking on the occasion, writer K. Sunder said that it was a rare honour achieved by photographers across the world and in India, in particular. “55-year-old Mr. Reddy is the 18th photographer of Indian origin to receive the Fellowship, and only six of them are alive today. He is the only active photographer with FRPS in the country,” Mr. Sunder said. Mr. Reddy is an Associate of RPS for 20 years now and could finally bag the Fellowship with his documentation of COVID pandemic in a 21-photo panel which received accolades of the RPS jury, Mr. Sunder said. Mr. Reddy said his documentation of all aspects of the pandemic, including struggles of the frontline workers, treatment of patients in COVID wards, patient-doctor relationships, lockdown impact on the common man in various States and others stood out as other entries portrayed only individuals and localities affected by COVID. APPA president M. Ravindranath said that Mr. Reddy risked his life by venturing out during the peak pandemic period and had stayed away from family for weeks while he visited hospitals and other places for documentation. Mr. Reddy is the general secretary of APPA and is a recipient of Kalaranta award by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fellowship/article37431364.ece
11 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three more succumb to virus in State in 24 hours||The State reported three more deaths due to COVID-19 and 358 infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning. The single-day tally was the highest in the past 10 days. The number of samples tested in the past day crossed 40,000-mark, the highest in the past 19 days. The daily test positivity rate was 0.84% and the test positivity rate of the 2.98 crore samples tested so far was 6.93%. The cumulative toll and tally increased to 14,406 and 20,69,066 respectively, while the active cases came down to 3,220, with 358 patients recovering in a day. The total recoveries increased to 20,51,440 and the recovery rate remained at 99.15%. Meanwhile, a majority of the active cases are in a few districts. More than half of the active cases were in East Godavari (863), Krishna (486) and Chittoor (475). In eight districts, there were only 796 active cases. Kadapa, Visakhapatnam, Anantapur, Vizianagaram and Kurnool have less than a 100 active cases. Chittoor, Krishna and Visakhapatnam reported one death each in the past day. During the past day, 69 infections were reported in East Godavari. It was followed by Chittoor (52), Visakhapatnam (44), Krishna (37), Guntur (32), West Godavari (31), Prakasam (21), Nellore (20), Kadapa (18), Srikakulam (15), Anantapur (5), Vizianagaram (2) and Kurnool (2). The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,94,280), Chittoor (2,47,382), West Godavari (1,79,255), Guntur (1,78,374), Visakhapatnam (1,58,018), Anantapur (1,57,886), Nellore (1,46,573), Prakasam (1,38,597), Kurnool (1,24,157), Srikakulam (1,23,249), Krishna (1,19,664), Kadapa (1,15,744) and Vizianagaram (82,992).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-more-succumb-to-virus-in-state-in-24-hours/article37431422.ece
11 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC issues notices to CS, DGP on ‘violation of CrPC sections’||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, comprising Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra and Justice M. Satyanarayana Murthy, has directed the Chief Secretary of the Government of Andhra Pradesh, the Director General of Police (DGP), and the A.P. Medical Council to file counters within two weeks. The directive was in response to a PIL filed against cases of alleged violation of Sections 54 and 57 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) that pertain to the medical examination of arrested persons on their request and the curbs on their detention for more than 24 hours. The PIL was filed by K. Lalith Kumar, founder of Hindu Jana Shakti Welfare Association, of Nizampet in Rangareddy district of Telangana. Government pleader V. Maheswara Reddy appeared for the Home and Law Departments. According to him, notices were issued to the Chief Secretary and the DGP to enable them to respond to the averments. P.V.G. Umesh Chandra, advocate for the petitioner, told the court that several instances of violation of Sections 54 and 57, including the arrest of MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju and TDP leaders K. Pattabhiram and Nadendla Brahmam, were illustrative in nature. He alleged that the accused were being directly taken to police stations instead of producing them before medical practitioners. “The said violations are against the Supreme Court judgments in cases such as D.K. Basu Vs State of West Bengal and Article 22 (2) of the Constitution,” Mr. Chandra argued, and sought certain directions to the magistrates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-issues-notices-to-cs-dgp-on-violation-of-crpc-sections/article37431426.ece
11 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Balotsav-2021 to be a grand affair||Joint Collector (Development) L. Siva Shankar has directed officials to make arrangements for celebrating Balotsav-2021, on a grand scale on Children’s Day. He reviewed the arrangements for Children’s Day celebrations with Education, Sarva Siksha Abhiyan, Women Development and Child Welfare, Social Welfare BC and Minorities Welfare and other department officials here on Wednesday. The Joint Collector directed officials to conduct dance, singing, drawing and sports competitions for children. Flower show, pet show, food court, magic show and other programmes would be arranged during the event, Mr. Siva Shankar said and asked the school managements to participate in the Children’s Day celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/balotsav-2021-to-be-a-grand-affair/article37431493.ece
11 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dharna staged seeking release of PRC report||The leaders of government employees’ associations staged a protest in front of the Secretariat on Wednesday demanding that the State government release the report of the Pay Revision Commission. The dharna continued till night as there was “no response from the higher ups” at the Secretariat, or from the government. GAD Secretary Sasibhushan Kumar assured the agitating leaders and employees that they could come for talks on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dharna-staged-seeking-release-of-prc-report/article37431496.ece
11 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Regional parties hinder development: Congress||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president Sake Sailajanath on Wednesday alleged that violence and anarchy were the hallmark of the YSR Congress Party rule in the State. He stated in a release that regional parties such as the YSRCP and the TDP had become a stumbling block for development in the State. Pointing to the fact that the State was collecting Value Added Tax (VAT) of Rs. 28.49 per litre on petrol and Rs. 21.78 on diesel, he demanded that the government bring down the tax. Mr. Sailajanath criticised the lathi-charge on students of an aided college protesting against the decision of their management to give up its grant-in-aid status in Anantapur, and said it was the responsibility of the government to allay their fears. Jana Jagaran Yatra Mr. Sailajanath said the Congres would launch a State-wide Jana Jagaran Yatra from November 14 during which the party would expose the anti-people policies of the YSR CP government and the TDP government in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/regional-parties-hinder-development-congress/article37430960.ece
11 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Legal education important for women: Vasireddy Padma||Chairperson of the Andhra Pradesh State Commission for Women Vasireddy Padma on Wednesday said an efficient probe and expedition of the conviction of persons involved in cases of sexual violence against women and girls was the only way to ensure speedy justice to women. Speaking at a workshop on ‘Focus on Speedy Justice to Women’ and the role of judiciary, health and police, she said the government was appraised of the need for a strong network of courts and police stations to ensure justice in crimes against women. Ms. Padma said besides establishing fast-track courts, vacant posts of public prosecutors in criminal courts should be filled and courts should actively consider allocating one day in a week exclusively to women-related cases. She said it was unfortunate that women had to wait for years for justice. Ms. Padma said the Commission had embarked on an awareness drive to educate women on the various existing Acts as it would give them courage to fight for their rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/legal-education-important-for-women-vasireddy-padma/article37430961.ece
11 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pala Velluva’ scheme will strengthen dairy sector in State: official||Andhra Pradesh Dairy Development Cooperative Federation Ltd. (APDDCF) Managing Director Babu A. has said that the ‘Jagananna Pala Velluva’ scheme will help strengthen the cooperative dairy sector in the State. Addressing a two-day training session for the officials of the Vuyyuru cluster on Wednesday, Mr. Babu said the cooperative dairy sector played a key role in benefiting the women dairy farmers. Working capital The government was extending Rs. 30,000 working capital to the women dairy farmers without any need for surety. Further, the government was constructing bulk milk cooling units (BMCUs) in 9,899 villages by spending Rs. 4,000 crore, he said. The BMCUs and the automatic milk collection units would also be set up in the villages. In Krishna district, on a pilot basis, the units would be set up in 300 villages in the first week of December. As part of the programme, the government has identified 77 villages under 69 Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) in five mandals of the Vuyyuru cluster. Eight routes to collect milk have also been identified, said Mr. Babu. The Jagananna Pala Velluva scheme was already being implemented successfully in 1,000 villages across the State, he said. Krishna district Joint Collectors L. Sivasankar and K. Mohan Kumar, Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) K. Rajya Lakshmi, and Animal Husbandry Joint Director Vidyasagar were also present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pala-velluva-scheme-will-strengthen-dairy-sector-in-state-official/article37431434.ece
11 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mekapati’s two-day Delhi visit begins today||Minister for Industries and Commerce, and Information Technology Mekapati Goutham Reddy will be meeting a host of Union Ministers and the president of the World Economic Forum during his two-day visit to New Delhi beginning on November 11. He will have interactions with the Union Ministers of Commerce and Industry, Power, MSMEs and Ports, and Shipping and Waterways. He is likely to go to Delhi again on November 19 to meet the Union Ministers for Information Technology and Civil Aviation, according to an official release. Mr. Goutham Reddy will impress upon the Union Ministers about the need to fulfil the assurances on funding of various projects and financial assistance given at the time of and after bifurcation. He will discuss the ways in which Andhra Pradesh can be developed into a progressive State . The Minister will be accompanied by, among others, A.P. Industrial Infrastructure Corporation MD J.V.N. Subramanyam, A.P. Maritime Board CEO K. Muralidharan, and adviser L. Sridhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mekapatis-two-day-delhi-visit-begins-today/article37431425.ece
11 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||No nomination filed for poll to 3 MLC posts||No nominations were filed for the biennial election to the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council on Wednesday. The Returning Officer and Deputy Secretary to the State Legislature said that no nomination was filed. The notification was issued for the election to three MLC posts due to the retirement of MLCs Mohammed Ahmed Sherief (former Council Chairman), Chinna Govinda Reddy Devasani, and Somu Veeraju on October 31. The posts will be filled under the MLAs quota. The nominations will be received by the Returning Officer till 3 p.m on November 16. The withdrawal applications will be received till 3 p.m. on November 22. The polling will be held at Assembly Bhavan from 9 a.m to 4 p.m on November 29 and the counting of votes will be done at 5 p.m on the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-nomination-filed-for-poll-to-3-mlc-posts/article37431432.ece
11 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Denizens’ wait for Vistadome coaches to Araku getting longer||Thanks to the indifference of the Railways, the new Vistadome coaches sanctioned for the Araku passenger train are confined to the coach depot for over a month depriving tourists of a pleasant experience and the railways of revenue during peak season. The Divisional Railway officials had planned to use the coaches before tourist rush to Araku peaks. It normally begins with Dasara and continues till Sankranti (Jan. 15). A trial run of the LHB (Linke Hofmann Busch) rake was conducted from Visakhapatnam to Araku during the second week of October. Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy told The Hindu last month about the plan to run the train with the LHB rake as the new Vistadome coaches were of LHB type. The Divisional Railway officials are said to have made all-out efforts to run the train with the new coaches before Dasara but in vain. MP writes to Minister Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana has written to Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw to inaugurate the LHB train with Vistadome coaches at the earliest for the convenience of tourists who visit Araku from Odisha, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh apart from A.P. during the Dasara and winter vacation. He noted that there was a long pending demand from the people of Visakhapatnam for introduction of an LHB train with Vistadome coaches. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao told The Hindu that he would take up the issue with the East Coast Railway (ECoR) General Manager. “The new coaches should be operated without any further delay as Dasara and Deepavali are already over and the railways have lost a huge revenue. Any railway employee can be asked to flag off the new coaches, if the railway officials do not have time for it,” said N. Gajapathi Rao, a former ZRUCC Member. “The Railway Minister is unable to take time off his busy schedule to flag off the new coaches,” according to railway sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/denizens-wait-for-vistadome-coaches-to-araku-getting-extended/article37431500.ece
11 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Porata committee to picket VSP office tomorrow||Members of the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee will picket the administrative building of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant on November 12 and will also block all the five gates of the plant from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. This is being done as protest against the reported visit to the plant by private HR consultants. “We have information that consultants from a multi-national firm have come to the VSP to speed up the 100% strategic sale of the plant,” said a member of the VUPPC. The employees of the plant along with members of various trade unions have been protesting against the the sale of the public sector steel plant to private players, since it was announced in January this year by the Union government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/porata-committee-to-picket-vsp-office-tomorrow/article37431509.ece
11 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Navy chief on farewell visit to city||Admiral Karambir Singh, Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS), interacted with Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Eastern Naval Command, officers, sailors and defence civilians of the ENC and also paid homage to the naval personnel who had died in the line of duty to the nation at the ‘Smaran Sthal’ Memorial in the Naval Dockyard here on Wednesday. The CNS arrived at Visakhapatnam on Tuesday on a two-day farewell visit to the Eastern Naval Command (ENC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/navy-chief-on-farewell-visit-to-city/article37431508.ece
11 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports one death, 44 new cases||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 44 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,58,526. The death toll has touched 1,100 after one more person succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours. During the same time period, 25 persons recovered from the coronavirus, taking the cumulative number of recoveries to 1,56,701. The number of active cases stands at 725.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-one-death-44-new-cases/article37431503.ece
11 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kin of road accident victim stage protest||Family members of G. Suryanarayana (43), a mason, who died in a road accident on Tuesday, along with the construction workers union, staged a protest at the house of Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao at Seethammadhara here on Wednesday. They alleged that Suryanarayana died after being hit by an escort vehicle that was part of Mr. Srinivasa Rao’s convoy. The kin alleged that one of the vehicles in the Tourism Minister’s convoy was driven in a negligent manner and had hit Suryanarayana when he was heading towards city from his residence at Tenneti Nagar on Tuesday afternoon. They also raised slogans against the Minister demanding justice to the family of the mason. They said that Suryanarayana is survived by a wife and two children. They said that the victim’s wife has several ailments. Ex gratia promised The family members met Mr. Srinivasa Rao at his residence after the protest. The Minister assured them that on behalf of government, he would provide an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh to each of the children and a job in Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) for the elder daughter of the victim. He also assured to sanction a house for the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kin-of-road-accident-victim-stage-protest/article37431450.ece
11 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held, 770 liquor bottles seized||The district police arrested two persons while they were allegedly transporting about 770 bottles of liquor illegally in a car near Y Junction under the Payakaraopeta Police Station limits in the district on Wednesday. The approximate worth of all the liquor bottles is estimated to be around Rs. 1.50 lakh. Based on credible information, police led by Circle Inspector Narayana Rao and Sub-Inspector Sirisha, intercepted the vehicle. The duo were heading towards Nathavaram from East Godavari route. The arrested were sent in remand. Cases were registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-held-770-liquor-bottles-seized/article37431451.ece
11 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||18-year-old run over by earthmover||An 18-year-old youth died after reportedly being hit by an earthmover at PM Palem here on Thursday. According to sources in the police, the youth was sitting on the tool box of the the vehicle and reportedly fell under the vehicle, when the work was going on at a private construction site. The body was shifted for post-mortem. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/18-year-old-run-over-by-earthmover/article37431452.ece
11 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC bypoll: BJP demands suspension of Returning Officer||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju has demanded suspension of the Returning Officer for what he called “acting like an agent of the YSR Congress Party” with regard to the nominations for the GVMC’s 31st ward bypoll. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Mr. Raju appealed to the District Collector and State Election Commissioner (SEC) to suspend the RO concerned for misuse of power. The ‘violation of rules’ in the process pertaining to the bypoll was an indication of the ‘anti-democratic’ rule of the YSR Congress Party government, he alleged. The RO had first declared the candidate as an ‘Independent’ and allotted the symbol of ‘almyrah’ but within a few hours, the symbol was changed to ‘fan’. He alleged that the RO had given in to inducements or to threats of the ACB raids on him by the YSR Congress Party government. Predicting the success of the BJP in the next Assembly elections in the State, he said that such ‘corrupt’ officials would be taken to task, once the BJP assumed power. He said that though the Centre has reduced the price of petrol and diesel, the State government instead of reducing it further for the benefit of the common people, was wasting public money on the issue of advertisements in the newspapers to justify its stand. He demanded that the State government disclose the amount of revenue it was getting through taxes on petrol and diesel. He alleged that the YSR Congress Party government was ‘looting the public’ by increasing the price of liquor exorbitantly. He condemned the lathi-charge on students in Anantapur. BJP Parliament district president Raveendra Medapati was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-bypoll-bjp-demands-suspension-of-returning-officer/article37431504.ece
11 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two youths die in accident||Two youths were killed in a road accident near PM Palem here in the early hours of Wednesday. The deceased were identified as M. Dhanaraju (22) of Marikavalasa and K. Vinod Khanna (24) of Ganesh Nagar. According to Inspector of Police, PM Palem Police Station, Ravi Kumar, the accident occurred when the duo were heading towards Panaroma Hills from Kommadi area at around 1.15 a.m. to attend a birthday function, on a two-wheeler. The duo were allegedly hit by an unidentified vehicle, suspected to be a speeding lorry. Both the youth died on the spot. Bodies were shifted to King George Hospital (KGH) for autopsy. It was learnt that Dhanaraju was an employee in an IT firm. According to the police, it appears to be a hit-and-run case and a case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-youths-die-in-accident/article37431505.ece
11 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Biswajit Sahu takes over as CPRO of ECoR||Biswajit Sahu, an officer of the 2013 batch of the Indian Railways Stores Service (IRSS), has taken over as the new Chief Public Relations Officer (CPRO) of East Coast Railway (E Co R). He has taken charge from Kaushalendra Kishore Khadanga, who is going abroad on deputation to Mauritius Railways. Prior to his taking over as CPRO, he was Deputy Chief Material Manager (Dy. CMM) at ECoR Headquarters in Bhubaneswar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/biswajit-sahu-takes-over-as-cpro-of-ecor/article37431502.ece
11 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Admissions into Diploma in Soft Skills in AU||Head of the Department of Journalism and Foreign Languages, Andhra University, D.V.R. Murthy, said that the admissions into the Diploma in Soft Skills are under progress. In a release on Wednesday, Mr. Murthy said that the six-month diploma helps students to learn communication skills, personality development, body language, and interview skills and make them employable. The minimum eligibility is Intermediate (10+2) pass. The classes will be conducted during evening hours in the School of Sciences building. The candidates are advised to contact the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication or the Director of Admissions for further details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/admissions-into-diploma-in-soft-skills-in-au/article37431449.ece
11 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police warn against illegal use of sirens||Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana said that strict action will be initiated against those using sirens in an unauthorised manner for their vehicles. In a release on Wednesday, he urged people to remove such sirens if installed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-warn-against-illegal-use-of-sirens/article37431506.ece
11 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power cut tomorrow||Officials from the APEPDCL in a release on Wednesday announced that there will be a power shutdown in Seethammadhara, TPT Colony, ASR Nagar, Santhipuram and Bullayya College areas from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Friday (November 12). The officials appealed people to make note of the timings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-cut-tomorrow/article37431507.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Straight from the farm||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/straight-from-the-farm/article37431498.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Speed breakers end up being back breakers in Hyderabad||As the city expands, and encompasses more peripheries in the form of newly developing colonies, one feature that sticks out is the omnipresence of speed bumps. Created without permission, and with no regard to the standards prescribed by the Indian Road Congress, the speed breakers end up being back breakers for many people with chronic spinal issues. An ideal speed breaker would allow enough slope for the vehicle to be able to climb and get off without an issue. However, the illegal ones start and end abruptly, sending the suspension of the vehicles for a toss. Accidents “Every time I travel from LB Nagar, I will have to jump over a number of speed bumps, due to which I have developed a slipped disc recently. Several accidents too happened due to their presence,” said M. Srinivas, a commuter from the FCI Colony. Social media too is full of complaints against illegal speed breakers. “In Hyderabad, we don’t think of them as ‘roads’, but as the negative space between speed bumps,” quipped Ravikiran Rao, a Twitter user. “Three things are growing at an alarming irrational rate in Hyderabad - traffic, speed breakers and mosquitoes,” another user posted. “These days, every home has at least one member with disc problems. Speed breakers every four meters of road length will only worsen these issues. In order to control speeds, CC cameras should be deployed, rather than troubling ordinary people,” complained Anuradha Rao, posting pictures of speed bumps in Judges Colony, Mansurabad. Civic body take GHMC officials, however, wash off their hands saying the speed bumps are illegal and not created by the corporation. “As per the IRC guidelines, speed breakers should be at least six feet in their spread, with gradual incline and decline. They should be painted, with sign boards on both sides indicating the presence of a bump,” said a senior Engineering official from GHMC. Rumble strips Nowadays, GHMC has shifted from speed bumps to rumble strips across its various road construction projects. Rumble strips are a series of small, raised obstructions, which have a speed calming effect on the vehicles, rather than toppling them over. Colony residents have no right to alter the roads created by GHMC. Even where they feel the need for a speed breaker, they should seek permission first from the traffic police and then from the GHMC, he said. Illegal speed bumps are punishable under GHMC Act, as they come under defacement of public property. However, no action is taken by the authorities fearing protests and objections by colony residents and corporators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/speed-breakers-end-up-being-back-breakers-in-city/article37431256.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||With implant, two regain oral cavity features lost to Mucormycosis||Two individuals who had lost some of their oral cavity features due to Mucormycosis, and were unable to speak or chew food, have now regained it. Dental and Maxillofacial surgeons from Medicover Hospitals, Madhapur, said they used medical grade titanium to mill an implant plate which was used to construct lost structure of oral cavity. The patients had lost a part of their palate, cheek bone, and other sections of the oral cavity. Giving a peek into the psychological trauma they faced, the two patients shared that when they ate food, it used to slip through the openings in the roof of their mouth and get drained out of the nose. One of them is a priest and the other an insurance agent, from Andhra Pradesh. Both of them, in their 40s, were not able to spell words the way they used to and had partially lost chewing ability. At a press conference held at the hospital on Wednesday, the patients said they have now regained the ability to chew food and speak. Maxillofacial prosthodontist from the hospital, C. Sharat Babu said the titanium implant has to be custom designed according to the extent of deformity of each of patient. After placing the implant, acrylic and peek is used to build mass around it. Thereafter, teeth are placed. “The implant lasts for a lifetime and is biocompatible (does not cause infections). The patients were suggested to consult us once in six months,” said Dr Sharat Babu. The hospital has received more such patients in need of corrective surgeries. Doctors K. Naveen, Sushmita, and others from the team were present at the press conference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/with-implant-two-regain-oral-cavity-features-lost-to-mucormycosis/article37431237.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Focus shifts to Centre’s rigid stand in lifting stocks||As the debate over procurement of paddy by the Centre in the ensuing rabi raged and political parties, including the ruling TRS, geared up to launch protests, the focus has shifted to the rigid stand of the Centre in lifting the stocks. The Department of Food and Public Distribution (DFPD) of the Central government had a month ago communicated to the State government that it will not purchase paddy from Telangana any more owing to surplus parboiled rice in the country and limited consumption. The department advised the State government to encourage farmers for crop diversification by incentivising sowing of other crops. To repeated requests by Telangana to buy the paddy produced in rabi of 2020-21, the Centre had given one time approval for delivery of 20 lakh tonnes of parboiled rice to Food Corporation of India in addition to already approved 24.75 lakh tonnes in the season. Paddy production in rabi ran the risk of yielding broken rice because of high temperatures, especially after February 20. This problem was eliminated in kharif due to low temperatures. So, the millers boiled the rice of rabi to recover expected turnover for despatches to States like Tamil Nadu and Kerala, where its consumption was high. As the other States had also become self-sufficient in parboiled rice, the FCI said it did not have clientele for the stocks. Moreover, it had reserves in its godowns to last for four years. Unlike in Andhra Pradesh, which had export potential of rabi rice due to easy access to shipping yards, export of rice from Telangana was not viable at minimum support price owing to transportation costs involved. In these circumstances, the State entered into an MoU with DFPD to deliver 80% boiled rice and 20% raw rice produced in rabi of 2020-21 subject to the condition that there will not be procurement of paddy of rabi from Telangana in future. As a result, about 50 lakh tonnes was to be delivered to FCI but the Central agency so far committed to lift 44.75 lakh tonnes. The balance 5.25 lakh tonnes was still pending, sources said. As the stand-off continued, the Centre had not even indicated how much it would buy from the State in the just-concluded kharif when the production was estimated at 1.70 crore tonnes over 62 lakh acres. The government has made plans to open 6,400 procurement centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/focus-shifts-to-centres-rigid-stand-in-lifting-stocks/article37431279.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana tops in street vendors’ loan disbursement||Telangana stands in first place in the country in implementation of PMSVANidhi Scheme – loans to street vendors (SVs) with capital loans of Rs. 364.42 crore is sanctioned to 3,64,428 street vendors (107.18%) and loans disbursed to 3,45,028 street vendors (101.47%) against the target of 3,40,000. Under the ‘Pattana Pragathi Programme’ (PPP) and PM SVANidhi, 3,25,744 street vendors (95%) are accepting digital payments through QR codes. Cash incentive A maximum cash incentive of Rs. 100 is given to each street vendor per month for conducting digital transactions as per the target. Street vendors have availed cash back of Rs. 66.02 lakh as an incentive for conducting digital transactions till now, which is 32% of country’s total. An interest subsidy of Rs. 428.00 lakh for regular repayment of loans has been disbursed, which is 20% of the country’s total, said an official release on Wednesday. Further, development of street vending zones is being taken up and till now, out of total 2,614 street vending sheds, 1,037 sheds were constructed and 1,577 sheds are under construction. A separate mobile application “Pattana Pragathi – Survey of Street Vendors” was developed where 5,18,912 vendors were identified in addition to exiting 83,666 (620.22% progress). The ‘PPP’ was launched in all Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao during a meeting held with District Collectors, municipal commissioners and others, earlier this year, had identified street vendors’ development as one of the major activities. Minister for Municipal Administration K.T. Rama Rao called for issuing working capital loans to the street vendors and develop vending zones in ULBs. Union secretary for housing and urban affairs Durga Shankar Mishra in a tweet has congratulated TS in effective implementation of PM SVANidhi Scheme and becoming first to get 100 % loans distributed to its targeted 3.40 lakh SVs. He also said that this milestone was achieved on the auspicious occasion of Diwali eve and stated that it should inspire all other States and Union Territories, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-tops-in-street-vendors-loan-disbursement/article37431270.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Hundreds may be struggling with facial, oral deformities’||Hundreds of patients who have recovered from Mucormycosis could be suffering from facial deformities which affects them psychologically and emotionally. To treat the infection, surgeons remove a part of the nasal bone, palate, and other sections in oral cavity in some of the patients. This could lead to deformities — when cheek bone or a part of it is removed, that particular part of the face collapses which could affect one’s confidence, and their social life takes a beating. Of nearly 2,300 patients with Mucormycosis who got admitted at Government ENT Hospital and Gandhi Hospital this year, at least 1,200 were operated on. A few others underwent treatment at corporate hospitals. Doctors say hundreds of patients could be struggling with deformities. While Mucormycosis as a disease was discussed widely, the status of patients who suffer from deformities is not being talked about, they say. Plastic surgeons from Gandhi Hospital have performed corrective surgeries on at least 10 such patients. The doctors say that inner sections of facial structure which were exposed because of Mucormycosis were covered with skin. Maxillofacial prosthodontists from Medicover Hospital explain that usually, oral obturator is used to close opening in roof of the mouth. However, the obturator moves when food is chewed. Functionality is not regained completely. Medical grade titanium can be used as it lasts for a lifetime and does not move, they say. However, the material and building implants using medical grade titanium costs Rs. 2-3 lakh, which economically-disadvantaged individuals can ill-afford.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hundreds-may-be-struggling-with-facial-oral-deformities/article37431239.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Multi-brand electric 2-wheeler, e-bike store opened||Electric vehicle experience platform BLive has launched a multi-brand EV store in Hyderabad. Its first such facility in the country. The store has been set up to provide prospective customers a deeper understanding of EVs in the market. EV enthusiasts can explore, experience and purchase electric two-wheelers (e2Ws) and electric bicycles (ebikes) from premium brands, the firm said in a release on the store launch on Wednesday. BLive, which is planning 100 such offline stores over the next three years in the country on the franchise model, said interest-free EMIs and cardless loan facility will be extended to make it easier for the EV customers. Co-founders Samarth Kholkar and Sandeep Mukherjee said “we look forward to welcoming like-minded partners to help us in our vision to drive EV adoption by masses and further extend support in promoting sustainable mobility.” Several inquiries from potential partners have been received, they said. Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in southern region as well as driving a deeper penetration of the EVs in tier-II and III cities are focus, the firm said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/multi-brand-electric-2-wheeler-e-bike-store-opened/article37431252.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rice millers’ association suggests paddy export to other countries||The Federation of South India Rice Millers’ Associations has urged the State and Central governments to come up with an amicable resolution to the stalemate over procurement of paddy. The Federation lamented that farmers and millers are being thrown into problems as the Central and State governments have not convened a meeting to discuss the issue of procurement of boiled rice and raw rice. The State government on its part did not make arrangements for procurement of paddy in spite of assuring farmers that it is committed to purchase the entire produce from them. Federation president T. Devender Reddy said that the government’s ‘inaction’ into the issue was throwing farmers into a crisis. While there were problems relating to availability of gunny bags, hamalis, transportation of the produce and other logistics, millers were facing problems as the government did not expedite procurement. He wanted the Centre and State not to delay procurement of paddy as it could lead to severe hardship to farmers. Recalling that the Centre declined to procure the paddy as there was no demand from other States, he said the government could consider exporting the commodity to other countries. Millers were prepared to take the responsibility of the export provided the government gave relevant permits to them. He stressed the need for putting in place a mechanism where farmers could directly sell their produce to millers. Promoting export of paddy, the government could simultaneously operate the ITP and PACS institutions for procurement of the commodity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rice-millers-association-suggests-paddy-export-to-other-countries/article37431275.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||File written instructions over caste quota in liquor shop licences: HC||Justice K. Lakshman of Telangana High Court on Wednesday instructed the State government to file written instructions over caste-based reservations for allotment of liquor shop licences. The judge passed the direction after hearing a writ petition, which was moved as lunch motion, seeking to declare GO 87 and GO 98 issued by State government as illegal and arbitrary. The GO 87 and GO 98 issued on September 20 and November 5 respectively mandated that reservations of 15%, 10% and 5% be implemented for Goud caste, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes respectively in allotment of liquor shop licenses. Vasireddy Ravikanth and Nandyala Prabhakar Rao, who filed the petition, also wanted the HC to pass directions to temporarily suspend implementation of the two GOs. The petitioners contended, citing Supreme Court’s earlier rulings, that caste cannot be the basis for providing any reservations while granting licences. The petitioners stated that there were four groups in backward classes identified by the State government. All castes in one group are treated as one class. Within the class, there cannot be any further classification as per the apex court rulings. Even otherwise, there is no basis or data to treat Goud community as ‘more backward’ within one group. The present year’s excise policy fixed Rs. 50 lakh as excise tax for a population of 5,000 and it would go up to Rs. 1.10 crore depending on the population figures. They raised the question as to how can Goud community persons belonging to ‘socially and economically backward class’ pay Rs. 50 lakh excise tax to secure a liquor shop license. The government did not provide any data or basis to treat Gouds as socially, economically and educationally backward vis-a-vis other castes in its group (who are all to be treated as once class). In this backdrop, special reservation to this community in allotment of liquor shops was against the law, they stated. Justice K. Lakshman instructed the government to file written instructions on the issues raised by the petitioners by Friday as licences of the existing liquor shops would expire by November 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/file-written-instructions-over-caste-quota-in-liquor-shop-licences-telangana-high-court/article37431265.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MCEME gets ‘A’ grade accreditation from NAAC||Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME), Secunderabad, has been accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) of the University Grants Commission (UGC) with an ‘A’ grade. It had registered for NAAC accreditation in 2020 and had qualified in the rigorous online assessment based on its self-study report. The NAAC peer team, which visited the college for on-site verification in September, was led by NIT-Rourkela director Animesh Biswas, Jamia Millia Islamia University professor Arshad Noor Siddiquee and dean Koneru Laksmaiah, Education Foundation, Vijayawada Rama Krishna Konijeti, as its members. MCEME Commandant and Colonel Commandant of the Corps of EME Lieutenant General T.S.A. Narayanan briefed the team on the various activities as they visited the different faculties and training labs. The institute recently bagged the ‘Utkrishth Sansthan Vishwakarma Award’ by AICTE for ‘Maximum impact created against the spread of COVID-19’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mceme-gets-a-grade-accreditation-from-naac/article37431242.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Implead CBI in plea over woman’s custodial death: HC tells PUCL||Observing that ‘custodial death’ of Mariamma was a fit case to be investigated by the CBI, Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed People’s Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL), which filed a PIL plea seeking judicial inquiry into her death, to implead CBI in the matter. A Bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajasheker Reddy, hearing the petition, instructed Assistant Solicitor General (ASG) N. Rajeshwara Rao to ensure CBI SP appeared before the court on the next date of hearing. The Bench also directed Advocate General B.S. Prasad to hand over the file relating to Mariamma’s custodial death to the ASG. Mariamma (45) of Chinthakani village of Khammam district was brought to Addagudur police station of Rachakonda police commissionerate for questioning in a theft case. Two others were also brought for interrogation along with her. She died on this June 18 allegedly due to injuries sustained during third degree methods adopted by police during interrogation. Soon after her death, the police higher-ups conducted an internal inquiry. The government paid a compensation of Rs. 35 lakh to the family members of Mariamma. A sub-inspector and two constables of Addagudur police station, who were initially suspended, were dismissed from service eventually. Meanwhile, Jaya Vindhyala of PUCL filed a PIL plea seeking judicial inquiry into the woman’s death and compensation of Rs. 5 crore to her family members. When the petition came up for hearing on Wednesday, the CJ sought to know why no criminal proceedings were initiated against police personnel responsible for the woman’s death. The AG told the Bench that Mariamma died of a heart attack as she was suffering from some ailments. The government also paid compensation to her family members, he said. “That will not bring her life back”, the CJ observed. The CJ, after perusing the first Post Mortem Examination (PME) report, noted that it did not disclose any injuries on the body of Mariamma. However, after the HC ordered for a second autopsy and inquiry by Judicial Magistrate of First Class of Alair, the second PME report brought to light that there were injuries on her body, he said. Showing photographs of the PME report (indicating injuries on the victim’s body) to the AG, the CJ said, “heart of anybody, if beaten like this, will stop”. The Bench felt that it was a fit case to be investigated by an independent agency like the CBI. The matter was posted to November 22 for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/implead-cbi-in-plea-over-womans-custodial-death-hc-tells-pucl/article37431269.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Demand, supply should control cropping pattern’||A round table meeting of farm scientists and representatives of farmers’ unions has demanded that the State government plan its cropping pattern based on demand supply situation duly taking into consideration factors like soil health, atmosphere, and water availability. The round table with the theme — Responsibility of the State and Central government in procurement of paddy — was organised by the Telangana Journalists’ Study Forum here on Wednesday. Speakers demanded that the government constitute a committee of agricultural scientists to evolve suggest methodology for crop diversification and alternative crops taking the views of all stakeholders. The Centre on its part should procure the entire boiled rice cultivated in at least the current Yasangi season. Speaking on the occasion, agriculture scientists L. Jalapati Rao and V. Ravindra Babu expressed concern that the State government was not taking suggestions of agriculture scientists and experts in the formulation of crop strategy. Telangana Jana Samiti president M. Kodandaram said there were doubts in the minds of farmers over crop diversification as a result of which paddy and cotton continued to be major crops in the State. Farmers in Nizamabad district were prepared to go for sugarcane cultivation, but were demanding reopening of the Nizam Sugar factory. Retired engineer M. Shyamprasad Reddy lamented that there was no coordination between agriculture and irrigation departments in the State and there was too much dependence on the lift irrigation projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/demand-supply-should-control-cropping-pattern/article37431277.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Review meet on spl. summary revision of electoral rolls||Chief Electoral Officer, Telangana, Shashank Goel has conducted a special review meeting with the 15 electoral registration officers (EROs) of the Hyderabad district and the District Election Officer and GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar on Wednesday. Mr.Lokesh Kumar apprised the meeting of the progress achieved under pre-revision and revision activities for the Special Summary Revision-2022, which includes publication of draft electoral rolls, publicity measures, and special campaigns. Second phase of special campaigns will be conducted on November 27 and 28, to ensure completion of disposal of claims and objections towards publication of final rolls on January 5, a note informed. The Electoral Roll Observer and Commissioner of Collegiate Education and Technical Education Navin Mittal advised the officials to take up SVEEP (Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation) activities and focus on enrolment of college students. Suitable instructions will be issued to college principals, he assured. Mr.Goel has asked the EROs to organise verification of electoral rolls by deploying Booth Level Officers and field level officers for door to door survey. Mr.Lokesh Kumar, through another virtual meeting with SVEEP members, appealed to all the citizens over 18 years of age, to register themselves as voters. They may instead, apply online through the website ‘www.nvsp.in' or through voter registration app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/review-meet-on-spl-summary-revision-of-electoral-rolls/article37431257.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ramayana circuit train to halt at Bhadrachalam station||IRCTC has planned a series of pilgrim special trains during this festive season and with the gradual resumption of domestic tourism in the post pandemic era. A series of trains have been planned along the Ramayana Circuit to cover important places connected with the life of Lord Rama. The first such train has commenced its journey on November 7 from Delhi (Delhi Safdar Jung) and will travel up to Rameswaram and return back to New Delhi. Enroute the train will stop at several important places associated with the life of Lord Rama including Bhadrachalam Road station during its return journey from Rameswaram. Bhadrachalam has the Lord Sree Sita Ramachandra Swamy Temple on the banks of river Godavari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ramayana-circuit-train-to-halt-at-bhadrachalam-station/article37431273.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||164 more COVID cases detected in TS||Telangana has recorded 164 new COVID-19 cases and one fatality on Wednesday, taking the infection total to 6,72,987 and death toll to 3,969. On the day, 38,242 samples were examined and results of 1,750 were awaited. The new 173 infections included 55 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, and 10 each from Khammam and Rangareddy and Karimnagar. Six districts did not report any new case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/164-more-covid-cases-detected-in-ts/article37431240.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Patent granted to DRDO CoE||Advanced Centre of Research in High Energy Materials (ACRHEM), a DRDO Centre of Excellence at University of Hyderabad (UoH), has been granted a patent titled “Process for the Synthesis of 4-(dimethylsilane)- alkylferrocene”. Ferrocene and its derivatives are important for use in catalysis, nanomaterials, pharmaceutical industries etc. Tushar Jana (School of Chemistry, UoH and adjunct faculty, ACRHEM) and Bikash Kumar Sikder, a post-doctoral fellow in ACRHEM are the inventors of the patent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/patent-granted-to-drdo-coe/article37431241.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR to run MEMU trains||The South Central Railway has announced that it will run the unreserved MEMU special trains between various destinations as detailed below from Nov.14: 07077 Secunderabad-Umdanagar 06.15 & 07.20; 07078 Umdanagar-Secunderabad 08.20 & 09.25, 07055 Secunderabad-Umdanagar 09.40 & 10.40, Umdanagar-Medchal 11.05 & 12.55, 07076 Medchal-Umdanagar 14.00 & 15.50, 07056 Umdanagar-Secunderabad 17.15 & 18.15, Secunderabad-Umdanagar 18.30 & 19.55 & 07060 Umdanagar-Secunderabad 20.40 & 21.40, six days a week, except Saturday. 07062 Secunderabad – Medchal 09.35 & 10.35, 07069 Medchal – Umdanagar 12.00 & 14.00, 07070 Umdanagar – Medchal 14.25 & 16.40, 07071 Medchal – Secunderabad 17.00 & 18.00, 07072 Secunderabad – Medchal 18.15 & 19.15, 07073 Medchal – Secunderabad 19.50 & 21.00, & 07074 Secunderabad – Medchal 21.25 & 22.35, six days a week except Friday, said an official release on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-to-run-memu-trains/article37431253.ece
11 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MANUU launches digital initiatives||Hyderabad-based Maulana Azad National Urdu University on Wednesday launched a clutch of digital initiatives to mark the birth anniversary of freedom fighter and India’s first Education Minister Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. Called Urdu Nama, Shaheen-e-Urdu, Education News Bulletin and IMC E-Content Platform, the digital initiates are aimed at creating a wider social media footprint of the university, besides creating a platform for online learners. “We had huge subscriber base on YouTube but we wanted to expand the content with e-text and other offerings to help learners. Urdu Nama and Shaheen-e-Urdu will show the richness of Urdu language by showcasing the vocabulary and information about people who have contributed to the growth of Urdu,” said Rizwan Ahmed of Instructional Media Centre of Manuu. Speaking at the launch of the digital initiatives, Syed Ainul Hasan, Vice-Chancellor, said that it would be unjust to associate Urdu language with any particular community. “The National Education Programme lays stress on learning language through the mother tongue. Urdu is very important in this scheme of things. We are also trying to do more research in Deccan in the university,” said Mr. Hasan. While the other offerings of Manuu are available on various social media platforms, the e-content is available at https://www.imcmanuu.com/urdu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/manuu-launches-digital-initiatives/article37431258.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man stabs woman||A man stabbed a 19-year-old woman several times after she rejected his advances and refused to marry him. The incident happened in Hastinapuram under L B Nagar Police Station limits. The victim has been identified as Sirisha, while the accused as Basvaraj.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-stabs-woman/article37431261.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State orders ex gratia for families of all COVID victims||District Collectors were given permission to provide ex gratia of Rs. 50,000 to the families of those who died of COVID-19 from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). Orders to this effect were issued by the Telangana government on Wednesday. Applications for ex gratia have to be made online. All claims in respect of eligible cases must be settled within 30 days of submission of required documents, and disbursed through Aadhaar linked direct benefit transfer procedures. The State government on Monday notified district level COVID Death Ascertaining Committee (CDAC) for issuing the ‘Official document for COVID-19 Death’. The CDAC will have District Collector as chairman, District Medical Health Officer as member-convener, and superintendent of the headquarter hospital as a member. Applications for the COVID-19 death document have to be submitted through Mee Seva centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-orders-ex-gratia-for-families-of-all-covid-victims/article37431267.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP plans protest today demanding procurement||TS BJP will take up protests at all the District Collectorates across the State on Thursday to press the government to procure paddy from farmers. “Paddy farmers across TS are under duress because the TRS government is trying to escape responsibility by putting the blame on the Centre. All the top leaders will be participating in the programme to support the farmers and stand by them,” said general secretary G. Premender Reddy at a press conference on Wednesday. Giving details of the meeting held by the State leadership presided over by president Bandi Sanjay Kumar with party in-charge Tarun Chugh, and national OBC president K. Laxman, he said the second phase of the ‘Praja Sangrama Yatra’ was also discussed as it is scheduled to be taken up from November 21 to January 10. The meeting observed that the first phase of yatra had played a key role in the Huzurabad bypoll victory and had established the party firmly to take on TRS in Assembly polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-plans-protest-today-demanding-procurement/article37431274.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Correction||In the story ‘Metro Rail Services to start at 6 a.m from today’ published on page 1 of the Hyderabad Edition on Nov.10, it is clarified that Hyderabad Metro Rail Corridor 2 or the ‘Green Line’ is JBS-MGBS & Corridor 3 or the ‘Blue Line’ is Nagole-Raidurg and not as was reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/correction/article37431254.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Chasing the khaki dream||Sometimes failures really do act as stepping stones, as it happened in the case of Sirisetti Sankeerth. The IPS probationer from Bellampally in Mancherial district was allotted his home cadre — Telangana. Driven by passion for uniformed services, he appeared for the position of Sub-Inspector, but failed the physical exam. Undeterred by the failure, he worked his way with passion and commitment to occupy an IPS officer status. “During an SI recruitment a few years ago, I cleared the written exam, but failed the physical exam, especially 800 metres running which people were supposed to clear in 160 seconds. I took longer. Now I can run 800 metres in 120 seconds,” he said. His father Satyanarayana is an electrician in Singareni Collieries Company Limited while mother Anitha is a lecturer. Born and brought up in Bellampally, Mr.Sankeerth completed Civil Engineering from Osmania University and later worked as assistant executive engineer in Mission Bhagiratha project. He cleared civil services exam in his fifth attempt and said Cyberabad Commissioner of Police M. Stephen Raveendra was his inspiration. Mr. Raveendra had worked as ASP Bellampally during the initial days of his career.   Being in the medical profession gives a certain platform to work primarily in the domain of health, but if you are a public servant, it helps you to touch multiple lives and on a bigger platform, says Darpan Ahluwalia, the IPS probationer who would command the Dikshant Parade at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA) on Friday. “Becoming an IPS officer from a doctor is not a change of path or career; I would say it’s an extension of my profession,” she says. Born in Mohali, Punjab, she completed her MBBS from Government Medical College, Patiala. She cracked the Civil Services Exam in her second attempt and was allotted her home cadre. Even before the completion of her medical studies, the 27-year-old ‘doctor-cop’ started serving the public through her NGO to spread awareness on breast cancer. “After completing MBBS in 2017, I started organising breast cancer screening camps through my NGO Pink Link Campaign,” she recalls. The officer took inspiration from her grandfather Narinder Singh, who had served in the Punjab police and retired as district attorney and chief law instructor. “My exposure to the police services was through him,” she says, adding, “During training, I interacted with trafficking survivors and was moved and realised the importance of police service.”  (As told to Abhinay Deshpande)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chasing-the-khaki-dream/article37431248.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Facing the sun||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/facing-the-sun/article37431251.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Centre of attraction||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-of-attraction/article37431459.ece
11 November 2021||Berhampur (Odisha),||Eight arrested for fishing near protected Olive Ridley rookery in Odisha||Eight fishermen from Andhra Pradesh have been nabbed for fishing in a prohibited area near Rushikulya river mouth in Ganjam district of Odisha, an official said on Wednesday. To ensure the safety of Olive Ridley turtles during their breeding and mating season, the State government has clamped a seven-month fishing ban within 20 km from the coast at the river mouths of Rushikulya, Dhamara, and Devi from November 1. Forest officials spotted the fishermen in the no-fishing zone on Tuesday afternoon and seized a trawler and 210 kg of fish, Berhampur Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) Amlan Nayak said. The fishermen were handed over to the fisheries department for action under the Orissa Marine Fishing Regulation Act, the DFO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/eight-arrested-for-fishing-near-protected-olive-ridley-rookery-in-odisha/article37431342.ece
11 November 2021||Berhampur (Odisha),||Eight arrested for fishing near Olive Ridley rookery||Eight fishermen from Andhra Pradesh have been nabbed for fishing in a prohibited area near Rushikulya river mouth in Ganjam district of Odisha, an official said on Wednesday. To ensure the safety of Olive Ridley turtles during their breeding and mating season, the State government has clamped a seven-month fishing ban within 20 km from the coast at the river mouths of Rushikulya, Dhamara, and Devi from November 1. Forest officials spotted the fishermen in the no-fishing zone on Tuesday afternoon and seized a trawler and 210 kg of fish, Berhampur Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) Amlan Nayak said. The fishermen were handed over to the fisheries department for action under the Orissa Marine Fishing Regulation Act, the DFO said. The seized fish were auctioned by the forest staff, Khallikote Forest Range Officer Sidharth Sahu said. At least three boats and a trawler are engaged in sea patrolling in the area, he said. Rushikulya mouth is considered as the second biggest rookery for the Olive Ridleys after Gahiramatha in Kendrapara district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/eight-arrested-for-fishing-near-olive-ridley-rookery/article37431148.ece
11 November 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. hospital fire: three senior officials removed||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday removed three senior officials, including the dean of the Gandhi Medical College, from their posts and suspended a sub-engineer of the maintenance agency, after a major fire in the special newborn care unit of the Bhopal-based Kamla Nehru Children's Hospital killed four infants on Monday night. The State government also announced several other measures to prevent such incidents in future. The major blaze in the special newborn care unit caused the death of four infants, the government said. “Gandhi Medical College dean Dr. Jitendra Shukla, superintendent of Hamidia Hospital Dr. Lokendra Dave and Director of Gas Relief Department, K.K. Dubey, are removed from their posts while Avdhesh Bhadoria, a sub-engineer (electric) of the Capital Project Administration (CPA), the agency responsible for the maintenance of this hospital, has been suspended,” Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang told reporters. Kamla Nehru Children’s Hospital is part of the Gandhi Medical College and the Hamidia Hospital while the building was in the possession of the Gas Relief Department. New norms Mr. Sarang said a fresh set of norms will be introduced with the help of experts as hospitals are being upgraded with new lines and plants of oxygen in the State. “It was also decided that a separate Civil Engineering Wing will be constituted under the Medical Education Department. This wing will take care of hospitals and medical facilities under the Department,” he said. The Minister said the government also decided that the maintenance work of the Kamla Nehru Hospital was withdrawn from CPA and handed over to the Public Works Department with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mp-hospital-fire-three-senior-officials-removed/article37431411.ece
11 November 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. hospital fire: 3 officials removed||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday removed three senior officials, including the dean of the Gandhi Medical College, from their posts and suspended a sub-engineer of the maintenance agency, after a major fire in the special newborn care unit of the Bhopal-based Kamla Nehru Children's Hospital killed four infants on Monday night. The State government also announced several other measures to prevent such incidents in future. “Gandhi Medical College dean Dr. Jitendra Shukla, superintendent of Hamidia Hospital Dr. Lokendra Dave and Director of Gas Relief Department, K.K. Dubey, are removed from their posts while Avdhesh Bhadoria, a sub-engineer (electric) of the Capital Project Administration (CPA), the agency responsible for the maintenance of this hospital, has been suspended,” Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mp-hospital-fire-3-officials-removed/article37431147.ece
11 November 2021||Jaipur,||12 killed, 32 injured in Barmer bus-truck smash||A truck collided head-on with a bus in Rajasthan’s Barmer district on Wednesday, leaving 12 people dead and 32 others injured. The accident occurred near Bhandiyawas village on the Barmer-Jodhpur National Highway and both vehicles caught fire following the collision. “Twelve people have died and 32 others were injured. Some of the injured were referred to Jodhpur for treatment and some were discharged,” Barmer District Collector Lok Bandhu said. Chaos at hospital There was chaos at the accident site and hospital where the victims were taken. Fire tenders were rushed to the spot to douse the fire which had engulfed the two vehicles. “The bus was full of passengers,” Shahrukh, one of the passengers on the bus, told reporters in Jodhpur. Another survivor told reporters that he was sitting in the rear side and jumped out of the window. He said that those who were sitting at the back managed to jump out through the windows and saved their lives. Those towards the front were trapped. As soon as the news spread, passengers’ family members rushed to hospital. “I have never seen such a heart wrenching scene,” said one of the eye-witnesses. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his grief and announced a relief package for the dead and those who got injured in the incident. “It is saddening that people have lost their lives due to a bus-tanker collision at the Barmer-Jodhpur Highway in Rajasthan. In this hour of grief, my condolences to the bereaved families. I pray that the injured have a quick recovery,” Mr. Modi tweeted.  Centre’s ex-gratia He said: “An ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to the accident at the Barmer-Jodhpur Highway in Rajasthan. The injured would be given Rs. 50,000 each." Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot spoke to the Barmer District Collector and asked him to ensure proper treatment for the injured. Best possible treatment will be ensured for those injured in the accident, Mr. Gehlot said in a tweet. Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal also expressed his anguish over the accident and prayed for those who lost their lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/12-killed-32-injured-in-barmer-bus-truck-smash/article37431150.ece
11 November 2021||Khambhalia (Gujarat),||Drugs worth Rs. 88.25 crore seized, 3 held||A 44-year-old man was arrested in Devbhumi Dwarka district of Gujarat for alleged possession of heroin and methamphetamine worth Rs. 88.25 crore, suspected to be originated from Pakistan and smuggled through the sea, a senior police officer said on Wednesday. The accused, identified as Sajjad Ghosi, hails from Thane district in Maharashtra. He claimed that he had come to Khambhalia to take the consignment of drugs from two brothers. Following the arrest on Tuesday, the police on Wednesday nabbed the two brothers Salim Kara and Ali Kara from Salaya town and seized 47 packets suspected to be containing drugs, said Sandeep Singh, DIG of Police, Rajkot range. “Based on a tip-off, the police nabbed Sajjad Ghosi from a guest house in Khambhalia on Tuesday. We recovered 19 packets from his bags, containing 11.483 kg of heroin and 6.168 kg of methamphetamine. He claimed that he had received the drugs from the Kara brothers of Salaya,” Mr. Singh said. “We raided Kara brothers’ house and seized 47 similar packets. We are yet to ascertain the contents of these packets. Ghosi had earlier been jailed in a murder case and Salim Kara has been arrested in the past in the NDPS Act, fake currency and Arms Act cases,” Mr. Singh said. Mr. Ghosi had come to Khambhalia three days ago, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/drugs-seized/article37431140.ece
11 November 2021||KOLKATA,||West Bengal Governor, CM’s adviser Mitra trade barbs||The West Bengal Government and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar are once again sparring over the Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS), the annual event to attract investment to the industry-starved State. On Wednesday, a day after assuming the new responsibility of Principal Chief Adviser to the Chief Minister and Adviser to the Department of Finance, Amit Mitra defended the West Bengal government against a charge by the Governor that the ground reality of BGBS belied “resounding success” syndrome. “On November 9, he strongly supported CM’s plan of next Summit and within 24 hours he tweets venom on summits, by putting out a year-old letter to CM & FM, (me)! It is shocking that he seeks response when I had officially responded with a 4-page letter on Summits, giving data on investment offers under implementation, employment generation etc.” Mr. Mitra said in a series of tweets. Mr. Mitra also shared the four-page letter on social media. “Is he suffering from amnesia and needs help, or is it a Machiavellian omission? Governor said on November 9 at Meet and Greet event as reported, ‘We have to ensure there is no room for conflict... no room for adversarial situation.. only one way, togetherness.’ Very next day, he tweeted the opposite of these utterances, in a mode of all-out conflict? Shocking!!!” he added. Only a day before, Mr. Dhankhar had called upon the Chief Minister to “come out with a White Paper on #BGBS so that information is available in transparent and accountable manner.” Mr. Dhankhar has sought response from the Chief Minister to five questions relating to BGBS. “It is our obligation that we need to subscribe to sanctity of facts, not dictate actions by mere advertisements and statements. We are living in times where Goebbels’ stance can no longer cut ice. I am sure in a transparent and accountable manner, information sought herein above and from Finance Minister would be made available at the earliest,” the Governor wrote on Tuesday. Crucial timming The timing of the war of words is crucial, as it comes at a time when the Chief Minister has announced that the BGBS would be held in 2022. The last time the BGBS was held was in February 2019. In fact, the Chief Minister, while announcing the sixth edition of BGBS a few days ago, had urged Mr. Dhankhar to visit a foreign country and showcase West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/west-bengal-governor-cms-adviser-mitra-trade-barbs/article37431152.ece
11 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘Jinnah as PM could have prevented Partition’||Had Muhammad Ali Jinnah been elected as the first Prime Minister of India, the country would not have been partitioned, said Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar on Wednesday. Mr. Rajbhar made the comments amid the BJP targetting his ally Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav for referring to Jinnah in the same breath as Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Jawaharlal Nehru and Mahatma Gandhi at a rally in Hardoi recently. “Read the views of Advani ji (Lal Krishna Advani). Read the views of Ataj ji (Atal Bihari Vajpayee). Read the views of all well-wishers of the country, they had praised him,” Mr. Rajbhar said of Jinnah when asked by the reporters in Varanasi to comment on his new ally’s remarks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jinnah-as-pm-could-have-prevented-partition/article37431146.ece
11 November 2021||Mumbai,||Eye on BMC, Congress woos north Indian voters in Mumbai||Faced with the reality that the north Indian voter in Mumbai, once politically close to the Congress, has shifted considerably to the BJP, the Mumbai Congress has decided to focus on reclaiming that lost ground. With the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation polls likely to be held in three to four months, it remains to be seen whether such last-minute efforts will deliver. “The Congress has always been the first choice of north Indians in Mumbai. Yes, there were some incidents and some mistakes on our part. But that was then, and now we are back with a new team. We are going to north Indians and asking them what they want from us. It will give us positive results,” said Mumbai Congress president Bhai Jagtap. Around 18% to 20% voters in Mumbai come from north India, largely from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Of the city’s 36 Assembly segments, north Indian voters have a decisive role in at least 15. Similarly, out of 227 BMC wards, 50 to 60 have north Indian voters in a majority. In at least 50 others their votes will definitely decide the winner. With the Shiv Sena having a firm grip on the Marathi voting population, the BJP, since 2014, went all out to capture the city’s Gujarati as well as north Indian votes. The results of the 2014 and 2019 Assembly polls, as well as the 2017 BMC polls, manifested overwhelming support for the BJP in these pockets, which were earlier held by the Congress. In the past, the Congress was always preferred by north Indians in the city. The Congress is the only party where two of its past city chiefs, Kripashankar Singh and Sanjay Nirupam, come from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, respectively. Congress’ Rajhans Singh was the Leader of the Opposition in the BMC. Ramesh Thakur, Naseem Khan, Aslam Sheikh and Baba Siddiqui are all big names from the north Indian community. Of these, Mr. Kripashankar, Mr. Rajhans and Mr. Thakur have joined the BJP. According to Mr. Nirupam, the first fissure in relations between the north Indians and the Congress developed in 2008-09, when the Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena went on the rampage, beating hawkers, taxi drivers and autorickshaw drivers, mostly from U.P. and Bihar. “A rumour spread that the Congress-led State government was sponsoring the MNS. I was the only Congress leader who was taking the MNS head-on. But when people saw no one standing with me, they started believing this rumour.” The Mumbai Congress recently announced holding of the ‘Uttar Bharatiya Panchayat’ in all 227 wards. Its initiative to ease Chhath Puja celebrations also grabbed eyeballs. New faces are being given prominence after some veterans left and joined the BJP. “Those who were given everything by the Congress left the party in difficult times. We don’t want to talk about them. We don’t need new faces — we are the new faces ,” said Suraj Singh Thakur, one of the upcoming leaders of the Mumbai Congress. According to Mr. Nirupam, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Hindutva hardliner image in 2013-14 turned out to be the clincher for the BJP in terms of north Indian votes. “Congress’ base vote in Mumbai was north Indians, Dalits and Muslims. When I became Mumbai president, I worked hard to bring these votes back to the party. I don’t see that happening as of now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/eye-on-bmc-congress-woos-north-indian-voters-in-mumbai/article37431142.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||Tiwari defies ban, offers prayers on Yamuna bank||Politics over Chhath Puja continued on Wednesday with North East Delhi BJP MP Manoj Tiwari defying the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order prohibiting celebrations on the Yamuna banks and the AAP Government taking on its Uttar Pradesh and Bihar counterparts. Mr. Tiwari offered prayers on the riverbank in Sonia Vihar. He asked why the Delhi Government had declared a ban instead of taking steps to clean the Yamuna water. “What should have been banned is not the Chhath Puja celebrations but the poisonous froth in the river. Devotees are being stopped from going to ghats to prevent the Chief Minister’s own shortcomings from being exposed,” Mr. Tiwari said. The Delhi Government said it had made better arrangements for the festival than the U.P. and Bihar Governments. CM extends greetings Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal celebrated Chhath Puja with devotees at East Kidwai Nagar and DIZ Sector-4, Raja Bazar, where he said that no party should politicise the festival. “My heartiest greetings to all the devotees on the paavan parv (sacred festival) of Chhath. I pray to Chhathi Maiyya to bless all the families of Delhi with happiness, peace, prosperity, growth, wisdom and health,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “We have managed to get a grip on COVID-19. This time, due to the pandemic, there were many obstacles. But we tackled them with the blessings of Chhathi Maiyya,” he added. Addressing devotees at Burari, Cabinet Minister Gopal Rai accused the BIP of being “anti-Purvanchal”. “Earlier, when the people of Purvanchal began to celebrate Chhath Puja in Delhi under the BJP Government, no arrangements were made for the festivities. The BJP had so much ‘hatred’ for the people of Purvanchal,” he said. “I am proud to say that the Delhi Government is making better arrangements for Chhath vratis than the Governments of Bihar and U.P,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tiwari-defies-ban-offers-prayers-on-yamuna-bank/article37431132.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Time to open flights to Thailand, Saudi Arabia, says IndiGo CEO||With the festivities and the holiday season pushing up the demand for air travel, it is time for the Government to improve international connectivity under the “air-bubble” arrangement by adding countries like Saudi Arabia and Thailand, says IndiGo CEO Ronojoy Dutta. While 96 countries around the world recognise India’s COVID-19 vaccination certificates, the Government has been cautious in fully reopening international flights. India permits only direct commercial flights to and from 28 countries with which it has a temporary arrangement, also known as the “air-bubble” agreement. ‘Air-bubble’ destinations “I’m hoping that the Government will open up the ‘air-bubble’ destinations. Dubai, Doha, Abu Dhabi are doing very well because of these arrangements. Our next target markets, on which we are working with the Government, are Saudi Arabia and Thailand. We want these opened up...indications are that by December they will reopen,” Mr. Dutta told The Hindu on Wednesday. Flights or no flights, Phuket remains the top searched international destination on travel portals compelling the market players to invent innovative ways to service this demand. MakeMyTrip has tied up with IndiGo and Go First for charter flights to Phuket. The collaboration will allow MMT to charter an entire plane from either airline, which it will sell by the seat. Passengers will also get end-to-end travel assistance, including airport transfers, Thailand Pass application assistance, early check-in and check-out at premium properties, travel insurance, return RT-PCR assistance and hotel stay at Rs. 39,999 for a five-day trip. Charters have been a lucrative business for airlines during the pandemic and have emerged as a new revenue stream. “Earlier we would see one or two charters in a month. Now, they are 11% of our departures,” said Mr. Dutta. Before COVID-19, the airline would fly nearly 33,000 departures per month. In the past three months, IndiGo has flown an average of 29,000 flights per month. Therefore, a back-of-the-envelope calculation indicates that the number of charters has gone up from one or two to nearly 3,200 a month, including cargo. ‘All over the map’ “There is charter demand for Male. We have done charters to Malaysia, Tashkent, Milan, Phuket, Nairobi. We have had a steady stream of cargo charters to places like Singapore, Rangoon, Hanoi. So, it is all over the map,” he said. The demand has come from students, pilgrims, tourists and wedding parties. So, is it not the time for the Government to put an entry protocol in place for vaccinated international travellers and reopen scheduled flights fully? “I’d love that to happen, but it’s just not practical. Our travel partners, hotels want a big-bang opening but I think it’s going to be tough for the Government because in some countries the number of cases is still quite high. We could do a gradual opening internationally, just like we did for the domestic flights. Phuket, Saudi Arabia and then Singapore, and keep moving like that based on country-by-country approach.” While the airline serves 24 international destinations, with a firm footing in countries located at a short-haul distance, it aims to now build its network to include those within a radius of seven hours such as “Manila, Beijing, Moscow, Tel Aviv, Nairobi”. Only subsequently will the airline look at long and ultra long-haul stations such as London and New York.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/time-to-open-flights-to-thailand-saudi-arabia-says-indigo-ceo/article37431145.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||4,040 compensatory saplings not to be planted at Central Vista area||The compensatory plantation of 4,040 tree saplings, for uprooting 404 trees for building the new Parliament, will not happen in the Central Vista area, as per a new Delhi Government notification. Also, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) will effectively get an extra year, than the original permission, to plant the 4,040 saplings. Similarly, permission has been given to transplant 274 of the 404 uprooted trees, at the NTPC Eco-Park in Badarpur, about 22 km away, instead of the Central Vista area. The compensatory plantation of 4,040 tree saplings will also be done at the Eco Park, as per the new notification issued by the Delhi Government on November 9, 2021. As per the initial permission given by the Delhi Government on September 16, 2020, 404 trees were supposed to be transplanted and 4,040 saplings planted in the Central Vista area, near the existing Parliament and close to the India Gate area. “Transplantation of 404 trees which are standing on the site shall be done by user agency at eight pockets in Central Vista, New Delhi,” the September 16, 2020, notification giving permission for transplantation of the trees by Delhi Government had read. On November 25, 2020, The Hindu reported that trees being transplanted for construction of the new Parliament building, are being transplanted in the Eco Park, in violation of approval given by the Delhi Government on September 16, A day later, the Delhi Government sent a show-cause notice to the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), citing the article and followed it with an inspection of the Eco Park. On December 3, 2020, the CPWD sought for the compensatory plantation of 4,040 trees to be done at the Eco Park, instead of the Central Vista area. The CPWD also requested the Delhi Government for a one-year extension for it. The CPWD said that it was not feasible to complete the entire compensatory afforestation by January 2021 and asked for time till January 31, 2022. The agency also sought permission for transplantation of 274 trees at the Eco Park. As per the new notification, the site change has been allowed and three months to do the plantation from the date of tree removal permission. “Additional 500 trees shall be planted by User Agency to offset any increase in mortality of transplanted trees,” the new notification reads. A senior CPWD official said the latest notification was the same approval as the previous one, but the location of transplantation had been modified on the CPWD’s request. “Most of the transplantation has been already done,” the official said.  (With inputs from Damini Nath)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/4040-compensatory-saplings-not-to-be-planted-at-central-vista-area/article37431154.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||Fall in new dengue cases in at least 5 city hospitals||New dengue cases have been falling for the past three to four days in at least five city hospitals, suggest data shared by doctors. At GTB Hospital, one of the largest Delhi Government-run hospitals, confirmed new dengue cases fell to 16 on November 8 from 28 on November 2, said a doctor. “The beds occupied by  (non-COVID) fever patients have also fallen from 103 on November 2 to 65 on November 8,” the doctor said. A similar trend has been witnessed at Delhi Government-run Lok Nayak Hospital. “Now we get about 70 suspected plus confirmed dengue cases every day. Earlier, we were getting about 90-100 such cases and there were days when we got about 120-130 cases,” a hospital source said. Ashutosh Biswas, Professor (medicine) at AIIMS, Delhi, said they too have witnessed a slight fall in the number of cases. “In the last two to three days, there has been a slight drop in the daily (dengue) cases, but it is not a big drop. Transmission is happening and we are still getting a lot of cases. We expect a good drop in the next two to three weeks,” Dr. Biswas said. ‘Cases may still rise’ “As dengue has been made a notifiable disease, due to better reporting, cases may still go up in the coming weeks,” he added. Manoj Sharma, Senior Consultant, Internal Medicine, Fortis Hospital, said the new cases have come down a little in the last four days at the hospital. “We need to wait another three to four days to arrive at a conclusion. Fever cases are also going down,” he said. Delhi has reported a total of 2,708 cases till November 6 this year, the highest since 2017. Backlog cases South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) Standing Committee Chairman B.K. Oberoi said dengue cases recorded over the last week (until November 6) “included backlog cases from other hospitals which were not reported earlier”. “The spike in the cases was also due to the prolonged rains over the last two months, which have now stopped. A further dip in dengue cases will be witnessed in the coming weeks because of fall in temperatures. These factors will affect mosquito breeding and the SDMC is ensuring that all efforts are in place to cut down on the same,” said Mr. Oberoi.  (With inputs from Muneef Khan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fall-in-new-dengue-cases-in-at-least-5-city-hospitals/article37431136.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||Notices to Govt., AVUT on plea challenging jail term to Ansals||A Delhi court on Wednesday asked the Government and the Association of Victims of Uphaar Tragedy (AVUT) to respond to the pleas challenging 7-year jail terms awarded to real estate barons Sushil and Gopal Ansal for tampering with evidence in the 1997 case of Uphaar cinema fire which had claimed 59 lives. Additional Sessions Judge Anil Antil issued notice on the appeals filed by the Ansal brothers challenging their conviction and the jail term awarded by a magisterial court here on Monday. The Judge also sought a report from the Medical Superintendent of Tihar Jail after it was submitted that Sushil Ansal was admitted to the jail hospital last night after he claimed he was unwell. Reacting to the claim, AVUT chairperson Neelam Krishnamoorthy said, “Having spent little over two nights in jail, Sushil Ansal gets hospitalised, thanks to the loopholes in the system. How quick are they to save their own lives? What of the 59 lives they took so heartlessly?” During the hearing, the accused objected to the locus of the AVUT. The sessions court, however, directed the accused to serve the copy of the appeal to the Association after its counsel, senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, opposed their submission. The application filed by senior advocate P.K. Dubey before the ASJ on Wednesday claimed that the conviction and sentence of the accused was based upon “assumption, presumption, conjectures and surmises and in miss appreciation of evidence on record.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/notices-to-govt-avut-on-plea-challenging-jail-term-to-ansals/article37431143.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. sprays water, uses boats to clear froth||To remove the froth in the Yamuna, the Delhi Government sprayed water, used boats and rope to drag it away, and even directed its staff to beat it with sticks on Wednesday. A Government official said the decision was taken at a meeting held earlier this week. Experts, however, said it is not even a temporary solution as removing froth does not improve the quality of water. “This is desperation at its worst. The quality of water does not change even temporarily by removing or breaking up the froth. The Government is just managing the optics. This is a comedy of errors and I don’t know whether to laugh or cry,” said Manoj Misra, convener of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyaan, a civil society initiative for the river’s rejuvenation. He further said that it is the river water that is actually toxic. “If you come into contact with the froth, it can only cause skin irritation. But there could be problems if you ingest the froth,” he said. Suresh Kumar Rohilla, director of water programme, Centre for Science and Environment, Delhi, said, “This is a temporary solution and it will look good, but it doesn’t address the core issue of cleaning the Yamuna, which we are far away from.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-sprays-water-uses-boats-to-clear-froth/article37431129.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||DU assistant professor, his nephew arrested for wife’s murder||The Delhi police have arrested an assistant professor of Delhi University and his nephew for allegedly strangulating and electrocuting his wife in north Delhi’s Burari over personal enmity. The victim has been identified as 33-year-old Pinky Singh and the accused as Virender Kumar and his nephew Govinda. Two days ago, the police had arrested Virender’s former employee Rakesh Kumar in connection with the murder. Rakesh had surrendered at Burari police station on Monday. He told the police that he had murdered Pinki, following which the police discovered the body in her house. During interrogation, Rakesh initially disclosed that he alone killed Pinky as she asked her husband Virender to kick him out of the house. But his version was not completely believable as he repeatedly changed the sequence of events. On further questioning, he allegedly said that he, along with Virender and Govinda, had hatched a conspiracy to kill her a fortnight ago. Virender told the police that he had married Pinky on February 16 and during the wedding, her family had given a cheque for Rs. 5 lakh as gift. But the cheque bounced on account of insufficient funds and he felt cheated. In August, Pinky arrived at his Burari house and asked Rakesh to leave, following which he and his accomplices hatched a plan to kill her. “As per the plan, Rakesh was to surrender before the police and Virender was to take care of his family and get him out of jail,” DCP (North) Sagar Singh Kalsi said.  As per the plan, Rakesh was to surrender before the police and Virender was to take care of his family and get him out of jail Sagar Singh Kalsi DCP (North)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-assistant-professor-his-nephew-arrested-for-wifes-murder/article37431130.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||Capital’s air quality improves to ‘very poor’, may deteriorate today||The city’s air quality improved to the ‘very poor’ level on Wednesday from the ‘severe’ category a day ago, according to official data. The AQI is likely to deteriorate in the next two days and stay in the ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ category. The contribution of stubble burning in the neighbouring States to PM2.5, in Delhi was 27% and the number of active fires was 5,317 on Wednesday. The Capital’s AQI was recorded at 372, down from 404 on Tuesday, said CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin. Several towns in north India, including Baghpat, Panipat, Bulandshahr and Jind faced ‘severe’ levels of air pollution on Wednesday. Talking about the impact of ‘severe’ air pollution, Anant Mohan, HOD of Pulmonary Medicine at AIIMS, Delhi, said every system gets affected in the long run. “Being exposed to polluted air can cause asthma, allergic disorders, eye diseases and cardiovascular disorders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capitals-air-quality-improves-to-very-poor-may-deteriorate-today/article37431133.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||At 13.4°C, city sees coldest day of season||The minimum temperature in the Capital on Wednesday settled at 13.4 degrees Celsius, one degree colder than normal and the lowest this season so far. The Met Department said the temperature is likely to plunge further to 11 degrees Celsius by November 16. The maximum temperature settled at 29.6 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. The IMD has forecast clear skies over the next few days with calm winds blowing from the Himalayas, which will ensure a sustained drop in temperature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/at-134c-city-sees-coldest-day-of-season/article37431139.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC dismisses plea against DDMA order||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday rejected a petition challenging the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) decision prohibiting devotees from performing Chhath Puja on the banks of the Yamuna. Justice Rekha Palli said there was no merit in the plea as it did not point out as to how the devotees insist that they are entitled to performing the puja only on the Yamuna banks. “They have not given any explanation as to why they did not approach the respondents [authorities] if they were desirous of having additional designated sites in the area even after the list of designated sites was made public,” Justice Palli said. The petition challenged the October 29 order of the DDMA restricting Chhath Puja to “designated sites” with requisite permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-dismisses-plea-against-ddma-order/article37431126.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||496 students from city Govt. schools clear NEET||The Delhi Government on Wednesday said 496 students from its schools have cleared the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET), with 51 of them from just one school in Yamuna Vihar. Kushal Garg, who secured 700 out of 720, has bagged the 165th rank and secured a seat at AIIMS, the Government said. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia tweeting the results said, “History created by a Delhi govt school student Kushal Garg. He has secured 700 marks out of 720. All India Rank 165, secured seat at AIIMS. Father 10th pass, carpenter. Mother 12th pass, House wife Congratulations Kushal. Proud of you [sic].” Mr. Sisodia said apart from the Yamuna Vihar school students, 28 from a Government school in Paschim Vihar, 16 from a school in IP Extension, 15 each from Loni Road and Molarband schools and 14 students from Rohini have cleared the exam. Last year, 569 students from Government schools had cleared NEET. Over 15.44 lakh candidates had appeared for the exam this year of which over 8.7 lakh candidates qualified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/496-students-from-city-govt-schools-clear-neet/article37431137.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||No trace of rape victim’s blood on clothes of accused: police||The Delhi police told a court on Tuesday that they had not found the presence of the victim’s blood on the clothes of the four accused arrested for the alleged gang-rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl at Delhi Cantonment earlier this year. Chargesheet filed The police, in the supplementary chargesheet filed before the court of Additional Sessions Judge Ashutosh Kumar, also said that there were no traces of semen on the bedsheet and burnt clothes of the victim. The chargesheet named the four, including Kuldeep Singh and head priest Radhey Shyam, among the accused. While stating that Mr. Singh’s  blood was found on his shorts and handkerchief, the police said that the entry made in the register of the cremation ground matched the specimen signatures of Mr. Shyam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-trace-of-rape-victims-blood-on-clothes-of-accused-police/article37431127.ece
11 November 2021||Panna (M.P.),||Tigress found dead in Panna reserve||A tigress was found dead in Panna Tiger Reserve of Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, a forest officer said. The carcass of the feline named P-213 (63), aged around 3 years, was spotted in Amanganj buffer zone around 1 p.m., the officer said. No evidence of any illegal activity was found, he said, adding that the big cat seems to have died a natural death. The carcass was disposed of as per the guidelines of the National Tiger Conservation Authority, he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tigress-found-dead-in-panna-reserve/article37431341.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Voices on Capitol Hill back CAATSA sanctions waiver for India||The Chairman of the powerful U.S. House of Representatives Foreign Affairs Committee (HFAC), Gregory Meeks (Democrat), has encouraged the Biden administration to consider a waiver of sanctions for India for the purchase of the Russian S-400 Triumf missile defence system, which New Delhi is expected to take delivery of by the end of this year. “I’d encourage the administration’s consideration of a waiver for India. Taking a long view, the potential of our long-term strategic partnership with India, and its positive impact on our own security interests, certainly outweighs any kind of benefit from sanctioning India because of its purchase of the S400,” Mr. Meeks told The Hindu recently in an email sent through his communications team. The Hindu had approached his office asking where HFAC and Mr. Meek’s stood on the issue. Lawmakers from both sides of the aisle in the U.S. Congress have, in recent weeks, urged President Joe Biden to waive sanctions on India under a 2017 U.S. law, the Countering Americas Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). The President is required to impose sanctions on entities doing business with the intelligence or defence divisions of the Russian government under Section 231 of CAATSA. However, Congress also gave the President the authority to “waive the initial application of sanctions” under certain conditions. While the Biden administration has not articulated its position on CAATSA publicly yet, and declined to provide comments for this story, it is understood to be deliberating on questions such as whom specifically to sanction and at what point in the process sanctions kick in. The President’s National Security Council (NSC) declined to comment on the White House’s position to an October 26 letter from Senators John Cornyn (Republican) and Mark Warner (Democrat), co-chairs of the Senate India Caucus, asking Mr. Biden to waive sanctions on India.  The Hindu also reached out to the Pentagon and three State Department bureaus which provide input into this decision: South and Central Asia (SCA), International Security and Non-proliferation (ISN), and the Bureau of Political Military Affairs (PM) to discuss where they stood in the CAATSA sanctions process. They declined to comment. It is no accident that the executive has uniformly put off articulating a position on this highly sensitive issue before it needs to show its cards. Strategic Partnership The U.S.-India ‘Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership’ is expanding and strengthening, including in its security aspects. Apart from the investments both countries are making in the partnership for its own sake, India is also a key element of the U.S’s overall strategy in the Indo-Pacific. Imposing sanctions and talking about them with India is therefore a delicate and awkward matter, and timing counts for a lot. “My guess is that the administration is withholding a judgment on CAATSA as long as they can, and at least until after the 2+2 meeting in December, perhaps to see what deliverables come out of it. You certainly wouldn’t announce sanctions on India before the 2+2,” said Sameer Lalwani, a senior fellow at the Stimson Center, a Washington DC-based think tank. The ‘2+2’ is a dialogue between the two countries’ Foreign and Defence Ministers. “The administration is looking for India to produce a mitigation strategy that reassures them that once India gets the S-400 system, it will not have an adverse effect on any other U.S. supplied system that India may also operate concurrently,” said Ashley Tellis, a former adviser to the George W. Bush administration and U.S. foreign and security policy expert with the Carnegie Endowment. “And so that mitigation strategy is what the administration started discussing with India several months ago. My understanding is that that process is still underway,” he said. Another factor that repeatedly came up during conversations The Hindu had with experts in Washington is that those who work in national security as it relates to Russia might be in favour of sanctions if they believe the benefits of containing Moscow outweigh the costs of sanctioning New Delhi. Then there is the fact that India is vital to the U.S.’s interests in the Indo-Pacific. “One thing that plays in India's favour is that its importance to the United States as part of its own overall China strategy has increased dramatically, I would say, in the last year to two years,” said Lisa Curtis, who was Senior Director for South and Central Asia in former President Donald Trump’s National Security Council. Bipartisan support Additionally, the administration is also keeping an eye on what Congress is thinking. Bipartisan support for a waiver, especially from Republicans, Ms. Curtis said, will make it “a lot easier” when it comes to considering a waiver. Three Republican Senators, led by Ted Cruz, had introduced legislation, last week, to make it harder for the administration to impose sanctions on a member of the Quad — i.e., India, Japan or Australia. However, the Cruz-led amendment was time bound, and India would be expected to “deepen ties with the Quad” and not keep shopping for weapons in Moscow in about 10 years’ time, a Senate Republican aide had told The Hindu . As far as Congress is concerned, it is not just Republicans whose support is important to this Democratic administration. The Senate is tied 50:50 with Vice President Kamala Harris holding a tie-breaking vote. Mr. Biden cannot afford to alienate a single Senate Democrat on the CAATSA waiver, as he needs every vote to carry forward his domestic agenda. “So, even if they have decided on a waiver, why stoke the flames? They have constituencies in Congress, including Senator [Bob] Menendez, that they don't want to irritate unnecessarily by saying to India: 'Don't worry, you're going to get a waiver’,” said Jeff Smith, a South Asia specialist at the Heritage Foundation in Washington. Mr. Menendez, who is the Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, had asked Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin to raise the S-400 issue with New Delhi on a trip to India in March this year. His office did not respond to multiple requests from The Hindu for a comment on his current position on a CAATSA waiver for India. The administration also does not want to give “the wrong impression to Turkey or other countries that CAATSA is no big deal and waivers are easy to come by,” Mr. Smith said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/voices-on-capitol-hill-back-caatsa-sanctions-waiver-for-india/article37430666.ece
11 November 2021||Sokolka,||Polish border sees migrant influx||Poland said on Wednesday it had seen a surge in attempts to breach its border and had pushed back hundreds of migrants to Belarus, after it accused Minsk and Moscow of trying to orchestrate a crisis on Europe’s borders. The migrants, mainly from the Middle East, have spent days in freezing temperatures on the border, blocked by rows of Polish border guards behind razor-wire. Western governments have accused Belarusian strongman Alexander Lukashenko of luring the migrants to his country and sending them to cross over into EU member Poland in retaliation for sanctions. Poland has gone a step further, saying Mr. Lukashenko's main backer, Russian President Vladimir Putin, is masterminding the crisis. Between 2,000 and 4,000 migrants, reported to be mainly Kurds, have set up a camp near the border after they made a concerted effort to cross on Monday but were pushed back by Polish border guards. Spike in crossings Polish officials said on Wednesday there had been a spike in attempted crossings in the previous 24 hours. Poland’s border guard said that large groups of migrants crossed the border illegally , but were all pushed back. The Defence Ministry said Belarus was using intimidation to force migrants to breach the border, tweeting two short videos that it said showed a shot fired on the Belarusian side by a man in uniform. Belarus has levelled its own accusations against Poland, saying Warsaw is violating international norms by blocking the migrants and beating them back with violence. Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on Tuesday said the migrants were being used as “human shields to destabilise the situation in Poland and the EU” and pointed the finger at Russia. “This attack which Lukashenko is conducting has its mastermind in Moscow, the mastermind is President Putin,” Mr. Morawiecki told the Polish parliament. Merkel calls Putin The EU is now considering new sanctions for human trafficking and EU chief Charles Michel was due to hold talks on the crisis with Mateusz Morawiecki in Warsaw later on Wednesday. German Chancellor Angela Merkel telephoned Putin to ask him to get Belarus to stop the “inhumane” instrumentalisation of migrants, her spokesman said Wednesday. Belarus and Moscow have hit back at the accusations, saying the West should deal with migrant flows caused by its military interventions in the Middle East.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/polish-border-sees-migrant-influx/article37430657.ece
11 November 2021||HONG KONG,||‘Would like to visit China, but prefer to remain in India’||The Dalai Lama said on Wednesday he would like to visit China as he was “growing older” but “prefer[s] to remain in India peacefully”. The Tibetan spiritual leader also said Tibet had its unique culture but the Communist Party leadership in Beijing “do not understand the variety of different cultures”. Speaking from Dharamsala at an online press conference on Wednesday hosted by the Foreign Correspondents Club of Japan, the Dalai Lama was quoted as saying by Reuters that “he had no plan” to meet Chinese President Xi Jinping although he added that he “would like to visit again to see old friends” since “I am growing older”. He added: “I prefer to remain here in India, peacefully," he said. Asked if he would like to visit Taiwan, the Dalai Lama said he would avoid doing so since cross-strait relations were at the moment “quite delicate”. He did praise Taiwan for its approach to culture and religion adding that “mainland Chinese brothers and sisters can learn a lot from Taiwanese brothers and sisters” on how they had preserved Chinese culture, including Buddhism. “Regarding Tibet and also Xinjiang, we have our own unique culture, so the more narrow-minded Chinese Communist leaders, they do not understand the variety of different cultures”, he said. Reacting to his comments, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said Beijing was “open” to dialogue with the Dalai Lama but indicated it would not engage with “the so-called Tibetan government-in-exile [which] is an out and out separatist political group.” Previous rounds of talks between the Dalai Lama’s representatives and Beijing stalled, while the Dalai Lama subsequently relinquished his political role and handed over responsibility to the elected leader of the Dharamsala-based Central Tibetan Administration, which Beijing views as “illegal”. “It is against China’s constitution and laws, and it is an illegal organisation,” Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said. “No country in the world recognises it,” he added. The now suspended talks had discussed, among other issues, the possibility of the Dalai Lama visiting China where he has millions of followers. The talks had, however, broken down over differences over several issues, including the Dalai Lama calling for “genuine autonomy” for Tibetans not only in the Tibet Autonomous Region but in neighbouring provinces of Qinghai, Sichuan, Gansu and Yunnan where around half of Tibetans in China live. The Dalai Lama had said he was supportive of a solution to the Tibet question within the framework of China’s Constitution and did not want independence but genuine autonomy. The Chinese government, however, rejected his proposals calling them “disguised independence”. Beijing has also insisted it would choose its own successor to the Dalai Lama.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/would-like-to-visit-china-but-prefer-to-remain-in-india/article37430664.ece
11 November 2021||Islamabad,||New U.S. special envoy for Afghanistan to meet Taliban||The new U.S. special envoy for Afghanistan will visit Pakistan this week for a meeting with the Taliban Foreign Minister and senior diplomats from China and Russia, a Pakistani official and the U.S. State Department said. It will be Thomas West’s first trip to the region since taking over from Zalmay Khalilzad, the long-serving diplomat who spearheaded the talks that led to the U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan. The so-called “troika plus” meeting, due to take place on Thursday in Islamabad, will include the Afghan Taliban’s new foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi, a senior Pakistani government official said on condition of anonymity. The State Department said earlier in the week that Mr. West also plans to visit Russia and India. “Together with our partners, he will continue to make clear the expectations that we have of the Taliban and of any future Afghanistan government,” State Department spokesman Ned Price told a briefing this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-us-special-envoy-for-afghanistan-to-meet-taliban/article37430655.ece
11 November 2021||London,||Nobel winning activist Malala gets married||Nobel Peace Prize winner Malala Yousafzai, who was shot by the Pakistani Taliban for campaigning for girls’ education, got married on Tuesday in a small ceremony in Birmingham, central England, she announced on social media. “Today marks a precious day in my life. Asser (Malik) and I tied the knot to be partners for life,” she wrote on Twitter. “We celebrated a small nikkah ceremony at home in Birmingham with our families. Please send us your prayers,” she added. When she was 15, Yousafzai was shot in the head by militants from the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan, an offshoot of the Afghan Taliban, in her home town in the Swat valley while on a school bus in 2012. She recovered after months of treatment at home and abroad before co-writing a best-selling memoir titled “I am Malala.” Ms. Yousafzai was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize as a 17-year-old in 2014. She graduated last year from the University of Oxford with a degree in philosophy, politics and economics. Now 24 years old, she advocates for girls’ education, with her non-profit Malala Fund having invested $2 million in Afghanistan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nobel-winning-activist-malala-gets-married/article37430932.ece
11 November 2021||Glasgow,||COP26 draft urges to hasten emission cuts||A draft UN climate summit text urged countries on Wednesday to boost their emissions cutting goals by 2022, three years ahead of schedule, after data showed the world was far off track to limit warming to 1.5C. Wednesday’s text was the first indication of where nations are 10 days into the COP26 talks in Glasgow, which host Britain has billed as crucial to achieving the most ambitious temperature goal of the 2015 Paris Agreement. The text called for nations to “revisit and strengthen” their decarbonisation plans by next year and said that limiting heating to 1.5C “requires meaningful and effective action by all parties in this critical decade”. It said “rapid and sustained reductions in greenhouse gas emissions” were needed to avert the worst impacts of heating, which has already seen countries worldwide slammed by fiercer floods and droughts. Countries’ latest decarbonisation plans submitted under the Paris Agreement are likely to see Earth warm 2.7C this century. Vulnerable nations say that the next deadline, in 2025, is too distant to deliver the emissions cuts needed to avoid disastrous heating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/cop26-draft-urges-to-hasten-emission-cuts/article37430654.ece
11 November 2021||Washington,||Court orders release of Capitol attack records||A U.S. judge on Tuesday ordered White House records that could implicate former President Donald Trump in the January 6 attack on the Capitol be released to a Congressional committee. Mr. Trump sued seeking a stay to halt the release of the documents, arguing that, as a former President, he retained executive privilege to keep the communications under seal. U.S. District Judge Tanya Chutkan said Mr. Trump’s request was denied, stating it was in the public’s interest to hand over the documents. Mr. Trump’s “position that he may override the express will of the executive branch appears to be premised on the notion that his executive power ‘exists in perpetuity,’” Ms. Chutkan wrote. “But Presidents are not kings, and Plaintiff is not President.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/court-orders-release-of-capitol-attack-records/article37430661.ece
11 November 2021||Stockholm,||Swedish PM tenders resignation||Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Lofven on Wednesday tendered his resignation, a widely expected move paving the way for his designated successor Magdalena Andersson ahead of next year’s general election. Television cameras filmed Mr. Lofven handing his resignation letter to the speaker of parliament, Andreas Norlen. Mr. Lofven, who has been in power for seven years, stepped down as leader of the Social Democrats at the party’s congress last week. Ms. Andersson, who is currently Finance Minister, was elected to replace Mr. Lofven as party leader, putting her on track to become the country’s first woman Prime Minister if she wins a vote in parliament. In Sweden’s parliament, political forces are so finely balanced that the Social Democrats need the support of both their Green Party coalition partners and the Left and Centre parties to elect a new Prime Minister. The Centre Party said it would back Ms. Andersson, and the Left is widely expected to do the same. The change at the head of the Social Democrats comes as the party hovers close to its lowest-ever approval ratings with elections less than a year away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/swedish-pm-tenders-resignation/article37430658.ece
11 November 2021||Bangkok,||Thai court rules against protest speech||A top Thai court ruled on Wednesday that speeches by three protest leaders calling for royal reforms amounted to a bid to overthrow the country’s monarchy, potentially opening the way to treason charges against them. The controversial speeches at the Thammasat University rally last year tested the boundaries of free speech in Thailand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/thai-court-rules-against-protest-speech/article37430659.ece
11 November 2021||Tehran,||Up to 5,000 Afghan refugees a day entering Iran: aid group||Up to 5,000 Afghan refugees a day are crossing into neighbouring Iran, compounding the already heavy burden it faces hosting an estimated 3.6 million Afghans, a relief group said Wednesday. The Norwegian Refugee Council called for more international support for Iran, which despite facing tough U.S. economic sanctions, operates what the council described as one of the most inclusive refugee policies in the world.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/up-to-5000-afghan-refugees-a-day-entering-iran-aid-group/article37430662.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The case of demonetisation in India||Popular narratives play a much bigger role in economic policymaking than economists and policymakers acknowledge. If, indeed, these narratives are grounded more in myth than reality, the impact of such policy can be devastating. The demonetisation of high-value currency in India in 2016 is a classic case of policy based on faulty narratives. Paradoxically, the failure of the policy does not appear to dent the narrative and, consequently, there is very little price to pay for its failure. Across time, the impact Narratives are often intertwined in the cultural belief systems of the society. Thus, the Great Depression of the 1930s came to be associated with the excesses of the “roaring twenties”, though many economic factors were responsible. The Weimar hyperinflation of 1921-24 is so deeply embedded in the German consciousness, that even now, nearly 100 years after the event, German society treasures financial stability and distrusts public debt. Fiscal conservatism remains the dominant narrative and has inhibited the post-2008 recovery in Europe. Though the recent novel coronavirus pandemic crisis has led to Keynesian remedies on steroids in many countries, there is already a murmuring of fiscal imprudence fuelling inflation. Indeed, narratives in economics, as in other social sciences, create myths which endure despite rational appeal to facts. The demonetisation story in India is also based on popular myth, the folklore of black money and its association with physical cash. The idea of demonetising large denomination currency as a tool to flush out undeclared hoards of cash was not new. It was done on two previous occasions, in 1946 and 1978, with poor results. But, unlike the limited impact of the previous events, the demonetisation in 2016 caused widespread disruption in the economy, whose costs are still to be properly reckoned. Five years later, most observers have concluded that this policy was a failure. Very little of its declared objectives — of eliminating black money, corruption, moving towards a “less cash and more digital economy”, or increased tax compliance — were achieved. Expectations of windfall gains of some Rs. 2 trillion-3 trillion failed to materialise as more than 99.3% of the cancelled notes returned to the banks. If black money had existed as stockpiles of illegal cash, clearly all of it was very efficiently laundered. If the objective was to register a permanent upward shift in the tax base, it failed miserably. Perhaps the most telling evidence of the failure is that the cash-in-circulation has now exceeded pre-demonetisation levels. Touching a chord And, post-COVID-19, reliance on cash is much higher, and with more higher denomination notes in circulation. By every measure, demonetisation as economic policy was a gross failure. But, as a narrative, it was presented and received in an altogether different light. Despite its manifest failure, the power of the narrative was such that it succeeded in creating a favourable or positive view of the policy. The folklore of black money and the vivid imagery that accompanies it is easily recognised and understood by the common people, who witness corruption in daily life and see it play out in the cinema, newspaper stories or in daily conversation over the years. The very term, black money, is a loaded phrase, where the specie itself acquires a symbolic and a substantive form. The wealth, representing ill-gotten gains, is perceived to be accumulated invariably in stacks of currency notes and gold, hoarded in safes, boxes, or ingeniously concealed cupboards. The idea of dramatic action and the striking of a powerful blow against this wealth is deeply satisfying psychologically. It is the stuff of epics. The spectre of black money has been invoked frequently in Indian politics, sometimes truthfully and more often cynically. The narrative of black money is almost always couched in deeply moral terms. It does not matter, as repeatedly emphasised in several economic studies, there is nothing to distinguish black or white money, except in the way it comes into being. Although income from corruption or criminal activities is by definition black money, most black money is earned through perfectly legal activities though not declared to the tax authorities. More importantly, black money is not really kept in cash except in small quantities but mostly accumulated through real estate and other assets. However, the way the narrative was framed made it hard for critics to explain their opposition. To denounce it outright would suggest that they have a vested interest in defending black money and corruption. When it became clear that the cancelled currency was being returned to the banks in larger numbers than expected, the narrative changed focus from black money and fake currency to digital/cashless payments, the latter being elevated to some higher purpose than what it actually is, a mere technological change. Linked sub-themes A key point in selling the story was to introduce complementary sub-themes to reinforce the main narrative and, at times, to obscure the facts on the ground. Virtue signalling was key: appeals to nationalism and patriotism are always handy, while modernity and change are implied as means to progress towards some form of technological utopia. The call to sacrifice has deep resonance in India, as elsewhere. The act (of demonetisation) was an act of collective sacrifice. The people in long queues were reminded of the sacrifices of the soldiers guarding the nation’s borders and not to think of their own suffering. Indeed, there was satisfaction in being told that the rich had it worse. In reality, the sacrifice called for was somewhat skewed in its impact, and the suffering of the poor was disproportionately greater. The real irony lies in the fact that the moral high ground claimed by the demonetisation narrative worked better than contesting narratives of observed reality. It worked because it understood the nature of the moral economy of the poor. For the poor, long used to being at the receiving end of the state and its representatives, the impact of demonetisation would be one more blow in a series of blows with which they had to perforce deal. At least in this instance, there would seem to be a measure of justice if the rich really did suffer more. Despite the overwhelming evidence to the contrary, five years after the event, the Government does not acknowledge any failure, or have even a smidgeon of doubt. Noticeably, however, there have been no tall claims of success either. A self-inflicted shock Most of the studies, opinion polls, media reports and anecdotal evidence showed an overwhelming support for the policy. Despite personal hardship, long queues, and the loss of income and savings, there was a degree of ambiguity in criticising the decision. Most tended to distinguish the intention from the reality. That the policy was good but perhaps not implemented well seemed to be the main theme. This effectively insulated the original sin — that the very design of the policy ensured its outcome. The case of demonetisation demonstrates that popular narratives can trump economic facts. It is clear that where narratives succeed there is very little political cost. A failed policy that carries no cost is likely to generate more such policies. Unlike most economic shocks, which could be traced to endogenous or exogenous causes, demonetisation was an entirely self-inflicted shock, which was very likely carried out as much in a sincere belief in the narrative as in cynical political calculation. Kaushik Jayaram is a former central banker who worked for many years in an international financial organisation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-case-of-demonetisation-in-india/article37430642.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Does India have a right to burn fossil fuels?||There has been quite a lot of debate on India’s dependence on coal against the backdrop of the Conference of the Parties (COP26) meeting. While the coal lobbyists may have obvious interests in continuing that dependence, it comes as a surprise when the progressive circles also provide theories to justify this. Despite the Environment Minister adopting a similar position on the eve of the COP26, the Government of India has, for the first time, made a commitment to achieve the net zero target by 2070. It remains to be seen whether the government will indeed walk the talk since the experience on this count (or other issues) does not necessarily inspire that confidence.  The crux of the theoretical argument is that India needs to develop, and development requires energy. However, since India has neither historically emitted nor currently emits carbon anywhere close to what the global North has, or does, in per capita terms, it has no reason to commit to declining dependence on coal, at least in the near future. If anything, the argument goes, it should ask for a higher and fairer share in the global carbon budget. There is no doubt that this carbon budget framework is an excellent tool to understand global injustice but to move from there to our ‘right to burn’ is a big leap. It is like arguing that since India was colonised, it has a right to do the same and stopping the country from doing that is injustice. For development, do the countries in the global South necessarily need to increase their share in the global carbon budget? Thankfully the answer is ‘no’ and it does not come at the cost of development, even in the limited sense as development is defined generally. The question of development One, there is no doubt that economic development requires energy but that does not translate into energy by burning coal. If there are other cleaner forms of energy available, why persist on the usage of coal? Normally the argument in favour of coal is on account of its cost, reliability and domestic availability.  Recent data show that the levelised cost of electricity from renewable energy sources like solar (photovoltaic), hydro and onshore wind has been declining sharply over the last decade and is already less than fossil fuel-based electricity generation. On reliability, frontier renewable energy technologies have managed to address the question of variability of such sources to a large extent and, with technological progress, it seems to be changing for the better. As for the easy domestic availability of coal, it is a myth. According to the Ministry of Coal, India’s net coal import went up from Rs. 782.6 billion in 2011-12 to Rs. 1,155.0 billion in 2020-21. India is among the largest importers of coal in the world, whereas it has no dearth of solar energy. Two, why should the global South be aping the North in the development model it wants to follow? During the debates of post-colonial development in the Third World, there were two significant issues under discussion — control over technology and choice of techniques to address the issue of surplus labour. India didn’t quite resolve the two issues in its attempts of import-substituting industrialisation which worsened during the post-reform period. But it can address both today. The abundance of renewable natural resources in the tropical climate can give India a head start in this competitive world of technology. South-South collaborations can help India avoid the usual patterns of trade between the North and the South, where the former controls technology and the latter merely provides inputs. And the high-employment trajectory that the green path entails vis-à-vis the fossil fuel sector may help address the issue of surplus labour, even if partially. Such a path could additionally provide decentralised access to clean energy to the poor and the marginalised, including in remote regions of India. So, it simultaneously addresses the issues of employment, technology, energy poverty and self-reliance. Types of injustice Three, the framework of addressing global injustice in terms of a carbon budget is quite limiting in its scope in more ways than one. Such an injustice is not at the level of the nation-states alone; there is such injustice between the rich and the poor within nations and between humans and non-human species. A progressive position on justice would take these injustices into account instead of narrowly focusing on the framework of nation-states. Moreover, it’s a double whammy of injustice for the global South when it comes to climate change. Not only is it not primarily responsible, but the global South, especially its poor, will unduly bear the effect of climate change because of its tropical climate and high population density along the coastal lines. So, arguing for more coal is like shooting oneself in the foot. It is true that mitigation from the South alone will not make the difference required to stop this catastrophe but burning more coal will not necessarily solve the problem either. But none of this answers how the wrongs of the past will be righted, the basic premise we started with. We have argued in this very newspaper that one of the ways in which this can be done is by making the global North pay for the energy transition in the South. Chalking out an independent, greener path to development may create conditions for such negotiations and give the South the moral high ground to force the North to come to the table, like South Africa did at Glasgow. The current lack of action against climate change both in the North and South has been maintained by dividing the working classes of these two regions — the North justifying operating coal mines since the South continues to emit more and the South negotiating for a higher share in carbon budget based on the past emissions of the North. This is a deadlock. The need of the hour is a global progressive agenda that does not pit the working class of the North against the South but the working people of the world as a whole resisting the global ruling elite in its aggressive and dangerous model of competitive emissions. Even if one is pessimistic about this path of righting the wrongs of the past, at the very least, it is better than the status quo. Rohit Azad teaches economics at JNU, New Delhi, and Shouvik Chakraborty is a research fellow at the Political Economy Research Institute, Amherst, U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/does-india-have-a-right-to-burn-fossil-fuels/article37430653.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The red truth of China’s ‘Common Prosperity Discourse’||From a regulatory crackdown on tech unicorns to clampdown on private tutoring, from exhorting the rich to redistribute wealth to fintech companies forming unions for their workforce, a series of verbal assertions and administrative measures have been upending people’s lives in China over the last few months. The common thread binding these disparate actions together is the term, Common Prosperity ( gongtong fuyu ). From start to present Common Prosperity is not an entirely new term, having figured in all political reports at different congresses of the Communist Party of China (CPC) since 1992. However, it has acquired momentum under China’s President Xi Jinping as a special campaign. He unveiled its action plan in his speech at the 10th meeting of China’s Central Committee for Financial and Economic Affairs in August this year; its text was published in the CPC’s theoretical journal, Qiushi , in October. Like with Mr. Xi’s various signature political concepts, the theoretical design for this ‘New Deal’ — as has been characterised in some quarters — is believed to have been provided by Wang Huning, member of the Politburo Standing Committee of the CPC. The top-down campaign is aimed at engineering a “profound transformation” of the country, in achieving prosperity for all people in their material and spiritual (and moral) lives. It seeks to tame the excesses generated by the over four decade-long Reform and Opening Up ( gaige kaifang ). Despite achieving industrial transformation and technological growth, widening inequality (income, wealth, and region-based) and unbalanced, or inadequate development are characterised as negative by-products that need fixing. China’s Gini coefficient as per available figures, have remained between 0.46 and 0.49 for the last two decades. Being abreast of happenings around the world, the Party-state is anxious about social disintegration and political polarisation, which would end up destabilising its authoritarian rule and question its legitimacy. Roots in CPC congress The building blocks for this campaign lie in Mr. Xi’s political report at the 19th Congress of the CPC in 2017, where he identified the change in the principal contradiction in Chinese society from earlier years — between unbalanced and inadequate development and the people’s ever-growing needs for a better life. In fact, several aspects mentioned in the speech on Common Prosperity also figure in that political report — rather, Mr. Xi has chosen to give some extra push to a few of them to hasten results (such as a proposed law on property tax to regulate the highly speculative real estate sector; the first step in that direction is the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of the People’s Republic of China authorising the State Council to initiate pilot experiments for five years before national implementation). This drive desires to tighten the Party-state’s control over monopolies, regulate the private sector, expand the size of the middle class, and check wealth accumulation. There is an emphasis on equalising access to basic social services but going by past experiences, its effectiveness remains uncertain. Redistribution and labour Parsing through the speech, it is notable that the commitment to State-led capitalism is intact, and the pursuit of larger economic goals also remains steadfast. There is little to no criticism of the phenomenon of conspicuous consumption. Mr. Xi continues to encourage people getting rich albeit in a more controlled manner as dictated by the Party-state. Though he wishes to divide the cake well, he is silent on simultaneously increasing its size. He specifies that the action plan should not be equated with egalitarianism, and that excessive guarantees be not provided even if China reaches a higher level of development and acquires stronger financial resources in the future. In doing so, he has signalled that the government would continue its non-intervention in substantive welfare redistribution. In highlighting the need to avoid welfarism, which he views as a trap for nurturing lazy people, Mr. Xi’s positioning is in sync with the neoliberal logic that views redistribution as anathema to economic growth. Laying emphasis on the requirement of high-quality workers for high-quality development, Mr. Xi’s prioritisation of the development and upgradation of human capital for productivity is indicative of the Party-state’s calculated relationship with labour that is rooted purely in the extraction of value. In fact, this is also an extension from his political report at the 19th Congress of the CPC: ‘build an educated, skilled, and innovative workforce, foster respect for model workers, promote quality workmanship, and see that taking pride in labo[u]r becomes a social norm and seeking excellence is valued as a good work ethic’. Putting the onus on the workers for self-improvement, these formulations are reminiscent of the vocabulary used in the corporate human resources management ecosystem. In imparting such a vision, the Party-state elides its responsibility for workers-centric reforms at a systemic-level. On the margins still Once again, the long-pending reform of the household registration system ( hukou ) — to integrate rural migrant blue-collar workers into cities and giving them access to urban services — may very well continue to remain unfulfilled given the strong pushback from city officials. Despite being the backbone of China’s economic metamorphosis, the rural migrant labour ( nongmingong ) will continue to negotiate their second class, lonely existence in unfamiliar cities and workplaces, in the process, confronting mental challenges that accompany their physical dislocations from home. Further, his criticism of ‘involution’ and ‘lying flat’ — recent popular phenomenon, of rejecting the hypercompetitive culture of overwork by tech workers and urban youth — reveals the discouragement of and intolerance against the online resistance of white-collar workers against the gruelling ‘996’ work schedules (9 a.m. to 9 p.m., six days a week). In a nutshell That the success of the Chinese economic development model is built on labour repression is a grim reality. The top-down authoritarian system offers concessions from time to time to mitigate unrest but severely cracks down on any bottom-up workers’ self-organising (even the recent guidelines allowing unions among gig workers, it is the tech companies who are forming them rather than through any initiatives of workers). Mr. Xi has identified Common Prosperity to be a long, arduous, and complex process. However, from the perspective of redistribution and labour — as evidenced by the increasing precariousness of workers and their continued political disfranchisement — this (Red) “New Deal” looks more rhetorical than being substantive. Rather than making any radical break and realigning social relations, it appears to be intended to strengthen and sustain the existing system. Anand P. Krishnan is Visiting Associate Fellow, Institute of Chinese Studies, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-red-truth-of-chinas-common-prosperity-discourse/article37430644.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||A slogan no longer sectarian||Bhimrao Ramji Ambedkar is often seen only as a Dalit icon. And ‘Jai Bhim’, a slogan coined by Babu Hardas, a firebrand Ambedkarite working class leader from Nagpur, is usually considered as a sectarian greeting. However, this salutation, which displays the reverence that the deprived sections have for Ambedkar’s contribution to their emancipation, is emerging as a political slogan. It connects and inspires diverse marginalised communities towards social and political action. Towards Ambedkar’s vision Actor Suriya’s film, Jai Bhim, reasserts the validity of this slogan and extends its application to other subaltern groups. Based on a real-life incident, the film demonstrates the everyday crises in the lives of the poor and illiterate Irulars of Tamil Nadu. We see that the police illegally arrest Rajakannu (K. Manikandan) and his relatives on a false complaint of theft. His pregnant wife Senggeni (Lijomol Jose) watches helplessly as the police torture him. She finds a Left activist-lawyer Chandru (Suriya) who fights and wins her case in the Madras High Court (the character is inspired by Justice Chandru who fought the case). Her victory restores the faith of vulnerable communities in the law. Ambedkar had envisaged that independent India would safeguard the fundamental rights of the marginalised people. He cautioned that democracy would collapse if institutions failed to do so. Ambedkar disagreed with the Marxists for undermining liberal democratic principles and criticised the Socialists for neglecting the political claims of the ‘lower’ castes and the so-called ‘untouchables’. He assumed that India’s modern institutions would be accommodating of the deprived sections and protect their social and political interests. Till the recent past, the Left leadership kept a subtle distance from Ambedkar’s political ideas. They viewed the socio-cultural symbols of the Dalits as disturbing working-class unity. However, it is within the space of local Left activism, especially in Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, that engagement with the Dalit question began. The Left in these States acknowledged the contribution of anti-caste leaders like Jyotiba Phule, Periyar and Ambedkar in building social consciousness among the deprived communities and often tried to build social and class alliances to contest the incidents of social injustices. Suriya’s character represents this social comradeship between Left activists and the Ambedkarite political agenda. On Chandru’s wall, we see a mural of Karl Marx. In other scenes, various symbols of the communists (such as red shawls and flags, a small statue of Lenin) are shown to suggest the hero’s close affiliation with Marxism. However, the film does not address the issue of class and social injustice through populist Left rhetoric such as workers’ strikes and mass mobilisation. It resists anti-establishment preaching. While the film critically demonstrates that state institutions such as the police and the judiciary have failed to safeguard the rights of the Irulars, it avoids populist mainstream solutions to tell the remaining story. In the end, we see the court reprimanding and punishing the conservative social elites and the police for assaulting and exploiting a vulnerable tribal people. Chandru does not have a ‘saviour complex’. Instead, he emerges as an Ambedkarite hero who struggles to protect the life and dignity of the tribal people by adopting democratic and legal apparatuses. Further, the film presents the victim Senggeni not as a powerless and wretched spectator but as a dignified claimant of equal rights and justice. It equally focuses on her brave struggle against the powerful establishment and promotes her as a parallel protagonist of the story. Beyond ghettos Though Ambedkar’s name is cursorily mentioned in the narrative, it is Chandru’s commitment and Sangenni’s zeal to achieve justice that brings them close to Ambedkar’s vision of social justice. Thus, the title of the film assumes meaning. It inspires diverse marginalised groups to also stake claims in modern institutional mechanisms that have been governed so far by caste elites. With the expansive rise of the right-wing today, the fairness and legitimacy of state institutions are being compromised. The judiciary and the police are often obliged to follow the dictates of their political masters and serve the interests of the social elites. Also, Left-Socialist organisations, except in select regions, have failed to inspire the poor, vulnerable and depressed classes in achieving political and economic transformation. In such a context, the slogan ‘Jai Bhim’ is moving beyond caste/regional ghettos and mobilising marginalised communities, the youth and intellectuals to bring about transformative change in social and class relationships. Harish S. Wankhede is an assistant professor at the Centre for Political Studies, JNU, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-slogan-no-longer-sectarian/article37430647.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Triumph of the turncoat||Six months ago, in the election to the Nandigram Assembly constituency, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was defeated by Suvendu Adhikari, who was once her close aide. A similar scene played out in Telangana recently. Eatala Rajender, a close confidante of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, fell out with the party leadership and resigned from his MLA post in June this year. Earlier this month, he won against the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS)’s Gellu Srinivas Yadav in the bypoll to the Huzurabad seat by a majority of 23,855 votes. This came as a surprise given the highly charged atmosphere in which the election was held amid allegations of distribution of money. TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao had asserted earlier that the result would be in favour of the party. Given this confidence, the result is a bitter pill for the TRS leadership. The bypoll to Huzurabad was the fourth bypoll in the State in the last three years. The results have been a mixed bag for the TRS. It won the Huzurnagar and Nagarjunasagar bypolls but lost to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Dubbak and Huzurabad. Switching camps A series of events beginning May this year, around the time when the West Bengal election results were announced, saw Mr. Rajender being pushed to a corner. Mr. Rajender, a six-time MLA and Minister, was stripped of his health portfolio hours after a few beneficiaries of assigned lands in the Medak district complained to the Chief Minister that their lands were being encroached upon by the Minister for expansion of a poultry farm owned by his family. Two cases were filed on charges of encroachment against him and a committee of senior IAS officers was appointed to probe the allegations. All the while, Mr. Rajender claimed that he was being framed by the TRS leadership and vowed to take on his detractors. After a brief silence, he joined the BJP. He launched ‘Praja Deevana (People’s blessing)’, a padayatra, in Huzurabad constituency and reached out to the electorate. The TRS government, meanwhile, began showering largesse worth hundreds of crores on the constituents and launched the much-hyped ‘Dalit Bandhu’, a scheme to empower Dalits in micro and small enterprises on a pilot basis in the constituency. This did not help the party. Elbow space in the BJP A soft-spoken Backward Classes leader with a good following in the constituency, Mr. Rajender’s latest victory is bound to give him some elbow space in the BJP. While the bypoll turned out to be a contest between the TRS and Mr. Rajender, the result is bound to give a boost to the BJP which was an insignificant player in the constituency till now. A senior BJP functionary says that Mr. Rajender will carve out a place for himself in the saffron party ahead of 2023 as a strong contender for the Chief Minister’s post along with State BJP chief Bandi Sanjay and Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy. Though the election has no bearing on 2023, it has given the BJP something to boast about. TRS leaders are trying to play down the results with Mr. K.T. Rama Rao claiming that the outcome will not have any significant impact on the State’s political scenario. But Mr. Rajender’s win is likely to halt defections to the ruling TRS from other parties at least for a brief while. It is also likely to embolden the disgruntled elements within to weigh their options. Meanwhile, the Congress yet again has to find answers to its dismal performance, an addition to the series of poor results it has seen in the bypolls it has fought since 2019. ravi.reddy@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/triumph-of-the-turncoat/article37430649.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Death by hospital fire||There is no greater betrayal than when what people believe to be safe havens turn into killing fields. The large number of hospital fires being reported in the last couple of years in the country, taking victims at their most vulnerable, could well be a case of criminal negligence and apathy. At least four infants are reported to have died in Monday’s fire in the special newborn care unit of Kamla Nehru Children’s Hospital in Bhopal. Early November, 11 patients died in a fire that broke out at the COVID-19 ward in Ahmednagar, Maharashtra. In March this year, 10 people were killed in a fire that broke out in Sunrise Hospital, Mumbai. These are only the latest in a series of hospital fires that have, as per some estimates, led to the deaths of over 120 people, most of them COVID-19 patients. Several minor and major fires have been started in hospitals, the former causing damage to property and anxiety for patients, and their loved ones, while the latter proved to be deadly for patients but also for some hospital staff. In most of these cases, hospital staff also had to see to the immediate shifting of patients to other safer units. The link that has been made out between rising hospital fires and the burden of COVID-19 cases is not artificial. Hospital administrators and forensic analyses have laid the cause for the historically high number of cases that hospitals have had to deal with. With the number of cases rising in the first and second waves of the pandemic, demand far exceeded capacity. Hospitals tried to expand their facilities to accommodate as many patients as possible, while there was scarcely any time for infrastructure expansion. While beds and mattresses could be marshalled at short notice, and oxygen cylinders, sometimes, with herculean effort, hospitals could not add extra power lines, or distribute the load with additional transformers or power units. Ventilators were also pushed into use 24 by 7, certainly not the norm before COVID-19, and with high power requirement for this, it naturally pressed existing infrastructure into overdrive. Single air conditioner units were also operating full time. These resulted in electrical short circuits, and possibly aided by the presence of flammable substances — alcohol-based sanitisers, high oxygen and PPE kits — sparks grew into full-scale fires. It is essential for hospitals that pulled more than their share of the weight during COVID-19 to not only do fire safety audits but also electrical audits, to ensure operational fitness, and specifically to ensure there are no fires. States may mandate it, or incentivise such a procedure in order to draw it up the priority list of smaller and medium-sized hospitals. Hospitals, after all, must remain healing zones, and to ensure that fire accidents are avoided, must be a non-negotiable requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/death-by-hospital-fire/article37430636.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Investigate the deal||More than a year following the arrival of the first batch of 36 Rafale fighter jets from France, the controversy over L’affaire Rafale refuses to die down, notwithstanding the high quality of the planes and their fit to the requirements of the Indian Air Force, which has been desperate to augment its fighter squadrons. Mediapart, a French portal, has now published a set of alleged fake invoices, and claimed that Dassault Aviation paid middleman and defence contractor Sushen Gupta over €7 million in kickbacks between 2007-2012, when the Congress-led UPA was in power, and has claimed that the CBI had proof of this since October 2018. Earlier investigations, including by The Hindu , had revealed procedural violations, raised questions over the high price of the fighters, the choice of offset partners, the removal of anti-corruption clauses, waiving the requirement of a bank guarantee among other issues related to the India-France Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) signed in 2016. Mediapart’s articles point to the dubious role of middlemen both in the proposal to buy 126 aircraft that was withdrawn, and later in the IGA for flyaway aircraft in 2016. In April 2021, Mediapart had detailed that the French anti-corruption agency had found that Dassault had accounted for payment of over a million Euros to a company run by Mr. Gupta for the manufacture of 50 models of the Rafale — the company does not specialise in making models — besides paying several million Euros in secret commissions to offshore accounts and shell companies. It had also alleged that he had supplied classified documents related to the IGA to Dassault Aviation even as talks between Dassault and the Indian negotiating team were deadlocked over the key issue of benchmark pricing. In its price-redacted audit report on the Rafale deal, the CAG report, tabled in Parliament in February 2019, while examining the earlier bid process between 2007-12, had pointed out procedural violations in defence procurement — Dassault’s technical bid was rejected and later it was allowed to incorporate India-specific enhancements to meet bid-compliant qualitative requirements. The report also unequivocally stated that the defence acquisition process needed reforms and streamlining — points that are buttressed by the new revelations that shed light on the role of defence middlemen in mucking up the procurement process to favour a particular vendor. At the very least, investigative agencies such as the CBI and the ED must probe Mr. Gupta’s role in the bid process and the IGA. The Government cannot just wish away the questions that are repeatedly emerging about the Rafale deal and must open an investigation into the procurement process. After all, defence preparedness and national security interests dictate that operational readiness goes hand-in-hand with procedural propriety in defence procurement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/investigate-the-deal/article37430637.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Palace as hotel opposed||Mr. Tiwari, Leader of the ruling Party in the City Corporation, assured the House to-day [Bangalore, November 10] that the civic body would not grant license for converting the Bangalore Palace, property of the Maharaja of Mysore, into a luxury hotel and shopping complex, as was being proposed. Moves were afoot to acquire the palace and the land surrounding it by the Corporation for converting them into a garden. Replying to a question by Mr. Vatal Nagaraj, leader of the Kannada Chaluvaligars, Mr. Tiwari said that the Finance Committee had urged the Commissioner to acquire the property and prepare an estimate for turning it into a garden. (A project for converting the palace into a 56-roomed luxury hotel and plans to build a swimming pool and a shopping centre in the sprawling lawns were announced recently.) Mr. Vatal Nagaraj urged the Corporation to acquire the palace and the land belonging to it and preserve it as a historical monument which it was.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/palace-as-hotel-opposed/article37430645.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Jobs, demand, credit growth to kick-start investment cycle’||India’s economy is set for an accelerated uptick in job creation and demand, backed by strong prospects of a revival in investment, a surge in bank credit and easing of inflation pressures, the Ministry of Finance said on Wednesday. “Armed with necessary macro and micro growth drivers, the stage is set for India’s investment cycle to kick-start and catalyse its recovery towards becoming the fastest growing economy,” it stated in its review of the economy for October. With the progress of the COVID-19 vaccination campaign and festival season activity lending renewed optimism to the ongoing economic recovery, “further demand stimulation, fuller restoration of supply chains, narrowing of demand-supply mismatches and greater employment generation are in the offing,” the Department of Economic Affairs added in the monthly review. Forecasting ‘a strong possibility’ of faster credit growth, it noted that bank credit had been buoyant in September with ‘healthy credit penetration in labour-intensive sectors’ that augured well for job creation. “In addition, high growth in personal loans and loans for consumer durables track an uptick in consumer spending in the festive season,” it pointed out. Inflation outlook Flagging hardening input costs and ‘ripple effects of escalating global crude oil prices’ as concerns, the Economic Affairs department said such concerns were, however, not yet embedded in ‘self-fulfilling inflationary expectations’ as seen in the RBI’s inflation survey. “Further, the recent cut in central excise duty on petrol and diesel prices is expected to soften inflationary pressures exerted by rising crude oil prices,” it emphasised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jobs-demand-credit-growth-to-kick-start-investment-cycle/article37430982.ece
11 November 2021||COIMBATORE,||Buoyant prices to obviate need for MSP: Cotton Corp.||The Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) sees buoyant market prices precluding the need need for a Minimum Support Price (MSP) operation during the current cotton season (October 2021 to September 2022). The CCI procured 2.5 crore bales during the last two cotton seasons in MSP operation and had just about 70,000 bales of cotton with it now, Chairman and Managing Director Pradeep Kumar Agarwal said  . The total outgo for the MSP operation in the two seasons was almost Rs. 70,000 crore. Cotton prices began looking up from February and had been high only for the last two months, he added. ‘No intervention needed’ “It looks like farmers will not require our intervention now as the market prices are higher than the MSP. In fact, farmers are expecting the prices to go up further,” Mr. Agarwal said. The CCI continues to sell the cotton stocks with it and may go for commercial purchase later if its stocks deplete, he added. Textiles Secretary Upendra Prasad Singh also told mediapersons on Wednesday, “We do not see a need for procurement (cotton MSP operation) this year.” On the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs’ approval for committed price support of Rs. 17,408.85 crore to CCI for cotton seasons from 2014-2015 to 2020-2021, Mr. Singh said that about 50% funds would be released this year and the rest would get a budgetary allocation in the next fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/buoyant-prices-to-obviate-need-for-msp-cotton-corp/article37430964.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,||India Cements Q2 profit contracts 69% to Rs. 22 cr.||India Cements Ltd.’s standalone net profit for the second quarter ended September contracted 69% to Rs. 21.97 crore on the impact of the COVID second wave, lower net plant realisation rate, and higher input cost. The second-quarter results were to be seen in the backdrop of the COVID-led lockdown in the core markets of Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, and the unprecedented rains and floods in some States, said vice chairman and managing director N. Srinivasan. Asserting that the second quarter also witnessed cost pressure by way of increasing fuel and coal prices, he said that all these were expected to put pressure on the output and earnings margins in the coming months. During the period, total revenue improved to Rs. 1,190 crore from Rs. 1,070 crore. Total expenditure rose to Rs. 1,164 (Rs. 966 crore), of which power and fuel cost Rs. 355 crore. Cement production improved by 8%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-cements-q2-profit-contracts-69-to-rs-22-cr/article37430968.ece
11 November 2021||BENGALURU,||Paytm IPO crawls to full subscription before close||Indian fintech firm Paytm’s initial public offering of up to Rs. 183 billion crawled towards a full subscription in the final hours of its issue period on Wednesday, signalling tepid demand for the country’s largest stock market listing. As of 0808 GMT, Paytm’s offer of 48.3 million shares had received 55.9 million bids, according to stock exchange data. Institutional investors bid for 1.88 times the shares reserved for them, while retail investors subscribed for 1.5 times the shares on offer. The lacklustre response stood in sharp contrast to the strong demand for other Indian start-ups like food delivery firm Zomato and e-commerce beauty platform FSN E-Commerce Ventures (Nykaa), which investors snapped up during the issue period and saw strong market debuts. Loss-making Zomato’s issue was oversubscribed over 38 times and profitable Nykaa’s issue was oversubscribed by almost 82 times. Paytm, backed by China’s Ant Group and Japanese firm SoftBank’s Vision Fund, has priced its issue at Rs. 2,080 - Rs. 2,150 per share.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/paytm-ipo-crawls-to-full-subscription-before-close/article37430970.ece
11 November 2021||MUMBAI,||Kalyan Jewellers turns profit of Rs. 69 cr.||Kalyan Jewellers India Ltd. reported consolidated second-quarter net profit of Rs. 69 crore, as against a loss of Rs. 136 crore in the year-earlier period. Total revenue for the quarter was Rs. 2,889 crore, compared with Rs. 1,798 crore in the year earlier. The revenue growth was broad-based across geographies, the company said. “The performance has been very strong and we remain confident of the current quarter given the continued easing of COVID restrictions as well as the return of buoyancy in consumer sentiments,” said executive director Ramesh Kalyanaraman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kalyan-jewellers-turns-profit-of-rs-69-cr/article37430965.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘New Celerio is 15-23% more fuel-efficient’||Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) on Wednesday introduced the new Celerio, starting at Rs. 4.99 lakh. This is the first car in the firm’s portfolio to be powered by the K-Series Engine, which the company said helped the new model achieve fuel economy of 26.68 km/litre. “All-new Celerio with the K10 C engine is the most fuel-efficient petrol car in the Indian passenger car segment,” said MD and CEO Kenichi Ayukawa. “Along with teams at Suzuki Motor Corp., our engineers have achieved major fuel efficiency improvement [of] 15%-23% across variants over the outgoing Celerio,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/new-celerio-is-15-23-more-fuel-efficient/article37430966.ece
11 November 2021||ABU DHABI,||Mitchell and Neesham power New Zealand into the final||Martin Guptill did not fire. Kane Williamson, too, crumbled under pressure. But Daryl Mitchell’s calculated assault (72 n.o., 47b, 4x4, 4x6), Devon Conway’s sensible knock (46, 38b, 5x4, 1x6) and James Neesham’s cameo (27, 11b, 1x4, 3x6) took New Zealand to a five-wicket win against England with six balls to spare in the first semifinal of the ICC T20 World Cup at the Zayed Cricket Stadium on Wednesday. This helped the Black Caps avenge their defeats against the Three Lions in the 50-over World Cup final in 2019 and the 2016 T20 World Cup semifinal. It will be New Zealand’s maiden appearance in the World T20 final after losing in the last-four stage twice (2007 & ’16). Chasing a target of 167, the Kiwis slipped to 13 for two. Mitchell, despite struggling to find his rhythm against Mark Wood’s pace and Adil Rashid’s leg-spin, and Conway steadied the ship with an 82-run partnership for the third wicket. Conway fell in the 14th over, charging at leggie Liam Livingstone and getting stumped by Jos Buttler. With 57 required off the last four overs, Neesham went after Chris Jordan, hitting two sixes and a six as 23 came off the 17th over. In the next, the left-hander smashed Rashid for a six before falling in the same over. By the time he left, Neesham had brought down the target to 20 off two overs. Chris Woakes, England’s best bowler till then, was carted around the park by Mitchell. The opener hit sixes off successive balls before sealing the contest with a boundary off the final ball of the 19th over. Before Mitchell and Neesham’s heroics, New Zealand’s bowling unit had put in yet another solid performance to restrict England to 166 for four after electing to field. Even though Moeen Ali (51 n.o., 37b, 3x4, 2x6) and Dawid Malan (41, 30b, 4x4, 1x6) forged a 63-run stand for the third wicket, the Kiwis had things under control. Moeen was promoted in the batting order to No. 4, after Buttler’s dismissal in the ninth over, to counter the spin duo of Ish Sodhi and Mitchell Santner. With the leggie and the left-armer turning the ball into the left-hander, Williamson was forced to alter his strategy. Santner bowled a solitary over, part-time offie Glenn Phillips chipped in with one and Neesham delivered two overs to complete the fifth bowler’s quota. Morgan’s men, boasting of an array of big-hitters, could never really get going.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mitchell-and-neesham-power-new-zealand-into-the-final/article37430925.ece
11 November 2021||Chennai,||Team MRF Tyres triumphs||Team MRF Tyres clinched the Italian Rally Championship (Gravel) title in the Liburna Rally held over the weekend. Coming into the rally, Paolo Andreucci with co-driver Rudy Briani driving the MRF Tyres Skoda Fabia Rally2 Evo was chasing Umberto Scandola, who retired early in the rally, for the championship. It was a tough task for MRF Tyres in the ultra-competitive stages of the Italian championship and Andreucci needed to finish at least second to win. Four stage wins The Liburna Rally was run over nine stages and Team MRF Tyres finished inside the top three on each stage, taking four stage wins to finish second. Andreucci, who won his 12th Italian Championship, helped Team MRF Tyres to its first Italian Rally Championship in its first season itself. “A great rally ending a great season. At the beginning of the year, we had a goal to get a top-three finish and being crowned champions today is an incredible result,” said Andreucci. “This is my 12th title and this victory is due to the excellent teamwork from MRF Tyres and the H Sport team. Podium finishes over the last few races is a testament to the amount of hard work that everyone has put into these championships. Our performances over the last few months have been great,” he added. Team MRF Tyres had also recently sealed the Finnish Rally Championships 2021 crown and will now take part in the final round of the FIA European Rally Championship at the Rally Islas Canarias.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-mrf-tyres-triumphs/article37430984.ece
11 November 2021||VAIKOM,||Amrita survives Drisya scare||Palakkad’s top-seeded Amrita Kumar suffered a few jitters against Ernakulam’s eighth-seeded Drisya Vijesh before entering the under-15 girls’ singles semifinals in the all-Kerala sub-junior ranking badminton tournament at the Vaikom Badminton Academy here on Wednesday evening. The two were level at 19 and 20 in the second game but Amrita recovered at the right time to close the match. The other top seeds, Bharath Latheesh (under-15 boys), Kiran Noguchi (under-13 boys) and Hitha Maria Jose (under-13 girls), stayed steady on their way to the last-four stage. There was an upset in the under-13 girls’ pre-quarterfinals where Thiruvananthapuram’s unseeded Aagamya Rajeshri Jayan packed off Ernakulam’s second-seeded Neha R. Shenoy 15-12, 15-7.  The results (singles, quarterfinals): Boys: Under-15: Bharath Latheesh (Tsr) bt P.V. Aathish Sreenivas (Koz) 21-7, 21-11; Arjun Rajasekhar (Tvm) bt Dharmik Sreekumar (Ekm) 21-15, 21-8; Thejas Ram (Pkd) bt S. Ayush (Klm) 21-12, 21-9; Bjorn Jaison (Ekm) bt A. Shuhaibu Malik (Koz) 21-14, 21-14.   Under-13: Kiran Noguchi (Ekm) bt Hamdal Fikham (Koz) 21-14, 21-6; M. Vishnunath (Koz) bt V.V. Adarsh (Ekm) 21-9, 21-13; Adithya Kiran (Knr) bt Javed Rahman (Ekm) 21-10, 21-13; Ali Zayyan Siddique (Koz) bt S. Shilvan Jebas (Ekm) 21-11, 21-15.   Girls: Under-15: Amrita Kumar (Pkd) bt Drisya Vijesh (Ekm) 21-16, 22-20; S. Sanjna (Ekm) bt S. Swetha (Tvm) 21-5, 19-21, 21-11; P.G. Alakananda (Ekm) bt Nandita Thomas (Ekm) 21-5, 21-13; M.K. Eliza Drona (Knr) bt Hitha Maria Jose (Ekm) 21-16, 9-21, 21-14.   Under-13: Hitha Maria bt Tiffany Dopson (Alp) 21-11, 21-15; Saniya Jose (Knr) bt Ninu Maria Thomas (Wyd) 22-20, 11-21, 21-10; Shreya Sreenish (Pta) bt E.S. Akshita (Ekm) 21-19, 16-21, 21-14; Aagamya Rajeshri Jayan (Tvm) bt Shreya Maria Mathew (Ktm) 21-7, 21-9 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/amrita-survives-drisya-scare/article37431348.ece
11 November 2021||CHENNAI,||I will see it from a different side, says Viswanathan Anand||Viswanathan Anand has competed in 10 World chess championships since 1995 and won five. This time the 51-year-old will be travelling for the championship but in a different role. One without the pressure and intense preparations that come with it as a player. Anand will be one of the official commentators for the 2021 World Championship match between champion Magnus Carlsen and challenger Ian Nepomniachtchi of Russia from November 24 to December 16. “I will see it from a different side! I will be in a World championship without the tension and pressure. In the end, I am a chess fan and so will be happy in a chess competition,” said Anand to The Hindu here on Wednesday. Carlsen’s form, observed Anand, has been very impressive in the last year (2020-21). “If you see the two tournaments in Norway (Norway Chess in 2020 & 2021) and the one in Wijk Aan Zee (Tata Steel tournament in 2020), and the other tour events, he is playing continuously and playing well despite a hectic schedule. He is very consciously trying to get himself into good shape for the Worlds,” said Anand. Going by his current form, Anand said Carlsen will be the clear favourite. “Even though there were moments when he has looked wobbly, this is again a perception rather than reality. Because people have unrealistic expectations from him. But if you see the consistency in the tournaments he has won, we still have to call him the favourite,” he said. Nepomniachtchi, according to Anand, has a bit of catching up to do when it comes to fitness. “Because he probably had to do this match practice for the first time. And I think he took much more time off. But he has managed some reasonable performances. He is strong enough to be a good rival,” he said. Elaborating that 14 games plus tiebreaks (since the 2008 edition, it has been 12-game format with tiebreaks) this time will be taxing on both players, Anand said: “Two extra games will make it slightly more tiring. They now play three games before a rest day and not two games like before. Longer games give both players more chances for a comeback from setbacks,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-puts-carlsen-down-as-the-favourite/article37430923.ece
11 November 2021||ABU DHABI,||Neesham swung it for us, says Mitchell||Opener Daryl Mitchell was obviously excited after emerging as the player-of-the-match in New Zealand’s memorable win against England in the ICC T20 World Cup semifinal on Wednesday. “Obviously any game you win for your country is pretty special, let alone a World Cup semifinal,” Mitchell said. “It was nice to contribute and help us get over the line, but we know we have got another big one coming up in a couple of days’ time. We are pretty excited about it.” Mitchell singled out all-rounder James Neesham for swinging the game in the Black Caps’ favour. “The way Jimmy came out and struck the ball pretty much from ball one was special. It got us some momentum in the last few overs,” he said. “We always knew the rate was pretty high at that stage. His knock was vital in scripting the win.” England captain Eoin Morgan, despite admitting that the loss was a bitter pill to swallow, complimented Neesham for his cameo. Devastated “We are devastated. To be on the wrong side of a close game is not easy to take. We fought unbelievably well today on a wicket that didn’t necessarily suit our batting, but we managed to post a par score. We were brilliant with the ball,” Morgan said. “We were right in the game, if not ahead of the game, until Jimmy Neesham came to the wicket. “I think throughout those innings, everybody struggled to clear the ropes. I feel that it was just the nature of the pitch. You have to take your hat off to Neesham. He played really well."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/powerplay-holds-the-key-says-finch/article37430927.ece
11 November 2021||ABU DHABI,||Australia, Pakistan clash in battle of equals||Theirs was one of fiercest opening combinations in Test cricket when Australia was conquering literally every game they played. Come Thursday, Matthew Hayden and Justin Langer will be planning the downfall of each other’s outfit in the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup semifinal at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium. While Hayden, in his maiden assignment as a member of Pakistan’s coaching staff, has been instrumental in Pakistan being the only unbeaten team in the tournament so far, he will know his boys’ task is cut out against his home team which has Langer in charge. Besides, the semifinal could be touted as a curtain raiser to Australia’s first tour of Pakistan in 2022 after more than two decades, announced hours earlier. Once Aaron Finch and Babar Azam step out for toss, though, Hayden and Langer will slide away from the limelight and will be chewing their nails in the dugout, hoping for their respective teams to continue their excellent run. Finch and David Warner are the closest competitors to Babar Azam and Mohammad Rizwan in the race for the best opening combination of the tournament. Ditto with the pace trios, with little to choose between Australia’s Mitchell Starc, Pat Cummins and Josh Hazlewood and Pakistan’s Shaheen Shah Afridi, Haris Rauf and Hasan Ali, all of whom have left their footprints over the last three weeks.  In this scenario, the battle of spinners could prove decisive. Adam Zampa has been a revelation for Australia, being the joint-highest wicket-taker in the Super-12 stage with 11 scalps. On the contrary, despite their ability to stifle batters, neither Shadab Khan nor Imad Wasim have been amongst wickets consistently. If Zampa spins his web around a fearsome middle- and late-middle order of Pakistan, with youngster Asif Ali joining the old warhorses Shoaib Malik and Mohammad Hafeez, Australia could hope to end its run of mediocre returns at the biggest stage of the shortest format. On the other hand, if Pakistan can halt Zampa’s dream run in the middle overs, Hayden can actually hope to wear a bigger smile than that of his left-handed opening partner.  Adam Zampa is the joint-highest wicket-taker in the Super-12 stage with 11 scalps||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-pakistan-clash-in-battle-of-equals/article37430926.ece
11 November 2021||Sao Paulo,||Brazil will look to seal direct spot||For front-running Brazil, the main aim this week is beating Colombia and securing an automatic spot at next year’s World Cup in Qatar with plenty of time to spare in South American qualifying. For second-place Argentina, the bigger concern ahead of its trip to Uruguay is over the fitness of Lionel Messi. Messi has travelled to Argentina but has a knee injury that kept him out of two matches for his club Paris Saint-Germain. Argentina coach Lionel Scaloni has not given any hints on whether Messi will play or, in the case he doesn’t, who would be picked as a replacement. Brazil has 31 points and Argentina has 25 from 11 matches — their encounter in September was bizarrely suspended over breaches of COVID-19 protocols. FIFA will decide what to do with it. Ecuador (17), Colombia (16) and Uruguay (16) hold the next three places, but have all played 12 matches. The top four teams in South America earn direct entry to next year’s World Cup. The fifth-place team goes into an inter-continental playoff for a spot in Qatar. A Brazil victory at the NeoQuimica Arena in Sao Paulo on Thursday will put coach Tite’s team 18 points ahead of fourth-place Colombia, which will have only five more matches in hand. The Colombians are the only team to hold the Selecao to a draw in the current edition of qualifiers. Some mathematical combinations allow second-placed Argentina to hope for its direct spot with a win against Brazil next week in San Juan, but the Copa America champion will have to beat Uruguay in Montevideo on Friday to have any chance of achieving that in front of its home fans. There’s three other matches in South American qualifying on Thursday, including Ecuador hosting last-place Venezuela and Peru against Bolivia. Paraguay, in eighth place, will play sixth-place Chile in a match that could nearly end qualification hopes for one of them. Guillermo Barros Schelotto will have his debut as head coach after Paraguay fired Eduardo Berizzo in October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brazil-will-look-to-seal-direct-spot/article37430931.ece
11 November 2021||KOLKATA,||‘We need not be afraid of any opponent’||The Indian women’s football team has reached a stage where it should not be afraid of any opponent, feels the National head coach Thomas Dennerby. The experienced Swede, who took charge of the senior team in August, made his assessment ahead of the team’s trip for an international tournament in Manaus, Brazil, later this month. The team, which is targeting a good outing at the Asian Cup scheduled to be played early next year in India, has been shaping up well under Dennerby at its base at the Tata Steel complex in Jamshedpur. Successful results The team notched up some successful results during the trips last month to Dubai, Bahrain and Sweden. The best performance came against the former Asian champion Chinese Taipei, which it beat by a solitary goal. “We are reaching a level where we need not be afraid of any of our opponents in the Asian Cup. When we beat Chinese Taipei last month and I was not surprised. I want the players to believe in themselves and come out strong as a proud Indian team in every match,” Dennerby told The Hindu . “On the fitness level we are now touching the stage of high intensity running. It is the stage where the teams reach the higher sprint zone that helps in speeding up the game. Btter decision making “All these help in better decision-making and greater technical perfection that is needed when facing teams high up in the world ranking,” Dennerby said about the current status of India’s preparation. The coach said that preparations have reached a level where he is able to identify the nucleus of the team. “We have been able to identify 15 players as the key performers and among them there are eight or nine who will make the starting 11. “We are still working with some positions now and are hopeful of getting the best players in each position before the Asian Cup,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-need-not-be-afraid-of-any-opponent/article37430973.ece
11 November 2021||NANDINI NAGAR (UTTAR PRADESH),||National wrestling championships from today||Several top wrestlers, including World and Olympic medallists, will be seen in action at the three-day National wrestling championships to be held here from Thursday. In the absence of the wrestlers who competed in the Tokyo Olympics — who have skipped the year-ending event due to various issues — elite names like Olympic medallist Sakshi Malik, World championships medallists Sarita Mor and Pooja Dhanda, World under-23 medallists Divya Kakran and Nisha, Worlds medallists Narsingh Yadav and Rahul Aware, Commonwealth games and Asian medallist Satyawart Kadian, Olympian Sandeep Tomar and Asian medallist Parveen Rana will be seen in action. Former Worlds medallist and Commonwealth Games gold medallist Geeta Phogat is eyeing a comeback in the event, which will serve as a perfect launch pad for the Commonwealth Games and the Asian Games next year. Power packed units  Railways, which had been stationed here for the last month to conduct a camp, Services, which has selected a team of young and experienced wrestlers, and Haryana will be some of the power-packed units in the championships. Annual general meeting Meanwhile, the annual general meeting of the Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) will coincide with the Nationals. Important topics such as selection criteria of wrestlers for the Olympics and fielding of two teams by a unit at the National championships are likely to be discussed in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-wrestling-championships-from-today/article37430978.ece
11 November 2021||Chennai,||‘Happy that Ganapathy and Varun are continuing their good run’||As the sea changes its colour during different phases of the day, from green to blue, from a silvery hue to gold, so do the fortunes of the sailors. In this turbulent world as the sailors ride the waves, cope with the swells and bravely manoeuvre the blustery winds, consistency can be hard. Acing the field But then, K.C. Ganapathy and Varun Thakkar, who recently won the gold in the Asian Championship in Oman, have maintained their level of performance, invariably acing the field. Speaking about their performance, Ashok Thakkar, president, Tamil Nadu Sailing Association (TNSA) and the father of Varun, told The Hindu on Wednesday, “We are happy that Ganapathy and Varun are continuing their good run at the Asian level. It augurs well for the future.” He, however, added, “But the Sports Authority of India has to find a dedicated coach for Ganapathy and Varun, for the duo to aim for a podium finish in the next Olympic Games in France.” For the event in Oman, Ganapathy and Varun had to hire a foreign coach Bunny Warren — private sponsors chipped in — and came up with the gold. Thakkar said a personal coach was very important for the boys to aim for greater glory. The SDAT-supported boys were among the four sailors who, for the first time for Indians, directly qualified for the Olympics. The event in Oman was the first for Ganapathy and Varun after the Olympics in Japan. The boys and coach Warren have had successes in the past too with Ganapathy and Varun winning two golds and a silver at the Asian Championships. Thakkar said, “Our sailors have great potential. All they need is encouragement and guidance at the right time. I would again say that a personal coach is a must.” The TNSA chief was happy that sailing activities had resumed in Chennai, at an alternate location provided by SDAT for operation by TNSA, after a three-year gap. “This will greatly benefit the State sailors,” Thakkar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/happy-that-ganapathy-and-varun-are-continuing-their-good-run/article37431035.ece
11 November 2021||INDORE,||Manish rallies to stop Madhwin||Second seed Manish Sureshkumar bounced back from a slow start to trounce qualifier Madhwin Kamath 6-7(4), 6-1, 6-1 in the first round of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the Indore Tennis Club on Wednesday. In the pre-quarterfinals, Manish will face another qualifier Faisal Qamar, who put out Adil Kalyanpur for the loss of six games. Lucky loser Lohithaksha Bathrinath pipped qualifer Ishaque Eqbal 7-6(4) in the decider to face seventh seed Rishab Agarwal. Qualifier Ajay Malik beat Aryan Goveas in straight sets to set up a pre-quarterfinal against former National champion Dalwinder Singh. S.D. Prajwal Dev got past Vishnu Vardhan to face Nitin Kumar Sinha.  The results: First round: Nicolas Tepmahc (Fra) bt Paras Dahiya 6-4, 0-1 (retd.); Philip Sekulic (Aus) bt Dusty Boyer (USA) 4-6, 6-3, 7-6(7); Alexis Canter (GBR) bt Denim Yadav 6-2, 6-4; Nitin Kumar Sinha bt Arvid Nordquist (Swe) 6-3, 2-0 (retired).   S.D. Prajwal Dev bt Vishnu Vardhan 6-4, 6-2; Ajay Malik bt Aryan Goveas 6-4, 6-4; Dalwinder Singh bt V.M. Ranjeet 6-3, 6-1; Bharath Kumaran bt Karunuday Singh 3-6, 7-6(3), 6-2; Rishab Agarwal bt Romain Faucon (Bel) 6-3, 7-5; Lohithaksha Bathrinath bt Ishaque Eqbal 3-6, 6-2, 7-6(4); Faisal Qamar bt Adil Kalyanpur 6-4, 6-2; Manish Sureshkumar bt Madhwin Kamath 6-7(4), 6-1, 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manish-rallies-to-stop-madhwin/article37431104.ece
11 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sahal ready for challenges in upcoming ISL season||He was on the field for only a few minutes in the final of SAFF championship against Nepal but Sahal Abdul Samad left his indelible mark with a beautiful goal. On a rain battered turf, the 24-year-old striker showcased his dribbling skills to hoodwink a few Nepal defenders and scored one of the best goals by an Indian striker in recent memory. With that goal, Sahal, who has often been criticised for excessive dribbling, redeemed himself. “It was a special moment for me to score my first goal for the national team and I was able to do it by God’s grace. “I have never been bothered by criticism. What is more important to me is to execute my role and help the team win. I believe the goal has put my international career on the right path and I hope to play many more years for the country,” said Sahal, who is attending the Kerala Blasters pre-season camp in Goa. High spirits Sahal said the spirit in the Indian camp was high despite India facing the threat of an early exit and added that captain Sunil Chhetri was the catalyst for the turnaround. “The spirit in the camp was high. We were all motivated to do our best and our aim was to win the title. Sunil Chhetri was an inspiration and playing with him was an education in itself. “When he is leading us, we all try to better our standards and give our best on the field and that worked in our favour,” he said. After the SAFF success, Sahal has another big task on his shoulders, meeting the expectations of Kerala Blasters fans in the ISL. However, he says he has come to terms with the fans' expectations ever since he donned the yellow jersey and it has only motivated him to perform better. Sahal added that he has prepared well — mentally and physically — for the season ahead, and is primed for challenges and is ready for any role assigned to him. Sahal said Kerala Blasters will miss the big crowd and the atmosphere in the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sahal-ready-for-challenges-in-upcoming-isl-season/article37431347.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Riya makes pre-quarters||Riya Bhatia beat Jasmin Jebawy of Germany 6-3, 4-6, 6-2 to make the pre-quarterfinals of the $60,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament in Chile. Riya also made the doubles quarterfinals in partnership with Maria Fernanda Herazo Gonzalez of Colombia. In the Challenger in Slovakia, Ramkumar Ramanathan reached the doubles quarterfinals with Sergio Martos Gornes of Spain.  The results: €66,640 Challenger, Bratislava, Slovakia: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Sergio Martos Gornes (Esp) & Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Kristof Minarik & Lukas Palovic (Svk) 6-3, 6-3.   $60,000 ITF women, Santiago, Chile: Singles (first round): Riya Bhatia bt Jasmin Jebawy (Ger) 6-3, 4-6, 6-2. Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Maria Fernanda Herazo Gonzalez (Col) & Riya bt Dasha Ivanova (USA) & Jasmin Jebawy (Ger) 6-4, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/riya-makes-pre-quarters/article37430975.ece
11 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Court issues notice to BFI||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday issued a notice to the Boxing Federation of India (BFI) over a petition filed by boxer Arundhati Choudhary seeking her selection in the 70kg category for the upcoming World women’s boxing championships in Istanbul, Turkey, next month. The court also issued notices to the Union Sports Ministry and the Sports Authority of India (SAI) over the issue, said advocate Sandeep Lamba, representing Arundhati. The case will be heard next on November 22.  In a statement, BFI said the decision to make a one-time exception and select Tokyo Olympics bronze medallist Lovlina Borgohain directly for the World championships was taken to give her time to “recuperate” after the Olympics. It was communicated to all State associations much before the National championships at Hisar, BFI informed the court through its advocates Hrishikesh Baruah and Parth Goswami. BFI said it has nothing against the petitioner (Arundhati) and has included her as a reserve player.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/court-issues-notice-to-bfi/article37430921.ece
11 November 2021||New Delhi,||Domestic season to begin after long break||The domestic badminton season is set to begin next month after a 20-month hiatus with back-to-back senior-ranking Level-3 tournaments, the national federation announced on Wednesday. The season will start in Chennai with the first tournament from Dec. 16 to 22 followed by another Level-3 tournament in Hyderabad from Dec. 24 to 30. Both the events carry a prize money of Rs. 10 lakh each, and are a part of the Badminton Association of India’s (BAI) new domestic format, which was approved in 2019. The last date of entry for the Chennai event is Nov. 24, while for Hyderabad it is Dec. 1. BAI secretary Ajay K. Singhania said the domestic season will begin maintaining COVID-related protocols and all players will have to carry RTPCR negative reports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/domestic-season-to-begin-after-long-break/article37430929.ece
11 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Goswami, Puri in Bengal squad||Wicketkeeper-batter Shreevats Goswami and left-arm seamer Geet Puri have been included in the Bengal squad for the knockout stage of the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament in Delhi from November 18 onwards. Goswami and Puri replaced Abhimanyu Easwaran and Ishan Porel respectively. Both Abhimanyu and Porel have been named in the India ‘A’ squad for the tour of South Africa from November 23 to December 9.  The squad: Sudip Chatterjee (capt.), Wriddhiman Saha (wk), Shreevats Goswami (wk), Abhishek Das, Kaif Ahmed, Ritwik Roy Chowdhury, Ranjot Singh Khaira, Shakir Habib Gandhi (wk), Suvankar Bal, Karan Lal, Shahbaz Ahmed, Writtick Chatterjee, Pradipta Pramanik, Sujit Yadav, Geet Puri, Mukesh Kumar, Akash Deep, Alok Pratap Singh, Mohammed Kaif and Sayan Ghosh .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/goswami-puri-in-bengal-squad/article37431410.ece
11 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,||INRC 2021-22 season from next month||The 2021-22 season of FMSCI Indian National Rally Championship is set to begin here next month after being hampered by the COVID-19 pandemic. After a couple of postponements due to the pandemic, the premier motorsport event is scheduled to be organised here from December 16 to 18.  Provisional calendar: Round 1: Visakhapatnam, December 16-18.   Round 2: Bengaluru, January 28-30.   Round 3: Coimbatore, February 26-28.   Round 4: MMSC, March 28-30 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/inrc-season-from-dec-18/article37430971.ece
11 November 2021||Dubai,||PNG pulls out of Women’s WC Qualifier||Papua New Guinea has withdrawn from the ICC Women’s World Cup Qualifier 2021 in Zimbabwe from Nov. 21 to Dec. 5 as it is unable to send a team due to several members of the squad testing positive for COVID-19. There will be no replacement for PNG.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/png-pulls-out-of-womens-wc-qualifier/article37431105.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Manhattan tastes Dindigul||This revolution begins with snails. Snails spiked with ginger and tamarind, then served with fluffy kal dosas to be precise. Pair them withThalaivaa, a heady glass of Bourbon, spiced jaggery and coconut ice, at New York’s latest tribute to South Indian Kitchens: Semma. Set in trendy Greenwich, Manhattan, Semma is a world away from the stereotypical naan-butter chicken-vindaloo menus that defined Indian food in America for decades. With Chef Vijay Kumar at the helm, the restaurant plates up food inspired by traditional recipes from South Indian homes. There is a special focus on Tamil Nadu, where the chef is from, hence the name Semma, as well as on items that would be exotic even in Indian cities: those snails for instance. Over a call from New York, Vijay says, “When I was in culinary school in Trichy, we were taught about French cuisine and how they cook ‘escargot’ – snails. And I thought, how come we only celebrate these dishes when they come from abroad, while we ignore what is being made in our villages.” Growing up in Natham, near Madurai, where his parents still live, Vijay describes a childhood that is worlds away from his present life in New York. “My grandparents lived in a tiny village, Arasampatti, where there wasn’t even a bus. We would go there on school holidays, and we were not such a rich family, so they kept us busy with fishing, hunting and searching for snails.” After each foraging expedition, his grandmother made dinner with their catch. “She cooked the snails in a clay pot, over a wood fire, using just a few, basic, hand-ground spices,” he says. As delicious as it was, he would not get a chance to cook these rural recipes for decades — after culinary school, he worked with Taj Connemara in Chennai, then moved to the USA. He worked as a sous chef in Virginia, cooked at the popular Dosa in San Francisco and then worked with Rasa, a contemporary Indian restaurant in California with one Michelin star. Then he met Roni Mazumdar and Chintan Pandya, who run the popular restaurants Dhamaka and Adda in New York, under their brand Unapologetic Foods. Explaining how they are determined to break away from the Indian food stereotype in America, Roni says “though there have been some good Indian restaurants here, there is nothing that is truly representative of our cuisine’s regionality and depth.” Stating, “We are here to tell the real story of India,” he says they decided to navigate their mission by helping Vijay tell his story. With kudal varuval (goat intestines), crab masala and — of course — Dindigul biryani, this became a tale of rural India. “A lot of these recipes are being forgotten, even in India,” says Roni. “We want to bring them back into the general consciousness.” And while food is stylishly plated, and the restaurant trendy, the focus is on creating a vibe that is both comforting and fun. Chintan chuckles about how he came up with the name Semma after days of brainstorming. “I was looking through Tamil slang. At one point I almost picked lungi club!” The response has been encouraging. “A gentleman, who is originally from Chennai but has been a true blue New Yorker for decades ate at Semma recently, and when he tasted the chicken curry, he was emotional,” says Roni. He adds, “He gave me a hug and said he had not tasted these flavours since he was 10… That’s when I realised we are not selling just food. These are our memories, our childhood, on a plate.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/manhattan-tastes-dindigul/article37430859.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Lobster bisque and an award||Chef K Damodaran, affectionately known as Chef Damu, is characteristically warm and chatty, despite being in a London cab en route to the airport. On his way home to Chennai, undeterred by airport lounges and transfers, the popular TV show host and cook book author, enthusiastically chats on the phone about his latest triumph: The Culinary Legend Lifetime Achievement Award at the Global Food, Hospitality and Tourism Achievements Award 2021. It is this unflagging enthusiasm that has kept him focussed and driven for the past 40 years in an extraordinary career, which was celebrated at a recent event organised at the House of Commons, British Parliament, Westminster. Damu says it all began when he received a telephone call, a month ago, from the World Tamil Organization UK, requesting details on his career. (A registered charity organisation, the WTO was established in 2005 with the aim of promoting the welfare of the Tamil community, with a focus on arts and culture, in the United Kingdom.) Currently the president of South Indian Chef Association, Damu is a member of the World Association of Cooks Society. He says he has judged over 10,000 cooking competitions, including the popular Cooku with Comali which aired on Star Vijay. The chef has also authored 29 cookery books. Two weeks after that call, the organisers invited him to London, as he had been selected for a Lifetime Achievement Award. “I feel greatly honoured to be selected by the WTO for this prestigious award,” he says, adding that the Global Food, Hospitality and Tourism Achievements Award was instituted this year. He adds, “This category was launched this year by the WTO and I am the first person to be selected for this award.” The award committee recognised Damu’s earlier achievements, Guinness record, academia research and cook books. “I feel elated that I got the chance to meet the who’s who of the hospitality industry from across the world,” he says, adding that over 40 internationally renowned chefs and restaurateurs were invited to the event. This included John Wood, director of Kitchen Cut, who is a former executive chef of the iconic Burj Al Arab in Dubai. Also Chef Sydney Aldridge, the chef director at Fortnum and Mason, and Chef Ellan Prem Appadurai, head of hospitality projects, WTO UK, who was formerly head chef at Harrods, London. He adds with a chuckle that he also enjoyed the dinner that was served at the ceremony. “There was lobster bisque, as well as roast chicken served with mashed potatoes.” The 62-year-old chef who was home through the pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns, says that he made the best use of the time. “Making a meal for my wife and daughter, eating every meal with my family and making periodical visits to my ageing in-laws were the best part during those days. I never had the time to spend with my family all these years and lockdown provided the best opportunity for that,” he says. Ancient recipes He was also working on an upcoming cook book Kalvettu Samayal , which is a compilation of traditional Tamil cooking from the Sangam period. “I spent my time on research and developing recipes. I have documented even 3,000 year-old-recipes which I stumbled upon during my research. meen kartuhakari , originating in Tirunelveli region, and jeera a temple offering for Lord Vishnu, made using rawa and palm sugar are just a few examples,” says Damu. He reached out to a large number of catering students across the globe during the pandemic via online classes. “I also provided consultancy on COVID-19 meals for families and restaurants.” Damu is now working towards popularising traditional South Indian and ancient dishes through his book as well as his You Tube Channel Chef Damu’s Multi Cuisine , where he will prepare simple, healing meals. “Rice with rasam and a thogayal is healthy and high on medicinal properties. Unave marundhu (food is medicine) is our food philosophy,” he says. Damu adds that one of the highlights of this year was participating as a judge in the cooking reality show Cooku With Comali . Well received by audiences across the world, it earned him the nick name, appang (Dad). Even when he landed in London, he says, people were fondly calling him appang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lobster-bisque-and-an-award/article37430842.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||In trusted hands, time after time||There are those who cook, those who crunch numbers, and those who comfort the distressed. In a crisis, a city needs all kinds of helpers. Earlier this year, we saw them behind screens and on the ground — distributing food, collating information, finding beds and oxygen cylinders, and thus saving lives — in the thick of the brutal second wave of COVID-19 in Chennai. Now, as the city wades through heavy rains, they are on the job again, with all systems in place. Chennai’s volunteers are adapting through crises, armed with an expertise that can only come from experience. It was only earlier this week that Instagram and Twitter handle @covid19_chennai changed its name to @newsofchennai, thereby shifting its focus to critical situations in the city, not just COVID-19. When Shyam Sundar, a Chennai-based volunteer started the account in March 2020, he did not anticipate this growth in relevance. In fact, he had hoped the pages would no longer be required. Now at over 17,000 followers just on Instagram, the account is one of the go-to repositories for rain-related information in Chennai. The Greater Chennai Corporation, Southern Railways, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Chennai, Tamil Nadu Electric Board (TNEB) and Tamil Nadu Disaster Management Authority are all posting updates online, and are Shyam’s primary sources. Others are Government press releases, and Twitter handles of journalists and news media. A network of sources built during the pandemic also remains helpful for Shyam, who often receives information directly. “Now, considering the situation, I have only been sharing posters with numbers, helplines and such information, which is what people are looking for,” adds Shyam, who mostly works single handedly. But help from friends pours in, when needed. As someone who helped at a volunteer-led relief centre in Nungambakkam during the 2015 floods, physically helping out hundreds of people for six weeks, Chennai Volunteers founder Rinku Mecheri says she misses on-ground volunteering. “There was a time when you could take your car, put in supplies and just drive to the place that needs help. After COVID, we can’t do much of that.” This time, there are few people on the ground, mainly those who are double vaccinated. Everyone else is manning phones and computers, the way they had learnt to do during the second wave of COVID-19. She says, “Those months taught everyone how to use technology. In a way, this is good, because now most NGOs and those on the periphery know how to handle a Google Doc and spreadsheets. It is easier to coordinate, so we need fewer people on the ground.” She explains: “What happened in 2015 was people-oriented — we needed folk to come forth and donate bread, medicines, blankets, tarpaulin. What happened during the pandemic was more skill-based. We needed people who could sit at home and crunch data.” An efficient medium What stays constant is the fact that networks now get activated very quickly. “Certain people always hop to, and learn to adapt — like the 250 Chennai Volunteers who undertook training for the GCC COVID contact tracing and post-COVID follow-up telecalling project, from ICMR doctors, and helped guide potential COVID patients over the phone. “There are also steady points of contact and credible partners for specific needs: such as NGOs like Bhoomika Trust for provision kits,” says Rinku. The network that Floran Jayraj, a 28-year-old CSR executive relies on, was created during his relief efforts during the 2015 floods, as well as during the second wave. Today, he is one among 90 volunteers in the city who makes up the informal, voluntary Chennai Disaster Relief Team. “We have divided ourselves by zone, and are in touch with Chennai Corporation officials. As lay citizens, we can provide supplies but cannot be directly involved in rescue and evacuation work [for lack of safety training], so we just relay information,” says Floran. In the current emergency, Floran talks of SIP Memorial Trust’s home for HIV-positive children in Korattur, whose residents needed evacuation. “I asked them for photos and tweeted, tagging the Chief Minister’s Office and Greater Chennai Corporation,” says Floran, “GCC reached the site in an hour. By that night, an alternative shelter had been arranged. We are also building a database with unique request IDs for food, medicine, torchlight, but the most requests we can see is for blankets.” While everyone, from founders of NGOs to student volunteers with minimal experience, are willing to step out and lend a hand, Rinku points out: “People have an innate need to help, whenever disaster strikes. If at that point, you can create a platform for them to come and be part of a larger effort, it’s very fulfilling.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/in-trusted-hands-time-after-time/article37430846.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Shelter from the storm||In the twilight hours of Saturday, as the city faced the highest amount of rainfall since the deluge of 2015, at around 1.30 am, a text message stirred K Srikanth awake. It was the parent of a child scared by the seemingly unending drums of thunder. “They wanted to know when it would stop,” says the veteran weather blogger from Anna Nagar. “At times like these, our job is more than making accurate forecasts — it is to offer empathy, solace, and calm people down.” As Chennai faces another severe bout of rains — the city has already exceeded its annual rainfall average with more than a month of monsoon left — its weather bloggers have been hard at work, posting regular forecasts on Twitter and Facebook. Accounts like Tamil Nadu Weatherman run by Pradeep John (377.9K followers), Chennai Rains, run by Srikanth and his group (119.6K), Chennai Weather run by Raja Ramasamy (99.9K) have been buzzing with activity — as have other similar accounts with variations of these words (Tamil Nadu, Chennai, rain, monsoon) in their handles. “I don’t look at weather blogging as just predicting whether it will rain or not, I try to explain why a certain phenomenon happens,” says Srikanth, who studies weather models, cyclone patterns, wind charts and so on using satellite images available in the public domain. He uses these visual cues to break down information into three parts: a recap of the phenomenon that took place the previous day, how it is looking now, and what different weather models predict for the next 24 hours. “You could write 400-word explainers but most people will come back to ask when, where and how much it will rain,” he laughs. Over the years, weather bloggers have had people asking them if they should schedule film shoots, travel to certain areas, book tickets for cricket matches. Fixing a wedding date is no longer just an astrologer’s business — it is the weatherman’s too. “In 2015, a groom’s family was to come down to Chennai for a wedding on December 6-7. They couldn’t reach the bride’s family, and they called me to ask if they should go ahead with the wedding… It gives you jitters sometimes, to be involved in such big moments in stranger’s lives,” recalls Srikanth. An awe of cyclones While these are the dilemmas of the urban world, in interior Tamil Nadu, especially in farm regions, weather forecasts are crucial to livelihoods. Greater accessibility to meteorological data has increased its popularity among laypersons. Farmer P Periyasamy has seen his ancestors predict rains by closely observing clouds and paying attention to winds. “I too can tell, to a certain extent,” says the 30-year-old. But he combines his native knowledge with technology. “I started with IMD radar to keep track of the weather,” he says. Some seven years ago, when he had not yet upgraded to a smartphone, he passed on what he learned from the radar to farmers in the neighbourhood. Perisasamy is based in Dharapuram in Tirupur district and grows groundnuts, corn, and coconuts. He knows how crucial rain prediction is to farmers, especially around harvest time. “If they are harvesting corn, for instance, and it pours, the entire harvest could go to waste since it would get wet,” he explains. And so when he started out, he used WhatsApp and Facebook messenger to connect with fellow farmers. In 2017, he created a Facebook page called Kongunadu Weatherman, inspired by Tamil Nadu Weatherman Pradeep John. But unlike John, Periyasamy focusses on predicting rains in the Kongu belt: Coimbatore, Tirupur, Erode, and Salem. “I get it right 70% to 80% of the time,” he says, adding that farmers have postponed their harvest based on his advice. The passion for studying weather is something many cities in Tamil Nadu share — Chennai perhaps has the highest number of such weather enthusiasts. In Neelankarai, another senior blogger ‘VV’ Prasad has been keeping an eye on the rain gauge installed on his terrace; it is a busy week for him. “Indian monsoon is studied around the world,” he says. “Because the Bay of Bengal is small, our weather changes dynamically, and is harder to monitor. That is part of the fun for Tamil Nadu’s weather bloggers,” he says. As opposed to most of India, which gets the South-West monsoon, Tamil Nadu gets the North-East monsoon (winds come in from the Bay of Bengal), which coincides with the cyclone season, explains Srikanth. “And all of us are fascinated by cyclones. Whether out of fear or awe, we feel connected to it,” he says. It is not just Chennnaiites, but former residents who now live in the UK and the US that monitor the city’s weather, adds VV. “I am a part of a WhatsApp group of over 100 weather enthusiasts from Tamil Nadu, but mostly Chennai, where we discuss the technical aspects of weather watching,” he says. “We even have an informal contest where we test our predictions and give each other gifts for correct predictions.” A weather-wise community This cultural wave has mushroomed; there is now a weather blogger in almost each locality in the city. This, VV believes, is essential. “Official rain gauges may be 10 kilometres from your place and during thunderstorms, even one kilometre makes a huge difference in the amount of rainfall received,” he says. The idea, after all, is to create a weather-wise community, which can only happen through repeated observations of which weather models work for which regions, and knowledge of the local infrastructure. Something that Chennai’s kids seem to understand already. All of 16, S Saran, a weather geek, uses Facebook and WhatsApp to talk about all things weather with like-minded people. “I am part of groups in which there are several people my age,” he says. Saran posts updates on social media in Tamil and English; known as KTC Weatherman on Twitter and Facebook, he has over 3,000 followers. “It started as a lockdown activity last year when I had plenty of time on my hands,” he says. And now there is no turning back. Saran lives amid thunderstorms. When rains loom over the Kanchipuram, Tiruvallur, Chengalpet-Chennai region, it is time for him to get to work. There is, after all, a common motivator for students like him — he is the first person in his school to know of a rain holiday.  With inputs from   Akila Kannadasan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/shelter-from-the-storm/article37430865.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Khadi and the Indian||Fashion is civil, yet disobedient. This is the tagline for actor Kamal Haasan’s new label KH House of Khaddar that launches on November 15. “Sir [Kamal] came up with this line in 30 seconds, while he was getting ready for the shoot of the label’s fashion film that will go live on the day of the launch,” says costume designer Amritha Ram who has joined Kamal’s latest venture as the designer. The label, as the name suggests, works purely with khadi. Amritha has been associated with the iconic actor for four years now, creating looks for his promotions of Vishwaroopam 2 , Bigg Boss Tamil and his upcoming film Indian 2 . While shooting for the last season of Bigg Boss , she was stuck in Hyderabad and decided to take a quick tour to see what the weavers in the nearby areas were working on. In Chittoor, she came across a fabric in white that she instantly fell in love with. She then dyed it ombre and showed it to Kamal who liked it too. When informed that the fabric was khadi, he suggested creating a few more outfits out of it. The actor has had a long association with khadi as his father, a lawyer, wore only this fabric to court. The first collection will launch in Chicago (where Kamal will also be launching a new fragrance: KH Memoir). Titled Nunool , meaning the good thread, it is also a message to turn towards a sustainable ecosystem. The fall-winter collection features skirts, short dresses, trenches and trousers for women; and crop jackets, double breasted jackets, short and long trenches for men. “It’s a complete fall palate with hues such as root beer brown, salmon pink, teal blue, mustard, charcoal grey,” says Amritha adding that they wanted a western take on this quintessentially Indian fabric, which they achieved with the cuts and patterns. “We are not doing any Indian designs or cuts for the first three collections,” she says. Sometimes synonymous with clothes that are boring, KH House of Khaddar aims to dispense such myths associated with khadi. “It is a versatile fabric and can be tweaked in any way. It can keep you warm in winter and cool in summer,” says Amritha. The team at KH House of Khaddar is pleased that their venture will benefit weavers. Currently working with a few clusters in Chittoor, Kanchipuram, and Tirupur, Amritha is researching for independent clusters to work with in the near future. “The first vision is to have weavers under our roof and create different variations in the weave in the next six to eight months,” she says. While Amritha has a free hand in the creative process, Kamal gives his inputs. “He likes to keep the design simple so the threads can speak for themselves. Nothing over the top.”  The collections will be available online on www.khhk.in, which will go live shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/khadi-and-the-indian/article37430883.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Killing them softly||Michael C Hall is back after a decade, reprising his iconic character of Dexter Morgan in the new series Dexter: New Blood , following the journey of the most-loved serial killer. The actor won a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award for his role in the original series. In New Blood , 10 years after he went missing in the eye of Hurricane Laura, Dexter is now living under an assumed name in the fictional small town of Iron Lake, New York. But in the wake of unexpected events in this close-knit community, his Dark Passenger inevitably beckons. Renowned for playing David Fisher in the HBO drama series Six Feet Under , Michael is excited to be back. With Clyde Phillips also back as the showrunner of the new series, expectations are at an all-time high. Excerpts from an edited interview: How did you decide whether the time was right for Dexter to return? I think there has been enough time for the show’s reappearance to be somewhat of a surprise, but hopefully not so much time has passed that we can’t take advantage of the pre-existing audience along with attracting some new people. Enough time has passed for certain storytelling opportunities to emerge, particularly having to do with Dexter’s son having reached a certain age. It was very gratifying to go back and revisit the character. Despite the fact that he is doing it under an assumed name — and pretending to be someone he is not — he is at the same time making an legitimate attempt to be a normal person, to have real relationships, and have a life that that is as full as he can manage while being abstinent. A lot of Dexter fans are most excited about the character of his son, Harrison, reuniting with Dexter on the show. Jack Alcott, the actor who plays Harrison, is one of Hollywood’s exciting young talents... You know, it is a wild thing we do as actors...jumping into something with relative strangers and endowing them with whatever is required. I was just thankful that Jack is someone who is incredibly talented and has fantastic instincts. I feel like he is someone who I believe is Rita and Dexter’s child. A lot of the experience or the chemistry that exists between us was all intuitive and unspoken. I was just glad to be sharing those scenes with an actor who was so good. How does one prepare to get back into the character after a decade has passed? All the preparation I had done, and all the time I had spent playing the character for the time was part of the preparation for this. Ever since the show ended, I knew that there was at least a possibility of a return. So maybe, somewhere inside me, he was still… cooking. A part of the preparation was just investing in this new story we were telling. But ultimately I had to show up on set and just jump back in. And when I did, I discovered that Dexter didn’t feel like a stranger to me. After all this time, I still felt an intuitive sense of who and how he was. From an ethical point, what were your thoughts on revisiting the character of Dexter? I had never imagined the show to be one that advocated the serial killer life. It certainly depicted someone who was taking responsibility in his very outside-the-box sense of ethics. But one of the things that Dexter is in the process of discovering as we rejoin him, is that you cannot run away from your past. His appetite for having a more authentic human experience of life is nice and everything, but that is not something that really goes hand in hand with killing people. He came to believe that at the end of the original series performing some sense of protracted penance. So, yeah, the ethics of the show, I mean, I don’t want to speak too definitively about that. Because I feel like that is a part of what makes the experience of watching it interesting. But it is definitely something I thought about, and that component of the show is on different grounds this time around. Dexter: New Blood , a 10-episode special event series, is currently streaming on Voot Select||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/killing-them-softly/article37430829.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Life lessons from a cricket match||There are two sides to Zai Whitaker — a conservationist who has been a key part of Madras Crocodile Bank since its founding days, and a teacher who has been privy to the minds, hearts and motivations of middle schoolers in small-town India for nearly two decades. It is the former, far more than the latter, whose experiences and perspectives have so far made their way into umpteen children’s stories penned by a third Zai: Zai the author. The protagonists of her books have been varied, from a family of mongooses to a little boy from a tribe in the Andamans. But till date, “practically nothing I have written has been non-environmental,” she says. That changes with her latest book, Clean Bowled . Published by the children’s education NGO Eklavya, it revolves around an emotionally high-stakes cricket match in small town India. The story is a timely reminder of just how much cricket means to many in this country — from the old man who keeps Sachin Tendulkar’s photo on the same shelf as gods and goddesses, to the young boy who never attends practice without a much-loved, much-tattered cricketer snapshot of “Gary ji ” [former West Indies player Gary Sobers] in his back pocket. What makes the short book more charming, are the unapologetic idiosyncrasies: children in these towns are self-assured enough to not particularly care about their English, even in an English medium school. Teachers are called “medum” instead of “madam” (we’ve all been there) and, as Zai Whitaker writes in the book, “ Even the cricketers and cricket fans who didn’t know a word of English could shout ‘Howzat!’ in their favourite cricketer’s accent... in pukka Australian, British, Sachin and Windies accents. ” A self-professed test cricket fan, the author states, “I see sports in general as a way to learn things like sportsmanship, and as a great corridor for teaching children values. It is an effective way to learn — first the balance between humility and self-confidence, and second the importance of honesty — apart from plain old school teacher talk.” The towns she writes about, Thapoli and Vakoli, are made geographically distinct by the mentions of Marathi speakers and benevolent Gujarati industrialists who run underwear empires — unsurprising, since the author spent much of her school summer holidays in Kihim, a beach to the North of Alibag, near Mumbai. But there are also plenty of character quirks that have been drawn from the good folks of Kodaikanal, where Zai spent 18 years teaching middle school. Her next book, however, harks back to her experiences with India’s environment and its caretakers. The yet to be published novel, about a family of the Irula tribe, has been 15 years in the making, though “I could finally get this amount of writing down during the lockdown,” says Zai. It is a culmination of all she could glean from having worked with the tribe over the years. As a key part of Madras Crocodile Bank’s conservation and research efforts, this tribe will certainly be worth a read. Clean Bowled can be ordered from www.eklavya.in/books.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/life-lessons-from-a-cricket-match/article37430849.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The boy from the border town||In Nargaon, a town in West Bengal that borders Bangladesh, a stick plays Santa Claus. Like the legendary herald of good cheer, the stick delivers gifts from families and friends, travelling across the barbed wire fence that separates the countries. At the ‘milan’ bazaar held here often, barely 10 metres from the boundary, an impromptu shandy springs up with people selling wares, clothes and toys. They are bought, wrapped in black plastic bags, strung on sturdy, long sticks and then extended over the fence, past no-man’s land into the eager hands of families on either side. This is how Dhauli, a Rajbanshi living in Nargaon for 15 years since she crossed over for her wedding, greets her family in Bangladesh. An uncle from across waves at her children, her sisters and she exchanges notes, even as the crowds surge and vigilant border police on both sides keep an eagle eye on the proceedings. Dhauli is one of the six protagonists in Borderlands , a documentary on life along the borders of the Indian subcontinent, directed by 30-year-old Samarth Mahajan. The 67-minute feature, produced by All Things Small and Camera and Shorts, had its Indian premiere at the Dharamshala International Film Festival after its showcase around the world at events such as DOK.fest (Germany) and New York Indian Film Festival (USA). “We were tipped off on the ‘milan’ bazaar by a Border Security Force officer while seeking permission to shoot,” says Samarth, adding “it was surreal to watch this exchange; a boundary that divides not just lands but also families and hearts.” It is stories such as these, of those caught in the cultural fault-lines that the documentary focusses on. “We wanted to consciously move away from the historical and military symbolism of international boundaries and explore how everyday people deal with the consequences of borders. We were trying to find the political in the personal,” says Samarth, over phone from Dinanagar in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district, 15 kilometres from the India-Pakistan border, where he was raised. Among those who share their stories are Deepa, a migrant from Pakistan and an aspiring nurse, struggling to speak Hindi while being fluent in Sindhi and Urdu; Imphal’s Surajkanta, a filmmaker who looks at both the militant struggle and Manipur’s place in India; Noor, who was trafficked into sex work, rescued, learnt to play the ukulele, found love and now lives in a shelter home in Kolkata; Kavita, a Nepali girl in Birgunj who works with an NGO that aims to stop the trafficking of women into India; and Rekha, Samarth’s mother who gave up work to raise her family in Dinanagar, lived through cross-border terrorism and yet had never been to the border until she accompanied Samarth to shoot a segment at Wagah. Work on the documentary began in October 2018 and finished in March 2021 with a core crew comprising Samarth, associate director Nupur Agrawal and cinematographer Omkar Divekar.  Borderlands is Samarth’s second feature documentary, his first, The Unreserved , on passengers travelling in the general compartment of the Indian Railways, won him a National Award. Samarth’s journey to filmmaking was as arduous, through the portals of IIT-Kharagpur, a corporate job and a post-graduate degree in the liberal arts. “I had made an ad film when in college and ended up getting addicted to filmmaking. I like to step away from the mainstream and tell non-fiction, invisible stories.” Which is why the protagonists were chosen from a ragged jumble of tin and thatch houses, from a world littered with contested and shifting borders — “We focussed on hyper-local, unusual stories rather than the macho images of the border, identities or the nostalgia of shared history. We focussed on hope.”  We wanted to consciously move away from the historical and military symbolism of international boundaries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-boy-from-the-border-town/article37430837.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Kurup is here||Kurup , which releases in theatres on November 12, has been in the making for a while but director Srinath Rajendran is not complaining. He sees the time the team got to work on the post-production as a ‘bonus’, a luxury many Malayalam films cannot afford. “The two-year break was a good thing. Not getting time to work on post-production is a curse for Malayalam cinema. We took a year-and-a-half for its post-production!” says Srinath. The making of this film was Srinath’s ‘destiny’, as he was born around the time the events pertaining to the crime took place. The idea for the film came randomly, he says. It was conceived in 2012, soon after the release of his first film Second Show . He says the years since Second Show have been preparatory for the team. “ Kurup is a ‘period film’, years have passed since the event but people who are part of the story are still alive.” Telling the story of one of India’s most wanted fugitives spanning cities and countries takes time and research, which also included speaking to people who knew him. There were a few who were reluctant to share their stories. “We can never forget that an innocent man [Chacko] is involved, that there is another side to the story,” says Srinath. For some, Sukumara Kurup is a conman and murderer; for others, he is a mystery. No one knows whether he is alive or where he is. The case is still open, so the film is ‘inspired by’ and the lead character’s name has been changed. With the story by Jithin K Jose, it has been a tightrope to walk. Kurup got its share of flak for lionizing Kurup: Jithin Chacko, son of Chacko (who Kurup murdered), even sent a legal notice to the film’s producers. The issue was settled after a screening for Jithin Chacko and his mother Santhamma, which eased their apprehensions. The story is not an easy one to tell. There are several perspectives on Kurup, all of which had to be considered while writing the script. “This [film] is the journey of Kurup’s life, told from our perspective but culled from those of others who are part of this story. We have done it passionately and we hope everyone likes it.” Dulquer came on board when he heard of Srinath’s idea, which worked well for the film, he says. “All of us involved in the film have matured. Dulquer is the same guy he was then, he has evolved as an actor. We have all grown more.” To the question of whether they considered taking the OTT route, given the uncertainty around theatres reopening, Srinath says, “All of us thought about it. But we had faith that theatres would open. Kurup was made for theatres.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/kurup-is-here/article37430840.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||A surprise package||In the last quarter of the recently-released Doctor , two comic actors, along with a battalion of lead characters, are captured by the villain and are taken on a boat to an island. Knowing that they are on the way to be executed, one of the comics, a straight-faced character called Bhagat (Redin Kingsley), asks the other (played by Yogi Babu) how much longer it will take for them to reach. It doesn’t end there. Bhagat tells him he is feeling nauseous and asks if he has a lemon, leaving the audience in splits. This genius of a stretch is just the cream of the film’s deadpan humour that set the cash registers ringing. The man responsible for writing the comedy is director Nelson Dilipkumar, but the man who made sure the punches landed is Redin Kingsley. The inventiveness in writing and the way Nelson draws humour from near life-and-death situations can be attributed to Doctor ’s success — Redin, too, believes this. “Nelson understands the pulse of the audience and that shows,” says Redin, over a phone call, “But none of us expected such a response. We were confident that people would enjoy it, but none of us knew of the proportion.” Redin says he was with Nelson when Doctor ’s script was taking shape. At one point during the post-production, the director felt comedic portions were too much that he had to trim, in order to give it a breathing space. Redin and Nelson go back in time; he was supposed to be the lead comedian in the latter’s debut film Vettai Mannan , a gangster film with black humour. Since the film was shelved, Redin went back to his job as event organiser for Government exhibitions in Chennai and Bengaluru. Every year, Redin says, he would get a call from Nelson asking him to send a latest photo for a possible film he was making. “He somehow found an actor in me,” says Redin, who played a small yet effective character called Tony in Nelson’s debut work, Kolamaavu Kokila , another dark comedy. But Redin felt he finally arrived when Superstar Rajinikanth himself enacted a dialogue from Kolamaavu Kokila during the making of Annaatthe , which is currently running in theatres. Redin plays a small role in the film and says he felt motivated when Rajinikanth appreciated his spontaneity in a scene that didn’t have dialogues for him. “But I said something on the spot and Rajini sir really liked it and asked Siva [director] to keep it. I am not sure if I would have got such liberty with another star,” he says, adding, “Rajini sir is the most active and always jovial on set. Likewise, when it comes to appreciating talent, he has been consistent.” All said and done, the true validation came for Redin when he got a call from Vadivelu’s team for a role in the actor’s upcoming Naai Sekar . “I met Vadivelu sir; he has seen all my comedies. He appreciated my comic timing and said, ‘You are doing well’.”  Mini profile Redin Kingsley neither has connections in films nor did he want to get into acting. Starting out as an entertainment in-charge for MGM Disney World, Redin is a professional dancer and even ran a dance school called Spellbound doing shows for popular channels. His claim to fame includes managing the 2008 ‘Chennai Pani Mazhai Kondattam’, organised by Tamil Nadu Tourism, in addition to scores of exhibitions in Chennai and Bengaluru. “I haven’t organised any exhibitions in the last couple of years. And now, I have become a full-fledged actor, thanks to Nelson,” he says. Redin has been part of all of Nelson Dilipkumar’s films and will also be seen in Vijay-starrer Beast . “I will get into trouble if I say anything about Beast ,” he says with a laugh. “What I can say is, the film is coming out well and will be true to its title.” He will also be seen in films such as Simbu’s Pathu Thala , Vijay Sethupathi’s Kathuvakkula Rendu Kadhal , Agent Kannariyam , Idiot and Naai Sekar .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-surprise-package/article37430832.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The colour of hope||When children paint for children, unforgettable bonds can be forged. In an art project, initiated by Chennai-based teacher Kamala Ravikumar for Childrens’s Day, students are creating paintings for the paediatric ward of the Adyar Cancer Institute. “During the initial months of the pandemic, children were getting used to adapting to online classes and increased screen time. But once they settled down, parents began to approach me to conduct art classes online,” says Kamala who has been teaching art to children as well as adults since 2004. She adds, “I had to train myself to teach online... it was a challenge. I then taught my students colour mixing and other techniques through video calls.” The idea of donating paintings to the paediatric ward at the Adyar Cancer Institute was supported by her students, who are from across India. Thirteen of her students came forward enthusiastically to give one of their works, for the cause. Eleven paintings, done on paper with poster colours (tempera style), were contributed by students from seven to 15 years of age and two more crayon paintings were contributed by younger kids. “The children were given the freedom to decide what they wanted to paint. They mailed it to me,” says Kamala, adding that framing costs were contributed by three Inner Wheel Clubs of Adyar, Chennai Fort St George and Harmony. “I hope these paintings will bring cheer, and alleviate some of the pain that the children in the cancer ward go through,” she states, adding that the project has “sensitised the young artists on the need to provide such cheer.”  The paintings will be handed over on November 16, to the Adyar Cancer Institute Paediatric Ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-colour-of-hope/article37430887.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Lit For Life goes online||“Literature is a means by which we may ask questions,” said Daniel Handler aka Lemony Snicket at The Hindu Lit For Life 2019. This is something that the festival has espoused over the 10 years of its existence by asking questions on stage and off it. With much of the world moving online in the wake of COVID-19, Lit For Life too makes its virtual debut tomorrow. Renowned physicians, scientists, authors, corporate stars, filmmakers, environmentalists, and artists offer insights into the problems and challenges the world faces today and offer new ways of looking at ourselves and the world around us. The festival reflects a spirit of hope and faith in the tenacity and perseverance of the human spirit. Speakers include Indra Nooyi, the Venerable Tenzin Priyadarshi, Shashi Tharoor, Sashi Kumar, N Ravi, Amitav Ghosh, Somak Ghoshal, Pranay Lal, Ramya Kannan, Vinay Kamath, Dr Gagandeep Kang, Dr Srinath Reddy, Prof Arun Kumar, Kamini Mahadevan, Dr Pratima Murthy, Dr Shekhar Seshadri, Dr Soumitra Pathare, Dr Ennapadam S Krishnamoorthy, Neha Sinha, Dr Sanjay Gubbi, Dr Mahesh Rangarajan, Ira Mukoty, Pankaja Srinivasan, Sudha Kongara, Chithra Mahesh, Subodh Kerkar, Anuradha Kapur and Deepan Sivaraman. To register on November 12 and 13, visit https://bit.ly/THLFL21 or scan the QR code The festival sponsors are Rajasthan Tourism (associate sponsor), Casagrand (realty partner), State Bank of India (banking partner), Life Insurance Corporation of India (insurance partner), Hindustan Institute of Technology & Science (knowledge partner) and Higginbothams (bookstore partner).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lit-for-life-goes-online/article37430852.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Toy story 2.0||K Thilagarajan spent two days with an old coconut tree climber at Sholavandan learning to make a “bug that buzzes”. The 50-year-old school teacher from Madurai is a populariser of toys made from palm and coconut leaves. He travels across the State sharing with children the joys of making fans, fish, birds, rattles, flowers, animals… “The idea is to make children work with delicate material,” he says. “Once they create something on their own, they will be inclined to give it away to someone else,” he adds. “They will tend to listen, tell stories through the toys, and eventually, take over from me.” The philosophy behind his toys is to engage little hands with something organic that also stimulates the mind. “They learn science through these toys,” he explains. A bend here or a twist there can alter the entire design; a tiny fold can make an insect sing and a fan fly. Thilagarajan is a happy man when he sits surrounded by children, each engrossed in a toy of her own, forgetting his presence. It takes a toy of great value to suck a child completely into its world. The rainbow stacker does just that. Popularised by social media over the past few years, it consists of a set of wooden arches of various colours. It is open-ended — there are countless ways with which a child can use it. Woodbee Toys makes the stackers in beech wood with non-toxic colours. The company has a factory near Vellore and sells through its Instagram page woodbeetoys_official. “We started in November 2020 and have 45 toys with 15 more in the making,” says K Suganya, who handles marketing. Woodbee’s toy philosophy borrows from Waldorf’s principle: their toys are simple and encourage free play. Toy designer K Kokila, who is Suganya’s mother-in-law has also come up with her own ideas: their trilinks and math rods, for instance. Learning life through play “Run, or I will shoot!,” calls out a little girl, charging out of a room with a toy gun; two boys are engaged in a dramatic plastic sword fight: scenes quite harmless in a typical household, one would think. But when did guns, knives, and swords find their way into children’s toys? Should violence be part of children’s lives, wonders Subid, a civil engineer who is trained in Product Design at IIT Delhi. His Ahimsa toys, based on Gandhi’s principle of non-violence, speak of play in a gentle way so as to not stir even a leaf. Ahimsa toys are similar to toy innovator Arvind Gupta’s toys from trash. But while Arvind’s toys teach science through everyday objects, ahimsa toys are all about “freedom, self-reliance, and sharing”. “Children do not need toys,” feels Subid, who has written Ahimsa Toys (Thannaram publications), a book with step-by-step instructions to make the toys. “All they need is freedom to play,” he says. “For them, every activity is play, and through that, they learn life.” Subid feels children can play endlessly without any object to keep them engaged, only if adults do not interfere. Ahimsa toys show that the greatest of joys can come from the simplest of things. “My focus is not science experiments,” says Subid. “Children are fed up with science,” he adds. The focus, is rather on ‘unlearning’. “My philosophy is that children come from heaven; we only have to observe them to learn from them.” To Arvind, the best toy is that which can be used over and over again. “Take Lego, for instance,” he says. “It is a great toy, but sadly, is not accessible to many children.” His toys from trash teach children not just science, but show them the immense possibilities ordinary materials hold. “An old CD, with a marble stuck in between, makes for the greatest top,” says Arvind. “It keeps spinning for two minutes.” Newspapers too are fun to play with. “A dozen types of caps can be made with them,” says Arvind. “Look at your own garbage bin and not at what the Chinese or Germans or Americans are making,” he adds. The market is filled with loud and flashy plastic toys that create a racket, states Arvind, speaking of “expensive products that come in boxes more expensive than the toy itself”. He adds, “When children are happy, there will be peace in the world... And for children to be happy, we need to make toys affordable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/toy-story-20/article37430880.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Manhattan tastes Dindigul||This revolution begins with snails. Snails spiked with ginger and tamarind, then served with fluffy kal dosas to be precise. Pair them withThalaivaa, a heady glass of Bourbon, spiced jaggery and coconut ice, at New York’s latest tribute to south Indian kitchens: Semma. Set in trendy Greenwich, Manhattan, Semma is a world away from the stereotypical naan-butter chicken-vindaloo menus that defined Indian food in America for decades. With Chef Vijay Kumar at the helm, the restaurant plates up food inspired by traditional recipes from south Indian homes. There is a special focus on Tamil Nadu, where the chef is from, hence the name Semma, as well as on items that would be exotic even in Indian cities: those snails for instance. Over a call from New York, Vijay says, “When I was in culinary school in Trichy, we were taught about French cuisine and how they cook ‘escargot’ – snails. And I thought, how come we only celebrate these dishes when they come from abroad, while we ignore what is being made in our villages.” Growing up in Natham, near Madurai, where his parents still live, Vijay describes a childhood that is worlds away from his present life in New York. “My grandparents lived in a tiny village, Arasampatti, where there wasn’t even a bus. We would go there on school holidays, and we were not such a rich family, so they kept us busy with fishing, hunting and searching for snails.” After each foraging expedition, his grandmother made dinner with their catch. “She cooked the snails in a clay pot, over a wood fire, using just a few, basic, hand-ground spices,” he says. As delicious as it was, he would not get a chance to cook these rural recipes for decades — after culinary school, he worked with Taj Connemara in Chennai, then moved to the USA. He worked as a sous chef in Virginia, cooked at the popular Dosa in San Francisco and then worked with Rasa, a contemporary Indian restaurant in California with one Michelin star. Then he met Roni Mazumdar and Chintan Pandya, who run the popular restaurants Dhamaka and Adda in New York, under their brand Unapologetic Foods. Explaining how they are determined to break away from the Indian food stereotype in America, Roni says, “Though there have been some good Indian restaurants here, there is nothing that is truly representative of our cuisine’s regionality and depth. We are here to tell the real story of India.” He says they decided to navigate their mission by helping Vijay tell his story. With kudal varuval (goat intestines), crab masala and — of course — Dindigul biryani, this became a tale of rural India. “A lot of these recipes are being forgotten, even in India,” says Roni. “We want to bring them back into the general consciousness.” And while food is stylishly plated, and the restaurant trendy, the focus is on creating a vibe that is both comforting and fun. Chintan chuckles about how he came up with the name Semma after days of brainstorming. “I was looking through Tamil slang. At one point I almost picked lungi club!” The response has been encouraging. “A gentleman, who is originally from Chennai but has been a true blue New Yorker for decades ate at Semma recently, and when he tasted the chicken curry, he was emotional,” says Roni. He adds, “He gave me a hug and said he had not tasted these flavours since he was 10… That’s when I realised we are not selling just food. These are our memories, our childhood, on a plate.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/manhattan-tastes-dindigul/article37431331.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Shelter from the storm||In the twilight hours of Saturday, as Chennai received the highest amount of rainfall since the deluge of 2015, at around 1.30 a.m., a text message stirred K. Srikanth awake. It was the parent of a child scared by the seemingly unending drums of thunder. “They wanted to know when it would stop,” says the veteran weather blogger from Anna Nagar. “At times like these, our job is more than making accurate forecasts — it is to offer empathy, solace, and calm people down.” As Chennai faces another severe bout of rains — the city has already exceeded its annual rainfall average with more than a month of monsoon left — its weather bloggers have been hard at work, posting regular forecasts on Twitter and Facebook. Accounts like Tamil Nadu Weatherman run by Pradeep John (377.9K followers), Chennai Rains, run by Srikanth and his group (119.6K), Chennai Weather run by Raja Ramasamy (99.9K) have been buzzing with activity — as have other similar accounts with variations of these words (Tamil Nadu, Chennai, rain, monsoon) in their handles. “I don’t look at weather blogging as just predicting whether it will rain or not, I try to explain why a certain phenomenon happens,” says Srikanth, who studies weather models, cyclone patterns, wind charts and so on using satellite images available in the public domain. He uses these visual cues to break down information into three parts: a recap of the phenomenon that took place the previous day, how it is looking now, and what different weather models predict for the next 24 hours. “You could write 400-word explainers but most people will come back to ask when, where and how much it will rain,” he laughs. Over the years, weather bloggers have had people asking them if they should schedule film shoots, travel to certain areas, book tickets for cricket matches. Fixing a wedding date is no longer just an astrologer’s business — it is the weatherman’s too. “In 2015, a groom’s family was to come down to Chennai for a wedding on December 6-7. They couldn’t reach the bride’s family, and they called me to ask if they should go ahead with the wedding… It gives you jitters sometimes, to be involved in such big moments in stranger’s lives,” recalls Srikanth. Tradition and technology While these are the dilemmas of the urban world, in interior Tamil Nadu, especially in farming regions, weather forecasts are crucial to livelihoods. Greater accessibility to meteorological data has increased its popularity among laypersons. Farmer P. Periyasamy has seen his ancestors predict rains by closely observing clouds and paying attention to winds. “I too can tell, to a certain extent,” says the 30-year-old. But he combines his native knowledge with technology. “I started with IMD radar to keep track of the weather,” he says. Seven years ago, when he had not yet upgraded to a smartphone, he passed on what he learned from the radar to farmers in the neighbourhood. Perisasamy is based in Dharapuram in Tirupur district and grows groundnuts, corn, and coconuts. He knows how crucial rain prediction is to farmers, especially around harvest time. “If they are harvesting corn, for instance, and it pours, the entire harvest could go to waste since it would get wet,” he explains. And so when he started out, he used WhatsApp and Facebook messenger to connect with fellow farmers. In 2017, he created a Facebook page called Kongunadu Weatherman, inspired by Tamil Nadu Weatherman Pradeep John. But unlike John, Periyasamy focusses on predicting rains in the Kongu belt: Coimbatore, Tirupur, Erode, and Salem. “I get it right 70% to 80% of the time,” he says, adding that farmers have postponed their harvest based on his advice. The passion for studying weather is something many cities in Tamil Nadu share — Chennai perhaps has the highest number of such weather enthusiasts. In Neelankarai, another senior blogger ‘VV’ Prasad has been keeping an eye on the rain gauge installed on his terrace; it is a busy week for him. “Indian monsoon is studied around the world,” he says. “Because the Bay of Bengal is small, our weather changes dynamically, and is harder to monitor. That is part of the fun for Tamil Nadu’s weather bloggers,” he says. As opposed to most of India, which gets the South-West monsoon, Tamil Nadu gets the North-East monsoon (winds come in from the Bay of Bengal), which coincides with the cyclone season, explains Srikanth. “And all of us are fascinated by cyclones. Whether out of fear or awe, we feel connected to it,” he says. It is not just Chennnaiites, but former residents who now live in the U.K. and the U.S. that monitor the city’s weather, adds VV. “I am a part of a WhatsApp group of over 100 weather enthusiasts from Tamil Nadu, but mostly Chennai, where we discuss the technical aspects of weather watching,” he says. “We even have an informal contest where we test our predictions and give each other gifts for correct predictions.” A weather-wise community This cultural wave has mushroomed; there is now a weather blogger in almost each locality in the city. This, VV believes, is essential. “Official rain gauges may be 10 kilometres from your place and during thunderstorms, even one kilometre makes a huge difference in the amount of rainfall received,” he says. The idea, after all, is to create a weather-wise community, which can only happen through repeated observations of which weather models work for which regions, and knowledge of the local infrastructure. Something that Chennai’s kids seem to understand already. All of 16, S. Saran, a weather geek, uses Facebook and WhatsApp to talk about all things weather with like-minded people. “I am part of groups in which there are several people my age,” he says. Saran posts updates on social media in Tamil and English; known as KTC Weatherman on Twitter and Facebook, he has over 3,000 followers. “It started as a lockdown activity last year when I had plenty of time on my hands,” he says. And now there is no turning back. Saran lives amid thunderstorms. When rains loom over the Kanchipuram, Tiruvallur, Chengalpet-Chennai region, it is time for him to get to work. There is, after all, a common motivator for students like him — he is the first person in his school to know of a rain holiday.  With inputs from   Akila Kannadasan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/shelter-from-the-storm/article37431332.ece
11 November 2021||November 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Lit For Life goes online||“Literature is a means by which we may ask questions,” said Daniel Handler aka Lemony Snicket at The Hindu Lit For Life 2019. This is something that the festival has espoused over the 10 years of its existence by asking questions on stage and off it. With much of the world moving online in the wake of COVID-19, Lit For Life too makes its virtual debut on Friday. Renowned physicians, scientists, authors, corporate stars, filmmakers, environmentalists, and artists offer insights into the problems and challenges the world faces today and offer new ways of looking at ourselves and the world around us. The festival reflects a spirit of hope and faith in the tenacity and perseverance of the human spirit. Speakers include Indra Nooyi, the Venerable Tenzin Priyadarshi, Shashi Tharoor, Sashi Kumar, N. Ravi, Amitav Ghosh, Somak Ghoshal, Pranay Lal, Ramya Kannan, Vinay Kamath, Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Dr. Srinath Reddy, Prof. Arun Kumar, Kamini Mahadevan, Dr. Pratima Murthy, Dr. Shekhar Seshadri, Dr. Soumitra Pathare, Dr. Ennapadam S. Krishnamoorthy, Neha Sinha, Dr. Sanjay Gubbi, Dr. Mahesh Rangarajan, Ira Mukoty, Pankaja Srinivasan, Sudha Kongara, Chithra Mahesh, Subodh Kerkar, Anuradha Kapur and Deepan Sivaraman. To register on November 12 and 13, visit https://bit.ly/THLFL21 or scan the QR code The festival sponsors are Rajasthan Tourism (associate sponsor), Casagrand (realty partner), State Bank of India (banking partner), Life Insurance Corporation of India (insurance partner), Hindustan Institute of Technology & Science (knowledge partner), and Higginbothams (bookstore partner).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lit-for-life-goes-online/article37431329.ece
11 November 2021||Chennai,||Eight districts in T.N. brace for severe rain, put under red alert||Normal life remained disrupted for the fourth day in many parts of Chennai and coastal districts following rain and waterlogging on Wednesday, even as the north coastal regions in Tamil Nadu braced themselves to face the forecast of severe rainfall on Thursday. The India Meteorological Department announced the weather system has intensified into a depression and would cross the north Tamil Nadu coast close to north of Puducherry by Thursday evening. The department has issued red alert for eight districts — Chennai, Tiruvallur, Ranipet, Vellore, Salem, Kallakurichi, Tirupattur and Tiruvannamalai — on Thursday as extremely heavy rainfall measuring above 20.4 cm is expected in one or two places and very heavy to heavy rainfall in a few places. Rain may be of heavy to very heavy intensity over 11 districts including Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Cuddalore, Dharmapuri and the Union Territory of Puducherry. Many other places may record rainfall of varying intensity. The police, fire and rescue services and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have geared up to meet contingencies. The NDRF teams reached Puducherry and Cuddalore on Wednesday. Several international flights were cancelled or rescheduled at the Chennai airport and cyclone warning was hoisted in key sea ports. Central help Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who continued to inspect the affected areas in Chennai wearing raincoat and gumboots, said the State would assess the impact of the rain over the next two days before reaching out to the Centre for funds. The heavy rain spell ensured that waterbodies received copious inflow in many parts. The combined storage of reservoirs in the State was 199.165 tmcft. — around 89% of the capacity of 90 reservoirs. According to the IMD, the depression lay centred over southwest Bay of Bengal, about 430 km east-southeast of Chennai and 420 km east-southeast of Puducherry, on Wednesday evening. It is very likely to move west–northwestwards and reach near north T.N. coast by Thursday early morning. It may then move west-northwestwards and cross north T.N. and adjoining south Andhra Pradesh coasts between Karaikal and Sriharikota close to the north of Puducherry by Thursday evening. On Wednesday, intermittent rainfall continued over many parts of the State. The Ennore port recorded 5 cm, Cheyyur in Chengalpattu district (4 cm), Nungambakkam (3.3 cm), MRC Nagar, Villivakkam and Anna University (3 cm) and Meenambakkam 2 cm between 8.30 a.m. and 8 p.m. Rain pounded several places the previous night. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m., Nagapattinam and Tirupoondi in Nagapattinam district received a whopping 31 cm of rainfall. In areas closer to Chennai, rain was relatively mild. While Mamallapuram and Chennai recorded 3 cm, Anna University and Meenambakkam received 2 cm each during the same period. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said as of now, there are not much chances for the weather system to intensify further and the system is being monitored for its movement. Strong surface winds of 30-35 kmph are likely over the north coastal districts from Thursday morning. On another system brewing over the south Andaman sea and predicted to form around November 13, he said the system is still far away and is being monitored for its impact over Tamil Nadu. The department has also issued warning for fishermen not to venture into sea on Thursday due to squally winds. State gets 50% more rain Tamil Nadu has already received 50% more rainfall than its seasonal share since October 1. It has recorded nearly 38.4 cm of rains against its average of 25.5 cm. Similarly, Chennai district has registered 50% excess rain than its average of 41 cm so far, he added. The Chief Minister said the Government would finalise its request to seek financial support from the Government of India for the losses incurred only after the next two days when heavy rains are predicted,. Interacting with reporters after visiting the rain-affected areas in T. Nagar, Chennai, Mr. Stalin said the poor implementation of the Smart City project by the erstwhile AIADMK Government has resulted in T. Nagar facing major civic issues during the heavy rains. “Under the Smart City project, they [the AIADMK Government] have received bribe. T. Nagar is affected much because of that,” Mr. Stalin said. On being asked what he wanted to tell the people, Mr. Stalin said: “We will deliver on what objective and principle and mission, we came to power. We are prioritising the most-affected areas and undertaking relief work and work continues to be implemented.” Alleging that the previous government had not undertaken any civic development work during the past 10 years, Mr. Stalin said ever since his party was elected to power six months ago, it had been identifying areas prone to waterlogging and taking corrective action. “We have completed about 50-60%. And there are more. Once the rainy season is over, we will resolve it permanently.” Medical camps were being organised by the Government in relief camps and medical officers have been deputed there. The CM also visited the Sathiyamurthi school campus on the G.N. Chetty Road, Viswanathapuram, Rangarajapuram among others and reviewed the works to drain water. Earlier, Mr. Stalin visited the State Emergency Operation Centre in Ezhilagam complex on Kamarajar Salai where helpline services were being handled. He also attended a few calls from the general public and directed officials to help them, an official release said. It said 1,548 people have been housed in temporary camps by the Greater Chennai Corporation and over 4.40 lakh food packets have been distributed. The government nominated 10 IAS officers to supervise and take preventive measures in coordination with the district administration in as many districts. The coordinators will update the Chief Secretary on a daily basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/eight-districts-in-tn-brace-for-severe-rain-put-under-red-alert/article37430996.ece
11 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Climate finance is insufficient, says Glasgow draft document||A draft document of the agreement that countries, including India, are negotiating in Glasgow, Scotland underlines that the promised climate finance by the developed countries is “insufficient to respond to the worsening climate change impacts in developing countries” and urges the developed countries to “urgently scale up.” The provision of finance for mitigation and adaptation of the impact of global warming is one of the key sticking points. The United States, Canada, several countries of the European Union, the United Kingdom and others have dragged their feet on a commitment to provide $100 billion annually by 2020. India, along with several other developing countries, has for years pointed out that not providing this money implies that the developed countries’ demand to coerce major developing countries into a net-zero commitment by mid-century is unjustified. It also violates the core principle of equity and climate justice, they aver. India’s commitment Last week, in Glasgow, Prime Minister Narendra Modi committed to India reaching net zero by 2070, two decades after 2050. Updated reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change say that the earth’s best shot at keeping temperatures from rising beyond 1.5°C by the end of the century is most nations achieving net zero by mid-century. Net zero is when a country’s greenhouse gas emissions are balanced by removing an equivalent amount from the atmosphere. Mr. Modi also said nearly a trillion dollars in finance was needed from the developed countries. The countries debating the agreement at the ongoing 26th Conference of Parties (COP) must have a final document in place by Friday, the concluding day of the summit. The draft document also says that it “recognises that limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius by 2100 requires rapid, deep and sustained reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions, including reducing global carbon dioxide emissions by 45% by 2030, relative to the 2010 level, and to net zero around mid-century.” It also called upon the nearly 200 countries which are part of the negotiations to “accelerate the phasing out of coal and subsidies for fossil fuels.” Though Mr. Modi has committed to dramatically increase the use of renewable energy by 2030, India is likely to double its use of coal in the interim given how it sees the economy growing in the years ahead. “The funds necessary for adaptation must increase,” said Bhupender Yadav, Environment Minister. “Our consistent stand has been that developing countries such as India need transparency in terms of what kind of market mechanism will be in place. This is necessary to ensure that the developing and developed countries are on a level playing field.” The draft document also “welcomed” the contributions [of $413 million] to the Least Developed Countries Fund (LDCF). The LDCF is for a group of countries, several of them island nations, that have the least carbon emissions but also are at greatest risk. Since 2001, it has provided $1.7 billion for projects that help buffer the impacts from warming. Independent commentators appeared unimpressed. “The decision does not recognise strongly enough the extremely urgent need to close the huge 2030 emission gap, and to establish a high-level political process in 2020 to do so. At this stage, the draft only urges parties which have not yet submitted new or updated commitments to do so before 2022, yet many have submitted NDCs that are not at all improved or enhanced and/or are nowhere near sufficient for the Paris agreement’s 1.5°C limit,” said Bill Hare, Founder, Climate Analytics. “The UN Secretary General should be invited to convene world leaders at the end of 2022, specifically to address closing the 2030 mitigation and finance gap. If this is pushed off until 2023 then the process will really only be addressed here commitments for 2035, nearly 15 years away, leaving the massive gap in 2030 unaddressed,” said Mr. Hare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/climate-finance-is-insufficient-says-glasgow-draft-document/article37430997.ece
11 November 2021||MANCHERIAL,||Four killed in coal mine accident in Telangana||Four coal miners were killed when a portion of the roof of an underground mine of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd. (SCCL) collapsed on them in the Srirampur area of Mancherial district of Telangana on Wednesday. The miners were engaged in a roof stitch work inside the the SRP 3 & 3A incline underground mine when the roof suddenly caved in at 10.30 a.m., causing fatal injuries, sources said. The SCCL’s mines rescue teams rushed to the spot from Ramagundam and Mandamarri and extricated the bodies of the four miners after an operation that lasted for more than four hours. Protest held The four deceased miners were identified as B. Laxmaiah, 60; V Krishna Reddy, 57; G. Satyanarayanaraju, 32; and R. Chandrasekhar, 32. The incident triggered tensions at the underground mine as members of various trade unions affiliated to the CITU, the AITUC and the BMS flocked to the mine and staged a protest demanding an ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore each to the families of the deceased workers, sources added. In a statement, SCCL Chairman and Managing Director N. Sridhar expressed shock and profound grief over the death of four coal miners. He directed the SCCL officials concerned to immediately conduct a thorough probe into the incident and submit a detailed report. Promises job to kin He said matching grant, gratuity and other amounts of around Rs. 70 lakh to Rs. 1 crore will be quickly disbursed on behalf of the company to each bereaved family of the four deceased miners. He further added that one eligible member from each bereaved family would be immediately provided job in the area of their choice in the company. ‘10 killed this year’ In a joint statement, BMS national leader K. Lakshma Reddy and Singareni Coal Mines Karmik Sangh (SCMKS) general secretary P. Madhav Naik demanded that the SCCL management own up responsibility for the death of the four coal miners. They alleged that the incident occurred due to laxity in implementation of safety precautions in the SCCL coal mines. They pointed out that as many as 10 workers were killed in four separate accidents in the SCCL coal mines this year. They wanted the Government to take stringent action against the company officials concerned for the “safety lapses” and strengthen the safety measures in all the opencast and underground coal mines of the SCCL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/four-killed-in-coal-mine-accident-in-telangana/article37430991.ece
11 November 2021||SANGAREDDY,||More chickpea varieties by genome sequencing||An international team of researchers from 41 organisations has assembled chickpea’s pan-genome by sequencing the genomes of 3,366 chickpea lines from 60 countries. Led by ICRISAT, the team identified 29,870 genes that include 1,582 previously unreported novel genes. The research is the largest effort of its kind for any plant, putting chickpea in a small group of crops with such an extensive genome map. “By employing whole genome sequencing, we have been able to affirm the history of chickpea’s origin in the Fertile Crescent and identify two paths of diffusion or migration of chickpea to rest of the world. One path indicates diffusion to South Asia and East Africa, and the other suggests diffusion to the Mediterranean region (probably through Turkey) as well as to the Black Sea and Central Asia (up to Afghanistan),” said Prof. Rajeev Varshney, a Research Programme Director at ICRISAT and leader of the study that was published on 10 November in Nature.  Grown in more than 50 countries, chickpea is the world’s third-most cultivated legume. It is indispensable to diets in many nations and an important source of dietary protein, especially in the Global South. South. ICRISAT led the effort to sequence the first chickpea genome (a Kabuli line) in 2013. This sequence paved the way for developing molecular resources for the crop’s improvement. “The demand for chickpea is set to increase in the coming years as the world’s population rises. Research like this is the need of the hour to help major producing countries like India boost crop production while making crops climate-resilient,” said Dr Trilochan Mohapatra, Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), and one of the study’s authors. ICRISAT and other organisations have been using genomics-assisted breeding approaches by targeting just one or at most two genes. Nevertheless, these efforts resulted in seven improved chickpea varieties in India and Ethiopia over the last three years. To take the study’s findings to the farm, the authors proposed three breeding approaches based on genomic prediction that aim at improving 16 traits and enhance chickpea productivity. They demonstrated that the approaches work by applying them for enhancement of 100-seed weight, a critical yield trait, and predicting an increase ranging between 12 and per cent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/more-chickpea-varieties-by-genome-sequencing/article37431264.ece
11 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||Techie held in Telangana for rape threat to Kohli’s child||A 23-year-old man from Sangareddy in Telangana was picked up by a police team from Mumbai on Wednesday for allegedly holding out threats of rape to the 10-month-old daughter of Indian cricket captain Virat Kohli and actor Anushka Sharma. The accused was identified as Akubathini Ram Nagesh, a software engineer employed in a private firm. He stayed at a rented accommodation in the O.D.F. Quarters of the town. Police personnel from the Mumbai cyber crime wing arrived in the area on Tuesday night. He was arrested around 6 a.m. on Wednesday. The Mumbai police were assisted by officers from the Indrakaran police station. The police said the accused gave rape threats from a Twitter handle — @criccrazygirl — which he operates, after Mr. Kohli came out in support of his teammate Mohammed Shami who was being trolled online with communal slurs following India’s loss in the T-20 cricket match against Pakistan on October 24. Screenshots of the accused’s tweets were shared widely on social media. The cyber police registered a case on Mr. Kohli’s behalf later. The Mumbai police booked a case against the accused under various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) including 354-A (sexual harassment) and sections of Information of Technology (IT) Act. The Delhi Commission for Women had earlier sought an investigation and issued notice to the Delhi police, seeking a detailed action taken report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/techie-held-in-telangana-for-rape-threat-to-kohlis-child/article37430992.ece
