12 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Intense showers bring Chennai to its knees, claim 14 lives in T.N.||After a day of steady rainfall, sometimes intense, Chennai finally found relief from the deluge after 5.30 p.m. as the weather system that originated in the Bay of Bengal crossed the coast between north Tamil Nadu and south Andhra Pradesh, southeast of the city. The weather system maintained a wind speed of 45-55 km per hour gusting up to 65 kmph while making landfall. Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, S. Balachandran said the system is expected to weaken into a well-marked low-pressure area by Friday morning. Rainfall would continue until Friday morning, he added. Fourteen people died in rain-related incidents across the State during this weather system, official estimates said. The Meteorological Department has withdrawn the red alert for extremely heavy rains for Chennai and neighbouring districts. However, warning for strong surface winds and heavy rain would continue, he said. Over 500 residential areas in Chennai were reportedly affected by flooding. According to the department, Nungambakkam and Taramani recorded 6 cm of rainfall and Meenambakkam received 5 cm till 5.30 p.m. Other stations, including Ennore (4 cm), too received moderate rainfall. By Thursday, over 12,300 people had been accommodated in 229 relief camps in 15 rain-affected districts across the State, Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran said. This included 2,240 people staying in 44 relief camps in the Greater Chennai Corporation area. Teams from the National Disaster Response Force fanned out to assist with relief operations in various districts, including Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Cuddalore, Madurai, Nagapattinam and Tiruvallur. State Disaster Response Force teams assisted in Cuddalore and Thanjavur, according to official sources. Meanwhile, the Tiruvallur district administration has stepped up water release from the Poondi reservoir to 9,000 cusecs at 4 p.m. as the waterbody received a heavy inflow of 11,000 cusecs. The combined storage in the city’s reservoirs was being maintained at 80% to maintain space for sufficient inflows. Governor R.N. Ravi discussed the relief and rescue operations with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on the phone on Thursday. Mr. Stalin, who visited rain-affected areas, urged Ministers on flood duty and officials to expedite rescue and relief operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/14-dead-across-tn-chennai-deluged-amid-intense-showers/article37449367.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Big, fat Indian weddings are back||A Gurugram-based top executive at a leading telecom company had planned a grand wedding for his daughter early this year, but the second wave of the pandemic scuttled his plans. Now, with COVID-19 cases on the wane, the couple will have a Hindu ceremony later this month, following a court marriage in July in the U.S. With the increased pace of vaccination, an ebb in infections, and State governments relaxing rules for gatherings, the floodgates for weddings have opened up this winter. The Confederation of All India Traders recently said in a press statement that approximately 1.5 lakh weddings were expected during the auspicious period of November 14-December 13 in Delhi alone, and as many as 25 lakh weddings could be solemnised across the country. “Everyone is getting married left, right and centre and most wedding venues are already booked. It is impossible to find a five star venue anywhere in the country for auspicious dates such as November 27 and November 28. We have bookings for November and December, and several queries for January and February,” says 34-year-old Ahana Choudhury, who runs Naach Gaana Vyaah, a Gurugram-based wedding planning company. Through the year, people have been either putting off their wedding plans, or been forced to conduct small events at home or at a club within their residential colonies. “We have done very small-scale events, involving no more than 20-30 guests, which we never thought we would ever do,” said Ms. Choudhury. Cost no bar But while brides, grooms and their families still tread with caution on the guest list, the overall spend remains high. Astha Jain, 26, a Delhi-based interior designer, is getting married in January. Her family wanted to have a big-fat Indian wedding with 500-800 guests. But it will now be an intimate affair with just 200 guests. However, no expense will be spared which will run into a few crores. “The size of the wedding may be smaller, but the costs haven't come down. We are in fact paying double the usual amount for hotel bookings which are difficult to get. Decor also costs more as vendors say that restrictions on imports from China have escalated costs,” says Ms. Jain, who is getting married at the Marriott’s Westin Sohna Resort. With only the closest friends and relatives invited, the hosts are now focusing on “detailing and higher customisation, unique offerings and experiential value ,” says Surinder Singh, Area Director (Haryana) and General Manager for Taj Hotels. As with Ms. Jain, residential weddings, which involve booking rooms and a banquet venue at a hotel or a resort along with safety and convenience assured, are on the rise. This also means increased revenue for hotels, explains Mr. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/big-fat-indian-weddings-are-back-with-a-bang/article37449365.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||India seeks $1 tn in ‘climate finance’ to meet its targets||India has demanded a trillion dollars over the next decade from developed countries to adapt to, and mitigate, the challenges arising from global warming, and has kept this as a condition for delivering on climate commitments made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a senior official who is part of ongoing climate agreement negotiations in Glasgow told The Hindu . India’s five-fold plan (see box) aims at reducing the carbon intensity of its economy and eventually achieving net zero by 2070. Net zero is when a country’s carbon emissions are offset by taking out equivalent carbon from the atmosphere, so that emissions in balance are zero. However, achieving net zero by a specific date means specifying a year, also called a peaking year, following which emissions will begin to fall. “Our NDCs (Nationally Determined Contribution) are conditional, that is, subjected to the availability of this amount [$1 trillion] in climate finance. NDCs can be submitted with conditions. The decision on when to submit revised NDCs has not yet been taken,” Rameshwar Prasad Gupta, Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Forests and Climate Change, told The Hindu . He is among India’s key negotiators and currently present at the ongoing talks in Glasgow. NDCs are voluntary targets that countries set for themselves, which describe the quantum and kind of emission cuts they will undertake over a fixed period to contribute to preventing runaway global warming. India’s last NDC was submitted following the Paris Agreement of 2015. Before COP26 began on November 1, countries were expected to provide updated NDCs. India, however, did not furnish one. He added that developing countries, as a group, had demanded $1 trillion annually. Mr. Gupta did not, however, clarify the members of this group, or if India had formally communicated these demands, or if they had emerged as part of the negotiations. Delivering on climate finance is among the stickiest points of contention between developed and developing countries because developed countries, as a group, have failed to provide $100 billion annually by 2020, as promised from a decade ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-seeks-1-tn-in-climate-finance-to-meet-its-targets/article37449364.ece
12 November 2021||CHITTOOR,||Downpour paralyses life in Chittoor dist.||Heavy rain lashed several parts of Chittoor district on Thursday, paralysing normal life in about 43 mandals, while all the 66 mandals received rain. The rainfall on Thursday morning was recorded at 2,167.8 mm, which was the highest in November. The district has cumulatively received 8,376 mm of rainfall since November 1, which is six times more than the average rainfall in November. The impact of depression in the Bay of Bengal was felt mostly in Varadaiahpalem, B.N. Kandriga, Satyavedu, and K.V.B. Puram mandals, with several areas witnessing water-logging. The sarpanches of some of the SC/ST colonies had to deploy earthmovers to divert stagnant water into the fields and open areas. Heavy rain was reported in Irala, Tavanampalle, Puthalapattu, and Pakala mandals in western Chittoor. The entire eastern belt witnessed downpour since morning, and it continued till late in the evening. Madanapalle division reported heavy rain from the afternoon. The busy Tada-Srikalahasti road was badly damaged, forcing diversion of vehicular traffic. The rural roads turned into a cesspools in Nagalapuram, Nindra, and Vijayapuram mandals. In Yerravaripalem mandal in Piler division, over 100 village tanks were filled to the brim. Gates lifted Irrigation officials on Thursday morning lifted the gates of Araniyar and Kalangi reservoirs at Pichatur and K.V.B. Puram and released a huge quantum of water downstream, and people along the route were warned about the development since Wednesday evening. The officials said that about 15 major tanks suffered small breaches in the district. About 500 families from the water-logged areas of the eastern mandals were shifted to the rehabilitation centres. Two teams of NDRF were deployed to tackle the situation. Meanwhile, the district administration had announced a holiday to schools and colleges. The TTD on Thursday ordered temporary closure of both the ghat roads in the wake of inclement climate conditions that resulted in the uprooting of trees and rolling down of boulders at several places. The roads will remain closed till 6 a.m. on Friday. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed the Collectors of Chittoor, Kadapa, Nellore and Prakasam districts to be on high alert in view of the possibility of heavy rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/downpour-paralyses-life-in-chittoor-district/article37449358.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Rain throws flight schedules out of gear||Hundreds of passengers suffered as 68 flights were cancelled, 53 flights were delayed and 14 were diverted at the Chennai airport as heavy winds and rain hit the city on Thursday. Many anxious passengers waited at the terminal, hoping for their flight to take off in the evening. The cancellations occurred as the Airports Authority of India (AAI) decided to suspend flight arrivals between 1.15 p.m. and 6 p.m. owing to the severity of winds. AAI officials said that during the day, the surface winds blew at a direction of 340°, hovering up to 20 knots and gusting up to 40 knots. The visibility dipped and fluctuated between 1,000 metres-1,500 metres. A team was deployed at the runway to ensure there was no waterlogging. Officials said that due to water release from the Chembarambakkam Lake, the total flow of water was 7,800 cusecs at the bridge portion of the airport. Totally, 22 arrival flights and 28 flights bound for Delhi, Madurai, Kolkata, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Thoothukudi, Visakhapatnam, Pune and Ahmedabad were cancelled in the afternoon. Seven international flights to and from Dubai and Sharjah were also cancelled. Furthermore, 14 flights coming to Chennai from cities like Kolkata, Delhi, Bengaluru, Tiruchi and Madurai had to be diverted to either Bengaluru or Hyderabad. In the morning, the flights managed to arrive in the city. But after 11.30 p.m., as the wind speed increased, flights had to hover over the city for a while before landing. “Subsequently, we held a meeting and did an inspection of the operational area. After getting a weather update, we decided to cancel the flights to safeguard passengers as the wind speed increased,” a source said. Safety concerns The Twitter handle of the Chennai airport said, “Due to severe rain and heavy cross winds, arrivals at #AAI Chennai Airport will remain suspended from 1315 hrs to 1800 hrs today [Thursday]. Departures will continue. The decision has been taken considering the safety aspect of passengers and severity of wind @AAI_Official.” A task force was formed on Wednesday to manage the operations with a detailed contingency plan. Everything was planned, from stocking up on food at outlets in the terminals to coordinating with airlines for guiding passengers in case of delays and cancellations, officials said. A help-desk was also opened.  After getting a weather update, we decided to cancel the flights to safeguard passengers as the wind speed increased A source at Chennai airport||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rain-throws-flight-schedules-out-of-gear/article37449454.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||More than 12 cr. due for second dose of vaccine||At present, 79% of the adult population has received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine and 38% of the eligible population has got the second dose. And more than 12 crore beneficiaries are due for their second dose, according to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. He said there was no shortage of COVID-19 vaccines, and called for collective efforts to ensure that no citizen is left without vaccine protection. “Lets us ensure collectively through collaborative and multi-stakeholder efforts that no eligible citizen is left without the suraksha kawachh (protective shield) of vaccine in the country. Let us reach each corner and household across the country and motivate people to take both the doses under Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji ’s ‘ Har Ghar Dastak ’ campaign”, he stated. Mr. Mandaviya held a virtual meeting to discuss the strengthening of the campaign with State Health Ministers. He said children could be the best ambassadors of behaviour change. He urged the States to rope in children for taking forward the message of full vaccination. “Let the children motivate their parents and other family members to take both the vaccine doses,” he said. Vaccination centres could be set up at bus stations, railway stations etc., especially in large metros, as these were the primary points for entry of a large number of people. “While vaccination is our ‘Suraksha Kawachh’, we must not forget COVID-19 appropriate behaviour.” Reiterating the Prime Minister’s strategies for strengthening the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign, including the deployment of ‘Prachar Toli’ in advance to villages that would ensure mobilisation and counselling of the eligible population along with awareness campaigns, he stressed on ‘Vaccination Toli’, which would ensure that all eligible citizens were vaccinated with the first and second doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-than-12-crore-people-due-for-vaccine-second-dose/article37449370.ece
12 November 2021||KASGANJ (Uttar Pradesh),||U.P. ‘custodial death’: family seeks answers||A couple of days after their son died in police custody in Kasganj district of Uttar Pradesh, Altaf’s distraught parents Chand Mian and Fatima contested the police version that he suffered mental health issues and took his own life. “My son had no problems at all,” said Ms. Fatima. Mr. Mian, who had given in writing about not pursuing the matter further, said he was told he would get his son’s body only after signing papers attesting the police version of events. Kasganj SP Rohan Pramod Botre said the police are open to lodging an FIR if the family submits a complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-custodial-death-family-seeks-answers/article37449519.ece
12 November 2021||PALAKKAD,||Man killed in wild boar attack in Palakkad||An elderly employee of a rubber plantation near Mangalam dam in the district was killed in a wild boar attack on Thursday. Mani Mathai, 68, a tapping labourer from Olippara, was attacked by the wild boar when he accidentally confronted it in the morning. He was working in a private rubber plantation at Paithala Nerchappara when the attack took place. The animal stopped attacking him and escaped into the forest when other people came to his rescue. Mani was rushed to a private hospital at Nenmara, but succumbed to multiple wounds inflicted by the wild boar. Relief sanctioned Nemmara Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) Aneesh C.P. said that an immediate relief had been sanctioned to the victim and that all help would be given to ensure adequate compensation for him. 200 wild boars killed He said the process of killing wild boars that caused damage to agricultural crops would continue in the district. About 200 wild boars were shot and killed in the district in the last two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-killed-in-wild-boar-attack-in-palakkad/article37449668.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Cold, wet weather in Bengaluru||Bengaluru experienced cold and wet weather on Thursday, with a steady and unrelenting rain lashing the city since early morning as a result of depression in the Bay of Bengal. Similar weather conditions are expected for the next two days. Maximum temperature in the city dropped by 7°C to 19.8°C.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cold-wet-weather-in-bengaluru/article37449392.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear plea against UAPA FIRs||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to fix a date and hear a petition filed by several persons to quash the FIRs registered against them under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for social media posts alleging communal violence in Tripura. The police had registered a case under the UAPA against Supreme Court lawyers who were a part of a fact-finding team reported on the alleged instances of communal violence in Tripura. “These lawyers were part of the fact-finding team which investigated these incidents ,” advocate Prashant Bhushan addressed a three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana during the mentioning for urgent hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-to-hear-plea-against-uapa-firs/article37449360.ece
12 November 2021||Vijayawada,||CM sounds rain alert to four districts||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed the Collectors of Chittoor, Kadapa, Nellore and Prakasam districts to be on high alert in view of the possibility of heavy rains, especially in the southern parts of Nellore district bordering Chennai. In a video-conference with the Collectors on the situation arising from the depression in the Bay on Thursday, he ordered that relief camps be set up wherever required. He said the affected people in the inundated areas should be paid Rs. 1,000 each as an immediate relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-sounds-rain-alert-to-four-districts/article37450037.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Mission mode||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/market-watch/article37449548.ece
12 November 2021||HONG KONG,||CPC resolution cements Xi’s key position||China’s Communist Party on Thursday adopted only the third “historical resolution” in its 100-year history, concluding a four-day plenum by enshrining current leader Xi Jinping’s place among the party’s tallest leaders and boosting his status ahead of a congress next year that will mark the start of his third term. A communique adopted after the annual meeting of the Central Committee, called a plenum, said the party had adopted a “Resolution on the Major Achievements and Historical Experience of the Party over the Past Century”, which devoted considerable space to praising Mr. Xi’s leadership and calling for the party to “resolutely uphold his core position”. It also announced the holding of the 20th Party Congress next year. It made several mentions of the need for party members to “resolutely uphold” Mr. Xi's “core position in the party” and to “ensure that all party members act in unison”. Observers said this will ensure Mr. Xi’s dominance — and further squeeze the already narrowed space for dissent within and outside the party — ahead of next year's congress, when he is expected to begin a third five-year term, having abolished term limits. This was the third resolution on history passed by the party, and the previous two marked significant changes in its political direction. In 1945, Mao Zedong passed a resolution that heralded a turn away from Stalin’s influence. That established what the party calls “Mao Zedong Thought” as its leading political ideology. In 1981, Deng Xiaoping passed a resolution that marked another turn — away from the excesses of Maoism and a one-man personality cult to the reform era that launched China’s growth and propelled it towards becoming the world’s second-largest economy. Unlike Deng’s resolution which acknowledged past mistakes under Mao such as the Great Leap Forward and Cultural Revolution that led to millions of deaths, Thursday’s communique painted an entirely rosy picture of the party’s 100-year history, saying that under its leadership “the Chinese people had stood up and the time in which the Chinese nation could be bullied and abused by others was gone”. The communique called on all party members to “adopt a rational outlook on the party’s history” and said that “looking back on the party’s endeavours over the past century, we can see why we were successful in the past and how we can continue to succeed in the future.” It hailed the legacies of Mao and Deng and their ideological contributions, with the two former leaders receiving seven and five mentions respectively in the more than 5,000 word-long English version of the communique. Mr. Xi’s two predecessors Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao received cursory single mentions. Mr. Xi’s name was mentioned 17 times. It referred to “Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era”, his ideology, as “embodying the best of the Chinese culture and ethos in our times and representing a new breakthrough in adapting Marxism to the Chinese context.” The significance of the communique goes beyond the past and is not merely about burnishing the legacies of party leaders. It establishes Mr. Xi as among the party’s tallest leaders since Mao and Deng. Moreover, its references to history, and airbrushing of past mistakes, will likely herald a change in how history is taught in Chinese schools and colleges, for instance by emphasising only the party’s successes and by highlighting Mr. Xi’s contributions. The many references to his “core” status and the need for “unified centralised leadership” will also mean a continuation of the centralisation of power seen during Mr. Xi’s two terms at the helm. The communique hailed his leadership in responding to the pandemic, in tackling corruption, ensuring “more balanced” economic growth, and in restructuring the military, saying that the military had "taken concrete actions to safeguard national sovereignty and security”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cpc-in-historical-resolution-cements-xi-jinpings-position/article37449362.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear plea against UAPA FIRs||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to fix a date and hear a petition filed by several persons to quash the FIRs registered against them under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for social media posts alleging communal violence in Tripura. The State police have booked 102 social media users, including journalists and activists, under the UAPA and accused them of criminal conspiracy and forgery. The police sent notices to Twitter, Facebook and YouTube to freeze their accounts and sought information on them. The police had registered a case under the UAPA against Supreme Court lawyers who were a part of a fact-finding team reported on the alleged instances of communal violence in Tripura. “These lawyers were part of the fact-finding team which investigated these incidents . Social media users who posted messages like ‘Tripura is burning’ have also been charged under UAPA,” advocate Prashant Bhushan addressed a three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana during the mentioning for urgent hearing. The CJI suggested the petitioners could approach the High Court first. Mr. Bhushan said the petition had also challenged the constitutionality of certain provisions in the UAPA. “For example, the term ‘unlawful activity’ has been given a very, very wide definition,” he stated. The persons charged under UAPA were “eminently in danger of arrest”, he rearked and urged the court to hear the case soon. “Yes, I will give a date [for the hearing],” Chief Justice Ramana responded. The Editors Guild of India has condemned the police’s invocation of the draconian UAPA in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-to-hear-plea-against-uapa-firs/article37449394.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Crops on over 1.50 lakh acres submerged||Standing crops on over 1.45 lakh acre cultivated during the samba season and over 6,000 acre of horticultural crops across Tamil Nadu have been submerged in rain during the Northeast monsoon so far, Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam said in Chennai on Thursday. Officials of the Agriculture Department have been instructed to extend all possible help to farmers, he said. They have also been directed to ensure sufficient reserve of fertilizers for the benefit of farmers. In another press conference, Revenue and Disaster Management Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran said that 154 cattle have died, 1,146 huts and 237 houses have been damaged. “Steps are on to ascertain the losses incurred towards granting compensation.” Over 140 trees have fallen due to heavy rain, he said. When asked whether the Central team would visit the affected areas, Mr. Ramachandran said that only after the rain subsides and the damage is assessed, the demand can be made to the Union government. Without waiting for that, the Chief Minister would decide on how to go about helping the farmers who have not insured their crops.  Steps are on to ascertain the losses incurred towards granting compensation K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crops-on-150-lakh-acres-submerged/article37449456.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||Gehlot meets Sonia to discuss Cabinet reshuffle||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot met Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday to discuss the State Cabinet’s long-pending reshuffle accommodating supporters of his political adversary Sachin Pilot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gehlot-meets-sonia-to-discuss-cabinet-reshuffle/article37449520.ece
12 November 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab passes resolution against Centre’s BSF move||The Punjab Assembly on Thursday passed a resolution against the Centre’s order extending the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force and demanded its withdrawal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-passes-resolution-against-centres-bsf-move/article37449521.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||CDS, Ministry differ on China moves||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on Thursday contradicted the official position of the Ministry of External Affairs on Chinese construction activities in the eastern sector in Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cds-ministry-differ-on-china-moves/article37449523.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||Gehlot meets Sonia to discuss Cabinet reshuffle||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot met Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday to discuss the State Cabinet’s long-pending reshuffle accommodating supporters of his political adversary Sachin Pilot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gehlot-meets-sonia-to-discuss-cabinet-reshuffle/article37449730.ece
12 November 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab passes resolution against Centre’s BSF move||Terming the Centre’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force in Punjab an expression of distrust and insult towards the State police, the Punjab Assembly on Thursday passed a resolution against the Centre’s notification and demanded its withdrawal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-passes-resolution-against-centres-bsf-move/article37449731.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||CDS, Ministry differ on China moves||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on Thursday contradicted the official position of the Ministry of External Affairs on Chinese construction activities in the eastern sector in Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cds-ministry-differ-on-china-moves/article37449732.ece
12 November 2021||Coimbatore,||Charges framed against accused in Pollachi case||The Mahila Court, Coimbatore, on Thursday completed framing of charges against all the accused in the Pollachi sexual assault case. All the nine accused in the case namely, N. Rishwanth alias Sabarirajan, 26, K. Thirunavukkarasu, 28, N. Sathish, 30, T. Vasanthakumar, 25, R. Manivannan alias Mani, 31, K. Arulanantham, 34, P. Babu alias ‘Bike’ Babu, 27, Haronimus Paul, 29, and M. Arunkumar, 29, were produced before Sessions Judge R. Nandhinidevi. The judge read out the charges against the accused in the incamera session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/charges-framed-against-accused-in-pollachi-case/article37449442.ece
12 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Siddaramaiah asked to give info on bitcoin scam||Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah should stop issuing bland statements about involvement of BJP leaders in the bitcoin scam and instead comment on the kin of Congress legislators whose names figure in the charge-sheet filed against the main accused in the scam, said State BJP spokesperson and former MLC Ganesh Karnik here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/siddaramaiah-asked-to-give-info-on-bitcoin-scam/article37449776.ece
12 November 2021||MANGALURU,||Increase in fuel sales in border areas in State||With prices of petrol and diesel becoming cheaper in the State compared to almost all neighbouring States since November 4, following reduction of State duties along with cut in Central excise duty, fuel stations in border areas have been witnessing a big jump in sales volume.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/increase-in-fuel-sales-in-border-areas-in-state/article37449778.ece
12 November 2021||HUBBALLI,||Sangha election results subject to court order||Admitting a writ petition against holding elections to Karnatak Vidyavardhak Sangha (KVS), the Dharwad Bench of the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday said that the results of the election will be subject to the final order of the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sangha-election-results-subject-to-court-order/article37449611.ece
12 November 2021||HUBBALLI,||Tension over bypass road work in Belagavi||Tension prevailed for sometime on the outskirts of Belagavi on Thursday as two among farmers staging a protest opposing the Halaga-Machhe Bypass Road made an attempt to end their lives. The incident happened when the National Highway Authority of India officials visited the spot for initiation of the bypass road work to which the farmers vehemently opposed. The protesting farmers urged the officials to stop the work immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tension-over-bypass-road-work-in-belagavi/article37449613.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||Gehlot meets Sonia to discuss Cabinet reshuffle||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot met Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday to discuss the State Cabinet’s long-pending reshuffle accommodating supporters of his political adversary Sachin Pilot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gehlot-meets-sonia-to-discuss-cabinet-reshuffle/article37449825.ece
12 November 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab passes resolution against Centre’s BSF move||Terming the Centre’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force in Punjab an expression of distrust and insult towards the State police, the Punjab Assembly on Thursday passed a resolution against the Centre’s notification and demanded its withdrawal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-passes-resolution-against-centres-bsf-move/article37449826.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||CDS, Ministry differ on China moves||Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat on Thursday contradicted the official position of the Ministry of External Affairs on Chinese construction activities in the eastern sector in Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cds-ministry-differ-on-china-moves/article37449827.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Wide Himalayan roads must for defence’||The armed forces cannot surrender the nation’s defence to threats of landslips caused by widening of Himalayan roads for quickly moving military hardware to the “very vulnerable” Indo-China border, the Union Government said in the Supreme Court on Thursday. Appearing before a three-judge Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal said that crucial defence equipment such as the BrahMos or Vajra missile launchers and the Smerch rocket carriers needed room to manoeuvre the tough terrain and reach the border. “There is a Chinese build-up in the Tibetan region... Today we are facing a situation that the country has to be defended. All three wings of the armed forces have to combine to defend the nation. We have to ensure that every physical, technological and financial facility is made available to the armed forces. The Army has a stupendous task to reach the passes. The defence forces cannot fold their hands and say ‘oh, landslide may happen, we will give up this road to the border’. If it is a landslip threat, we will have to deal with it,” Mr. Venugopal submitted. Landslips have “not spared anybody”. They had occurred recently across the country from Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Goa to Uttarakhand. “Come what may”, landslip or heavy rainfall, the readiness to defend the borders, to fight, was necessary, he said. Mr. Venugopal specified that the defence requirement was a two-lane road of seven metres width. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, for petitioner NGO Citizens of Green Doon, countered that the “best defence for our country is the mountains”. “Will the Himalayas tolerate a double lane with paved shoulder [DLPS] system of roads which would act as sources of heat and disruptor of ecology in the fragile area? The strength of the Himalayas is already half undone, it should not be allowed to be fully undone now,” he observed. He argued that the width of the roads should be restricted to 5.5 m in width. “We may want to take a missile up, but the real issue is whether the Himalayas will be able to tolerate the DLPS system.” Mr. Venugopal said the Union was open to alternative suggestions. There had been a detailed probe into critical geo-hazard areas in the Himalayas, sinking of roads, research into sustainable mitigation methods and dangers of muck-dumping. The court reserved the case for judgment. Centre’s application The hearing was based on an application filed by the Centre to modify the court’s September 8, 2020 order that roads of the Char Dham Highway project should be 5.5 m in width in compliance with a 2018 circular of the Roads and Highways Ministry. The court has been lately maintaining the need to strike a balance between defence and environmental concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wide-himalayan-roads-must-for-defence/article37449099.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||Ashok Gehlot meets Sonia to discuss Cabinet reshuffle||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot met Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday to discuss the long-pending Cabinet reshuffle, accommodating supporters of his political adversary Sachin Pilot. Speaking to press persons in Delhi, Mr. Gehlot said, “The party’s top leadership will decide on the Cabinet reshuffle. Ajay Maken [party general secretary in charge of Rajasthan] has all the information on it. We want good governance to continue in the State.” On Wednesday night, Mr. Gehlot met party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Mr. Maken and general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal. The group also met Mr. Pilot earlier in the day. Mr. Pilot sought to remind the central leadership that the Assembly election was not too far in Rajasthan and without coordination between the party and the Government, the Congress might not return to power. “Now only 22-23 months left for the Assembly election. Rajasthan has a trend of cyclical change in the party in power. We want to break this trend and that can be done only if the party and the Government were to work together,” he said. He expressed the hope that the party leadership would deliver on the promises it had made. “I do hope and trust that what the party has been promising will be delivered soon and the Congress workers who helped make this Government will be rewarded for their efforts,” he noted. His fight was only to ensure that those workers who had given their sweat and blood to ensure the BJP’s defeat should be suitably rewarded. They had been ignored for far too long with the Gehlot Government completing nearly three years in power, he added. ‘Give in to demands’ Sources said the Congress’s top leadership asked Mr. Gehlot to give in to the long-pending demands of Mr. Pilot by making the necessary changes in the Cabinet and restructuring the Boards and corporations. On July 12, 2020, Mr. Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs left for Manesar bringing the Gehlot Government to the brink of collapse. The central leadership stepped in to save the party from a split by forming a three-member committee of Ahmed Patel, Mr. Maken and Mr. Venugopal to look into Mr. Pilot’s grievances. After Patel’s demise, Ms. Vadra is now a part of the committee. But more than a year later, the panel has not made any headway as Mr. Pilot’s demands remain unmet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ashok-gehlot-meets-sonia-to-discuss-cabinet-reshuffle/article37449116.ece
12 November 2021||KASGANJ (Uttar Pradesh),||Another ‘custodial death’ in U.P., family seeks answers from police||Altaf (22) was laid to rest on Wednesday, and his parents, Chand Mian and Fatima, are yet to come to terms with the reality that their son is dead. “I want justice,” Mr. Mian keeps saying. He says he was pressured by the police into writing that the son was depressed and that he had no complaints against the police. “I don’t even know what depression means,” Mr. Mian, a labourer, said lying on his bed with a red blanket covering him at his residence in Ahrauli Nagla Syed on Thursday. His younger son Sharik tries to comfort him, and groups of policemen guard the streets leading to the house. Recalling the sequence of events, Mr. Mian said their local milkman, whom everyone called ‘Panditji’, came with two policemen and two civilians and told them that his daughter, 16, had been missing and he suspected Altaf’s involvement in it. “Altaf was playing a game on his phone outside the house. The police checked our whole house and took Altaf saying they will release him after questioning,” the father said. However, when they reached the police station where he was taken to, the family was shooed away. “I could hear Altaf’s voice. It sounded like he was being tortured and was asking for help,” he said. Altaf’s mother Fatima said “Panditji” had threatened them when the police took Altaf saying their son’s throat would be slit if he did not tell the truth. The next morning (November 10), Mr. Mian said, one of their relatives went to the police station around 10 a.m. and saw Altaf from a distance as the police did not allow the family to meet them. He seemed all right, they said. Around 5 p.m., Mr. Mian was informed by a villager that Altaf was not well and was admitted to the community healthcare centre. When the family rushed there, they were informed that Altaf was dead and taken to the district hospital. When Mr. Mian, his wife and a few others reached the district hospital, they were shown the body in the mortuary. All hell broke lose after that, Mr. Mian said. The police told him that Altaf has taken his life inside the toilet because he got scared. “I couldn’t believe them,” he said. “There were so many police officers around me. They told me that they will give his body only after I sign papers. I am an uneducated man who cannot read or write. I don’t even know how to sign. There was a case registered against Altaf in Noida three years ago following the death of a person in an accident by the car he was driving. He was a minor then. The police officials told me that they will settle that case as well,” the father said explaining why he signed the document in which it was written that Altaf had taken his life “in depression”, that he has no complaints against the police and that he didn’t wish to pursue the matter. ‘Made to sign papers’ Mr. Mian said he was made to sign the documents around 1a.m. and a video was also recorded by police in which he said he was satisfied with the investigation. “My son was mentally fit. He had no problems at all,” Ms. Fatima said. Sagir, Altaf’s uncle, who wrote the statement on Mr. Mian’s behalf, recalled that the police officials took Altaf’s parents to a nearby police chowki after they saw the body. “There were senior and junior officers. I was standing outside. That is where the police convinced them to let the matter go. I was then called inside. They told me to write this statement. A lower rank officer narrated and I wrote,” Mr. Sagir said. Mr. Mian said the police had given him Rs. 5 lakh which he accepted on Thursday but was willing to give it back. The family has questions. How can one end one’s life from a 2.5-foot tap holder? Why was the magistrate not called inside the police station when this happened? According to police sources, Altaf used his jacket’s nylon tightening ring and lay down inside the toilet. However, the photographs that went viral make it seem like Altaf was standing. Responding to the second question, an officer said Altaf was alive when officials found him and was taken to the hospital where he died because of which the magistrate was not called to the police station but to the hospital. The officer said lapses have been made by police officers due to which five including the Station House Officer have been suspended. “The daily diary entry was not made when Altaf was brought in. Three senior officers including the SHO, the senior SI and the SI left the station leaving Altaf unattended,” he said on condition of anonymity.  Mr. Mian said Altaf, who was also a labourer, worked at “Panditji’s” house for a few days a month ago. Police sources said “Panditji” was absconding and the girl was yet to be traced. “An impartial investigation is being conducted and a magisterial inquiry is ongoing. If the family submits a complaint, we will register an FIR based on it,” said Kasganj Superintendent of Police Rohan Botre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-custodial-death-in-up-family-seeks-answers-from-police/article37449122.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||Children below five exempt from COVID test on international arrival||Children below five years are exempted from both pre- and post-arrival testing for COVID-19, according to the revised guidelines for international arrivals released on Thursday by the Health Ministry. The guidelines, however, state that in case they are found symptomatic for coronavirus infections on arrival or during the home quarantine period, they shall undergo testing and be treated according to protocol. This standard operating procedure (SOP) shall be valid from November 12 till further orders, the Ministry stated. In its guidelines, the Ministry said that the global trajectory of the COVID-19 pandemic continues to decline, with certain regional variations, but added that there is a need to monitor the continuously changing nature of the virus and the evolution of SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern (VOC). The revised guidelines also state that 15 days must have gone by since the completion of the COVID-19 vaccination schedule. According to the existing guidelines, if travellers are fully vaccinated and coming from a country with which India has reciprocal arrangements for mutual acceptance of World Health Organization-approved COVID-19 vaccines, they shall be allowed to leave the airport and need not undergo home quarantine. They shall self-monitor their health for 14 days post arrival. If partially or not vaccinated, the travellers need to undertake measures, which includes submission of sample for post-arrival testing at the point of arrival, after which they will be allowed to leave the airport, home quarantine for seven days, re-test on the eighth day of arrival in India and, if negative, further self-monitor their health for the next seven days. If travellers under home quarantine or self-health monitoring develop symptoms suggestive of COVID-19, or test positive for COVID-19 on re-testing, they must immediately self-isolate and report to their nearest health facility, or call the national helpline number (1075) or relevant State helpline number. Passengers found to be symptomatic during screening shall be immediately isolated and taken to a medical facility, according to the health protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/children-below-5-exempt-from-covid-test-on-international-arrival/article37449127.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||CDS, Ministry differ on China moves||The Chief of the Defence Staff (CDS), General Bipin Rawat, on Thursday contradicted the official position of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) regarding Chinese construction activities in the eastern sector in Arunachal Pradesh. India never accepted China’s “illegal occupation” of its territories, the Ministry’s official spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a weekly press briefing. No transgressions But, soon after this, speaking at a television channel event, Gen. Rawat said that the Chinese constructions were “well within their side of the LAC [Line of Actual Control]”. “They are building this infrastructure and these so-called villages are well within their side of the LAC. They have not transgressed anywhere on our perception of the LAC. There are different perceptions. We are very clear where the LAC lies because we have been told that this is your alignment of the LAC and this is the territory you are expected to defend. Chinese have a perception which in some areas we know and in some areas we don’t know, because they have never really explained where the LAC lies according to their perception,” he noted at an event organised by Times Now. “As far as we are concerned, there is no such village development that has taken place on our side of the LAC.” Gen. Rawat acknowledged that China was building villages along the Line of Actual Control, but he also asserted that the “present controversy that has erupted that Chinese have come across into our territory and have built a new village is not true.” U.S. report His comment contradicted a statement from the MEA regarding the recent report from the United States Department of Defence that pointed out that sometime in 2020, China “built a 100-home civilian village inside disputed territory between PRC’s Tibet Autonomous Region and India’s Arunachal Pradesh state...” Mr. Bagchi said, “China has undertaken construction activities in the past several years along the border areas including in the areas that it has illegally occupied over the decades. India has neither accepted such illegal occupation of our territory nor has it accepted the unjustified Chinese claims”. India had “taken note” of the United States report that detailed construction activities taken up by China in the eastern sector. Face to face Gen. Rawat stressed that the Chinese and the Indian forces were on respective territories facing each other and that the Chinese have been building infrastructure and huts for their soldiers based on their “perception” of the LAC that is partially known to India. Mr. Bagchi observed that India had always “strongly protested” against such construction activities taken up on its sovereign territories through “diplomatic channels”. “The Government keeps a constant watch on all developments having a bearing on India’s security and takes all the necessary measures to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cds-ministry-differ-on-china-moves/article37449095.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Trade unions to stage protests on Nov. 26||The joint platform of 10 Central trade unions on Thursday announced their plan for demonstrations on November 26 as well as a two-day general strike during the Budget session of Parliament in 2022 to protest against the “anti-people” policies of the Union Government. The unions held a national convention here on Thursday to decide the future course of action, including efforts to coordinate with the ongoing farmers’ protests. They announced demonstrations across the country on November 26 to mark the anniversary of the last general strike and farmers’ march to Delhi. The unions called on workers to join the general strike during the Budget session, the dates for which are yet to be decided. The unions passed a declaration demanding the scrapping of the four labour codes, which were passed by Parliament in 2019 and 2020 and are yet to be implemented, repeal of the farm laws, stopping privatisation and the National Monetisation Pipeline and reduction in Central excise duty on petroleum products, and the like. The unions also called on political parties to incorporate “protection of the right to work, living wage, free quality education to all citizens and all legitimate Constitutional rights” in their manifestos for the 2022 Assembly polls and elections in 2024. The unions that issued the declaration were the Centre of Indian Trade Union, the All-India Trade Union Congress, the Indian National Trade Union Congress, the Hind Mazdoor Sabha, the All-India United Trade Union Centre, the Trade Union Coordination Committee, the Self Employed Women’s Association, among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trade-unions-to-stage-protests-on-nov-26/article37449109.ece
12 November 2021||Ghaziabad,||Change imminent in Uttar Pradesh, says Akhilesh||Continuing with his outreach to the backward sections of the electorate, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said on Thursday that “change is imminent in Uttar Pradesh”. Addressing a ‘Kashyap Mahasammelan’ in Muzaffarnagar, Mr. Yadav said farmers’ inquilab (revolution) will lead to badlav (change) in 2022. Indicating at adding more local parties to its bouquet of allies, he said allies like Om Prakash Rajbhar would shut the door on the BJP in east U.P., while farmers of west U.P. would stop the BJP’s entry in the upcoming Assembly polls. Kasganj case Taking on the U.P. Government for its record on alleged custodial deaths, Mr. Yadav reminded the audience of the Gorakhpur and Kasganj cases. “It seems the Government has a policy of thok do [shoot them]. However, the recent brawl in Farrukhabad prison showed that even the police are not safe in the State,” he said. Invoking sage Kashyap and Chaudhary Charan Singh, he reminded the community members how they once stood behind the farmer leader. The community leaders’ most prominent demand has been inclusion in the Scheduled Castes list which successive Governments, including Yogi Adityanath’s, have failed to deliver because of the constitutional issues involved. An attempt made by the State Government in 2019, ahead of the bypolls, was struck down by the Allahabad High Court. Alliance with RLD intact On the absence of Jayant Singh in the RLD stronghold, Mr. Yadav, while speaking to reporters, hinted at divergent views on seat sharing, but added the alliance was intact. On the Congress attacking the SP, he said the party had to decide whether it wanted to keep the BJP out or not. “It is clear that only the SP could take on the BJP in U.P.” Earlier, responding to Mr. Adityanath’s charge of Hindu exodus in the neighbouring Shamli district, Mr. Yadav said it is for the people to decide whether they want an inclusive Government or a party that indulged in rumours. “The only exodus that wasted our five years was that of our Chief Minister from Uttarakhand.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/change-imminent-in-uttar-pradesh-says-akhilesh/article37449106.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sikh pilgrim group to visit gurdwaras in Pak. next week||A group of pilgrims from India will visit several Sikh religious shrines in Pakistan next week, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday. The pilgrims, however, will not be using the Kartarpur Corridor for the visit, it has been learned. “In view of the significance of Gurupurab and sentiments associated with it, it has been decided that a Jatha of around 1,500 pilgrims will visit Pakistan from November 17-26, 2021 via the Attari-Wagah ICP,” said Ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi. The pilgrims are scheduled to visit Gurdwara Shri Darbar Sahib, Gurudwara Shri Panja Sahib, Gurdwara Shri Dehra Sahib, Gurdwara Shri Nankana Sahib, Gurdwara Shri Kartarpur Sahib and Gurdwara Shri Sachha Sauda. He said Pakistan had earlier denied permission for visit of Sikh pilgrims from India twice in June this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sikh-pilgrim-group-to-visit-gurdwaras-in-pak-next-week/article37449097.ece
12 November 2021||Ghaziabad,||U.P. Minister praises Tikait, says farm issues will be solved soon||Uttar Pradesh Minister Dharam Singh Saini created a flutter in political circles on Wednesday when he said that the Government would find a solution to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm laws and guaranteed MSP before the Assembly election. Dr. Saini, who is the MLA for Nakur in Saharanpur and a Minister of State in the Yogi Adityanath Government, described farmer leader Rakesh Tikait as a dukh sukh ke saathi (a companion in joy and sorrow). He said the demands of farmers were “genuine” and their issues should be resolved before the election. “It will be in the interest of the party and the Government,” he said. The Minister said he was in touch with the farmers’ leadership, and the Government would soon respond to the demands. “Every sitting Government tries to resolve all contentious issues before elections. ‘ Mamla jald sulajh jayega (the issue will soon be resolved),” said Dr. Saini, who was a two-time MLA from the Bahujan Samaj Party before moving to the BJP in 2016. Responding to Dr. Saini’s statement, Mr. Tikait welcomed the initiative but said he was not in touch with any Minister. “We have always maintained that we are not against mediation but it should be through a leader whose voice is listened to by the top leadership in the BJP,” he said, adding only the Samyukta Kisan Morch would respond to any proposal from the Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-minister-praises-tikait-says-farm-issues-will-be-solved-soon/article37449107.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||No fresh virus variants of concern in India: INSACOG||Despite an uptick in new cases this week, the India SARS- CoV-2 Genome Consortium (INSACOG) has said there are no new virus variants of concern on the horizon in India. The bulk of cases in India were the Delta variant and its related sub-variants, mirroring what was happening in the rest of the world, the INSACOG said in its weekly bulletin on Thursday. “Delta (B.1.617.2 and AY.x) continues to be the main VOC in India. No new VOI (Variants of Interest) or VOC (Variants of Concern) are noted and other VOC and VOI other than Delta are now negligible in sequencing data from India,” the bulletin noted. AY.x refers to a family of sublineages that can range from 1-25. They have a common set of core mutations but large variation in others. According to the latest update from the World Health Organisation (WHO), Delta has outcompeted other variants in most countries and there was now “declining prevalence” of other variants among SARS-CoV-2 sequences submitted to publicly available datasets or reported to WHO, the bulletin added. As of Thursday, the INSACOG has analysed 92,800 genome sequence samples of those who have tested positive for the virus to determine what variants they harbour. In October, following a spike in cases in Europe and the United Kingdom, Public Health England stated that AY4.2, a Delta variant sublineage, was responsible for a “slowly increasing” proportion of cases in the U.K. It is also present in multiple other countries and is seen in travellers to the U.K. from a large number of countries. The INSACOG, however, said the presence of the lineage was “very infrequent” in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-fresh-virus-variants-of-concern-in-india-insacog/article37449131.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Governors should play role of friend, guide: President||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday called upon Governors to play the role of a “friend, philosopher and guide” in their States. He was speaking at the 51st conference of Governors, Lieutenant-Governors and Administrators at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Mr. Kovind said Governors played an important role in creating awareness of national goals and ensuring participation of the public. According to a Rashtrapati Bhavan statement, he referred to India’s goals for climate action, including net zero emissions by 2070, as national goals that the Governors could motivate people to reach for. The one-day conference, being held in-person after two years due to COVID-19, was also attended by Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and included presentations by States on their best practices. ‘Critical link’ Mr. Modi said the institution of the Governor was a “critical connect between the Centre and the State”. The Governor’s office should be “lively and active” and they should travel to remote villages, particularly in border States, to spend time with residents, he said. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu urged Governors to proactively “monitor and guide” State Governments in the implementation of Central programmes. Governance and public life should be marked by strict adherence to the philosophy and provisions of the Constitution, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/governors-should-play-role-of-friend-guide-president/article37449129.ece
12 November 2021||Sonipat,||A budding champion snuffed out, Nisha’s feats now painful memory||Awards for the first position in a relay race, second position in a 200-metre race, and third positions in both long and high jump at a school-level competition, were placed neatly by a bed. On it lay, Nisha Dahiya’s father, shattered over the death of two of his children. Nisha, 20, an upcoming trainee wrestler, and her brother were shot dead on Wednesday by coach Pawan inside a wrestling academy. Their mother, Dhanpati, is fighting for her life at the Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak, after sustaining gunshot injuries on her spine and arms. Nisha and Suraj were the youngest of four siblings. At his modest two-room house in a bylane of Sonipat’s Halalpur village, Dayanand Dahiya struggles with his grief. “My daughter won second place at the All India Inter-University competition in Aurangabad in the 52 kg category. Had she been given proper guidance and training, she would have done the country proud and won an Olympic medal,” Mr. Dahiya told The Hindu . Mr. Dahiya said Nisha been complaining about molestation and harassment by Mr. Pawan to her mother. “I always had my doubts about the coach. He used to brainwash Nisha and several others in his academy and extort money from them on the pretext of helping them win international medals. He was a bad character and I even warned him but gave in due to my daughter’s career,” he said. Nisha was studying at a college in Delhi’s Kanjawala. Her brother Suraj, who was about to turn 19 on November 30, was enrolled in a computer skills course at a Delhi-based institute and had recently completed his Class 12. “We were of the same age and even Suraj’s birthday was this month (November). We frequently talked over phone,” his cousin brother Deepak said. Nisha’s mother’s statement to the police said that the coach had threatened painful consequences if the harassment was revealed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-budding-champion-snuffed-out-nishas-feats-now-painful-memory/article37449084.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Jairam moves privilege motion against Minister||Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh on Thursday moved a privilege motion against Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy over the appointment of former MP Tarun Vijay as the Chairperson of the National Monuments Authority, a post for which, Mr. Ramesh said, Mr. Vijay was not qualified. In a letter to Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu ahead of the winter session of Parliament from November 29, Mr. Ramesh cited a section of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2010 that says the Chairperson of the NMA should have “proven experience and expertise in the field of archaeology, country and town planning, architecture, heritage, conservation architecture or law…” The Congress leader wrote that for the first time, the Government had appointed a chairperson whose educational and professional background does not meet the requirements o fa law passed by Parliament in March 2010. “That the appointee is a former MP is irrelevant and makes no difference whatsoever. I would like to move a privilege motion against the Union Minister of Culture in this regard for wilfully disregarding the provisions of law passed by the Parliament. He has, in fact, made a mockery of this law,” Mr. Ramesh wrote. When asked why he had raised the matter now, given that Mr. Vijay was appointed to the post in 2019, Mr. Ramesh told The Hindu that it had been a “failure of due diligence” on his part and “reflected the failure of the media covering the Culture Ministry to be vigilant.” He noted that the post of chairperson of NMA, which was established in 2010, had been occupied by “noted academics with solid credentials”, Himanshu Prabha Ray and Susmita Pande. Journalist by profession Mr. Vijay had been a member of the Rajya Sabha from 2010 to 2016 and his profile on the House website says he is a journalist and writer by profession, having served as the chief editor of the RSS magazine Panchjanya for about two decades. When reached for response, Mr. Vijay declined to comment, saying he was busy and that the matter pertained to the Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jairam-moves-privilege-motion-against-minister/article37449111.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Big, fat Indian weddings are back with bang||A Gurugram-based top executive at a leading telecom company had planned a grand wedding for his daughter early this year, but the second wave of the pandemic scuttled his plans. Now, with COVID-19 cases on the wane, the couple will have a Hindu ceremony later this month, following a court marriage in July in the U.S. With the increased pace of vaccination, an ebb in infections, and State governments relaxing rules for gatherings, the floodgates for weddings have opened up this winter. The Confederation of All India Traders recently said in a press statement that approximately 1.5 lakh weddings were expected during the auspicious period of November 14-December 13 in Delhi alone, and as many as 25 lakh weddings could be solemnised across the country. “Everyone is getting married left, right and centre and most wedding venues are already booked. It is impossible to find a five star venue anywhere in the country for auspicious dates such as November 27 and November 28. We have bookings for November and December, and several queries for January and February,” says 34-year-old Ahana Choudhury, who runs Naach Gaana Vyaah, a Gurugram-based wedding planning company. Through the year, people have been either putting off their wedding plans, or been forced to conduct small events at home or at a club within their residential colonies. “We have done very small-scale events, involving no more than 20-30 guests, which we never thought we would ever do,” said Ms. Choudhury. Cost no bar But while brides, grooms and their families still tread with caution on the guest list, the overall spend remains high. Astha Jain, 26, a Delhi-based interior designer, is getting married in January. Her family wanted to have a big-fat Indian wedding with 500-800 guests. But it will now be an intimate affair with just 200 guests. However, no expense will be spared which will run into a few crores.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/big-fat-indian-weddings-are-back-with-bang/article37449093.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||CPC resolution cements Xi Jinping’s position||It also called for the party to “resolutely uphold his core position”. Announcing the holding of the 20th Party Congress next year, it made several mentions of the need for party members to “resolutely uphold” Mr. Xi's “core position in the party” and to “ensure that all party members act in unison”. Observers said this will ensure Mr. Xi’s dominance — and further squeeze the already narrowed space for dissent within and outside the party — ahead of next year's congress, when he is expected to begin a third five-year term, having abolished term limits. This was the third resolution on history passed by the party, and the previous two marked significant changes in its political direction. In 1945, Mao Zedong passed a resolution that heralded a turn away from Stalin’s influence. That established what the party calls “Mao Zedong Thought” as its leading political ideology. In 1981, Deng Xiaoping passed a resolution that marked another turn — away from the excesses of Maoism and a one-man personality cult to the reform era that launched China’s growth and propelled it towards becoming the world’s second-largest economy. Unlike Deng’s resolution which acknowledged past mistakes under Mao such as the Great Leap Forward and Cultural Revolution that led to millions of deaths, Thursday’s communique painted an entirely rosy picture of the party’s 100-year history, saying that under its leadership “the Chinese people had stood up and the time in which the Chinese nation could be bullied and abused by others was gone”. The communique called on all party members to “adopt a rational outlook on the party’s history” and said that “looking back on the party’s endeavours over the past century, we can see why we were successful in the past and how we can continue to succeed in the future.” It hailed the legacies of Mao and Deng and their ideological contributions, with the two former leaders receiving seven and five mentions respectively in the more than 5,000-word-long English version of the communique. Mr. Xi’s two predecessors Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao received cursory single mentions. Mr. Xi’s name was mentioned 17 times. It referred to “Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era”, his ideology, as “embodying the best of the Chinese culture and ethos in our times and representing a new breakthrough in adapting Marxism to the Chinese context.” The significance of the communique goes beyond the past and is not merely about burnishing the legacies of party leaders. It establishes Mr. Xi as among the party’s tallest leaders since Mao and Deng. Moreover, its references to history, and airbrushing of past mistakes, will likely herald a change in how history is taught in Chinese schools and colleges, for instance by emphasising only the party’s successes and by highlighting Mr. Xi’s contributions. The many references to his “core” status and the need for “unified centralised leadership” will also mean a continuation of the centralisation of power seen during Mr. Xi’s two terms at the helm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpc-resolution-cements-xi-jinpings-position/article37449087.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||India seeks $1 trillion in ‘climate finance’||Delivering on climate finance is among the stickiest points of contention between developed and developing countries because developed countries, as a group, have failed to provide $100 billion annually by 2020, as promised from a decade ago. With the conference scheduled to draw to an end on Friday, nearly 200 countries are yet to finalise a final text of an agreement. As The Hindu reported on Wednesday, a draft consensus document of the agreement underlines that the promised climate finance by developed countries is “insufficient to respond to the worsening climate change impacts in developing countries” and urges these developed countries to “urgently scale up”. “The funds necessary for adaptation must increase,” Bhupender Yadav, Environment Minister, had said on Wednesday, adding, “Our consistent stand has been that developing countries such as India need transparency in terms of what kind of market mechanism will be in place. This is necessary to ensure that developing and developed countries are on a level playing field.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-seeks-1-trillion-in-climate-finance/article37449092.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||SC to hear plea against UAPA FIRs in Tripura||The police sent notices to Twitter, Facebook and YouTube to freeze their accounts and sought information on them. The police had registered a case under the UAPA against Supreme Court lawyers who were a part of a fact-finding team reported on the alleged instances of communal violence in Tripura. “These lawyers were part of the fact-finding team which investigated these incidents . Social media users who posted messages like ‘Tripura is burning’ have also been charged under UAPA,” advocate Prashant Bhushan addressed a three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana during the mentioning for urgent hearing. The CJI suggested the petitioners could approach the High Court first. Mr. Bhushan said the petition had also challenged the constitutionality of certain provisions in the UAPA. “For example, the term ‘unlawful activity’ has been given a very, very wide definition,” he stated. The persons charged under UAPA were “eminently in danger of arrest”, he rearked and urged the court to hear the case soon. “Yes, I will give a date [for the hearing],” Chief Justice Ramana responded. The Editors Guild of India has condemned the police’s invocation of the draconian UAPA in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-hear-plea-against-uapa-firs-in-tripura/article37449100.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. is weaving a web against Hindus, says BJP||The BJP on Thursday slammed the Congress over its leader Salman Khurshid reportedly comparing Hindutva with the jihadist Islam of terrorist groups such as the IS and Boko Haram in his latest book. Party spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia, addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters here, said the Opposition party was “weaving a web like a spider” against Hindus. A Delhi-based lawyer has filed a complaint with the Delhi police seeking registration of a first information report (FIR) against Mr. Khurshid in the matter. According to lawyer Vivek Garg, Mr. Khurshid, in his book Sunrise Over Ayodhya: Nationhood in Our Times , wrote: “Sanatan Dharma and classical Hinduism known to sages and saints were being pushed aside by a robust version of Hindutva, by all standards a political version similar to the jihadist Islam of groups like IS and Boko Haram of recent years.” Demanding Mr. Khurshid’s removal from the Congress, Mr. Bhatia said, “Earlier, the term ‘Hindu terrorism’ was invented when the Congress was in power.” The book on the Ayodhya verdict was released on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-is-weaving-a-web-against-hindus-says-bjp/article37449101.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||More than 12 crore due for vaccine second dose||Vaccination centres could be set up at bus stations, railway stations etc., especially in large metros, as these were the primary points for entry of a large number of people. “While vaccination is our ‘Suraksha Kawachh’, we must not forget COVID-19 appropriate behaviour,” he noted. Reiterating the Prime Minister’s strategies for strengthening the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign, including the deployment of Prachar Toli in advance to villages that would ensure mobilisation and counselling of the eligible population along with awareness campaigns, Dr. Mandaviya stressed on “Vaccination Toli”, which would ensure that all eligible citizens were vaccinated with both doses. The the fight against COVID-19 was at the final stage and vaccination will be our greatest defence, he said. A strategy of multiple vaccination teams (50-100) to ensure 100% coverage in the targeted area in a time-bound manner included the development of a ranking mechanism for identifying and felicitating the vaccination teams (district and block) that administer the maximum number of doses every 24 hours for motivated progress of vaccination, utilisation of local weekly bazaars and ‘haats’ for creating awareness and providing vaccination services, and collaboration with local religious and community leaders. At the meeting, it was pointed out that some States have started a ‘roko and toko’ campaign, where passengers alighting from buses, trains, rickshaws etc., are motivated to take the vaccine doses”. The Minister suggested that each day of the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign could be dedicated to mobilisation and vaccination of different groups of beneficiaries. “One day can be dedicated for traders, hawkers, vendors, shopkeepers etc. and in other days, we can mobilise rickshaw-pullers and auto-drivers. One day can be dedicated to labourers and farmers.” The the fight against COVID-19 was at the final stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-than-12-crore-due-for-vaccine-second-dose/article37449103.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Intense showers bring Chennai to its knees||By Thursday, over 12,300 people had been accommodated in 229 relief camps in 15 rain-affected districts across the State, Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran said. This included 2,240 people staying in 44 relief camps in the Greater Chennai Corporation area. Teams from the National Disaster Response Force fanned out to assist with relief operations in various districts, including Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Cuddalore, Madurai, Nagapattinam and Tiruvallur. State Disaster Response Force teams assisted in Cuddalore and Thanjavur, according to official sources. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, who visited rain-affected areas of the city, urged Ministers on flood duty and officials to expedite rescue and relief operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/intense-showers-bring-chennai-to-its-knees/article37449351.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||Revoke Kangana’s Padma award: Cong. to President||Deputy leader of the Congress in the Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma on Thursday said President Ram Nath Kovind should take back the Padma award given to actor Kangana Ranaut for her controversial statement on India’s Freedom Movement. The actor was awarded the Padma Shri on Tuesday. In a series of tweets, Mr. Sharma also said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should break his silence to tell the nation if he endorsed the actor’s comments or take appropriate legal action. On Wednesday, while participating at a conclave organised by the private television channel Times Now, Kangana said India’s Independence in 1947 was “acquired by begging” before the British while “real independence came in 2014”. Kangana also described “the Congress as an extension of the British and were left behind by the colonisers”. “Shocking and outrageous. Ms. Kangana Ranaut’s statement heaping insult on the courageous freedom fighters led by Mahatma Gandhi, Nehru and Sardar Patel but also belittling the sacrifices of revolutionaries like Sardar Bhagat Singh, Chandrashekar Azad and several others,” Mr. Sharma said. Tagging the official handle of the Rashtrapati Bhavan, he said, “Hon’ble @rashtrapatibhvn should immediately take back the Padma award given to Ms. Ranaut.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/revoke-kanganas-padma-award-cong-to-president/article37449353.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||Nepal Army to set up its own defence university||The Nepali Army is on course to establish its own national defence university, said Nepal Army chief General Prabhu Ram Sharma on Thursday. Gen. Sharma, who has been given the honorary rank of General of the Indian Army, unveiled his portrait on the “Wall of Honour”, and was presented with a Scroll of Honour on Thursday at the National Defence College (NDC) in New Delhi, a Defence Ministry statement said. “Prominent alumni of the NDC, who have risen to the highest ranks in their respective countries, are honoured with the special recognition,” it stated. Earlier, Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar inaugurated the NDC alumni web portal and released the inaugural issue of the NDC alumni newsletter at the institution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nepal-army-to-set-up-its-own-defence-university/article37449354.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The mystery of avataras||The avatara rahasya, as explained in the Bhagavad Gita, shows that the main purposes of the Lord’s incarnations are to protect the good people from the atrocities of the evil and powerful, and to establish righteousness when it gets weakened in the course of time. The Devi Bhagavata Purana also features an interesting section on the avataras of the Lord in various yugas in general and on Krishna avatara in particular, during the interaction between Vyasa and Janamejaya, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. What emerges is the understanding that none can truly fathom the infinite depth and magnitude of the Supreme Lord who leaves His divine abode and chooses to be born as human being and undergo the travails of ‘garba’ vasa. Is He not the sole cause of Srishti, Stiti, Samhara, Tirodana and Anugraha? If Srishti is marvellous in all respects, Stiti, the way He works tirelessly to keep the Srishti running all the while with precision, is still more astonishing. At the time of Pralaya, the entire creation is kept within the Lord to be released with the same status in the next kalpa. Tirodana is His power to hide His Paratva which He exercises at His will, and Anugraha is His grace revealed and felt in subtle ways. His grace is born of His compassionate swabhava. Krishna avatara is replete with the frequent interplay of all aspects of His Supreme nature. Yasodha, Nandagopa, the Pandavas, and many others know Him to be the Lord incarnate, but this awareness is not continuous in them. He mingles with simple folk in Gokula with extraordinary Saulabhya. He expounds the highest philosophy in the battlefield. Duryodhana is shown to be confident about his massive army and is not worried about fighting against Krishna, for he does not know that he has to confront the highest power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-mystery-of-avataras/article37449119.ece
12 November 2021||Ghaziabad,||J&K students’ remand extended||An Agra court on Thursday extended the judicial custody of three Kashmiri students, who were arrested for allegedly cheering Pakistan’s victory and sharing pro-Pakistan posts after the India-Pakistan T20 World Cup match, by 14 more days. The three — Arsheed Yusuf, Inayat Altaf Sheikh, and Showkat Ahmed Ghani — are students of the Raja Balwant Singh Engineering College in Agra. They were heckled when they were being taken to jail and different associations of lawyers in Agra refused to represent them. On Thursday, they were produced via video conferencing. A jail official said prisoners on remand were usually presented virtually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-students-remand-extended/article37449088.ece
12 November 2021||Srinagar,||Two militants killed in Valley encounters||Security forces killed two militants in separate operations in the Kashmir Valley on Thursday. In the first operation, security forces encircled a group of militants in Kulgam district of south Kashmir on Thursday morning and killed an unidentified militant during the encounter. In a late evening operation, security forces cordoned off an area in Srinagar’s Bemina and engaged the hiding militants in a gunfight. “One unidentified terrorist was killed. One A-K rifle along with ammunition recovered,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/militant-killed-in-encounter-in-kulgam/article37449085.ece
12 November 2021||Pune,||Stir against arrest of hospital staff||Doctors, nurses and paramedical staff in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar district have strongly protested the arrest of a medical officer and three nurses in connection with the hospital inferno which claimed the lives of 11 COVID-19 patients, mostly senior citizens, last week. The district’s medical fraternity, which includes the local chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), the Maharashtra State Health Nurses Association, and the State Association of Government Medical Officers, as well as Homeopathy and Ayurveda practitioners, went on a day-long strike on Thursday. This came after the four medical personnel were arrested on charges of “culpable homicide not amounting to murder” and of causing “death by negligence” in connection with the fire. While the hospital’s Out Patient Departments remained shut, no essential services were interrupted during the strike, stressed the protesters. Alleging that the State Government was attempting to shift the blame on personnel on the ground after the tragedy, the protesting members of the medical fraternity blamed the Government for negligence in not conducting regular fire audits, while claiming that the District Civil Surgeon, who was recently suspended, had sought State funds to set up a fire safety system, none were forthcoming from the administration. Made scapegoats Dr. Anil Athare, president, IMA, Ahmednagar said it was shocking that clauses of Section 304 and 304A were applied against the medical officer and the three nurses, remarking that doctors and nurses were “always made scapegoats” in such cases. “Instead of accusing the medical staff on ground, why is anyone not questioning the officials of the PWD and Electrical Department regarding wiring and maintenance works which caused the fire in the first place,” said Dr. Athare, demanding that the arrested medical personnel be released immediately. Earlier this week, the Government had suspended the District Civil Surgeon, Dr. Sunil Pokharna, along with two medical officers as well as staff nurse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stir-against-arrest-of-hospital-staff/article37449102.ece
12 November 2021||Mumbai,||Centre silent on Rafale, says Congress||The Congress on Thursday questioned why there had been no action from the Union Government and the CBI on evidence of commission and corruption in the Rafale deal. “On October 23, 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led committee removed Central Bureau of Investigation Director Alok Verma in a midnight coup, raided CBI headquarters using the Delhi police and appointed its protege M. Nageshwar Rao as the CBI chief. This was part of a concerted conspiracy to bury the Rafale ghost through the CBI,” said All-India Congress Committee (AICC) spokesperson Pawan Khera. He was addressing a press conference in Mumbai on the recent revelations made by the French news agency Mediapart that middleman Sushen Gupta got hold of confidential documents belonging to the Indian Negotiating Team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-silent-on-rafale-says-congress/article37449104.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SIT probe riddled with omissions, says Zakia Jafri||Zakia Jafri, widow of Congress MP Ehsan Jafri who was killed in the 2002 Gujarat riots, accused the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of working to protect the conspirators. Making submissions before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar on Thursday, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for Ms. Jafri, said the investigation was riddled with omissions. The conclusions arrived at by the SIT contradicted the facts before it, Mr. Sibal said, even suggesting that the SIT itself should be probed. Ms. Jafri is challenging the closure report filed by the SIT in February 2012. She has alleged that the riots were the machination of the people in power at the time in the State. The conspiracy had manifested in a “compliant” State administration and a complacent police force amidst the carnage. The SIT had given a clean chit to the then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi and 63 others, including senior government officials, saying there was “no prosecutable evidence” against them. A ‘protest petition’ filed by Ms. Jafri against the clean chit was dismissed by the Magistrate. The Gujarat High Court too, in October 2017, refused to entertain Ms. Jafri. “I am not concerned with individuals. I am concerned with the process. I am only saying SIT did not do its job. It was an act of protection. It did a collaborative exercise,” Mr. Sibal alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sit-worked-to-protect-conspirators/article37449112.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Remark is anti-national, says Varun||BJP MP Varun Gandhi strongly criticised film actor Kangana Ranaut on Thursday for her reported remarks that India attained freedom in 2014 and what it got in 1947 was “alms”. He said it was an anti-national act and must be called out as such. Mr. Gandhi tweeted, “Insulting the sacrifice of Mahatma Gandhi at times, respecting his killer at times, and now the disdain for the sacrifices of Mangal Pandey, Rani Laxmibai, Bhagat Singh, Chandrashekhar Azad, Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose and lakhs of freedom fighters. Should I call this thinking madness or treason?” He said, “People can never forget the infinite sacrifices of our freedom movement and the millions of lives lost and families destroyed.” To belittle the sacrifice in such a “shameful manner” cannot be condoned, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/varun-slams-kanganas-remarks-on-freedom/article37449132.ece
12 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||Priyanka meets ASHA workers||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi on Thursday met ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers who were allegedly beaten up by the police outside the venue where Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath was to hold a public meeting in Shahjahanpur district on November 9. Ms. Vadra said the ASHA workers were brutally beaten up outside the venue when they gathered with their demands. She said the workers had toiled day and night during the COVID-19 outbreak for vaccination and during deliveries but they were being harassed. S. Anand, Shahjahanpur Superintendent of Police, on Wednesday said the ASHA workers had got into a scuffle with the police after the personnel on duty prevented them from entering the venue where Mr. Adityanath was addressing a meeting. The workers had been on dharna for the past few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-meets-asha-workers/article37449113.ece
12 November 2021||Kolkata,||Srabanti Chatterjee quits BJP||Well-known Bengali actor Srabanti Chatterjee, who joined the BJP before the Assembly polls earlier this year, on Thursday announced her decision to quit the party. “Severing all ties with the BJP, the party for which I fought the last State elections. Reason being their lack of initiative and sincerity to further the cause of Bengal,” she tweeted. Ms. Chatterjee joined the BJP on March 1 and was nominated as its candidate from the Behala Paschim constituency in south Kolkata against Minister and senior Trinamool Congress leader Partha Chatterjee. She lost the election by a margin of over 50,000 votes. The BJP is grappling with a series of bypoll loses after its defeat in the Assembly polls. A number of actors from the Bengali film industry, also known as Tollywood, were given ticket by the BJP but none of them managed to win this year polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/srabanti-chatterjee-quits-bjp/article37449114.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||18th century idol returned to U.P. Govt.||An idol of Goddess Annapurna that was stolen from the Kashi Vishwanath temple and smuggled to Canada over 100 years ago was on Thursday handed over to the Uttar Pradesh Government, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) said in a statement. Union Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy handed over the 18th century stone idol to the U.P. Government at a ceremony held at the National Gallery of Modern Art here. He said more than 40 antiquities had been retrieved from abroad since 2014. The Centre would hand over two retrieved idols to Tamil Nadu and one each to Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan, he said. “The stone idol measuring 17x9x4 cm had been stolen from Kashi and smuggled to Canada over a century ago,” the ASI said. It had been in the University of Regina’s collection and was handed over to India’s High Commissioner to Canada last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/18th-century-idol-returned-to-up-govt/article37449118.ece
12 November 2021||Mumbai,||Will remind ED of cases against BJP leaders: Malik||On a day when the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raided a trust registered with the Maharashtra Waqf Board, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik announced that a party delegation would visit the ED office with a list of cases pending against the BJP leaders. “The agencies can probe us whenever they want. We are not scared, neither we have anything to hide. But as a party, we have decided that a delegation led by our State president Jayant Patil will be holding a meeting with the officials of the ED submitting a list of pending cases against the leaders who have joined the BJP. The agency might have forgotten these cases. We will only remind them,” said Mr. Malik. As the State’s Minority Affairs Minister, Mr. Malik heads the Waqf Board. On Thursday, the ED conducted searches at offices of the Taboot Inam Endowment Trust in Pune.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-remind-ed-of-cases-against-bjp-leaders-malik/article37449524.ece
12 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||63 Hindu Bengali families to be rehabilitated in Kanpur Dehat||The Uttar Pradesh Government has passed a proposal to rehabilitate 63 Hindu Bengali families who migrated to India from Bangladesh (then East Pakistan) in 1970. The State Cabinet late on Wednesday gave its nod to a rehabilitation scheme to allot 121.41 hectares in Kanpur Dehat district for the displaced families. Each family will be allotted Rs. 1.20 lakhs to construct a house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/63-hindu-bengali-families-to-be-rehabilitated-in-kanpur-dehat/article37449350.ece
12 November 2021||Patna,||Jharkhand HC pulls up police for not following arrest norms||The Jharkhand High Court recently pulled up police officials of Bihar and Jharkhand for “not following the norms for arresting a person”. The High Court was hearing a habeas corpus petition seeking to know the whereabouts of Additional Public Prosecutor Rajneesh Vardhan, who was allegedly arrested by the Patna police, in assistance with their Jharkhand counterparts on November 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jharkhand-hc-pulls-up-police-for-not-following-arrest-norms/article37449086.ece
12 November 2021||Raipur,||New probe into 2013 Jheeram Ghati probe likely||Even as the judicial commission set up to probe the May 2013 Jheeram Ghati naxalite massacre of 29 persons including senior Congress leaders, submitted its report after several extensions, the Chhattisgarh Government is planning to set up a new judicial commission into the incident. “...definitely a decision will be taken after considering it and I think it will be decided very soon,” Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-probe-into-2013-jheeram-ghati-probe-likely/article37449089.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Money laundering case: ED arrests former Punjab MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira||The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday arrested former Punjab MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira in connection with a money laundering case pertaining to drug smuggling. After he was taken into custody in Chandigarh, Mr. Khaira said that it was an act of political vendetta by the BJP as he had been standing firmly with the farmers and raising voice against the farm laws and other issues. He had joined the Congress party in June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/money-laundering-case-ed-arrests-former-punjab-mla-sukhpal-singh-khaira/article37449091.ece
12 November 2021||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||‘Ariyalur medical college can admit 150 students||The National Medical Commission has permitted the Government Medical College in Ariyalur to admit 150 students for 2021-22 academic year. According to sources, the Commission, which had received a proposal from the State government to admit students from the current academic year itself, granted the nod after inspecting the medical college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ariyalur-medical-college-can-admit-150-students/article37449553.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nilgiri tahr numbers are stable: WWF India CEO||The numbers of the Nilgiri tahr, the State animal of Tamil Nadu, are stable and are rising. “They haven’t increased all of a sudden. They are preyed upon by tigers and leopards,” said Ravi Singh, general secretary and CEO of World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) (India). The organisation has done three surveys in the past 15 years and at present the numbers from the latest one are being checked. Mr. Singh was in the city to meet Chief Minister M. K. Stalin and present to him the work being done by WWF in the State. He was accompanied by WWF’s ambassador for environment education and Grandmaster Viswanathan Anand, its philanthropy ambassador Madhura Visweswaran, its directors Radhika Suri, Ritika Bhalla Whig and its vice-president N. Kumar. “Our environment education programme is over 50 years old and through these years we have worked with thousands of schools and teachers. We have seen that if you really talk about the environment to students — how it was, what are the values, what it gives, then conservation will automatically come. Children now want to learn more and more. The number of questions they ask us has increased and the quality of it has improved over the years,” he said. Speaking to The Hindu over phone after the meeting, Mr. Singh said the organisation was refocussing on existing projects including those involving elephants. Conflicts Asked as to how human-elephant conflicts could be reduced, he said their habitat was shrinking as were their migratory areas. Elephant populations were isolated in some places. When they migrated there were bound to be conflicts. “Because of India’s heritage, culture and traditions our elephant population has been stable in the last 10 years. Maybe, we have had a a rise of 2-3%. We have managed to keep the elephants and elephant areas. Where they are threatened is where they have been isolated,” added. To prevent conflicts with elephants, Mr. Singh said there was a need to give them space to migrate and wander. “The government is conscious of this but the issue is how to make it happen with all the development pressures we have,” he said. He also raised concerns over the change in nature of grasslands because of invasive species and that was affecting the fodder of elephants. “If they don’t find proper fodder they keep migrating,” he said. Invasive species from some of these grazing lands, which are critical, have to be uprooted by hand and it will take one or two seasons for the indigenous species to come back. “It is a very difficult task but it needs to be done and has to be funded. But the cost of it may be less than cost of conflicts,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nilgiri-tahr-numbers-are-stable/article37449477.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Many areas still inundated||As many as 513 locations were flooded, while the water level receded at 27 locations on Thursday when heavy rain lashed the city. A total of 13,874 complaints were received on the Greater Chennai Corporation helpline 1913 and 5,506 of them have been resolved. A total of 253 trees fell and all of them have been cleared. Food distribution Officials have inspected locations such as Chintadripet to distribute food and relief materials to flood-affected residents. The Corporation has distributed food packets to 2.96 lakh residents, and has opened shelters at 68 locations. At least 13 subways in the city were closed because of rain on Thursday. Teams deployed The civic body sent teams to clear water from Rangarajapuram subway, Madley subway, Gengu Reddy subway, MC Road, Ganesapuram, Nungambakkam, Villivakkam, Aranganathan subway, RBI subway, Manickam Nagar, Ganesapuram, Vysarpadi and Pazhavanthangal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-areas-still-inundated/article37449466.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister deputes six Ministers to delta districts||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday constituted a team of six Ministers to visit the Cauvery delta districts to assess the crop damage caused by the heavy rain and to submit a report. Cooperation Minister I. Periasamy would lead the team. Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu, Rural Development Minister K.R. Periakaruppan, Law Minister S. Regupathy, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi and Youth Welfare Minister Siva V. Meyyanathan are part of the team. An official release stated that these Ministers have been directed by the Chief Minister to visit the Cauvery delta districts and submit a report after assessing the damage to standing crops due to the heavy rain. They would also take steps to protect the standing crops. The Chief Minister reviewed the situation after heavy rain lashed various parts of Tamil Nadu. ‘Oversee relief measures’ He called up Ministers and IAS officials who were deputed to the districts to take precautionary measures and oversee relief work and asked them to speed up the operations wherever necessary, an official release said. Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan, Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy, Revenue Secretary Kumar Jayant, Public Secretary D. Jagannathan and senior officials were present at the meeting held at the Secretariat. The Chief Minister continued his visits to the rain-affected areas in Chennai. He inspected the preparation of food for people staying at relief camps, and the removal of trees that had fallen at various places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-deputes-six-ministers-to-delta-districts/article37449447.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||How to shield your home from rain||The recent rain in Chennai has brought back the memories of huge losses that people incurred during the 2015 floods. However, home insurance will help to cushion the impact. There are two types of insurance available: the cover for the structure of a home; and the cover for contents therein. The size of home insurance is about 2% of the total premium written by general insurance companies, says Sanjay Datta, chief of underwriting, claims and reinsurance at ICICI Lombard General Insurance. According to data from the General Insurance Council, the gross direct premium written by general insurance companies in India stood at Rs. 1,77,462.64 crore for the financial year 2020-21. Lack of awareness Industry experts cite lack of awareness and the low probability of damage due to natural disasters as the reasons for the low penetration of home insurance. General insurance companies have launched a standard home insurance policy. This is based on the directions from the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India that all general insurance companies launch a standard home insurance policy, ‘The Bharat Griha Raksha’, from April 1 this year. If the home or the articles therein are damaged, the policy will pay for the amount spent on repairs. If the home or the articles are lost or destroyed, the sum insured for a particular item will be paid, subject to conditions. According to the guidelines, if the building and the contents are opted for, the cover for general contents is up to 20% of the sum insured for the building cover, subject to a maximum of Rs. 10 lakh. A customer can opt for additional covers for valuable contents, like jewellery, and for personal accidents. An owner or tenant can buy the insurance, if the home is used only for residential purposes and not commercial activities. Common exclusions include any kind of deliberate, wilful negligence or misconduct or breach of law with criminal intent. Key aspects While standard home insurance products are available, there are some key aspects to be kept in mind while a customer opts for a policy. “Under a comprehensive home insurance policy, though the insurer will not pay you for the regular wear and tear of your house, it will certainly pay you for any damage and all damage caused by natural calamities, including floods, earthquakes and cyclones,” says Tarun Mathur, chief business officer-general insurance, Policybazaar.com, an online insurance aggregator. “Do remember, it is not just important to have a policy for the structure, but it is equally important to have adequate insurance for other contents, including furniture, fixtures, electrical and mechanical appliances,” he said. Abhishek Mishra, CEO, at insurance broking firm Bonanza Insurance, says that while choosing a home insurance policy, it is important to opt for replacement costs rather than the depreciated value of the asset. “If you choose the depreciated value of the building or other assets, the premiums will be low, but the insurer won’t pay in full for repairs. If you opt for replacement costs, the premium will be higher but it will be useful at the time of claim and you can recover the full value of the asset.” Mr. Datta says that besides carefully reading the terms and conditions of the policy, customers should look at the claims settlement ratio of a company and deductibles. The claim settlement ratio is calculated by dividing the number of claims settled by the number of claims received. Deductibles refer to the amount that a policy-holder has to pay before the company starts paying up. For instance, If the deductible of your policy is Rs. 30,000 and the claim by the insured is Rs. 40,000, the insurance company is liable payment of only Rs. 10,000. However, if the claim amount is less than the deductible, the insurer is not liable to any payment. For high deductible policies, the premium is lower, while the low deductible policies have a higher premium. Time limit Adhil Shetty, CEO, BankBazaar.com, says another important factor is not to lose time while raising a claim. “Know the maximum time limit before which you must raise a claim in case of damage/loss of property. Waiting too long could potentially deprive you of many applicable benefits. Again, complete knowledge of your policy is crucial.”  There are two types of insurance available: the cover for the structure of a home; and the cover for contents therein||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-cover-for-your-property-during-calamities/article37449483.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu logs 820 fresh cases of COVID-19||With Tamil Nadu logging 820 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, two districts — Tenkasi and Theni — recorded nil cases and 13 districts had fewer than 10 cases each. The number of deaths fell to four, with 34 of the 38 districts recording nil fatalities. Chennai and Coimbatore continued to record cases in three digits. There were 125 cases in Chennai and 109 in Coimbatore. While 68 persons tested positive in Erode, there were 63 cases in Chengalpattu. There were 51 cases in Tiruppur, 46 in Salem and 40 each in Namakkal and Tiruchi. So far, the State has recorded 27,12,404 cases. Only Chennai, Kancheepuram, Thiruvarur and Tiruchi reported deaths due to COVID-19. All four deaths occurred at government hospitals. This took the toll to 36,251. A total of 962 persons, including 129 in Chennai and 112 in Coimbatore, were discharged. The total recoveries stood at 26,66,140. As many as 10,013 persons were under treatment. Of them, Chennai accounted for 1,200 cases and Coimbatore 1,131 cases. A total of 1,02,343 samples were tested. This took the total number of samples tested so far to 5,23,39,315. Over two lakh persons were vaccinated across the State. A total of 2,20,649 persons were vaccinated. The overall coverage at government vaccination centres went up to 5,76,70,416. Of them, 1,23,296 persons were aged 18-44 and 70,945 persons were aged 45-59. The cumulative coverage at private vaccination centres stood at 26,85,442.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-logs-820-fresh-cases-of-covid-19/article37449444.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Many small and medium units under water||Several micro, small and medium units in Tamil Nadu have gone under water and production has come to a standstill because of waterlogging caused by incessant rain. The Ambattur Industrial Estate is the worst affected. According to A.N. Gireeshan, president of the Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association, more than 500 units have been affected. The actual losses can be ascertained only after the water drains out. “Water has swept through most of the units in the north phase of the Ambattur Industrial Estate. In my unit, the water has mixed with oil. Even if the rain stops, it will take 3-5 days for the situation to stabilise and for us to resume work,” says Ayyappan Kandasamy, who owns a unit at the Ambattur Industrial Estate. K. Dhavamani, who has been operating in this estate since the early 80s, says the water that is supposed to drain into the Korattur Lake has got into the estate. The situation was similar to what had unfolded during the 2015 floods. “A few years ago, I picked up new space here; at that time, I increased the height of the building to keep water out. Yet there is waterlogging around the factory.” No storm drain R.G. Chakrapani, secretary of the Thirumazhisai Industrial Estate, says water has entered most of the units, and one of the main problem is the lack of a proper storm-water drainage network. The estate, he points out, was formed in 1988; then, it was on a level with the national highway. There was open land around. “But now, the national highway to the south has been raised by 9 feet above our estate. To the west and the north, realtors have raised the ground by 4 feet. So all the water stagnates in the estate.” K. Baskaran, secretary of the Kakkalur Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association, says most units shut on Thursday and the water level breached the mark of the 2015 floods. “The losses are huge and we can give the exact details after all unit owners return,” he says. V.K. Girish Pandian, president of the Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association, Guindy, says more than 75% of the units have been affected, and a majority of them have been inundated. “Power has been cut off and units have to use rental pumps to flush out water.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/many-small-and-medium-units-under-water/article37449486.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hospitals flooded, patients shifted||Heavy rain inundated a few hospitals in and around the city. The Government Peripheral Hospital in K.K. Nagar and Government Hospital, Tambaram, faced waterlogging on Thursday. While patients were moved to safety, work to drain the stagnant water was taken up. According to the authorities of Government Peripheral Hospital, K.K. Nagar, all patients were accommodated in the orthopaedics block. “This block is at a higher level. There is ankle-level water in the front block. The Public Works Department team has taken up work to drain the water,” an authority said. Doctors said that there were two buildings — old and new — at the hospital. “The old building has half a feet of water and it is being cleared. The new building is situated behind it and is on higher elevation so there is no water stagnation. All regular out-patient and in-patient services and regular emergencies are going on as usual,” a doctor said. The patients were shifted to the new block on Wednesday. The Health department said that three patients were discharged and two were shifted to the Government Royapettah Hospital following inundation. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Directors R. Narayana Babu (Medical Education) and S. Gurunathan (Medical and Rural Health Services) inspected the hospital. Similarly, all in-patients from Government Hospital, Tambaram, were shifted to government hospitals, including the one at Omandurar, the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (IOG), and the Institute of Child Health (ICH), Egmore, an official said. Dr. Babu said there was waterlogging on the premises of a few hospitals in Chennai but water did not enter buildings. “Efforts to pump out the stagnant water is in progress,” he said. Authorities said patients of ward 11 of Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital were moved to another block and water was pumped out while steps to drain the stagnant water on the premises of the IOG and ICH were taken up. Similarly, the problem of waterlogging and clearing of trees that had fallen on the premises of the nursing college were addressed. Advisory issued In view of the monsoon and heavy rains in Chennai, the Directorate of Medical Education had nominated its officials to coordinate with deans and heads of institutions under the directorate for issues relating to floods, tree falls, waterlogging on premises and pumping out, electrical problems, oxygen and drug requirements. Issuing instructions for precautionary measures, the directorate had told all medical institutions to form a disaster management committee comprising dean, medical superintendent, vice-principal, head of anaesthesia, residential medical officer and matron. While institutions were told to be ready and be fully functional with zero delay wards to accommodate patients, they were instructed to shift equipment from the basements to avoid damage due to flooding in case of waterlogging and temporary power issues and shift patients to other wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospitals-flooded-patients-shifted/article37449460.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Several subways, roads closed to vehicular traffic||The traffic police on Thursday closed 11 subways and many roads in the city due to waterlogging. The following subways were closed: Vyasarpadi, Ganeshapuram, Ajax, Gengu Reddy, Madley, Duraiswamy, Palavanthangal, Tambaram, Aranganathan, Villivakkam and Kakhan Bridge. Similarly, the following roads were closed: Raja Mannar Salai in K.K. Nagar, Sivaswamy Salai in Mylapore, Gandhi Irwin Road-Nair Point, Jawahar Nagar in Sembium, 70 Feet Road in Peravallur, Dr. Ambedkar Road Pulianthope, Pulianthope High Road, Perambur Barracks Road, Tower Clock, Mullai Nagar Bridge, Pallikaranai 200 feet Road — Kamatchi Hospital to Echankadu junction (Only MTC buses allowed) and Chennai Fort Railway Station to Secretariat. M.R.H. Road was closed from Manjambakkam junction to Red Hills on one side, and traffic is being maintained on the other side as water is overflowing from Retteri Lak. One side of Kumananchavadi-Kundrathur Road has been closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/several-subways-roads-closed-to-vehicular-traffic/article37449469.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||School Education Department continues efforts to trace dropouts||Following a survey undertaken to identify dropouts from schools owing to the COVID-19 pandemic earlier this year, the School Education Department is continuing its efforts to reach out to children who have dropped out or have not been able to return to schools since they reopened. Through a virtual meeting, the department discussed and sought feedback from representatives and volunteers with civil society organisations and NGOs on the way forward and how they can reach out to more children and bring them back. Schools in Tamil Nadu were shut for over 19 months owing to the pandemic and only in November, reopened for students of Classes I to VIII. Senior students got back to campuses in September. The prolonged closure of schools and economic as well as social impact of the pandemic had led to many children from underprivileged communities dropping out of school. Teachers, through the pandemic, had said that they found it hard to stay in touch with these children and ensure that some learning continued. Speaking about the efforts of the department to trace and reach out to students who had dropped out, R. Sudhan, State Project Director, Samagra Siksha, said that in the months of June and July, they began to identify potential dropouts using their centralised information system. “Nearly 4.99 lakh children were identified as potential dropouts. In the first week of August, a survey exercise was started where teachers, Block Resource Teacher Educators (BRTEs) and DIET staff visited the houses of these children to find out if they were still enrolled in schools and were planning to return once campuses reopened,” he said, to The Hindu.  The functionaries involved in the survey were given an app linked to the EMIS student database. The app, which had a GPS tracking system ensured that only when they were at the residence of the student could they enter the necessary information. “About 1.38 lakh students were tracked by these officials who then spoke to them and their families, and ensured that they didn’t drop out. As of September 1, the department was still in the process of reaching out to 83,000 children to bring them back to schools. We are yet to analyse data pertaining to around 60,000 students. But we have verified that the rest among the potential dropouts identified have either shifted to private schools or have migrated to other States,” Mr. Sudhan said. Since schools have now reopened for all classes in Tamil Nadu, the department is now working on taking stock of how many students are back on campus. “Over a period of time, we aim to work in a targeted manner and ensure that the number of dropouts are brought down. There are numerous reasons — ranging from children being sent to work, non-availability of transport and even child marriages that keep children away from school and we hope to work in coordination with other departments and organisations working on the field,” he added. Representatives from civil society organisations and NGOs, who participated in the meeting on Tuesday, were also briefed about the newly-launched Illam Thedi Kalvi scheme and how the volunteer network here could be leveraged to share information about children who are out of school in the community they would be working with. An action plan is now being formulated on how best to involve the district administration, school management committees and panchayat presidents. A. Devaneyan, director, Thozhamai, said district-level convergence meetings, involving the local panchayats and members of the village-level child protection committee, district administration and officials from the School Education department, would help bring about an effective action plan. “We have also stressed on the need for more efforts in urban pockets to identify students who haven’t come back to school,”' said Virgil D’Sami, director, Arunodaya. She said that close coordination with the Labour department to identify children who have gone on to work in textile mills and factories during the pandemic was needed as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-education-department-continues-efforts-to-trace-dropouts/article37449880.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Storage in 5 major reservoirs maintained at lower level||The storage in the five major reservoirs is being maintained at a lower level to allow more inflow during monsoon and minimise flood damage in the surrounding areas. On Thursday, the combined storage of the reservoirs, including those in Chembarambakkam and Red Hills, was at 80%. Officials of the Water Resources Department said the release was decided based on the inflow received from catchment areas and rainfall. Water discharge from Poondi reservoir was steadily increased up to 10,000 cusecs from Thursday morning to 6 p.m. as the inflow into the waterbody reached 12,000 cusecs. Moreover, additional water of 1,200 cusecs from Ammapalli dam is expected to reach Poondi by Friday afternoon. Similarly, about 3,000 cusecs of surplus water was released at Red Hills. However, the outflow from Chembarambakkam reservoir remained at about 2,000 cusecs as the inflow was 4,000 cusecs and the reservoir had a rainfall of moderate intensity of 4.4 cm. Officials said the measured operation of the reservoirs was feasible as the extremely heavy rain spell occurred during the early phase of the monsoon. Meanwhile, Chennai Metrowater has engaged 2,000 field personnel to attend to waterlogging and sewage complaints. Officials said nearly 2,225 complaints were received through helplines — 45674567 and 1916. Additional load A press release said the sewer network had carried additional load of rainwater and sewage in the past few days. About 850 million litres of sewage a day was treated in the Metrowater facilities instead of the normal load of 580 mld. Besides 59 super sucker machines, several machinery, including 142 jetrodding machines, were used to clear sewer blocks and also waterlogging in low-level areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/storage-in-5-major-reservoirs-maintained-at-lower-level/article37449467.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna University’s circular on exams confuses college officials||Anna University has announced that the end-semester exams for undergraduate and postgraduate engineering students would be held in the offline (physical) mode. The University has scheduled the exams for the third week of December. College managements and teachers are, however, wary. Principals say the students are unprepared to face a physical exam. Students have been struggling to write long form answers with pen and paper, they say. “Students were used to the 90-minute multiple choice question exams and even though the students in the third semester were given an open book exam, it was more like they were copying the answers. Engineering subjects necessitate a lot of drawing and now students have to write full answers, with sketches and figures. Initially, they struggled a lot,” said A. Ramesh, Principal of Chennai Institute of Technology. But the institution has ensured that students take up physical exams. They have since been trained for offline exams, he said. Colleges in the border districts are especially concerned. The State Government has not permitted inter-State bus movement owing to the pandemic. As a result, students from the neighbouring States will have difficulty in travelling to Tamil Nadu, they say. “It may not be suitable to revert to offline mode in the odd semester. Students struggle to cope with mathematics. Also, the University has not specified the pattern — would it be multiple choice questions or open book or conventional exams. Would it be proctored? The controller of examination and the registrar should clarify our doubts,” says the principal of a college in Coimbatore. Admissions hit The indecisiveness is hurting admissions as well, self-financing college officials say. “Admissions have been good this year but the University has said we can choose between online and offline classes. We have started induction programme and if we choose online classes for students then how do we prepare them for offline exams? First year students will have to prepare for six exams in just three months,” says a college official from the western region. Management officials say such confusion can lead to candidates rethinking the decision to take up engineering programmes. The last date for admission is November 30 and, in some colleges, only 60% of students have been admitted so far, they add. “We request the university authorities to give clear instructions. The floods have also affected students as after Deepavali colleges have not functioned. We don’t know how December will be. If they decide on the offline mode for the forthcoming semester, it would help us to prepare the students in advance,” a principal of a self-financing college said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-universitys-circular-on-exams-confuses-college-officials/article37449572.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman inspector rescues unconscious man from cemetery||A woman inspector rescued a 28-year-old man who was lying unconscious and suspected, initially, to be dead. The man, identified as Udayakumar, was an assistant at the cemetery in T.P. Chatram. On Thursday morning, the police control room received a message that a man was lying unconscious at the cemetery. He was initially suspected to be dead as a tree branch had fallen on him. The message was passed on to the T.P. Chatram police inspector Rajeshwari, who rushed to the spot. She found the man to be alive and immediately lifted him and carried him on her shoulder to an autorickshaw. Ms. Rajeshwari rushed him to Government Kilpauk Hospital where he is under treatment. Rescue and relief Police personnel have been rendering assistance to people affected by rain and doing various relief work at the respective jurisdiction. Peravallur inspector Barani said, “We have 10 teams in our range and WhatsApp group connecting residents in Jawahar Nagar and have been extending relief and assistance to the needy. We deploy boats and supply bubble top water cans to the residents who request us to provide drinking water. We buy essentials and supply them on request.” A police team volunteered to remove the blockage in sewer lines and slushy garbage piled on a road in Peravallur. Along with Greater Chennai City Disaster Response Team, they cleared a canal which was choked with garbage and sewage for free flow of rainwater. Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal had asked the police teams to rescue people living in low-lying areas. The police said 2,980 people, including 1,127 men, 1,255 women and 598 children, who were stranded in flooded low-lying areas, were shifted by the the police to 69 temporary relief centres. The police removed fallen trees from the Mambalam police quarters, Kodambakkam, Taylors Road, Virugambakkam and TTK Road.  The man, identified as Udayakumar, was an assistant at the cemetery in T.P. Chatram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-inspector-rescues-unconscious-man-from-cemetery/article37449479.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Surfers chip in, deliver vegetables||B. Manikandan, a surfer at Kovalam, received a call from his friend Vishal Narayanaswamy, who runs Gourmet Garden, on Tuesday, asking if he could help deliver vegetables and fruits. Along with Mr. Manikandan, six surfers have delivered nearly 100 orders to various families affected by floods in several areas across the city, with onions and tomatoes being the top picks. “There may be hundreds of people, with children and senior citizens who may not be able to step out and will urgently need vegetables and fruits, which are essential. So, we thought we can seek the help of surfers who can deliver it for people who desperately need it,” he said. Gourmet Garden has joined hands with Ocean Delight Surf School to bring farm fresh vegetables and fruits to residents here in the city reeling under floods. Armed with surf boards, six surfers from the school have been going to many affected areas in the city, including Velachery, K.K. Nagar, West Mambalam, T. Nagar and Madipakkam. “We arrive at the Guindy office of Gourmet Garden India and leave from here for delivery with the boards in mini tempos. In areas where there is more than two feet water, we use the surfing boards to deliver or if it less than that, we walk down,” Mr. Manikandan says.U. Dinesh, hub manager of Gourmet Garden India, says if a resident books an order the previous night, they try to deliver the item the next day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surfers-chip-in-deliver-vegetables/article37449481.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State appoints 168 law officers to represent it before High Court||The State Government has appointed 31 Special Government Pleaders, 48 Additional Government Pleaders, 64 Government Advocates (civil side) and 25 Government Advocates (criminal side) to represent it before the Madras High Court and Madurai Bench. According to a Government Order (G.O.), advocates T. Chandrasekaran, A. Edwin Prabakar, R. Anitha, D. Ravichander, Yogesh Kannadasan, G. Nanmaran, P. Subbaraj and A.K. Manickam and 23 others would serve as Special Government Pleaders. Similarly, a separate G.O. issued for the appointment of Additional Government Pleaders stated that advocates J.C. Durairaj, Richardson Wilson, B. Vijay, S. John J. Rajah Singh and C. Harsha Raj, B. Saravanan, A. Kannan and D. Sadiq Raja and 40 others would hold the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-appoints-168-law-officers-to-represent-it-before-high-court/article37449518.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 12,000 persons shifted to 229 relief camps in 15 districts||Over 12,300 people have been shifted to 229 relief camps in 15 districts across Tamil Nadu, Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran told reporters here on Thursday. While 2,240 people were staying in 44 relief camps in the Greater Chennai Corporation, 10,073 people were staying in 185 camps in 14 districts — Chengalpattu, Cuddalore, Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Pudukkottai, Ranipet, Tirupattur, Tiruvallur, Tiruvannamalai, Tiruvarur and Villupuram. To undertake relief operations, a team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) was deputed to Varadarajapuram in Kancheepuram district. Three NDRF teams each have been sent to Chengalpattu and Chennai districts. One team each has been sent to Cuddalore, Madurai, Nagapattinam and Tiruvallur districts. Two teams each of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been sent to Cuddalore and Thanjavur. Mr. Ramachandran said 200 officers were deputed to ensure delivery of free food packets to the affected people in all 200 wards in 15 zones of the Greater Chennai Corporation. So far, over 26.50 lakh food packets had been distributed. Since water rose in the Adyar, residents of Ashtalakshmi Nagar, Bhuvaneswari Nagar, Mahalakshmi Nagar, Amudham Nagar and Sriram Nagar were asked to move to safety. Phone messages were sent through the Common Alert Protocol to 9,696 persons, he said. Of the 523 areas where waterlogging occurred, 46 areas were cleared with pumps, and work was under way in 477 areas. Over 230 fallen trees were cleared. Over 79,000 people benefited from 2,007 medical camps, he said. A total of 13,345 complaints were received and 5,453 were redressed. Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy, Revenue Secretary Kumar Jayant, Commissioner of Land Administration S. Nagarajan and Director of Disaster Management N. Subbaiyan were also present at the press meet.  200 officers were deputed to ensure delivery of free food packets to the affected people in all 200 wards in 15 zones of the Greater Chennai Corporation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-12000-shifted-to-relief-camps/article37449457.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on obesity and diabetes on Nov. 14||Gem Hospital and The Hindu Wellness Series are bringing a webinar on “Obesity and Diabetes - Is there an actual cure?” on November 14. The webinar will be held at 11.30 a.m. Diabetes was always considered a disease, but not obesity. During the pandemic, morbidity and mortality had been high among the obese and it had now become relevant to discuss the issue. The panellists at the webinar include P. Praveen Raj, head, Department of Obesity and Diabetes Surgery, GEM Hospitals; Sandeep Sabnis, surgical gastroenterologist, Nasik; and Palaniappan Manickam, medical gastroenterologist, social media celebrity, healthcare influencer, Sacromento, U.S. The session will be moderated by Shubashree Desikan, senior assistant editor of The Hindu.  To register, visithttps://bit.ly/GEM- THE1or scan the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-obesity-and-diabetes-on-nov-14/article37449450.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minimal access surgery training institute opened||GEM Hospital, along with Association of Minimal Access Surgeons of India (AMASI), inaugurated a “Minimal Access Surgery Training Institute”. According to a press release, the training institute would provide comprehensive training to the entire team of surgeons, doctors, paramedical staff and operation theatre and central sterile services department technicians. Abhay Dalvi, president of Association of Surgeons of India; Pawaninder Lal, director of National Board of Examinations; and K. Senthil, president of Tamil Nadu Medical Council; were present. C. Palanivelu, chairman, GEM Hospital and founder-president of AMASI, P. Senthilnathan, director, GEM Hospital, Chennai, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minimal-access-surgery-training-institute-opened/article37449458.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||108 helpline staff help 48 critical patients||The inclement weather has led EMRI 108 to launch a seamless service to assist people. The health advisory officer of 104 helpline and emergency response care physician (doctors) were roped in to connect with the callers through normal call or whatsapp video call with the consent of the persons seeking help. On Thursday, the ambulance service helped resolve 48 critical cases requiring emergency management. Among them was a woman who had gone into labour and another person who had chest discomfort. The emergency response officials received a call in the morning from a woman who needed to be taken to a hospital for delivery. “The ERO realised that there may be delay in reaching the spot due to heavy rain. So, the call was transferred to the Emergency Response Care Physician who explained to the attendant the situation. The attendant was then instructed to help the ante-natal mother lie down and the mother was explained about contractions. She was advised to take deep breaths till the ambulance arrived,” said M. Selva Kumar, head of operations, 108 ambulance service. In another instance, a person who complained of severe chest discomfort was assigned to a doctor who assisted the patient through a video call. He was advised to seek out an open ventilated space, loosen his clothes and wait for the ambulance to arrive. “Apart from this we also received and assisted in cases like severe dehydration, fainting, breathing difficulties and laceration,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/108-helpline-staff-help-48-critical-patients/article37449461.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin urges PM to retain Chennai as embarkation point for Haj||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to retain Chennai as an embarkation point for Haj pilgrimage 2022. The Haj Committee of India has reduced the number of embarkation points to 10 nationwide on account of the COVID-19 pandemic and dropped Tamil Nadu’s capital from the list. Letter to PM In a letter to Mr. Modi, Mr. Stalin said more than 4,500pilgrims from Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands had used Chennai as the embarkation point in 2019. Even pilgrims from Karnataka and Kerala had started their pilgrimage from the city. Citing representations from various associations and political parties, Mr. Stalin said Tamil Nadu pilgrims now had to travel roughly 700 km to Kochi to begin their pilgrimage. He requested Mr. Modi to instruct the officials concerned to reconsider the decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/let-chennai-remain-haj-embarkation-point/article37449428.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMRL has no authority to levy fine: HC||Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) has no legal authority to collect a fine of Rs. 200 from those who do not wear masks inside metro stations and trains, however well intentioned the move may be, the Madras High Court ruled on Thursday. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu set aside a press release issued by CMRL on April 10 informing the public that it would begin imposing a fine on those who do not wear masks. Partly allowing a PIL petition by R. Muthukrishnan, who himself argued the case, the first Bench concurred with him that the law does not empower CMRL to impose a fine. “Whatever may have been the pious intention, when an action is confiscatory in nature as imposition of fine or penalty, it has to be backed by due sanction of law,” the Bench said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmrl-has-no-authority-to-levy-fine-hc/article37449471.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jiwal inspects relief work||Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal inspected relief work undertaken by police teams. He gave cake and toys to parents of a one-year-child rescued by Thoraipakkam police and put up at a shelter as the family planned to celebrate the first birthday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jiwal-inspects-relief-work/article37449472.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin thanks relief workers||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday commended all the officials and workers involved in the relief operations following the heavy rain that pounded various parts of the State. Mr. Stalin said he bowed to those who were involved in the relief operations. “Selfless service and sacrifice wiped the hardships of people. Let us work together for normalcy to return at once and protect people,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the sacrifice of workers was priceless, and thanked them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-thanks-relief-workers/article37449455.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||120 persons evacuated in Manali||A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Arakkonam, evacuated nearly 120 residents of Burma Nagar and Irular Colony near Manali on Thursday. The rescued persons were brought to a shelter of the Greater Chennai Corporation at Andarkuppam. An official of Zone II-Manali of Greater Chennai Corporation said so far, 550 residents were evacuated and put up at eight relief centres in the zone. Members of the Irular community, who were evacuated, were brought to the Andarkuppam centre. At present, there were seven NDRF teams in and around Chennai, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/120-persons-evacuated-in-manali/article37449878.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Senior lawyer N. Natarajan dies at 84||Senior counsel N. Natarajan, a famous criminal lawyer who was part of the team that defended actor M.R. Radha in a case booked against him for shooting former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran in 1967, died in Chennai on Thursday. He had also represented the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the 1993 Mumbai serial blasts case. He was 84 and suffering from age-related complications. Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram was one of his many renowned juniors. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin paid his last respects along with Member of Parliament N.R. Elango and others. A host of judges, former judges, senior counsel and lawyers from the Madras Bar condoled his death and hailed his legal acumen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senior-criminal-lawyer-n-natarajan-dead/article37449475.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor speaks to CM on relief efforts||Tamil Nadu Governor R.N. Ravi discussed with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin over the phone, the rescue and relief operations undertaken by the State government in view of the heavy rain caused by the depression in the Bay of Bengal, an official release from Raj Bhavan said on Thursday. The Governor also spoke to the Director-General of the National Disaster Response Force, S.N. Pradhan, about the rescue and relief operations undertaken in Tamil Nadu. The NDRF has deployed 14 battalions and has more forces on standby. The Governor also “expressed his heartfelt gratitude” to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah for extending their support for relief and rescue operations and mitigating measures for the flood-affected areas of Tamil Nadu, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/governor-speaks-to-cm-on-relief-efforts/article37449445.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nowhere to go||The Chennai airport suspended the arrival of flights from 1.15 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Thursday because of the severity of winds. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said departure flights operated normally. Twenty-four flights were affected by adverse weather conditions in the morning. Eleven flights, which had to arrive from such destinations as Kolkata, Delhi, Bengaluru, Tiruchi and Madurai, had to be diverted to either Bengaluru or Hyderabad. Eleven flights from cities, including Coimbatore, Guwahati, Mumbai, London, Jaipur, Dubai, Vijaywada and Pune, and three flights bound for Lucknow and Kolkata were all delayed. Sources said that flights found it difficult to land until noon because of heavy winds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nowhere-to-go/article37449578.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK govt. didn’t act ahead of monsoon’||BJP Tamil Nadu president K. Annamalai on Thursday accused the DMK government of inaction ahead of the monsoon. In a series of tweets, he said people knew that their MLAs and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had failed them. The cleaning of the storm-water drain, which would usually start in the second week of August, was tardy; less than one-fourth of the network was cleaned in Chennai ahead of the heavy rain this week, he said. No direction was given to Chennai Corporation officers on the ground. Mr. Annamalai said, “Criminally, DMK govt’s focus for the past 6 months, like it always does, is on ‘contractors’ and what the govt will get from it & not on the ground level work! Sadly Chennaites are paying for it! [sic]”. He said he and his party colleague were forced to take a boat and bring the images from Mr. Stalin’s constituency, Kolathur, to highlight the status of the government’s most prioritised constituency. He also accused the DMK of attacking the messenger [the BJP].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-govt-didnt-act-ahead-of-monsoon/article37449579.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2-week-old infant rescued||The Neelanakarai police on Thursday afternoon rescued a two-week-old child with her mother and grandparents from their inundated house and shifted them to a private shelter to protect the child from infection. The child’s mother Jayanthi was staying with her parents Lurdusamy and Mary and two other children since her husband left her when she was pregnant. While she returned after delivery, the house got flooded. inspector Mahesh Kumar led the rescue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-week-old-infant-rescued/article37449470.ece
12 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tanks in Coimbatore district being monitored: Collector||As part of the monsoon preparedness, the tanks in Coimbatore district are being continuously monitored to prevent any over flow of water, said District Collector G.S. Sameeran on Thursday. He accompanied the District Monitoring Officer Darez Ahamed and senior IPS officer K. Vannia Perumal to inspect Valankulam tank and Trichy Road in Ramanathapuram in the city, which faced waterlogging due to overflow of water from Valankulam on Tuesday. Mr. Sameeran told presspersons the Public Works Department has been monitoring all the tanks in the district, including the 25 tanks in the River Noyyal system and the tanks of River Aliyar and River Bhavani. Regarding the traffic snarls due to waterlogging in some locations of Coimbatore city, he said the State Highways Department and traffic police personnel from Coimbatore City Police have been working to ensure smooth flow of traffic. Coimbatore Corporation has appointed officials for 24x7 beat duties and possesses necessary equipment such as high power pumps to redress water stagnation and other rain-related grievances, the Collector said. Mr. Ahamed inspected COVID-19 vaccination camp at Iruttupallam and Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam scheme camp at Chadivayal in Perur taluk.  Mr. Perumal conducted a review meeting with Coimbatore City Commissioner of Police Deepak M. Damor and the Superintendents of Police of the four districts under Coimbatore Range - Coimbatore, Tiruppur, the Nilgiris, and Erode - regarding the precautionary measures for the monsoon, officials said. To tackle the north east monsoon, the State government appointed Mr. Ahamed, the Mission Director of National Health Mission (Tamil Nadu), as the Monitoring Officer for Coimbatore district and had nominated Mr. Perumal, ADGP – Special Wing for Crime against Women and Children, to supervise the preventive measures for Coimbatore Range.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tanks-in-coimbatore-district-being-monitored-collector/article37449498.ece
12 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||SDRF deployed in rural areas||Coimbatore District (Rural) Police have kept seven teams of the State Disaster Rescue Force (SDRF) on standby in rural parts of the district to respond immediately in the event of rain-related damages. Each team has eight members who have completed SDRF training. A senior police officer said that the seven teams have been stationed near places that are likely to be affected during heavy rain. K. Vannia Perumal, Additional Director General of Police (Special Wing for Crime against Women and Children), distributed various equipment including electric chainsaw, ropes, reflective life jackets, foldable stretcher, torch lights, portable loudspeaker and spades to the teams on Thursday. Mr. Perumal reviewed the arrangements of the police in the district in the presence of R. Sudhakar, Inspector General of Police (West Zone), M.S. Muthusamy, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Coimbatore range) and S. Selvanagarathinam, Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police. A release issued by the rural police said that the seven teams were ready to handle emergency situations and people need not be worried. The police have advised the public not to venture into rivers, tanks and other waterbodies that have swelled in the recent rain. Helpline The police can be reached at 94981-81212, 77081-00100, 94981-01165 to inform about rain-related damages and for assistance during emergencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sdrf-deployed-in-rural-areas/article37449510.ece
12 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Charges framed against accused in Pollachi case||The Mahila Court, Coimbatore, on Thursday completed framing of charges against all the accused in the Pollachi sexual assault case. All the nine accused in the case namely, N. Rishwanth alias Sabarirajan, 26, K. Thirunavukkarasu, 28, N. Sathish, 30, T. Vasanthakumar, 25, R. Manivannan alias Mani, 31, K. Arulanantham, 34, P. Babu alias ‘Bike’ Babu, 27, Haronimus Paul, 29, and M. Arunkumar, 29, were produced before Sessions Judge R. Nandhinidevi. The judge read out the charges against the accused in the in-camera session. Court sources said the charges were framed against the accused for offences under Sections 354 A (sexual harassment and punishment for sexual harassment), 354 B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 392 (punishment for robbery) and 376 (punishment for rape) of the IPC; Section 66 E (punishment for violation of privacy) of the Information Technology Act; and Section 4 (penalty for harassment of women) of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman (TNPHW) Act. The accused were provided copies of the chargesheet and the statements of the survivors (given to the police and the magistrate) in the previous sessions. Copies of these statements, which the eight survivors had given to the police and the magistrate, were provided to the nine accused on Wednesday, said court sources. The court posted to hear the case next on November 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/charges-framed-against-accused-in-pollachi-case/article37449451.ece
12 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions demand reopening of NTC mills||Trade unions have demanded reopening of the National Textile Corporation (NTC) mills in the country. The mills have remained shut since the first lockdown last year. The trade unions here have formed a coordination committee with representatives of unions from other States too. There is a meeting in Kerala next, said M. Arumugam, AITUC leader here. The government can sell the additional land and operate the units that are viable. Keeping the mills shut is more because of the policies of the Union government. “It should look at job creation and not closing down the units. Several mills were making profits before the lockdown and can be operated with profits if there are reopened,” he said. C. Padmanabhan of CITU said the government should immediately run the mills and the workers should get full wages as the officials of NTC are getting for the last one and a half years. The mills have assets worth Rs. 50,000 crore and need just Rs. 500 crore to revive operations. Further, the outstanding amount for NTC mills is Rs. 2,000 crore from different government organisations. Even if this money is made available, the mills, numbering 31 across the country, can be reopened, he said. An official in the Ministry of Textiles said the government is looking at two or three options for the NTC mills and a decision is expected in a couple of months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-unions-demand-reopening-of-ntc-mills/article37449494.ece
12 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Rain stays off Coimbatore district despite IMD issuing orange alert||Coimbatore district did not witness rain till evening on Thursday though the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued an orange alert. The district received a total rainfall of 1 mm and an average rainfall of 0.07 mm in the 24 hours that ended at 8 a.m. on Thursday. According to the district administration, the Regional Meteorological Centre, Chennai, had predicted extremely heavy rainfall between 8.30 a.m. Thursday to 8.30 a.m. Friday. The Revenue Department, the District Disaster Management Authority, the Fire and Rescue Services and the police were prepared to handle the situation. Except two tanks, all the 25 tanks in the Noyyal river system in Coimbatore remained full. Obstructions along the overflow lines from Valankulam, which led to inundation of parts of Tiruchi Road and Ramanthapuram, were also removed. Cincona received 1 mm of rain while remaining 13 rain gauge locations recorded nil rain in the 24 hours period that ended on Thursday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-stays-off-coimbatore-district-despite-imd-issuing-orange-alert/article37449501.ece
12 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Revised timings for train services announced||The Palakkad Division of Southern Railway announced changes in dates of commencement of train services. A release said Train No. 06419 Coimbatore – Pollachi Unreserved Express Special would be operated from November 14 (Sunday) for six days a week (except Saturdays) and Train No. 06420 Pollachi – Coimbatore Express Special would be operated from November 15 (Monday) for six days a week (except Sundays). Similarly, Train No. 06731 Palakkad – Pollachi Unreserved Express Special would be operated from November 15 (Monday) for six days a week (except Sundays) and Train No. 06732 Pollachi – Palakkad Express Special would be operated from November 14 (Sunday) for six days a week (except Saturdays).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revised-timings-for-train-services-announced/article37449493.ece
12 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police arrest three men for assault on Hindu Munnani functionary||The Mettupalayam police on Thursday arrested three persons on charges of assaulting a Hindu Munnani functionary in September this year. R. Mubin (26), Nawaz Sharif (25) and his brother M. Ibrahim (20), all from Mettupalayam, were arrested for attacking Chandrasekar (36), Mettupalayam urban secretary of Hindu Munnani. Mr. Chandrasekar was assaulted by two men who came on a two-wheeler when he was heading from his house at T.A.S. Nagar to Mettupalayam bus stand on September 25. The duo attacked him with an iron rod. His right hand fractured as he blocked a blow on head. He was admitted to a private hospital for treatment. A senior police officer said summons were issued to suspects in the case and a few persons were questioned. On Thursday, Mubin, Sharif and Ibrahim were called for questioning. The three men were arrested and remanded in judicial custody in the evening. The police were on tight vigil in parts of Mettupalayam to avoid tension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-arrest-three-men-for-assault-on-hm-functionary/article37449517.ece
12 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||109 persons test positive in Coimbatore district||A total of 109 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Thursday, registering a increase from Wednesday’s 101 cases. The Health Department said that 112 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,131 active cases on Thursday. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1.3 % on Wednesday. Tiruppur district reported 51 fresh cases, taking its tally to 96,102 cases. The overall toll remained as 983 as no new deaths were reported by the Health Department. The district had 673 active cases and 63 patients from the district recovered from COVID-19 on Thursday.  In the Nilgiris, 15 people tested positive on Thursday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 33,758. The number of deaths in the district stood at 213, while 204 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/109-persons-test-positive-in-coimbatore-district/article37449505.ece
12 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for assaulting sister, brother-in-law||The Podanur police arrested a 34-year-old man on charges of assaulting his sister and brother-in-law after they complained to the police about his cruelty against his pet dog. The police said A. Satheesh from Matha Kovil Street at Pillayarpuram was arrested based on a complaint lodged by his sister N. Manimegalai on Wednesday. According to the police, Satheesh used to beat his dog in front of his residence. The cruelty was recorded in the surveillance camera of Ms. Manimegalai’s house. Her husband Naveen informed Pradeep Prabakaran of Prani Mithran animal welfare organisation about the cruelty. Mr. Naveen also shared a video of Satheesh beating his pet dog on October 25. The Podanur police registered a case against Satheesh on a complaint lodged by Mr. Prabakaran. The police said Satheesh trespassed into the house of Naveen and Manimegalai on Wednesday and assaulted them. Naveen’s left leg was fractured as Satheesh beat him with the lid of a pressure cooker, said the police. Satheesh was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-assaulting-sister-brother-in-law/article37449516.ece
12 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vice Admiral Chawla visits INS Agrani||Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command (SNC), visited INS Agrani, the Leadership and Management Training Establishment of the Indian Navy, here on Thursday. The SNC chief received the guard of honours and reviewed the training infrastructures of the establishment. He inaugurated the in-living accommodation-cum-recreation complex ‘Noyyal’ and the station waste management plant Pazhamudir Thottam . With the launch of the waste management plant, INS Agrani will become an almost zero waste generation base, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vice-admiral-chawla-visits-ins-agrani/article37449502.ece
12 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) demands white paper on financial position||Communist Party of India-Marxist leader and former chairman, North Zone, C. Padmanabhan has sought a white paper from the Coimbatore Corporation on status of projects and financial position. From 2011 to 2021 the Corporation had taken up several projects, the details of which were shrouded in mystery. Therefore, in public interest, the Corporation should share the following details – the status of underground drainage and solid waste management schemes, for they seemed to be remain incomplete, the funds obtained as loan for the schemes under JNNURM from Central Government and interest the Corporation paid every year; the expenditure the Corporation had incurred for executing works on lake fronts and D.B. Road and if it had obtained the funds as loan. The details of projects executed in wards coming under the Thondamuthur Assembly constituency, which was represented by the then Minister S.P. Velumani;||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-demands-white-paper-on-financial-position/article37449508.ece
12 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man stabbed to death near Madukkarai||A 23-year-old man was stabbed to death near Madukkarai in Coimbatore district on Thursday. The police said Vijay of Palathurai near Madukarai was murdered by a group of men. The incident happened around 7.30 p.m. on Thursday near a hollow block company at Palathurai.  Dispute Preliminary investigation by the police revealed that Vijay was assaulted by five men over a dispute he had with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-stabbed-to-death-near-madukkarai/article37449515.ece
12 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Sudan national held for possession of drug||The Sulur police on Thursday arrested a Sudan national on charges of overstaying in the country and possessing the drug methamphetamine. The arrested has been identified as Albara (25), son of Ali Mohamed Abdelgadir, from Khartoum in Sudan. The police said that Albara studied B.Sc Pharmacy in a private college at Sulur from 2014 to 2018. Albara had arrears for which he stayed back in India even though his visa had expired, said the police. The police recovered 85 mg of methamphetamine from him. He was arrested for violating sections of the Foreigners Act and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sudan-national-held-for-possession-of-drug/article37449503.ece
12 November 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects flooded areas||Minister for Labour Welfare and Skill Development C.V. Ganesan, accompanied by District Collector K. Balasubramaniam, on Thursday inspected Alpettai and Manjakuppam, which were badly affected by the recent rain. Mr. Ganesan said heavy duty pumps and heavy machinery were being used to drain water in flooded areas. Cuddalore district recorded an average of 28.51 mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. The average rainfall recorded in other areas is as follows: Bhuvanagiri 60 mm, Sethiyathope 58 mm, Kudithangi 54 mm, Vriddhachalam 44 mm, Chidambaram 38.6 mm and Vanamadevi 37.6 mm. Villupuram recorded an average of 40.87 mm during the 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inspects-flooded-areas/article37449870.ece
12 November 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring officer reviews monsoon preparedness||An all-department review meeting on the preparedness for the monsoon and related emergencies was held here under the District Monitoring Officer and Principal Secretary, Labour, Atul Anand on Thursday. Reviewing the coordination between the line departments and the level of preparedness, Mr. Anand urged officials to respond to monsoon-triggered emergencies on a ‘war-footing’. The Principal Secretary also ascertained the availability of essential commodities and directed the various departments to ensure seamless movement and availability of essential commodities. The departments of agriculture, horticulture and agriculture engineering were asked to orient farmers in the protective measures to be taken for crops. Rural development, revenue and public works departments were asked to monitor the water level in the various check dams. Further, any release of run-off water in the event of excess rain shall be adequately communicated to the low-lying areas. The officials were also advised to prevent water-logging and immediate discharge of water from such areas. Government hospitals, and primary health centres shall have adequate stock of medicines to deal with monsoon-related public health outbreaks, he said. Relief centres shall be kept ready with adequate stock of food supplies, and basic amenities including drinking water and toilet facilities to be kept ready, he said. Earlier, Mr. Anand inspected Vaaniyaaru dam and vetted the safety protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-officer-reviews-monsoon-preparedness/article37449598.ece
12 November 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||600 rainwater harvesting structures to be constructed||The district administration has embarked on an attempt to create a new world record by constructing the most number of roof-top rainwater harvesting structures in 21 days. Formally inaugurating the project here on Wednesday, Collector S. Visakan said the attempt would be made by District Rural Development Agency and it will be implemented in government buildings and government schools in all the 445 villages under 14 blocks. “Each roof-top rain water harvesting system would have the facility to store a minimum of 9,000 litres of water in underground sumps,” said Additional Collector, DRDA, C. Dinesh Kumar. Water collected from the roof-tops of the buildings would be filtered before they are let into the sumps. Once the sumps get filled up, the excess rainwater would be let into soak pits for recharging groundwater. Besides, recharging groundwater, the objective of the project is to make all government offices and schools self-sustained with respect to water facility, he added. Assistant Director (Panchayats), Rangarajan, Deputy Collector (Training), R. R. Viswanathan and Assistant Collector (Training), Priyanka were present during the inauguration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/600-rainwater-harvesting-structures-to-be-constructed/article37449585.ece
12 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Arrival of cattle to shandy in Erode district drops due to monsoon||Rain continues to affect the business at the weekly cattle shandy as around 50% of the cattle brought for sale were sold out on Thursday. On an average around 900 cattle are brought to the shandy by farmers from across the district and from nearby districts. Traders arrive from Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and a few other States and purchase cows, buffaloes and calves. Due to incessant rain, traders from other States are not arriving at the weekly shandy as business continues to be less than 60%. On Thursday, 280 cows, 150 buffaloes and 50 calves were brought to the shandy. Traders from nearby districts purchased cattle and transported it in vehicles. Farmers said that due to rain, the arrival of cattle was low for the past one month. Also, only if traders start arriving from other States, more cattle would be brought for sale, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arrival-of-cattle-to-shandy-in-erode-district-drops-due-to-monsoon/article37449601.ece
12 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plastic waste chokes Kalingarayan Canal||Indiscriminate dumping of plastics and thermocol in Kalingarayan Canal continues to affect the 739-year-old facility as residents and farmers wanted concrete action to restore its lost glory. The 90.5-km-long canal that originates from Kalingarayan anicut in Bhavani taluk travels through villages in Erode, Modakkurichi and Kodumudi taluks before joining River Noyal at Kodumudi. It irrigates 15,743 acres in these areas and carries water throughout the year. However, mixing of industrial effluents, sewage from households in corporation limits and dumping of garbage led to the canal losing its glory in recent years. Due to rain, discharge into the canal was stopped a week ago. Large quantities of empty plastic bottles, thermocol used as packing materials in houses and commercial establishments, empty plastic sachets and other waste materials were found in the canal at Karungalpalayam. Farmers in the area said that pollution remains a grave concern for them as the canal is used by many as a garbage dumping place. “Poultry waste, rotten food items, and plastic waste were dumped in the canal during night hours”, added the farmers. Muthusamy, a farmer, pointed out that clogging prevents free movement of water in the canal affecting the farmers. “The canal is more polluted when it passes through the city”, he added. Plastic bottles and thermocol kept floating at many places even as farmers wanted strict action to be taken against the polluters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plastic-waste-chokes-kalingarayan-canal/article37449605.ece
12 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Four held for swindling money meant for ATMs||The District Crime Branch (DCB) Police arrested four persons, who were involved in swindling Rs. 1.32 crore meant for refilling in seven automated teller machines (ATMs) in 2019. Branch managers of nationalised banks lodged complaints with the Superintendent of Police in 2019 that cash was missing from their bank ATMs located in the city. The DCB registered a case and were on the lookout for the accused. On October 17, a gang in Sankari in Salem district attempted to break open an ATM machine following which the Sankari police registered a case and arrested Boopalan (25), Jegadeesh (27) and Mohammed Riyas (20), all from Pallipalayam in Namakkal district. Inquiries revealed that Boopalan worked at a refilling security agency in Erode and had committed the crime with the help of his accomplices in Erode. Boopalan along with Srinivasan (27), Kesavan (24), Manikandan (24) and Kumar (27), all working in the private security agency, had committed the crime. The police arrested the four and lodged them at prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-held-for-swindling-money-meant-for-atms/article37449603.ece
12 November 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Officials inspect flood-hit areas in Karur district||Monitoring Officer T. P. Rajesh on Thursday visited various flood-hit areas in the district for the second consecutive day. Accompanied by Collector T. Prabhu Shankar, Mr. Rajesh inspected the works being undertaken by the Karur Corporation to drain out water in Ganapathy Nagar, Jawahar Nagar and other areas in the city. He asked the officials to expedite the task on clearing the silt in Rettai Vaical. Later, they made a visit to Kulithalai block, where standing paddy crop raised on various acres was inundated. Mr. Rajesh said that several tanks including Vadaseri, Pathirikulam, Puzhutherikulam had reached their maximum capacity after a gap of 16 years. Several acres of paddy crop had been inundated mainly in Kulithalai block. Survey was initiated to figure out the crop damage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-inspect-flood-hit-areas-in-karur-district/article37449551.ece
12 November 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Minister visits tribal settlements in Uthangarai||Minister for Handloom and Textiles R. Gandhi visited Irular settlements in Uthangarai and heard grievances of the people on Thursday. The Minister interacted with the families at Thalapathi Nagar in Moondrampatty panchayat. The residents of the settlement petitioned the Minister stating that over 300 families lived without basic house pattas, electricity and drinking water connections. They also stated that their wait for the basic amenities had lasted over a decade. The Minister issued orders for old-age pension for 15 families and six families were issued smart family cards. Later, Mr. Gandhi assured the families that the electricity connections will be provided to the settlements along with road facility, and three 30,000 litre overhead tanks will be installed. In due course, house pattas will also be issued to the families and that was an assurance from the Chief Minister, he said. Earlier, Mr. Gandhi had lunch with the families, accompanied by Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-visits-tribal-settlements-in-uthangarai/article37449599.ece
12 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sivaganga Collector told to file report on plea against road over tank||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Sivaganga Collector to submit a status report on a public interest litigation petition that opposed the laying of road over a waterbody in Karaikudi in Sivaganga district. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan sought a response in the petition filed by I. Subramaniyan and B. Ponraj of Sivaganga district. The project would ruin Pudu kanmoi in Patharakudi village, they said. They said that the Centre issued a notification in 2018 as per the National Highways Act with regard to the proposed Melur-Karaikudi National Highway project. The villagers had objected to the road project, saying it would ruin their main water source. The road would go through the centre of the waterbody and it would affect farming in the region. Also, at least 50 houses in a Scheduled Castes colony would be destroyed. The road project intersects the colony and would separate it from the rest of the village. Therefore, the authorities should find an alternative route, they said. In its counter affidavit, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) submitted that the existing Melur-Karaikudi road section was being widened. All precautionary measures were taken to ensure that the storage capacity of the waterbody was not affected in any manner. The ayacut and irrigation facilities would also not be affected. Further, it was submitted that only 15 to 20 houses would be affected by the road project and the land owners were entitled for compensation. The detailed project report (DPR) was prepared by a team of technical experts. The alignment was finalised in consultation with the departments concerned. The court adjourned the case by four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sivaganga-collector-told-to-file-report-on-plea-against-road-over-kanmoi/article37449590.ece
12 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Open community kitchens in rural areas, says AIADMK||The State government should open community kitchens in rural areas and ensure that the needy who have lost their homes due to the rain had access to food round the clock, said former Revenue and Disaster Management Minister R. B. Udayakumar here on Thursday. Following water release from Vaigai dam, the MLA and senior functionaries from the party visited Melakkal and Sholavandan areas in Madurai district. Speaking to reporters, he said that the district administration should keep the public informed about water being released from the reservoir as many people were caught unawares when they go to the river for taking bath and washing clothes, he said. The continuous rain had damaged many dwellings at the Uchapatti Sri Lankan refugee camp. Likewise, complaints of water stagnation had been reported in many low-lying areas. The district administration should work in tandem with the disaster management team and ensure that the stagnating water was pumped out. Water for 58-canal He urged the officials to release water from the Vaigai dam into the 58-canal as the storage level in the dam had crossed the 67-feet mark. During the AIADMK rule, water was released thrice, he said. The State government should immediately deploy teams to assess the extent of damage to samba crop in the Cauvery delta region as several lakhs of standing crops were under water. The government, instead of waiting for the water to recede, should despatch teams and report them to the Central government for getting sufficient relief, Mr. Udayakumar said. Though Chief Minister M. K. Stalin had been making visits to low-lying areas in Chennai, things had not been moving as people still remained in knee-deep water. The CM should ensure that the official machinery was in place. As opposition party (AIADMK), the MLAs and MPs would point out the expectations of the people. The government should take them in the right perspective and not simply describe it as “ indulging in politics,” he said. The AIADMK was doing its duty and would continue to portray the negatives to the government. Former CM Edappadi K Palaniswami and Deputy CM O. Panneerselvam had been appreciating the government whenever they did good. For instance, after the AIADMK leaders suggested that free food be provided through Amma Unavagams for the needy during the calamity, the government implemented it, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/open-community-kitchens-in-rural-areas-says-aiadmk/article37449770.ece
12 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Drugs, alcohol give false sense of escape from life stressors: HC||There is a perception that using drugs and alcohol can be the perfect way to escape from life stressors and other difficult issues, but the ‘cure’ for the internal pain actually creates a worse problem, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has said. Hearing a batch of bail and anticipatory bail petitions filed by several individuals from southern districts, Justice B. Pugalendhi observed that when a person was drunk or high on drugs, he might have positive and euphoric feelings. Such substances could dull emotions and make painful feelings disappear temporarily. For this reason, many people ended up using substances to cope with emotional pain, bad memories, poor sleep, guilt, shame, anxiety or terror. Unfortunately, those moments of escape were only temporary and came with many consequences, he said. After the use of substances, finances, relationships and personal well-being got sacrificed, while the underlying issues with which the person was struggling might only worsen. In other words, what seemed euphoric and like heaven could quickly become a personal hell. This was one side of the coin. The other side was the rise in crimes. The drug-crime relationship was of three types: violation of drug laws, crimes motivated under the influence of drugs and crimes that relied on drugs. There was also emergence of juvenile crimes, such as chain snatching, sexual abuse and other offences, committed under the influence of such substances, the court observed. The petitioners were accused of being in possession of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. The court took note of the fact that the Director General of Police had issued circulars instructing police officials concerned with regard to storage of substances in malkhanas or special storage rooms for safe custody and maintenance of a register in this regard. Later, Justice B. Pugalendhi decided the individual cases on merit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drugs-alcohol-give-false-sense-of-escape-from-life-stressors/article37449577.ece
12 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||111 recovered mobile phones restored to gadget owners||A total of 111 mobile phones that were robbed, stolen and that went missing, and recovered by the police were restored to the owners Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran handed over the mobile phones, worth Rs. 15.80 lakh, to the owners at the District Police Office. Mr. Baskaran appreciated the efforts of the Cyber Crime police, led by Additional Superintendent of Police Mani and Inspector of Police Charming S. Wiselin. “It is the sustained efforts of the Cyber Crime police who kept monitoring the lost mobile phones through their IMEI number for weeks and months. As and when the lost mobile phones get activated, our men reach out to the present user of the phone and inform them that their phones are crime property and retrieved them,” he said. In most cases, the phone users had either found the phone lying on the road or unaware that they had bought stolen phones. The SP warned thieves and robbers that the police could reach them anytime if they use robbed or stolen phones. Mr. Baskaran said that 511 mobile phones, worth Rs. 64.13 lakh, had been traced and restored with the owners till date this year. Similarly, the Cyber Cell police had recovered and handed over Rs. 23.97 lakh, including Rs. 5.51 lakh in the last three months, this year and handed the money to the owners who had lost them by revealing sensitive personal details, bank account details, including one-time password to strangers. People should not give any details to strangers posing as officials from banks. In case of any such cheating, people could call toll-free helpline 155260 or lodge complaint through https://www.cybercrime.gov.in round the clock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/111-recovered-mobile-phones-restored-to-gadget-owners/article37449775.ece
12 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Russ Foundation seeks de-sealing of its buildings||Russ Foundation has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Madurai district adminstration to de-seal two of its buildings. The buildings were sealed in 2019 following allegations of sexual assault on a girl inmate of the home run by the foundation. Justice G. R. Swaminathan ordered notice to the Collector and the police and adjourned the hearing in the case till November 25 in the petition filed by Berlin Jose of Russ Foundation, Madurai. He said that the Collector had rejected his plea to de-seal the buildings. The petitioner said that he had earlier moved the court seeking the same relief to de-seal the buildings. The court passed an order directing the Collector to consider the representation made and pass appropriate orders. However, the representation was rejected, he said. He said that valuables such as cameras, laptops, televisions, computers, microphones and amplifiers were inside the sealed buildings. The petitioner said that both the buildings were sealed without passing appropriate orders. He sought a direction to the authorities to de-seal them. Both Berlin Jose and his employee John Prabhakar were arrested and remanded in judicial custody in connection with the sexual assault case. A detention order was passed against them under the Goondas Act. Later, the detention order was set aside and the two were subsequently granted bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/russ-foundation-seeks-de-sealing-of-its-buildings/article37449768.ece
12 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||DSP directed to monitor probe into woman Head Constable death case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Virudhunagar, to monitor investigation into the death of woman Head Constable Banupriya. Justice G. R. Swaminathan observed that the deceased was a policewoman and therefore the police officials should make earnest efforts to bring out the truth in the case. kThe State submitted that they were awaiting the forensic reports in the case. The petitioner, R. Chandrasekar, father of Banupriya, alleged that his daughter was murdered by her husband Vignesh. He alleged that following a quarrel between the couple, Vignesh had strangled her using her uniform belt. He said that despite the police registering an FIR based on a complaint lodged by a family member, the accused was neither remanded or taken into custody. He sought a CB-CID investigation into the death case. In a connected petition, Vignesh, a bus conductor based in Madurai, denied the allegations levelled against him. He filed a petition seeking to quash the criminal case registered against him. The judge said that the criminal case cannot be quashed as the investigation was in progress. The court dismissed his petition. The petition filed by Chandrasekar, father of Banupriya, was disposed of with the direction to the DSP to monitor the probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitor-probe-into-head-constable-death-dsp-told/article37449589.ece
12 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC moved against bail granted to YouTuber||The State moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday seeking cancellation of bail granted to Tiruchi-based YouTuber A. Durai Murugan in August in the case pertaining to usage of images of former Chief Minister and DMK leader M. Karunanidhi and BJP leader Khushbu Sundar Justice B. Pugalendhi was told by the State that Durai Murugan, despite filing an undertaking affidavit to the court that he would abide by the conditions imposed by the court and would not upload or release videos that would hurt the sentiments of anyone, had violated the said conditions. The State submitted that last month Durai Murugan had passed certain derogatory remarks against Chief Minister M. K. Stalin at a demonstration staged in Thuckalay in Kanniyakumari district. The judge ordered notice to Durai Murugan and adjourned the hearing till November 19. In a connected case, Justice K. Murali Shankar also sought response from the YouTuber in the bail petition filed by him after the State opposed the grant of bail. He was arrested and remanded in judicial custody for the derogatory remarks passed by him during the demonstration at Thuckalay. The court was informed that the State had moved the court seeking the cancellation of bail in a previous case and opposed the grant of bail in the present case. The State submitted that there were already previous cases against the petitioner in this regard. The court directed Durai Murugan to respond to the counter affidavit filed by the State and adjourned the hearing in the case till November 16. In both the cases, Durai Murugan was asked to file affidavits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-moved-against-bail-plea-of-youtuber/article37449567.ece
12 November 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Hundreds of teak logs worth lakhs lie wasted inside Udayagiri fort||Hundreds of teak logs worth many lakhs of rupees lie wasted inside Udayagiri Fort at Puliyoorkurichi in Kanniyakumari district. Teak trees were uprooted in 2017 when Ockhi cyclone ravaged the district. They have been cut into various sizes and piled up without any measures to protect them from the elements, for almost four years. A visitor to the fort can see the logs remain thoroughly exposed without any care. Most of them have been subjected to rough weather and rain during the intervening period. They are in bad shape and have lost their economic value. The fort receives a lot of visitors regularly because it houses the memorial of Dutch warrior De Lonnoy, who later became Commander-in-Chief of the Travancore army. When asked about the delay in selling them, and about how they are in disuse, M. Ilayaraja, District Forest Officer, said the logs would be soon sold in auction. Mr. Ilayaraja, who joined duty a couple months ago, said the logs had to be segregated depending on their width first before starting the process for sale. Though the fort covers 99 acres of dense forest, the forest department controls just four hectares of the bio-diversity park. The fort and the memorial are under the control of the Archaeology department. “The logs actually belong to the revenue department and we have to get permission from the Collector to sell the logs in auction. We will complete the process soon,” Mr. Ilayaraja said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hundreds-of-teak-logs-worth-lakhs-lie-wasted-inside-udayagiri-fort/article37449569.ece
12 November 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Thovalai Dalit youth’s family receives body||Family of Dalit youth S. Sureshkumar, whose death caused a controversy in Kanniyakumari district, accepted his body after four days. A. Kathir, founder and executive director of Evidence, a Madurai-based NGO, who was involved in the talks with the police, said he and the family had decided to take the case to court as they had no faith in police. “Though the FIR talks about murder, the police have not even invoked Article 306 of the IPC (abetting suicide) in the case. The police are not ready to share the details of the post mortem report, but maintain that it is a case of suicide,” he said. Sureshkumar, a native of Thovalai, was in love with a caste-Hindu woman and his family was questioned by the police on the complaint of her family. On the same day, he was found in an unconscious state. He died at Asaripallam Government Medical College Hospital. He said Sureshkumar and his girl friend had shared messages through WhatsApp which had run into 150 pages. “They seemed to have had a very close relationship that the girl had given her certificate and Aadhaar card to him. Something went wrong in the last one week of Sureshkumar’s life,” Mr. Kathir said. He said V. Badri Narayanan, Superintendent of Police, had promised to send a recommendation to the government for a job for Sureshkumar’s brother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thovalai-dalit-youths-family-receives-body/article37449943.ece
12 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Dysfunctional traffic signals add to chaos||Dysfunctional traffic signals and lack of visibility of the signals in several important road intersections in the city, especially during the peak hours, have been throwing traffic out of gear. Vehicles entering the city pass through these intersections every day and due to the non-functioning signals, their movement gets stuck, resulting in long traffic snarls. Though the traffic signal at Nellithope junction has remained non-functional for a few months now, it has failed to draw the attention of the authorities concerned. With vehicles coming from Cuddalore, Indira Gandhi Square and Maraimalai Adigal Salai, it is an extremely busy intersection. The problem is severe at the intersection during the peak hours as motorists from all directions try to cross the junction at the same time. For the pedestrians it is very difficult to cross the roads due to heavy movement of traffic. Automatic signals at important junctions in the city at Sivaji Square, Maduvapet and Kokku Park on the East Coast Road have not been functioning fully and traffic policemen were manning the junctions manually. According to S. Baranidarane, an industrialist, “most of the signals are not maintained properly. At some points, signals had been installed and abandoned. A case in point is the signal installed at the intersection of Kamaraj Salai and Lenin Street in Saram. The automatic traffic signal has been on the blink for over a year. As a result, motorists are stranded at the junction during rush-hour.” According to P. Devanathan of People’s Pulse, a civil society organisation, “One of the main problems of the present signals is that they are not properly visible to the motorists. The countdown timers installed at most of the automatic signals have slowly stopped working. Police personnel operate them manually during the visit of senior police officers and VIPs. These timers were working fine but slowly technical glitches arose, and they stopped working.” According to a police official, “The maintenance of the signals has become an issue due to delay in payment to the contractor. The department has been facing funds crunch and the government is yet to take a decision on who should maintain the signals. The list of non-functioning signals have been identified and they will be rectified soon.” “The traffic police should replace the existing signals with adaptive signals that can detect traffic flow in real time and adjust the red or green lights accordingly. This will put an end to the long wait at a red light when there’s little or no traffic in other lanes and ensure smooth flow of traffic,” said an urban planner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dysfunctional-traffic-signals-add-to-chaos/article37449873.ece
12 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry gets 52.4 mm rain||The Puducherry region received 52.4 mm of rainfall till 8.30 a.m Thursday. Within the region, Pathukannu received 46 mm, Bahour, 41 mm, and Thirukannur, 40 mm, according to the data available with the State Emergency Operation Centre. The heavy rain at Wednesday night caused minor flooding in areas such as Krishna Nagar, Pavanan Nagar and Rainbow Nagar, an official release said. Collector Purva Garg said people were evacuated to relief shelters and the government had opened 194 temporary camps. So far, around 13,000 food packets had been distributed to the affected persons. Ms. Garg said major tanks were filled to capacity. The level in the Bahour tank stood at 2.78 metre and in the Oussudu tank at 3.37 metre. She said 21 huts and 4 houses were damaged in the rain after the northeast monsoon set in. Twenty-five head of cattle had been lost. While Chief Minister N. Rangasamy inspected the Oussudu tank, Minister for Public Works K. Lakshminarayanan visited the coastal hamlets. Mr. Lakshminarayanan said the lean period assistance of Rs. 2,500 each to about 18,200 fishermen families, in addition to Rs. 4,500 each to an estimated 13,000 families under a Union Government scheme, would be given on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-gets-524-mm-rain/article37449573.ece
12 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Lt. Governor highlights anti-COVID efforts at Delhi conference||Telangana Governor and Puducherry Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Thursday highlighted the measures taken by the two administrations to curb the COVID-19 pandemic, especially the public outreach programmes and initiatives to dispel vaccine hesitancy, during a conference of Governors and Lt. Governors at the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi. In a presentation at the 51st conference chaired by President Ram Nath Kovind, Ms. Soundararajan highlighted the efforts made towards ensuring accessibility to online education among students belonging to underprivileged sections and initiatives to improve the quality of education in universities, a press note from the Raj Nivas said. The Lt. Governor also showcased some of the unique practices undertaken during this period by the Raj Bhavan, Telangana and the Raj Nivas, Puducherry. The conference was attended by Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The Lt. Governor was among six Governors chosen for making a presentation at the conference, the press note said.  The Lt. Governor was among six Governors chosen for making a presentation at the conference||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lt-governor-highlights-anti-covid-efforts-at-delhi-conference/article37449869.ece
12 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Aurovilian gets award at U.N. climate conference||In a rare honour, Suhasini Ayer, architect from Auroville, was presented with the Green Solutions Award during the ongoing COP26 summit, the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Glasgow, for the Humanscapes Habitat project of creating an affordable and sustainable housing hub in the universal township. As an experimental project designed for approximately 500 inhabitants, the Humanscapes project also seeks to serve as launchpad for research into creating future developments that can withstand the impacts of climate change. The project got the award in the Sustainable Construction category at the climate summit. The Green Solutions Awards 2020-2021 is an international competition run by the Construction21 network, a collaborative and networking platform for stakeholders interested in sustainability, that spotlights exemplary solutions integrated into buildings, districts and infrastructures contributing to the fight against climate change. As many as 192 candidates participated in the contest at the global level. Ms. Ayer, a graduate of ‘Delhi School of Planning and Architecture’ joined Auroville in 1985 and is a co-founder of the Auroville Centre for Scientific Research, an organisation dedicated to research and experimentation in the field of appropriate building materials and technologies, water management, renewable energy and solar passive/climatic architecture and sustainable urban planning. A press note from Auroville, meanwhile, said Humanscapes Habitat was an applied research and demonstration project of Sustainable and Integrated Urban Living for benchmarking in habitat as a course correction for a sustainable and harmonious mode of development. This mixed-use development of residences, community and workspaces besides being sustainable also wants to address the issues of skill development and capacity building of construction labour, who are mostly distressed migrants in India, to improve their economic condition and reduce construction waste in the habitat sector to meet India’s commitment to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The habitat project has integrated five goals as part of the sustainable human settlement mission that include designing a sustainable built environment with solar passive building design coupled with efficient functional space layout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aurovilian-gets-award-at-un-climate-conference/article37449876.ece
12 November 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||30 new COVID-19 cases in Puducherry||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory while 30 new cases were confirmed on Thursday. Puducherry logged seven new cases, which were confirmed from 2,537 tests, followed by Karaikal (16), Yanam (2) and Mahe (5). With 42 patients recovering from the infection, the active cases stood at 260. Of them, 77 patients were in hospitals and 183 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.18%, the case fatality rate 1.45% and the recovery rate 98.35%. The cumulative toll remained at 1,863 — Puducherry (1,457), Karaikal (250), Yanam (103) and Mahe (48). The Union Territory has recorded an aggregate of 1,28,332 cases and 1,26,209 recoveries. Of an estimated 19.39 lakh tests conducted so far, over 16.41 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 1,475 people took the jab against COVID-19 on Thursday. The Union Territory has so far administered 11,45,328 vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30-new-covid-19-cases-in-puducherry/article37449565.ece
12 November 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Infrastructure in schools to be improved: Minister||The State government would give everything possible and required for Ramanathapuram district. It would not be described as “backward” any more, said School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi here on Thursday. Speaking after inaugurating new classrooms in an additional building at a government school in Parthibanoor near Paramakudi block, he said that many speakers (at the function) pointed out that the district was “backward.” But it would become progressive and the Education Department would set the tone towards this goal. Steps were being taken to upgrade government schools from high to higher secondary. There were representations from many parts of the State in this regard. A final decision would be taken after consulting the Chief Minister. The objective was to rope in dropouts and make them pursue higher education and give them the best coaching practice as the government schools had experienced teachers in many disciplines, Mr. Mahesh said and wished that the alumnae from the government schools contributed liberally and voluntarily towards building infrastructure for the students. He said that after the pandemic, schools have just reopened. The idea was to make the students feel at home in the campus and apprehensions about the pandemic had to go. Under such circumstances, it had been decided to dispense with quarterly and half yearly examinations and instead have revision examinations. This, according to experts, would ease the pressure from the children to a great extent. Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat presided. Ramanathapuram MP Nawaz Kani, School Education Department officials, MLAs and former ministers and elected representatives participated. On the occasion, a philanthropist Hidayathullah was honoured by Mr Mahesh, who was instrumental in providing the infrastructure. The minister requested him to build more such facilities in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/infrastructure-in-schools-to-be-improved-minister/article37449588.ece
12 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Incessant rain over past few days improves water level in tanks||The continuous showers over the past few days has improved water level at tanks in the district . Over 30 tanks in the district have been filled to the brim in recent rains. The district has been receiving widespread rains over the past few weeks. An average rainfall of 6.20 mm was recorded in the district on Thursday. The highest amount of rainfall was recorded at P.N. Palayam, 19 mm and lowest in Salem, 1.2 mm. According to the officials in the Water Resources Wing of the Public Works Department, there are 89 lakes in the Sarabanga basin division and 18 lakes under Mettur basin division in the district and 33 of these have filled to the brim as on Thursday. Officials said that 11 tanks have filled over 50% of its capacity, 13 below 50%, 33 at 10% capacity and water level is yet to improve in 17 tanks, including six in Mettur basin. Official sources said that major tanks like Periyasiru eri, Kottakolapadiyan, Vannapatti, Vadamaleri, Kullampatti, Nachamapatti, Ponusamudhram, and Thumbalkattupallam in Mettur division have attained full capacity. In Sarbanga basin, major lakes like Agrahara Pullavari, Mookuneri in Kanankuruchi, Kamalapuram small and big tanks in Omalur, Muttal, Attur Pudhueri, Vazhuthukal eri, Kalleripatti, Thalvai lake, Deviyakuruchi lake, Annayampatti lake, Gangamasamuthiram lake, Vadamaneri and a few others have filled to the brim in the district. Officials said that the inflow and outflow channels to the lakes have been desilted to ensure free flow of water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/incessant-rain-over-past-few-days-improves-water-level-in-tanks/article37449608.ece
12 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK govt. surrendering T.N.’s rights on Mullaperiyar’||A meeting of the AIADMK’s Salem rural district functionaries, chaired by Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami here on Thursday, accused the DMK government of surrendering Tamil Nadu’s rights over Mullaperiyar dam to Kerala. A resolution passed at the meeting said former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, through a long legal battle for raising the water level to 152 feet, secured a judgment that allowed storage till 142 feet. Thus, she protected the livelihood of people in five districts. The AIADMK said that unlike in the past, surplus water from the dam was released in the presence of Kerala Ministers. The party passed another resolution condemning the government for “misusing” its power during the rural local bodies elections in nine districts. It accused the State Election Commission and the police of inaction. The meeting advised party workers to start preparations for urban local bodies elections by establishing booth committees and beginning verification of voter list. It condemned the government for not releasing water under the Sarbanga surplus water scheme from Mettur dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-govt-surrendering-tns-rights-on-mullaperiyar/article37449452.ece
12 November 2021||SALEM/ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water release from Mettur dam, Bhavanisagar reservoir reduced||The discharge from Mettur dam was reduced from 18,000 cusecs to 14,000 cusecs on Thursday. According to officials from teh Public Works Department, the water level in the dam stood at 119 ft against a total scale of 120 ft. The stored capacity of water in the dam was 91,883 mcft and the dam received an inflow of 19,146 cusecs. At 8 a.m, the discharge from the dam through the dam and teh tunnel power houses was 18,000 cusecs and it was gradually reduced to 16,000 cusecs by 10 a.m. The discharge from the dam was further reduced to 14,000 cusecs by 6 p.m.  The discharge through the canal was maintained at 150 cusecs. With no rain in the catchment areas, the water level at Bhavanisagar Dam in Erode continues to be maintained at 103 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 105 feet on Thursday. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the dam was 1,705 cusecs while the discharge was 1,300 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project canal and 100 cusecs into the River Bhavani. The storage was 31.13 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) against the capacity of 32.80 tmcft. No rainfall was recorded in the area. Meanwhile, as a precautionary measure, ban on bathing at Kodiveri anicut continued as tourists were not allowed to enter the area. The road leading to the anicut was closed and Public Works Department officials continue to monitor the water flow in the anicut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outflow-from-mettur-dam-reduced/article37449610.ece
12 November 2021||Special Correspondent,TAMIL NADU||Police warn rumour-mongers||The police have warned of stringent action against those who spread misinformation on rain over social media. A press release from police headquarters said the police personnel with staff of other departments had been working hard, day and night, in doing relief works after monsoon rain lashed the city and many other districts. “Under such circumstances, a few anti-social elements, utilising the avenues such as social media platforms, have been deliberately spreading rumours on rain and flood with criminal intention to create fear in the minds of the general public. Such persons have been posting old visuals and pictures of floods in the city and other places of the country,” said the release. Such misinformation campaigns by them were done with malicious intent to defame the administration, which was an offence as per law, police said, and warned that stringent action would be taken against those who post content contrary to truth. They would freeze social media accounts of such persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-warn-rumour-mongers/article37449473.ece
12 November 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead||A 45-year-old farmer was found dead in an agricultural field at Kandiyur village in the district on Thursday. Police gave the name of the deceased as S. Balamurugan of Melathiruppunthurithi village near Thiruvaiyaru. Police sources said Balamurugan left in the morning to his farm which he had taken on lease to raise paddy crop and did not return. He was found dead later. Locals noticed the body and informed the police. The body was subsequently sent to the Government Hospital at Thiruvaiyaru for post mortem. Quoting local sources, police said Balamurugan was an alcoholic. His wife Maragatham, in a complaint to the police, claimed that her husband was upset over water having stagnated in the field due to the heavy rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-found-dead/article37449563.ece
12 November 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Strengthen baby dam: farmers||Farmers from multiple associations assembled here at Gudalur bus stand and announced to march towards Kumuli and draw the attention of the Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Central government to bring a permanent solution to the Mullaperiyar reservoir row on Thursday. Vigil on social media Led by farmers’ association leader P R Pandian, K M Abbas, the meeting demanded the governments to keep a close vigil on the social media and other platforms. Information such as the dam was in danger... the dam has become weak was creating panic. Those behind such campaigns should be punished as per the laws. The farmers said when the rights of the Mullaperiyar reservoir was vested with Tamil Nadu, there was no need to ask for permission from the Kerala government to fell trees. The farmers would be glad to work and sought the TN officials to give them the permission. The meeting condemned the Kerala ministers’ visit to the dam on Oct 29 in whose presence the water was released. The Tamil Nadu government should be pro-active and be with the farmers in this hour of crisis, Mr Pandian said and added that during the north east monsoon, the water had to be stored in the dam. Instead of storing water up to 142 feet, the ministers indulged in politics, the leaders said and appealed to the Chief Minister M K Stalin to protect the interests of farmers from the five southern districts. Some vested interest groups in Kerala were bent upon creating a rift between the two States but farmers fully understood the importance of cordial relations. At the same time, they underlined the need for saving their livelihood. The farmers from the five southern districts announced a march (padayatra) towards the reservoir. However, they dropped it after senior officials intervened, a leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protect-the-interests-of-farmers/article37449549.ece
12 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||20 families in Thoothukudi village shifted to relief centre||Fifty villagers of Chinnarkulam near Karungulam in the district were shifted to a relief camp on Thursday morning after water overflowing from a nearby irrigation tank flooded their houses. With waterbodies of the district getting significant influx of water following the recent rain, most of the irrigation tanks now have 75% of storage level. Of the 639 irrigation tanks, more than 450 have 75% storage. When heavy downpour drenched parts of the district, including Karungulam area on Wednesday night, more than 10 irrigation tanks in the region attained the maximum storage level and the water overflowing from Sathanerikulam marooned Chinnarkulam village near Karungulam in the early hours of Thursday. Subsequently, 50 villagers were relocated to a nearby relief centre created in a marriage hall. Srivaikundam MLA ‘Oorvasi’ S. Amirtharaj visited the relocated people and distributed relief material to them. “Twenty families have been settled there with all basic facilities and adequate space with mask, sanitiser, etc. Steps have been taken to drain the water at the earliest so as to ensure their early return to their homes,” Collector K. Senthil Raj said. Dr. Senthil Raj also said the village administrative officers had been asked to update the ‘adangal’ about all standing crops into the account and update details about fields/farmers eligible for crop damage compensation, if any. The updated information would be cross-checked by the agriculture department officials. Meanwhile, Special Officer for Disaster Management and Rescue Abhin Dinesh Modak reviewed the arrangements put in place to rescue the people from the marooned low-lying areas. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar explained in detail about the preparedness and the vulnerable low-lying areas identified in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-families-in-thoothukudi-village-shifted-to-relief-centre/article37449583.ece
12 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tank overflows, water enters Anna Science Centre premises||The premises of Anna Science Centre -Planetarium on Pudukottai Road has been inundated due to inflow of excess water from Kottapattu Periyakulam. More than half of the 10-acre campus is underwater and it would only recede if a proper channel is made for its flow, activists alert. The ground floor of the Activity Centre and Innovation Hub - both new blocks constructed on the Anna Science Centre- Planetarium campus have been flooded. The compound wall of the campus is under water to an extent of at least six feet. “Officials had, in the past, requested authorities to construct the campus at a higher elevation or allot land elsewhere. The representations were ignored”, a regular visitor said requesting anonymity. Equipment from the activity centre, electronics including projectors and various expensive items had to be shifted to various other parts of the campus, as it remains closed due to the flooding. “We opened only on August 25 after closing down for 18 months due to COVID-19. We anticipate closure till December by when the water is expected to recede,” the official said. The planetarium lies close to the Kottapattu Periyakulam which is also surrounded by a government arts and science college, a milk processing unit and a highway. The Kottapattu Periyakulam has borne the brunt of rapid urbanisation and encroachments. Its waters had irrigated agricultural fields for generations, locals said. The waterbody is at risk of overflowing and flooding residential areas on Pudukottai Road, Khajamalai and surrounding areas. K. C. Neelamegam, Secretary of Thaneer, a voluntary organisation, blames the local administration for the mismanagement. The civic body had blocked all outlets from the waterbody. “Though it has not rained for many days at a stretch in Tiruchi, the authorities must act fast and learn from the mistakes made in Chennai,” he said. The only solution is to clear the encroachments and desilt the path constructed for the flow of water. Else, it will overflow on the National Highway or into the educational institution, he warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tank-overflows-water-enters-anna-science-centre-premises/article37449557.ece
12 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Paddy crop on hundreds of acres lies under water||While the district administrations in the central region heaved a sigh of relief on Thursday due to the let-up in rainfall, submergence of samba paddy crop raised on hundreds of acres in delta districts including Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts has left farmers worried. Except for a few areas in Thanjavur, Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam districts, there was no rain in other areas since Wednesday afternoon. There were signs of rainwater receding in inundated areas with waist deep stagnation. Water in submerged paddy fields too began receding. But, the crop raised in large areas had remained under water for more than three days. Thanjavur The standing samba paddy crop raised in Papanasam, Umayalpuram, Ramanujapuram, Thiruppananthal, Orathanadu and Peravurani were said to have been severely affected. Besides the Public Works Department officials, farmers to were working overtime to drain out the water from the paddy fields. Many of them were of the view that though rainfall in Thanjavur district was less when compared to Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Mayiladuthurai districts, improper and insufficient desilting works on supply channels prior to monsoon had led to severe water inundation. “It is painful to see the submerged paddy crop for more than three days. The next three to four days are crucial,” says Swamimalai S. Vimalanathan, district secretary, Cauvery Farmers Protection Association. S. Vijayakumar, Principal Secretary to the Government, who is the Monitoring Officer to the district, visited various areas, accompanied by Collector Dinesh Oliver Ponraj, for the third consecutive day to check the arrangements being made to mitigate the sufferings of the people and farmers. Citing a preliminary report on flood damage Mr. Vijayakumar told The Hindu that the standing paddy crop raised on over 4,000 hectares had been affected due to water inundation in the district. Peravurani had received 20 cm of rainfall in a day on Tuesday. A number of steps had been taken to drain out water from the fields and low-lying residential areas. Nagapattinam The respite from rain has brought much-needed relief to officials and farmers in Nagapattinam district, where Napattinam and Thirupoondi recorded 30 cm of rainfall on a single day on Tuesday. Atulya Misra, Additional Chief Secretary to the Government, inspected the flood-hit areas along with Collector A. Arun Thamburaj. “There has been no rain in the district since Wednesday morning,” said Mr. Thamburaj. He said that paddy crop on different stages had been inundated on 7,177 hectares in the district. A total of 249 huts and 23 concrete houses had been damaged so far in the spell. Tiruvarur According to a rough estimate, paddy crop raised on over 25,000 acres in Tiruvarur district have been affected by water inundation. Paddy crop in Tiruvarur, Kottur, Muthupettai, Kudavasal, Mannarkudi and Thiruthuraipoondi had been severely hit due to the heavy rain that lashed on Tuesday and Wednesday. Tiruchi In Tiruchi, the PWD continued to discharge the entire inflow at Upper Anicut in Mukkombu into the Kollidam on Thursday. More than 30,000 cusecs was released. The inflow in Koraiyar too came down to about 2,000 cusecs. Officials said that paddy crop on 400 acres in Anthanallur and Manikandam blocks had been affected by water inundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paddy-crop-on-hundreds-of-acres-lies-under-water/article37449555.ece
12 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Attendance on rainy days is not compulsory: colleges||Though the district administrations in the central region have been issuing separate instructions for schools and colleges on functioning of the institutions during days of heavy rainfall, heads of higher educational institutions have not insisted on the attendance of the students considering the difficulties of those coming from rural parts, it is learnt. “The level of difficulty is the same for school as well as college students when it rains continuously. However, the premise of the district authorities seems to be that the college students are in a better position to attend classes by availing the utility of public transport services. The difficulties faced by a large number of students from rural parts in the surroundings who depend on bicycles to commute to the colleges have not been apparently been factored in,” a senior teacher of a college said. There are instances of students sitting in classes with drenched clothes and shivering due to the cold weather. But then, most students come on their own volition as they prefer not to be confined to their homes. The atmosphere in colleges is more relaxing for students, another teacher said. There are also instances of colleges in low-lying locations announcing holiday for all students. These institutions apparently have plans to make up for the lost days by functioning for six days a week in the coming months. In any case, the managements in institutions that function despite the heavy rains were not acting tough on students who do not turn up. “After all, it is enough if the students have 75 percent attendance”, a teacher in a college located in a rural location said. On their part, teachers, in general, have a mixed opinion on the functioning of colleges during the rainy days. “We are staring at the possibility for closure of the institutions later this year against the backdrop of many other countries battling the third wave of COVID-19 pandemic. Teachers cannot take chances, and find themselves under the compulsion of utilising whatever time is available for completing the portions,” a principal said.  Managements are not acting tough on students who do not turn up. After all, it is enough if students have 75 percent attendance||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attendance-on-rainy-days-is-not-compulsory-colleges/article37449552.ece
12 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||City Police take up temporary measures to fix rain-battered roads||The City Police personnel swung into action on Thursday filling potholed roads with sand and gravel at different places here as a temporary measure to ensure safety of motorists. The heavy rains over the past few days had damaged several roads in the city endangering motorists. In a move to ensure safety of vehicle users, Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan advised the police officers to attend to the problem immediately. Teams of police personnel identified the damaged roads at different places in the city and carried out temporary measures by filling the damaged portions with sand and gravel in coordination with civic body workers. Sand was filled in the damaged portions of roads surrounding Chathram bus stand, West Bouleward Road, Varaganeri Main Road, Aristo Roundabout, Rockins Road, State Bank Main Road and the road from Ukkara Kaliamman Temple to Anna Nagar and Sastri Road to ensure safety of motorists, a police press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-police-take-up-temporary-measures-to-fix-rain-battered-roads/article37449560.ece
12 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||5 held for murder of CPI functionary||Special teams of the Tiruvarur district police on Thursday arrested five persons on the charge of murdering N. Tamizharvan (51), CPI’s Needamangalam union secretary, on Wednesday evening. The arrest of the accused comes within 24 hours after occurrence of the crime. Consequent to the killing which triggered tension in Needamangalam town necessitating heavy police deployment, the police authorities constituted five special teams - each headed by a Deputy Superintendent of Police - to apprehend the killers. The teams worked under the direct supervision of the Tiruvarur Superintendent of Police C. Vijaykumar. During detailed inquiries, it came to light that there was previous enmity between Tamizharvan and R. Rajkumar (33) - a history-sheeter, and that the latter had, along with his associates, committed the crime. A police press release said the special teams arrested Rajkumar of Agrahara Poovanur; M. Madhavan (23); J. Manoj (23); B. Sena alias Senapathy (25) and A. Ezhilarasan (22) at Needamangalam Moonaru on Thursday morning. Further investigation was on in the case. The main accused was Rajkumar against whom a history sheet had already been opened at the Needamangalam police station. Rajkumar had come out on bail after being arrested recently by the Needamangalam police in connection with threatening the general public. SP Vijaykumar said Rajkumar had confessed to the police teams of having committed the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-held-for-murder-of-cpi-functionary/article37449561.ece
12 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||129 new cases in central districts||The central region reported 129 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, reflecting a slight spike compared to recent days. Two patients succumbed to the viral infection- one from Tiruvarur and another from Tiruchi district. A total of 40 patients reported COVID-19 positive in Tiruchi on Thursday. The other eight districts in the central region reported less than 30 cases. In Thanjavur, 29 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Karur and Tiruvarur reported an equal number of cases - 18. Nagapattinam, meanwhile, registered 10 fresh cases and Pudukottai district, five. Ariyalur reported four, Perambalur three, and Mayiladuthurai one COVID-19 case- the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/129-new-cases-in-central-districts/article37449558.ece
12 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Man dies after falling into well, two rescuers trapped inside brought out by fire fighters||Two persons who had volunteered to rescue a 34-year-old man with the help from locals after he accidentally fell into a nearly 95-feet deep farm well at Nallavannipatti village near Pulivalam got trapped and had to be rescued by fire and rescue services personnel of Thuraiyur fire station later. R. Ramasamy, who was rescued, however, died subsequently. Fire fighters arrived at the spot and rescued the two volunteers G. Rasu (33) and G. Kameswaran (24) of the same village, in an operation lasting nearly 40 minutes The team of fire fighters led by Thuraiyur fire station officer R. Arivazhagan had arranged for a private vehicle to take Ramasamy to a hospital, but he died later, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-dies-after-falling-into-well-two-rescuers-trapped-inside-brought-out-by-fire-fighters/article37449562.ece
12 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 119 feet on Thursday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 17,519 cusecs and the discharge was 17,126 cusecs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article37449564.ece
12 November 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Porunai Museum’ to come up on 13 acres of land near Sivanthipatti hillock||A world-class museum to showcase the artefacts that are being excavated at Aditchanallur, Korkai and Sivakalai, ancient civilisation sites along the Tamirabharani watercourse in Thoothukudi district, will come up near Sivanthipatti hillock on Palayamkottai outskirts on Madurai-Kanniyakumari National Highway. The museum, which will be established on 13 acres of land at a cost of Rs. 15 crore, will exhibit 2,617 artefacts, including burial urns, bangles, beads, terracotta, copper and iron tools, coins, polished blackware and porcelain pieces, collected at the excavation sites. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the site, along with Speaker M. Appavu, Collector V. Vishnu and Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran on Thursday evening, Minister for Industries, Tamil Culture and Archaeology Thangam Thennarasu said the ‘Porunai Museum’, which was sanctioned by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin during the last Assembly session, would come up on 13 acres of land near the national highway and used by a large number of tourists every day. Besides having attractive landscaping, caves, caveman, ancient architecture and so on, the museum campus would house medicinal plants, a handicrafts showroom and an open-air theatre. “A viewpoint with telescope will be established atop the adjacent hillock so that visitors can take a look at Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai from there,” Mr. Thangam Thennarasu said, adding that work on construction of the museum would begin once land acquisition and detailed project report were completed. Tirunelveli MP S. Gnanathiraviam and MLAs M. Abdul Wahab and Ruby R. Manoharan were present.  A viewpoint with telescope will be established atop the adjacent hillock so that visitors can take a look at Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai from there Thangam Thennarasu Minister for Industries, Tamil Culture and Archaeology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/porunai-museum-to-come-up-on-13-acres-of-land-near-sivanthipatti-hillock/article37449571.ece
12 November 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli hospital gets new oxygen generator||Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH) has got a medical-grade oxygen generation plant. Speaker M. Appavu inaugurated the oxygen generator, which has been established on an outlay of Rs. 1 crore, on Thursday in the presence of Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu, Collector V. Vishnu, Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran, MP S. Gnanathiraviam, and MLAs M. Abdul Wahab and Ruby R. Manoharan. Work on installation of the oxygen generator, capable of producing 600 litres of medical-grade oxygen per minute, commenced on September 10 and was completed on November 9. Along with the generator, an oxygen tank with a capacity of 2,000 litres was also installed for storage. “The oxygen generated in the new plant will benefit the patients of fertility and paediatric wards. It will help save the lives of 15,000 patients annually,” said Mr. Thangam Thennarasu. When the second wave of COVID-19 triggered huge influx of patients with severe breathing difficulty into TVMCH, the hospital, with its limited medical-grade oxygen, struggled to meet the sudden spurt in demand. The oxygen supplied by Indian Space Research Organisation’s Liquid Propulsion Complex at Mahendragiri rescued the hospital to some extent and the oxygen tankers received from other States saved the lives of thousands of patients. The situation improved further when Sterlite Copper’s oxygen plant also chipped in with significant quantum of medical-grade oxygen produced by its plant in Thoothukudi. Meanwhile, Mr. Vishnu and Mr. Thangam Thennarasu visited two defunct oxygen plants at SIPCOT Industrial Complex at Gangaikondan and Sethurayanpudhur, which were made operational to meet any situation. The Collector’s efforts also ensured the installation of another oxygen plant, imported from Turkey, at the 120-bedded Koodankulam Government Hospital in July with the capacity of generating 1 tonne medical-grade oxygen a day. “The latest addition [oxygen generator of TVMCH] will effectively meet the oxygen needs of the patients getting admitted here,” said Mr. Vishnu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-gets-oxygen-generator/article37449593.ece
12 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||BJP objects to distribution of Periyar’s book in government school in Tiruppur||Tension prevailed for a few hours at Jaivabai Municipal Girls Higher Secondary School here on Thursday as members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) condemned the alleged distribution of a book to the students authored by social reformer and Dravidar Kazhagam founder ‘Periyar’ E.V. Ramasamy. According to S. Naren Babu, party’s district president of media cell, a parent of one of the students from the school had contacted him that the school had allegedly distributed the copies of the book ‘ Penn Yen Adimaiyaanal’ (Why Were Women Enslaved) authored by Periyar and was originally published in 1934. “The book denigrates the self-discipline of women,” he alleged, claiming that the content of the book was “vulgar and objectionable” and not suitable for adolescent girl students. Led by BJP’s district president B. Senthilvel, around 10 functionaries visited the school and met the headmistress Stella, according to Mr. Babu. Over 1,000 copies of the book were present in the school, he claimed. The members were present for nearly five hours in the school and urged the authorities to stop distributing the copies to the students, he added. Ms. Stella told The Hindu that the copies of the book were donated to the school’s library by an individual and denied Mr. Babu’s claims that the copies were distributed to any students. “Based on consultation with higher officials, we will take a decision on whether to distribute or not,” she said, refusing to comment any further. When contacted, Chief Educational Officer of Tiruppur district R. Ramesh said that he will look into the issue and consult with the school’s headmistress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-objects-to-distribution-of-periyars-book-in-government-school-in-tiruppur/article37449496.ece
12 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Ministers inspect Amaravathi, Thirumoorthy dams||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan and Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj on Wednesday inspected Amaravathi and Thirumoorthy dams near Udumalpet in Tiruppur district as the water levels in both the dams have increased sharply following the rain. Speaking to reporters, he said that the Public Works Department has released water from both the dams and that flood warnings were issued to the residents living along the banks of River Amaravathi and River Palar, he said. The Ministers on Thursday flagged off three tractors with pumps from Kangeyam in Tiruppur district to Chennai to pump out stagnated water following the rain. According to a release, the tractors will reach Chennai on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-inspect-amaravathi-thirumoorthy-dams/article37449500.ece
12 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Monitor vulnerable areas: NDC||The Nilgiri Documentation Center (NDC) has urged the State government to increase monitoring along major roads and vulnerable areas during the monsoons to prevent loss of life from landslips. In a press release, Venugopal Dharmalingam, honorary director of the NDC, said that “after 1978, the Nilgiris entered ‘an anxious era of landslides.’ Unprecedented rain triggered about a hundred landslides within an area of 250 sq km during 1978. Nearly 200 landslides were recorded in 1979.” Landslips Mr. Dharmalingam said that the Geological Survey of India (GSI) which studied the two landslips declared that the stage of preventing environmental degradation in Nilgiris district has been crossed over and that the harm has been done. Mr. Dharmalingam said that the GSI team which inspected the landslip sites identified four human causative factors for the landslips – vertical cutting of the slopes for road formation, loading the slopes with heavy construction activities, terracing for construction and agriculture and encroachment on stream banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitor-vulnerable-areas-ndc/article37449506.ece
12 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Moat in Vellore Fort filling up fast||The moat in the 16th century Vellore Fort is filling up fast. Visitors have been prohibited from walking on the parapet wall, around 30 feet wide, of the fort for safety reasons as the pathway on the wall has become slippery due to continuous rain. More importantly, the rise in water level in the moat has made the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials lock the two entry gates to prevent visitors from walking on the wall as they might slip into the moat. During normal days, officials said, visitors used to sit on the wall to get a better view of the town. Some of them even fish in the water of the moat. “The building technique of the Vijayanagara kings is evident from the fact that there has never been any seepage into the Fort complex from the moat all these years,” M. Varadaraj Suresh, Archaeological Officer (AO), ASI (Vellore), told The Hindu . Constructed as part of the Fort complex, which is a protected monument and maintained by the ASI, the moat runs over three kilometres around the fort with an average depth of 29 feet. The depth of the moat varies due its rocky bed, especially on its northern side. Excess rainwater getting collected in the moat not only helps recharge groundwater in the drought-hit town but also aids in fishing activity in the moat which can be resumed during summer. Officials said the British era sluice gate on the southern end of the fort needed repair to allow surplus water from Suriyakulam lake, along the Bengaluru Highway (NH-48), to flow in to ensure there is water in the moat throughout the year. The lake was a major water source for the moat during the British era until the sluice gate got blocked due to encroachment and poor maintenance. Officials said that revival of the old drainage system, especially the sluice gate from the lake, will make the moat perennial. In rain-related developments, a Class IV student, T. Ashwin, a resident of Kalavai taluk in Ranipet district, donated his three-year savings of Rs. 1,338 to Collector D. Bhaskara Pandian, towards Monsoon Relief Fund on Thursday. So far, crops on 96.80 hectares is estimated to have been damaged in Ranipet district with most of the big tanks having reached their capacity. In Vellore, except Ariyur tank, rest of the three big irrigation tanks Saduperi, Chenvangi and Unai Vaniyambadi have reached their full capacity on Thursday. Vellore Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian inspected the low-lying areas along the Palar river and Anaicut in Jawadhu Hills. The Tiruvannamalai police, led by Superintendent of Police A. Pavan Kumar Reddy, has set up helpline numbers — 1077, 04175 - 233266 and 9988576666 for rain-related complaints in the district. The police personnel also removed fallen trees on Tiruvannamalai - Hosur Main Road. In Tirupattur, Collector Amar Kushwaha inspected temporary shelters set up for the rain-affected people in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/moat-in-vellore-fort-filling-up-fast/article37449575.ece
12 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Tally touches 50,000 in Vellore district||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,001 with 10 new cases reported on Thursday. While 48,691 persons have been discharged, the number of active cases stands at 177. In Ranipet district, two cases were reported positive and the tally stood at 43,497. In Tirupattur district, one new case was reported which pushed the total number of positive cases to 29,350. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases stood at three, taking the tally to 55,078. The number of active cases stands at 121.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tally-touches-50000-in-vellore-district/article37449877.ece
12 November 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Woman SP deposes before trial court||The woman Superintendent of Police, who had levelled charges of sexual harassment against suspended Special Director General of Police Rajesh Das, deposed before the Chief Judicial Magistrate court in Villupuram on Thursday. Testimony not over According to prosecution, “The SP deposed before the court in-camera for around 4 hours. Her testimony is not yet over and she will be again present on Friday. “The court, which is hearing the case directed that none except the prosecution and defence lawyers and the accused would be allowed to present.” Mr. Das and D. Kannan, Superintendent of Police, currently under suspension appeared before the court. Case adjourned The Chief Judicial Magistrate, S. Gopinathan, adjourned the case to Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-sp-deposes-before-court/article37449484.ece
12 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring officer inspects dams||Northeast Monsoon Coordinator and Monitoring Officer for Virudhunagar district C. Kamaraj inspected Pilavakkal Periyar and Sasthakoil dams and reviewed the state of preparedness in the district to face the monsoon rain, here on Thursday. Mr. Kamaraj, who is the Director of Backward Classes Welfare Department, instructed the officials to keep a close watch on inflow of water to the dams, lakes and other water bodies and ensure their stability through frequent inspection. ‘When water inflow is high, the officials should ensure that the surplus water is drained without causing any inconvenience to the people,’ he said. He said that water from Pilavakkal Periyar dam is likely to be released for irrigation on November 20. He reviewed the rainfall and water level in various dams in the last three months and also had a detailed interaction on the chain of flow of water to different tanks from the dams. Mr. Kamaraj also instructed the highways officials to repair roads and minor bridges that have faced damages during the rain. He was informed about the adverse impact of rainfall in the recent rains and the extent of crops damaged. He advised TANGEDCO officials to identify damaged electric poles and replace them at the earliest to ensure uninterrupted power supply. Fire and Rescue Service personnel should be ready with adequate men and rescue materials to face the challenges of monsoon. Steps should be taken to ensure that cattle are not affected by any seasonal diseases and adequate quantity of drugs should be kept in stock. Essential commodities should be kept in sufficient quantity and water logging should be identified at the earliest and cleared immediately. Awareness should be created among the people to consume hot water during the rain and approach Government Hospital in case of fever. Tamil Nadu Drinking Water Supply and Drainage Board should ensure regular supply of drinking water. Officials should inspect schools buildings for their stability and damaged buildings should be repair at the earliest, he said. Collector, J. Meghanath Reddy, Superintendent of Police, M. Manohar, District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Sivakasi Sub-Collector, Birathiviraj, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-officer-inspects-dams/article37449595.ece
12 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Head Constable assaulted||Murugan, 50, a Head Constable, suffered cut injury when he was attacked by R. Kumar, 30, at Mannaar Kottai near here on Wednesday night. The police said that Murugan, attached to Vachchakarapatti police station, went to Mannaar Kottai, after Palpandi complained at the police station about his nephew creating ruckus under the influence of alcohol. The head constable scolded Kumar for his misbehaviour. Suddenly, Kumar pulled out a machete and attacked Murugan on his left hand. He suffered bleeding injuries and was rushed to Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital from where he was referred to the private hospital. Superintendent of Police M. Manohar and Deputy Superintendent of Police Archana rushed to the spot. Kumar was arrested and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/head-constable-assaulted/article37449596.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Traffic regulations on Theni highway come into force||Madurai City Police have introduced traffic regulations on the stretch between Mudakkusalai and the intersection of Theni highway with Dindigul-Virudhunagar four-lane highway to facilitate construction of a flyover at the junction of Theni highway and Melakkal Main Road. Consequently, entry of heavy vehicles through Achampathu and Virattipathu towards Kalavasal has been banned beyond the four-lane highway underpass from Thursday. According to a statement, heavy vehicles, including buses, coming from Theni side should turn left to take the four-lane highway and take Melakkal Main Road through Thuvariman and Kochadai to reach Mudukkusalai. But all vehicles, coming from Kalavasal side towards Theni, can take the usual route through Virattipathu and Achampathu. Another diversion Two-wheelers and light vehicles coming from the Achampathu side towards Kalavasal are diverted through Doak Nagar Main Road after the HMS Colony junction. These vehicles will take a left turn into Doak Nagar Main Road and take a right turn on Melakkal Main Road near Regional Passport Office to reach Mudakkusalai junction. The city police have appealed to the road users to cooperate with the police. The diversion which was planned two months back was postponed in view of Thevar Guru puja and Deepavali rush, the police added.  The diversion move was postponed in view of Thevar Guru puja and Deepavali rush Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-regulations-on-theni-highway-come-into-force/article37449773.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: 68 new cases in Erode||Erode district reported 68 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday taking the total number of cases to 1,05,009. While 57 persons were discharged, 776 continue to be under treatment. Forty-six positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 23 cases were indigenous and 10 were reported in Salem Corporation limits. A total of 40 cases were reported in Namakkal. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Krishnagiri recorded 11 cases, and 20 cases discharged. The total number of cases in the district stood at 152 as of Thursday. A total of 43,704 cases were reported in Krishnagiri. Dharmapuri recorded 13 fresh cases, and 12 cases discharged. The total number of cases in the district was 167. As of date, a total 28,591 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-68-new-cases-in-erode/article37449602.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Kasthuri Sreenivasan Trust: ‘Creator Series’ Art Exhibition, Kasthuri Sreenivasan Art Centre, 10 a.m.    Confederation of Indian Industry: National Higher Education Conclave2021, Hotel Radisson Blu, 9 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Business Fest 2021, 11 a.m.  Coimbatore Speakers’ Forum of Toastmasters International: Online meeting for communication skills, 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article37449499.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Parents urge schools to refund fees of previous academic year||Many parents have approached school managements seeking either refund of fees of the previous academic year or to adjust it against 2021-2022 academic year. This follows the High Court order in September which had instructed schools to give a 15% discount in fees for 2020-21. They also urged the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) to implement the order. However, Sijo Sebastian, Voice of Parents Association, Karnataka, said many school managements are telling parents that they are not aware of the order or that it is not applicable to them. “The department should intervene and issue orders and comply with the court order,” he said. While the department had stated that schools could charge only 70% of the tuition fees charged in 2019-2020 for the 2020-2021 academic year, indicating that schools should give 30% discount, the High Court had said that schools, in lieu of underutilised facilities during that academic year, should give 15% discount. The court went a step further and said that schools should not debar students or prevent them from attending offline or online classes due to non-payment of fees. The parent of a student of a CBSE school in south Bengaluru said managements were not only refusing to refund fees, but were not allowing students to attend classes if fees were not paid in full. A senior DPI official said the department had sent the file to the State Government, which has to take a call on this matter. “Before sending the file, we took a legal opinion which had stated that the High Court order should be implemented and it was not a fit case of appeal. We are waiting for instructions from the government,” the official said. On the other hand, D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said there was a need for the government to issue orders based on the High Court’s direction. “I asked the department to issue orders, multiple times. After they do, the department can act against schools who refuse to follow the order,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/parents-urge-schools-to-refund-fees-of-previous-academic-year/article37449412.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Road link to Sir M. Visvesvaraya terminal to be ready by Nov. end||There is a growing demand for starting commercial operations at the newly built Sir M. Visvesvaraya terminal at Baiyappanahalli, for which the South Western Railway (SWR) has spent over Rs. 314 crore. The SWR had planned to open the terminal for the public in May 2020, and though it has been close to a year and a half, there is no sign of commercial operations. The lack of planning of the road network during the design stage of the terminal has resulted in a long delay in opening the terminal. Officials of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) are blaming incessant rains that are lashing the city as the reason for the delay in completing the approach road and other constructions near the Railway over Bridge (RoB) at Baiyappanahalli. The BBMP had earlier set November 15 as the deadline for the contractor to complete drainage, asphalting of the road, street lights, etc. Due to incessant rain, the contractor could not complete the work, they said. The SWR recently completed construction of an RoB at Baiyappanahalli that links Old Madras Road with the terminal. The project was sanctioned in 2000-01. The BBMP was tasked with building an approach road, drainage system, etc., and executing other projects on the roads linking the terminal with Old Madras Road, and Banaswadi. An official of the BBMP said, “Due to heavy rain, the work could not be completed. Senior officials have inspected the area and directions have been given to complete the work as early as possible. We are hopeful of completing the approach road construction, and work on the road from Mukund Theater to the terminal by this month-end. Meanwhile, measures have been taken to widen the road in front of the terminal.” Sanjeev Kishore, general manager of the SWR who held a discussion with the Chief Secretary on various railway projects on Thursday, said the BBMP is doing its best to complete the work. “I had inspected the area with the chief engineer and railways team. The work is progressing well. We are hoping that by November end, the road network will be completed. No decision has been taken on opening the terminal. There is a model code of conduct and we cannot say anything on that,” he said. Meanwhile, the Bengaluru Central MP P.C. Mohan has asked the SWR to open the terminal. To provide better road network in the future, the BBMP has planned a Rs. 260 crore mega project, an elevated rotary flyover at Maruthi Sevanagar-IOC junction, to provide access to the terminal area as well as to Kammanahalli, Banaswadi, Old Madras Road, and others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/road-link-to-sir-m-visvesvaraya-terminal-to-be-ready-by-nov-end/article37449415.ece
12 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Tribal woman opens Krishi Mela||From living in the Nagarahole National Park for decades to starting a new life out of the forest area as a model farmer, Prema has come a long way. She inaugurated the four-day Krishi Mela organised by the University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru on Thursday. Though the event was originally scheduled to be inaugurated by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, the Election Commission advised the university authorities to desist from involving Ministers in view of model code of conduct in place owing to the elections to Legislative Council. The university then identified Ms. Prema through its extension wing to inaugurate the event. Ms. Prema, who earlier made a living by collecting minor forest produce and occasionally working as a farm labourer in the villages surrounding the forest, hesitantly relocated to C. Sollepura of H.D. Kote taluk in 2007-08, when the Government undertook a rehabilitation process for about 60 tribal families. “I was very hesitant and scared when we were shifted out of the forest, which was home for us for several generations. Like others, I too was given 3 acres of land. But my husband and I did not know anything about agriculture. But I learnt from nearby farmers and attended various training sessions to understand farming,” said Ms. Prema. She added that getting to inaugurate the annual event had made her “proud and happy.” Within a short time Ms. Prema has not only adopted modern farming techniques by setting up a polyhouse for cultivating vegetables, but has also started growing chia seeds. This is in addition to the cultivation of paddy, ragi, and fruits, including banana. “I used to earn about Rs. 70,000 to 80,000 a year so far. But this time, I earned Rs. 1 lakh from chia alone, apart from the regular income from other crops,” she said, adding that she was able to buy a motorcycle for her son from this money. “I want to tell tribal families living in forest not to hesitate to move out if they are given land,” she said. Govindappa, a field assistant with Wildlife Society of India, Bengaluru, who assisted the rehabilitated tribal families including Ms. Prema, said she is a quick learner and has a strong grip on farming. He said an arrangement had also been made by the NGO to sell the farm produce of tribal people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tribal-woman-opens-krishi-mela/article37449423.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Interference in transfers amounts to politicisation of public office: HC||The High Court of Karnataka has said that “political interference, be it written or oral, in transfer and posting of officers would result in politicisation of public office, resulting in putting public efficiency and good administration to peril”. The court made these observations while coming to the rescue of an Assistant Engineer (Electrical) who was made to move from pillar to post for five months to secure a posting because the then Cabinet Minister favoured continuation of another Assistant Engineer in a particular post in contravention of the transfer orders. Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order while allowing the petitions filed by D. Naveen, AE (Electrical) of the Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Ltd. (KPTCL), questioning denial of post to which which he was lawfully transferred. From the note sheets of the official records, the court noted that the petitioner was not allowed to take charge as AE (Electrical) at Bangalore Electricity Supply Company’s Varthur O&M Unit, in the city as Mahadevapura MLA Aravind Limbavali, who was then a Minister of Cabinet rank, wanted continuation S. Mahadev as AE (Electrical) at Varthur unit. The entire action of denying posting to the petitioner was vitiated on account of political interference by the MLA, and not allowing the petitioner to take charge at Varthur was contrary to the guidelines governing transfers, the court said. The court held that the petitioner was lawfully transferred to Varthur in December 2020 after taking prior approval from the Chief Minister as per the guidelines on premature transfer. And actions of not allowing him to take charge at Varthur and giving him posting at another place was contrary to the guidelines as it was done without the Chief Minister’s prior approval. When the guidelines itself clearly bar taking post-facto approval from the Chief Minister for premature transfers, the action of taking post-facto approval from the CM to retain Mr. Mahadev at Varthur was illegal, the court said. ‘Strange procedure’ Meanwhile, the court pointed out that the KPTCL adopts strange procedure in transferring its personnel to Escoms. Noting that each Escom will have to issue orders to post the personnel even after issuing of transfer orders by the KPTCL, the court pointed out that Escoms take weeks and months to implement transfer orders leading to multiple litigations. The court said that each Escom must issue corresponding posting orders within one week from the date of KPTCL’s transfer orders while strictly adhering to a circular issued by the KPTCL in this regard in January this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/interference-in-transfers-amounts-to-politicisation-of-public-office-hc/article37449435.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru records dip in air pollution this Deepavali||The rain may have played spoilsport for those bursting firecrackers during Deepavali last week, but they impacted the city’s air quality index (AQI), bringing it to just above 50. This was the analysis of AQI and pollution levels pre- and post-festival by Ambee, a company that provides hyperlocal data on environmental factors in real-time across the globe. The company also analysed air quality data of Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, and Hyderabad, along with a comparative analysis of air quality in all the five cities during Deepavali this year and the last. In Bengaluru, the average AQI was just above 50 and PM2.5 levels were around 20. The city’s AQI levels this year were lower than that of last year, with a dip in air pollution. Madhusudhan Anand, CTO and co-founder, Ambee, said: “The continuous downpour due to cyclonic effect might be the reason behind the drop. Prior to Deepavali, the average AQI was nearing 100, with PM2.5 levels above 30. Post Deepavali, AQI decreased to 60, while the PM2.5 level was lower than 25 last week, indicating an improvement in air quality. Over the last three years, AQI trend in the city has seen a consistent dip.” This year, along with AQI and PM2.5 levels, Ambee identified the 10 least and most polluted areas by analysing data between November 1 and 7. Among the most polluted areas were Vijayanagar East, Hampinagar, and Chandra Layout, where the average AQI was above 100 and average PM2.5 was above 40. Tavarekere, Jnanabharati, and Nayandanahalli were among the other most polluted areas. On the other hand, Jalahalli West, Dasanapura, and Laggere were among the least polluted with average AQI just above 40 and average PM2.5 levels as low as 10. Five cities Among the five cities, Delhi recorded the highest levels of pollution, with an average AQI above 160 prior to Deepavali and around 250 post festival. The PM2.5 level increased from 100 to 175 post Deepavali. However, there was a marginal decrease in average AQI from 271 in 2020 to 225.5 in 2021. On the contrary, Chennai was the least polluted among the five cities, with the average AQI levels lower than 50 and PM2.5 level hovering around 15. Mumbai recorded an average AQI of around 150 throughout the period, while Hyderabad saw a marginal drop in pollution levels, with average AQI 110 prior to Deepavali to below 100 and PM2.5 level at 25 post Deepavali. Mr. Anand said the overall air quality had improved this festival. “For instance, Chennai experienced unusually high precipitation during Deepavali, which largely improved the air quality in the region. Delhi saw a marginal improvement in its air quality level this year as compared to 2020. The October rainfall in Delhi delayed the accumulation of stubble burning smoke and this led to reduction in PM2.5 content. However, Delhi still falls under the severe category and the ongoing stubble burning will add to the increase in pollution levels,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-records-dip-in-air-pollution-this-deepavali/article37449405.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Modi to visit Bengaluru twice in December||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi on Thursday and invited him to Karnataka in December to lay the foundation stone for the Bengaluru suburban rail network, inauguration of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics (BASE) University and of 180 upgraded industrial training institutes. Mr. Bommai told mediapersons after the meeting that the Prime Minister had suggested splitting the programmes into two brackets and that he would visit the city twice in December. “The Prime Minister’s office will decide on details of the visit of Bengaluru in December,” he said. Mr. Bommai said the Prime Minister appreciated many of the State Government’s decisions, particularly the Chief Minister Raitha Vidya Nidhi, a scholarship programme for children of farmers from 2021–22 academic year. The Prime Minister told the Chief Minister to make efforts for successful implementation of the scholarship programme. Based on the outcome, the programme would be replicated in other States as well, the Chief Minister said. During an hour-long meeting with Mr. Modi, the Chief Minister also discussed various decisions taken by his Government during the first 100 days in office. Mr. Modi appreciated the decision to set up a committee headed by a retired High Court judge to scrutinise the tendering process of various development projects, which would ensure transparency and eliminate unrealistic estimations, said Mr. Bommai. NEP implementation The Prime Minister enquired about implementation of the National Education Policy and suggested implementing the policy by involving all stakeholders. When they touched upon implementation of Amruta Scheme, the Prime Minister suggested bringing in reforms by establishing better coordination between Central and State Government schemes, said the Chief Minister. Mr. Bommai said the Prime Minister suggested formulation of new schemes for upliftment of women belonging to SC/ST and OBC categories for their economic empowerment. When Mr. Bommai cited the lack of interest shownby banks in lending, the Prime Minister assured that he would issue suitable directions to banks on the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/modi-to-visit-bengaluru-twice-in-december/article37449431.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mane’s oath taking put off as DKS arrives late||Srinivas Mane, MLA-elect from Hangal, was not able to take oath on Thursday as Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar could not reach the venue on time. Mr. Mane of the Congress had reached the Conference Hall of the State Secretariat, along with MLA-elect from Sindgi Ramesh B. Bhusanur to take the oath of office. The event was scheduled for 11 a.m. Mr. Shivakumar was expected to witness the oath-taking ceremony. When he did not reach the Vidhana Soudha at 11 a.m., Mr. Mane requested Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri to wait. But Mr. Kageri declined and went ahead with administering the oath of office to Mr. Bhusanur of the BJP. On his arrival, Mr. Shivakumar, along with Mr. Mane, waited in the chamber of the Speaker till noon. The Speaker did not return, but informed the Assembly staff that he would fix another day for the oath-taking ceremony of Mr. Mane. Mr. Mane told reporters, “It was my wish to take oath in the presence of our party president and party workers. It has been raining, and there was a traffic problem. I requested the Speaker to wait, but he could not as he had to attend another programme. Another date will be fixed for my oath-taking ceremony.” Mr. Shivakumar said he was delayed due to traffic. “The Speaker could have waited for five minutes. This is a result of the BJP’s defeat in Hangal, a constituency located in Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s home district of Haveri,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/manes-oath-taking-put-off-as-dks-arrives-late/article37449438.ece
12 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Using drones to help the farming sector||Can aeronautical engineering benefit agriculture? Visit the ongoing Krishi Mela to know how drones can come handy for spraying pesticides on agricultural and horticultural crops. As the spraying of pesticides can be a health hazard, scientists are now looking at drone technology for pesticide application without the involvement of people. Manual spraying is also a costly and time-consuming process. University of Agricultural Sciences-Raichur has taken up a project to develop a drone which helps in spraying of pesticides. Devanand Maski, Assistant Professor in the College of Agricultural Engineering of UAS-Raichur, says the university was able to develop a drone with a payload of 20 litres. “It is not about mere spraying of pesticide from above, but developing a digital method of spraying the accurate quantum of pesticides effectively so that excess application of pesticides could also be stopped,” he noted. Another advantage is that the pesticide application can be pre-programmed so that there is no need for human monitoring. Drone technology is at least five-fold faster compared with manual spraying, said the scientist. But, the main impediment is the initial cost as that runs to nearly Rs. 18 lakh for the drone developed by UAS-R. But Dr. Devanand said farmers would still be able to use it if the government rents it out through its custom hiring centres or other agencies. Similarly, General Aeronautics Pvt. Limited has also developed different drone models for pesticide spraying. The firm has tied with some big farm service providers to reach out to farmers. It has kept a 15-kg payload capacity drone for display at the Krishi Mela. It would cost Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 15 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/using-drones-to-help-the-farming-sector/article37449421.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CCB unearths counterfeit laundry detergent racket||Sleuths from the Central Crime Branch (CCB) raided a factory in Hanumanthanagar and arrested four persons for producing washing powder and packaging it in counterfeit “Surf Excel” packets. The police recovered 13,080 counterfeit packets of the brand, large quantities of washing powder, and packaging machines from the factory. The arrested have been identified as Uttam Singh, Tan Singh, Jalam Singh Rathod, and Moddaram, all hailing from Rajasthan. They were reportedly running the factory for the past two months. In another case, CCB sleuths raided a premises on High Grounds and unearthed a cricket betting ring. The police recovered Rs. 3.5 lakh and booked two persons who were taking bets for the New Zealand-England T20 World Cup cricket match.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ccb-unearths-counterfeit-laundry-detergent-racket/article37449398.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Driver convicted for accident held after 14 years||A driver convicted for an accident that killed a two-wheeler rider, and who was absconding, has been tracked down and arrested after 14 years. Back in 2005, Mathivannan, then 33 years old, was working as a driver with a businessman who owned an SUV, and was involved in an accident on West of Chord Road, Vijayanagar, resulting in the death of a two-wheeler rider. After a trial, he was convicted in 2007, and the court sentenced him to one-year imprisonment and Rs. 3,000 fine. However, Mathivannan, who was out on bail, fled from the city and has been untraceable since then. “There was a warrant against him pending for many years that came to light during a recent review. We followed the trail of the SUV involved in the accident. Through the vehicle owner, we got some clues and eventually tracked down Mathivannan to Tiruppur where he was working at a garment factory. He is now 49 years old. We have finally sent him to prison after a run of 14 long years. He will spend a year in prison,” said a senior traffic police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/driver-convicted-for-accident-held-after-14-years/article37449399.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tourism Department holds marketing meets in U.K.||The Department of Tourism, Government of Karnataka, in its endeavour to promote tourism in the state, organised marketing meets at Birmingham and Manchester on November 4 and 5 respectively. The Department of Tourism in a release said that after a challenging 2020-21, Karnataka Tourism, has been looking ahead to exciting times. After the destination opened up, Karnataka first participated in the World Travel Market which concluded this week. And to sustain the momentum, Karnataka Tourism organised marketing meets in key U.K. cities. Europe, and especially the U.K., has been the main source market for Karnataka in terms of tourist footfalls and these marketing meets are in continuation of the earlier meets, the release stated. A key factor is the direct air connectivity from London to Bengaluru . Moreover, there is a seamless transit connection via the Middle East like Dubai, Doha, Abu Dhabi. The release, further stated that the Karnataka Tourism delegation was led by M. Appanna, chairman, Jungle Lodges and Resorts. He was accompanied by Sindhu B. Rupesh, director, Tourism, and Vijay Sharma, Managing Director, Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation. More such meets are being planned in the coming months in all key markets; including other European cities, the U.S. and South American cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourism-department-holds-marketing-meets-in-uk/article37449413.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BDA recovers property worth Rs. 100 crore||In a drive against clearing the land encroachments, the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) recovered property worth Rs. 100 crore. On Thursday, officials of the authority cleared encroachment in various survey numbers of J.P. Nagar’s Avalahalli area. Land to the extent of 4.2 acres have been recovered from the encroachers. A press release from the BDA states that in J.P. Nagar 9th phase, the authority had issued preliminary notification in 1988 and final notification in 1997 for acquisition of the land. However, some vested interests built 40 temporary sheds in the areas claiming ownership of the land. The BDA had moved court against the encroachment. The release states that the court had directed the BDA to clear the encroachment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bda-recovers-property-worth-rs-100-crore/article37449416.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Security guard found dead||A security guard was found murdered with his throat slit on an empty plot of land on Wednesday night. The deceased has been identified as Munna Kumar, 35, from Bihar and working as a private security guard in the city. On Wednesday night, he was on night shift and left for work. Hours later, he was found dead at the slum quarters in Kasavanahalli. Police suspect he may have been killed over an old rivalry and are pursuing some suspects. The Bellandur police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/security-guard-found-dead/article37449400.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Court warns officers against poor roads in Bidar district||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday made it clear to the State Government that officers in charge of keeping roads in good condition in Bidar district will be held responsible if any untoward incident occurs due to bad roads. Also, the court directed the Principal Secretary, Public Works Department, to ensure that works to fill potholes in the entire Bidar district is taken up immediately and the roads are made motorable by carrying out required repairs. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued directions while hearing a public interest litigation petition filed in December 2019 by Gurunath Vadde, a resident of Bidar, complaining about poor condition of roads in the district. Though government counsel on September 20, 2021 gave an undertaking to the court stating that the authorities will ensure that all potholes are repaired, counsel, to a query by the Bench on Thursday, could not state whether the potholes in the entire district have been repaired. While directing the Principal Secretary to file compliance report by January 18, the Bench also made it clear that the Principal Secretary, along with PWD Chief Engineer and other officers responsible for road works, will have to be personally present before court if the Principal Secretary fails to submit the compliance report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/court-warns-officers-against-poor-roads-in-bidar-district/article37449829.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Conduct survey on crop loss, says Siddaramaiah||As Karnataka has been continuously receiving rains for the last one month, particularly while harvest of crops is in progress, Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah has urged the State Government to conduct a survey on damage to crops. This would help provide relief to farmers, he said. In a letter to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, the Congress leader said farmers had sown seeds on 78 lakh hectares during the kharif season in 2021. According to the Agriculture Department, standing crops on 11.22 lakh hectares were damaged by the end of October. But the department has not updated the damage to crops in the more recent rains in November, he said. Owing to continuous rains, various crops in different regions of Karnataka have been damaged. The Centre had paid compensation of Rs. 2,981.15 crore to Karnataka for crop loss during 2019–20 and 2020–21. However, it had not released money for crop loss in 2021–22, the former Chief Minister said. Mr. Siddaramaiah urged the State Government to conduct a survey of crop loss to provide compensation to farmers for the financial loss they have incurred. He said the rains had added to the misery of farmers who were already in a bad situation owing to the impact of the pandemic, and gave details of which crops were most hit in various parts of Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/conduct-survey-on-crop-loss-says-siddaramaiah/article37449432.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Book exhibition||The Sahitya Akademi is organising a book exhibition-cum-sale and literary programmes on the occasion of National Book Week from November 14 to 21 at the akademi office on Sampige Road at Malleswaram. The exhibition will be held between 9.30 a.m. and 6 p.m. A discount of 20% to 75% will be offered on its publications in Indian languages, according to a press release. The book exhibition and literary programmes will be inaugurated by Manu Baligar, Kannada writer and member, Kannada Advisory Board, Sahitya Akademi, the press release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/book-exhibition/article37449433.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PM greets Karnataka on Onake Obavva Jayanti||Prime Minister Narendra Modi sent greetings to the people of Karnataka on the occasion of Onake Obavva Jayanti on Thursday. “I bow to the courageous Onake Obavva on the special occasion of her jayanti (birth anniversary). No one can ever forget the courage with which she fought hard to protect her people and culture. She inspires us as a symbol of our nari shakti ,” the Prime Minister tweeted. Obavva, wife of a fort guard of chieftain Madakari Nayaka, is hailed as a brave woman who fought the forces of Hyder Ali at Chitradurga in the 18th century. Earlier this month, the Karnataka Government announced celebration of her birthday as a State-sponsored event. However, the public celebrations were later cancelled owing to the model code of conduct being in place because of elections to the Legislative Council, which are scheduled for December 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pm-greets-karnataka-on-onake-obavva-jayanti/article37449437.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||College relents after students protest||Students of a city-based degree college staged a protest on Thursday after the college management reportedly asked them to pay the fees in one instalment. The students of SSMRV College said that despite submitting several representations, the college refused to relent. However, the management agreed on Thursday after the students staged a protest. One of the students said: “The college told us that if we are unable to pay the fees in a single instalment, we should pay EMI at high interest. We did not agree and urged the management to revoke its decision.” Despite repeated attempts, the college management could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/college-relents-after-students-protest/article37449410.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Varada’ emerges at Langford||A Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) named ‘Varada’ that was launched from Rashtriya Military School Station completed the task of tunnelling a distance of 594 meters and achieved breakthrough at Langford station on Thursday. Varada is the third TBM to achieve breakthrough in phase II of Namma Metro project. Varada was launched from Rashtriya Military School in March and took almost eight months to emerge at Langford station. Meanwhile, another TBM named ‘Rudra’ that had started tunnelling at South Ramp has reached Dairy Circle. This machine has a drilled distance of 614 meters. Earlier, two TBMs Vindhya and Urja emerged at Shivajinagar metro station after tunnelling a distance of 855 meters from Cantonment station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/varada-emerges-at-langford/article37449418.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Work-from-anywhere framework unveiled||Technology services firm ITC Infotech and Harvard Business School (HBS) have jointly developed a work-from-anywhere (I-WFA) productivity framework, which was unveiled on Thursday. I–WFA enables digital, distributed, flexible, outcome-driven, and secure future work scenario for clients and employees. It powers a distributed workplace and decentralised workforce, stated a release. From HBS, Lumry Family Associate Professor Prithwiraj Choudhury collaborated with the Indian tech company to build the data-backed framework. ITC Infotech’s chief executive and managing director Sudip Singh said, “Working alongside Prof. Prithwi, we have constructed this framework balancing productivity from the customer’s viewpoint and flexibility from the employee’s viewpoint while keeping the axis of data security at the core.” According to Mr. Choudhury, one of the biggest questions being posed by business leaders across the world is whether work-from-anywhere is possible across industries and what would it take to make it happen. “I believe that I-WFA has the potential to create value for companies by facilitating hire-from-anywhere, enhancing greater workplace inclusion, increasing productivity, and enabling cost savings and operational benefits,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-from-anywhere-framework-unveiled/article37449436.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||286 new COVID-19 cases||Karnataka on Thursday recorded 286 fresh cases of COVID-19 and seven deaths, taking the total number of cases to 29,91,142. The death toll is 38,138 so far in Karnataka. The total number of active cases in the State is now 8,017. Out of the total reported cases in the last 24 hours, 169 are from Bengaluru Urban. The district also saw three deaths. Testing done While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.25%, case fatality rate was at 2.44%. A total of 5.18 crore samples have been tested in the State so far, out of which 1,11,190 were tested on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-286-new-cases-seven-deaths/article37449420.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown today||There will be no power supply on Friday between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. in areas serviced from 66/11 KV Suryacity MUSS for carrying out station maintenance works. According to a press release from BESCOM, Chandapura Division, the areas to be affected are: Suryacity Phase-2, Hinakki, Rajapura, Ramakrishnapura, J.R. Green Park, Anekal Main Road, Marsuru, Nagayanahally, Suryanagara Phase-1, and surrounding places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown-today/article37449402.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bad weather: 15 flights diverted to KIA||As many as 13 Chennai-bound flights were diverted to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) on Thursday due to bad weather conditions. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) had suspended the arrival of flight operations at Chennai due to severe rains and heavy cross winds.  A spokesperson of the Bengaluru International Airport Limited said that among the 13 flights, an international flight from Dubai also landed at Bengaluru Airport. In addition to this, two Tirupati-bound flights were also diverted to Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bad-weather-15-flights-diverted-to-kia/article37449408.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All wrapped up||It was the kind of weather that made people want to stay indoors as the maximum temperature in Bengaluru dropped by 7°C (to 19.8°C) on a rainy Thursday. The departure from normal for the minimum temperature was by 1°C (at 18°C). The IMD’s Climatological Table showed the mean November temperatures to be 27.2°C (maximum) and 18°C (minimum) respectively. The all-time record for the lowest minimum temperature in the city for the month was in 1967, when the temperature dropped to 9.6°C. An IMD release said the depression over southwest Bay of Bengal moved north westwards and lay centred over southwest and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal, about 130 km east-southeast of Chennai and 150 km east-northeast of Puducherry. “It is very likely to continue to move west-northwestwards and cross north Tamil Nadu and adjoining south Andhra Pradesh coasts around Chennai during the evening of November 11,” the release added, predicting rain for most parts of the state, with alerts for parts of South Interior Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-shivers-as-maximum-temperature-drops-by-7c/article37449407.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two-wheeler thieves caught||Two persons, who used to steal two-wheelers, were caught by the police, who said at least 13 cases have now been cracked. While probing the theft of a two-wheeler, the Kumaraswamy Layout police busted the ring, and arrested Naveed Pasha, 21, and Syed Roshan, 21. Police recovered 13 two-wheelers worth Rs. 7 lakh from the accused. The police said 13 cases in nine police stations in the city have been cracked with their arrest, including five cases in Kumaraswamy Layout police station. The duo marked out two-wheelers parked on the streets, broke open their locks, and made away with them at night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-wheeler-thieves-caught/article37449819.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Laptops of hacker to be sent for analysis||The city police will send four laptops belonging to hacker Srikrishna for digital forensic analysis. They were recovered from a star hotel room where he was staying and was arrested over a brawl on November 6. The Jeevan Bima Nagar police, who recovered the laptops, on Thursday, sought the court’s permission to send the laptops for forensic analysis. Bitcoin scam Srikrishna is at the centre of a brewing political storm over an alleged “bitcoin scam” that the Opposition Congress says has Rs. 10,000 crore worth of transactions and involves two prominent BJP politicians. The four laptops may contain leads on Srikrishna’s recent activities, police suspect. Srikrishna, who walked out of Parappana Agrahara Central Prison on Wednesday in the brawl case, spoke to media persons and termed the bitcoin scam as “nuisance, bogus, and media hype” and said all must wait for the outcome in the court where the case was pending. When specifically asked about the laptops recovered from him, he claimed “none of them were working”. Remanded in custody Meanwhile, Vishnu Bhat, son of a prominent jeweller in the city, who was also arrested along with Srikrishna in the brawl case and also booked for possession of narcotics, was remanded to judicial custody till November 20 by a city court on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-laptops-of-hacker-to-be-sent-for-forensic-testing/article37449401.ece
12 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||60,000 visit mela braving rains||Untimely rains that lashed Bengaluru on Thursday played a spoilsport at the Krishi Mela on the GKVK campus in the city. However, braving the showers over 60,000 farmers visited the mela that showcased latest trends in farm sector, new technologies, and crop varieties. About 1.55 lakh persons watched the event online. The ground at the venue was slushy, but that did not seem deter locals as well those who had come from places such as Chamarajanagar, Shivamogga, and Hassan. During the four-day event, innovative farmers will be honoured with taluk and district-level awards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/60000-visit-mela-braving-rains/article37449427.ece
12 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||EPFO senior staff worried over losing out on promotions||Senior social security assistants of the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) are worried about losing promotion opportunities, even after serving the institution for several years, due to recruitment rules favouring the new entrants. Several senior social security assistants working in Karnataka and other States have written to the Central Provident Fund Commissioner in New Delhi to address the issue and provide them with justice. The employees recruited as social security assistants in the organisation get a chance to become section supervisors or head clerks after they clear the departmental competitive examination. However, the organisation did not conduct the examination to fill the vacancies created between 1993 and 2017, denying the employees opportunities for promotion. The organisation notified the examination in 2017 and it was held on July 27, 2019. Along with those who served the organisation for decades, recently recruited also took the examination. The results have not been declared so far. Meanwhile, the employees filed multiple cases in CAT across the country, questioning the recruitment rules and eligibility criteria. Chandigarh Chapter of CAT in November 2019 ordered to consider all those who have completed three years of service as eligible for the examination. However, the Karnataka High Court on August 9, 2021, ordered to declare the results of the examination as per the recruitment rules of 2017, benefiting those who had completed nine years of service. On October 21, the head office of the organisation issued a circular to zonal offices to make arrangements to declare the results as per the Chandigarh CAT order. An employee who has served more than 25 years in this organisation said, “We have appealed to the organisation to complete the process as per the recruitment rules of 2017. The Karnataka High Court also highlighted the same. If it is not followed, there are chances of those recruited in the recent years getting senior positions in the organisation, demoralising the those who have served longer,” he said. Another employee, who also wished not to be named, said it was the fault of the organisation for not conducting the competitive exam for decades. “The vacancies generated during those years ideally should go to those who served the organisation then. But, the rules now adopted will benefit those who were recruited in the recent years,” he pointed out.  “We have appealed to the organisation to complete the process as per the recruitment rules of 2017. The Karnataka High Court also highlighted the same. If it is not followed, there are chances of those recruited in the recent years getting senior positions in the organisation, demoralising the those who have served longer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/epfo-senior-staff-worried-over-losing-out-on-promotions/article37449440.ece
12 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||One dead as car overturns at curve||A native of Bhadravati in Shivamogga district died in an accident at Changadihalli in Sakleshpur taluk on Thursday. Ganesh, a businessman by profession, died when the four-wheeler he was travelling in turned upside down. He lost control over the vehicle while negotiating a curve. Ganesh was on a visit to his wife’s native place, Manjuru Kamanahalli, to attend a house-warming ceremony. He met with the accident while returning to his father in-law’s place after a visit to Changadihalli. Yaslur Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-dead-as-car-overturns-at-curve/article37449807.ece
12 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Elephant calf named after Puneeth Rajkumar||The Forest Department staff has named a two-year-old elephant calf at Sakrebail elephant camp near Shivamogga after actor Puneeth Rajkumar, who passed away recently. The actor, during his visit to the camp in September, had spent some time with the calf. In memory of the actor, the Deputy Conservator of Forests I.M.Nagaraj and others chose his name. Weaning operation As part of the tradition followed in the camp, the calf was weaned from his mother Nethra on Wednesday, with the help of other trained elephants. The operation began at 11.30 a.m. and went on till the afternoon. Mr.Nagaraj told the media that the calf was supposed to be separated as soon as it completed two years. However, the process was delayed by three months due to rains. “We will keep the calf in isolation so that it could be trained. If it is not separated from its mother at this age, it would be difficult to control it later”, he said. The calf is the fourth baby of elephant Nethra. Unless the mother is separated from her calf, she could not be engaged in other activities. Training “Normally in the forests, baby elephants stay with the mother for up to six years. In the elephant camps, we separate the baby from the mother so that it could be trained. The baby takes some time to get adjust to the situation”, said Vinay, veterinarian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elephant-calf-named-after-puneeth/article37449430.ece
12 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||23 fresh cases of COVID-19 in Hassan||Hassan reported 23 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday. With that, the total number of cases in the district increased to 1,11,876. Among the fresh cases 16 were in Arakalgud, four in Hassan, two in Channarayapatna and one in Sakaleshpur taluk. So far 1,376 have died due to the infection in the district. As many as 119 people are under treatment. Shivamogga reported two fresh cases on the day. Of them, one was from Sagar and another in Hosanagar taluk. So far 1,072 people have died due to the infection in the district. As many as 29 people are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/23-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-in-hassan/article37449808.ece
12 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Three-year-old girl raped||A three-year-old baby girl was allegedly raped by a 17-year-old neighbour in Shikaripur taluk on Thursday. The girl, playing outside her home, had been to the neighbour’s house, where the accused allegedly raped her. Shikaraipur Rural Police have registered a case based on a complaint filed by the girl’s mother. The police took the boy into custody and initiated legal action against him. The police have registered cases under Section 376 of the IPC and relevant sections under the POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-year-old-girl-raped/article37449809.ece
12 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Tension over bypass road work on outskirts of Belagavi||Tension prevailed for sometime on the outskirts of Belagavi on Thursday as two among farmers staging a protest opposing the Halaga-Machhe Bypass Road made an attempt to end their lives. The incident happened when the National Highway Authority of India officials visited the spot for initiation of the bypass road work which the farmers vehemently opposed. The protesting farmers urged the officials to stop the work immediately. They said that along with the land earmarked for acquisition for facilitating the construction of the bypass road, fertile land of farmers have been acquired by the government. Hospitalised As the farmers entered into an altercation with the visiting officials, a farmer, Akash Angolkar, tried to immolate himself. However, the police immediately rushed to thwart his attempt. He was immediately rescued and rushed to hospital. Another youth climbed up a tree and threatened to commit suicide if his demands were not met. Meanwhile, several women, who were opposed to the initiation of the work on bypass road, entered into an altercation with the officials and the police seeking immediate halt to the work. They also said that there were police atrocities on the protesting farmers and women. Several of the protestors, including women, were taken into custody later by the police as a precautionary measure. During the protest, farm woman Sumitra Angolkar, Amit and others said that there is a legal dispute over the bypass road and they have not received any money from the government in exchange for the land as they did not want to part with their farmland. They said that the government officials are forcibly trying to acquire the land and moreover, the road alignment has been changed to benefit politically influential people. There was high drama at the worksite as the farmers vehemently opposed the work. While a woman sat in front of an earthmover, a farmer sat inside the bucket of the earthmover opposing the work. Finally, the police took all of them into custody and cleared the worksite. Clarification Deputy Commissioner of Police Vikram Amte, who rushed to the spot, clarified that the police only provided security cover as per the requisition made by NHAI officials and they (police) did not indulge in any kind of atrocity while taking the protestors into custody. He said that the youth who had suffered burns has been admitted to the District Hospital where he is recuperating. For the 9.5-km Halaga-Machhe Bypass Road, 135 acres of land has been acquired by the government and some of the owners have expressed reluctance in parting with their land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tension-over-bypass-road-work-on-outskirts-of-belagavi/article37449617.ece
12 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Vidyavardhak Sangha election results subject to court order||Admitting a writ petition against holding elections to Karnatak Vidyavardhak Sangha (KVS), the Dharwad Bench of the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday said that the results of the election will be subject to the final order of the court. Justice Suraj Govindraj passed the order on Thursday, while admitting the writ petition filed by Mahadev Doddmani seeking a stay on holding elections to the more-than-a-century old sangha. Mr. Doddmani said in his petition that there was a government order directing all organisations registered under Bombay Trust Act to get registered with the District Court. And, although, the application filed by the sangha is still pending before the District Court, the sangha has initiated the poll process and has also announced the calendar of events. So, he said, he is seeking a stay on the election process. Admitting the petition, the single judge bench ordered for issue of notices to State Government, Election Officer and the sangha and adjourned hearing. It said that the results of the polls will be subject to the final order of the court. The nomination process for the election will begin on Friday. As per the calendar of events, the last date for filing nomination papers is November 16. Scrutiny of papers will be taken up on November 17 and candidates will have time till November 19 to withdraw their nomination papers. The final list of candidates in the fray will be declared on November 20 and polling will take place on November 28, from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the sangha. Counting of votes will be taken up on November 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vidyavardhak-sangha-election-results-subject-to-court-order/article37449822.ece
12 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Policy decision on home charging facility required, says Ather CEO||The government coming up with a policy decision on making it mandatory to have charging facilities for electric vehicles at parking lots for multi-storeyed residential complexes will go a long way in promoting e-vehicles in the country, CEO and co-Founder of Ather Energy Tarun Mehta has said. Speaking to presspersons after the launch of a “New Experience Centre” of Ather Energy at Bhairidevarakoppa in Hubballi on Wednesday, Mr. Tarun Mehta said that while the company will be setting up public fast charging stations for e-vehicles, a policy decision on home charging stations will boost use of e-vehicles. Mr. Mehta said that the company is enhancing its production capacity which is likely to reach around 10,000 units per month in another six months. Mr. Mehta said that the life of battery used in e-vehicles will last six-seven years and the company is focussing on further bringing down the charging time at public charging stations. “At present, it will take around 45 minutes for charging 80% of the battery. Research and development teams have been able to bring it down further and the improved technology will be implemented after further trials after a few months,” he said. He said that the demand for e-vehicles from a city like Hubballi surprised the company and has also made it change plans based on market requirements. The company will be adding more charging stations across the country, he said. Director of Bellad Group Agastya Bellad said that the response for e-vehicles has been good in the region and they have already sold 500 units. Earlier, Mr. Tarun Mehta inaugurated Ather Energy’s 23rd experience centre in India and fourth in the State. The company has also set up four public fast charging points in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/policy-decision-on-home-charging-facility-required-says-ather-ceo/article37449625.ece
12 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Blacklist contractors not making PF contribution: Deputy Commissioner||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has directed the municipal commissioner to blacklist contractors who fail to make Provident Fund contribution for pourakarmikas (civic workers). Chairing a meeting on safai karmacharis at his office in Dharwad on Wednesday, Mr. Patil asked the municipal commissioner to ensure that no other contract of any project or any tender of supply of manpower through the outsourcing method is given to such contractors. Clarifying on the issue, Commissioner of Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation Suresh Itnal told the meeting that a contractor has paid Rs. 24 lakh out of the Rs. 58 lakh due towards PF contribution and he had been asked to pay the balance amount. Reacting to it, Mr. Patil asked the municipal commissioner to make public details regarding accounts of employees towards which PF contribution has been credited on the corporation website. He said that the blacklisting of the contractor should be withdrawn only after the entire amount towards PF contribution is credited by the contractor. Meenakshi of Safai Karmachari Development Corporation told the meeting that of the 38 people who sought loans from the corporation, 32 have been sanctioned them. The corporation has set a target of disbursing loans to 716 safai karmacharis in the current fiscal. This apart, they had plans to provide assistance in the ratio of 75:25 to associations of pourakarmikas for purchase of sucking and jetting machines. Although information has been given through media regarding sanction of free computer tablets and 90% subsidy for purchase of two-wheelers to female safai karmacharis, not many applications have been received, she said. The Deputy Commissioner said that steps will be taken to initiate a recruitment process for filling vacant posts of safai karmacharis in the district. The meeting also deliberated on utilisation of grants under Special Component Plan (SCP) and Tribal Sub Plan (TSP). Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant, Additional Deputy Commissioner Shivanand Karale, IAS Probationary Officer Madhav Gitte, Joint Director of Social Welfare Officer N.R. Purushottam and members of Safai Karmacharis Committee were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/blacklist-contractors-not-making-pf-contribution-deputy-commissioner/article37449615.ece
12 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Meeting to sort out issue||With a farmer attempting immolation opposing the Halaga-Machhe Bypass Road on Thursday and the situation becoming tense for some time, Deputy Commissioner of Belagavi M.G. Hiremath held a meeting with the residents and farmers to sort out the issue. In the meeting, attended by farmers representatives and farmers affected by the project and senior police officials, the Deputy Commissioner sought to clarify that no atrocities were committed on farmers and the authorities concerned had only appealed to farmers to cooperate with the administration to facilitate a development project. He said that the district administration and the State Government were always with the farmers and he will appeal to farmers to extend cooperation so that a development project is initiated. He said that if at all there are any grievances and any farmer felt that injustice has been done to him, he will take steps to address the issue and get justice to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting-to-sort-out-issue/article37449626.ece
12 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Fake certificates cancelled||After a thorough inquiry and verification, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has cancelled eight fake caste certificates and directed the authorities concerned to initiate legal action against those who had availed themselves of the fake caste certificates. Chairing a meeting of safai karmacharis in Dharwad on Wednesday, the Deputy Commissioner ordered for the cancellation of the fake certificates. In all, the administration received 10 complaints pertaining to fake caste certificates and of them, eight are found to have been procured providing false information. The authorities found that the caste certificates issued to the remaining two persons are genuine and they have been declared as valid. Mr. Nitesh Patil also directed tahsildar of Kundgol taluk to inquire into the caste certificate of Ratnavva Padesur of Bhovi community (SC), a resident of Guruvinahal, and submit a report within 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fake-certificates-cancelled/article37449623.ece
12 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||BA VI semester results||Karnatak University, Dharwad, on Thursday announced the results of VI semester BA examinations held during September 2021. Students can visit the university website, www.kud.ac.in, to check their results, Registrar (Evaluation) H. Nagaraj has said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ba-vi-semester-results/article37449831.ece
12 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Students stage protest in Ballari against sudden implementation of NEP||Hundreds of students from different colleges in Ballari city boycotted their classes and gathered at the district administrative complex to oppose the sudden implementation of National Education Policy – 2020 in the State. Organised under the banner of All India Democratic Students Organisation (AIDSO), a student arm of the Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist), the students took out multiple rallies from their colleges waving banners and raising slogans against the Union and State Governments for introducing the policy from the current academic year in a hurry. “Opposition parties, educationists, parents, students and the student organisations have been criticising the NEP-2020 since the beginning. There has been a big public discourse on the policy. The government has, however, made little changes incorporating the suggestions. The State Government, in a bid to be on the frontline in the implementation of the policy in the country, has directed the educational institutions in the State to implement the policy from the current year even though there are little infrastructure and staff,” district secretary of the organisation K. Eeranna said during the agitation. The students leaders said that the implementation of the policy without proper preparations will harm the future of students. “Many universities in the State have already announced the four-year degree course from the current academic year. But, they have not prepared the syllabus, appointed the required teaching staff and trained the existing teaching faculty to reorient them to the new policy. The policy will deteriorate the quality of education rather than improving it,” Shanti, another student leader, said. The students leaders also criticised some of the aspects of the policy stating that they will encourage privatisation, saffronisation and centralisation of education in the country. “The government should first consult all stakeholders and incorporate their opinions in the policy before opting for implementation. Till then, the policy should be withdrawn,” Manjunath, a member of the district secretariat of the organisation, said. A memorandum, addressed to the Chief Minister, was later submitted to the office of the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-stage-protest-in-ballari-against-sudden-implementation-of-nep/article37449620.ece
12 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sugarcane growers want factories to fix price||The Sugarcane Growers Association has demanded that sugar factories fix the price for sugarcane being crushed during this season. Association president Jagadish Patil addressing presspersons here on Thursday said that the district administration should organise a meeting with factory officials and sugarcane growers immediately and direct the factories to fix the price of sugarcane. The sugarcane growers along with farmers from across the district will picket the Deputy Commissioner’s office here on November 17, if the district authorities fail to hold a meeting with the factory officials and sugarcane farmers before November 15. Mr. Patil said that the factories were paying Rs. 2,300 per tonne of sugarcane, which was fixed during the last year. He demanded that the factories pay Rs.2,800 per tonne of sugarcane this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sugarcane-growers-want-factories-to-fix-price/article37449622.ece
12 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Postpone polls to Council’||Congress leader and former MLA from Aland in Kalaburagi district B.R. Patil has demanded that the elections announced for the vacant positions in the State Legislative Council be postponed. In a letter he wrote to the Chief Election Officer of Karnataka on Thursday, Mr. Patil pointed out that the term of gram panchayats, taluk panchayats and zilla panchayats has ended and members of institutions of local governance who are the electoral college for the MLC positions are not eligible to cast their votes. “The term of these bodies has ended and their members cannot exercise their franchise in the MLC elections. Moreover, the State Government has formed a panel for delimitation. At this juncture, the Election Commission has announced the election to elect by these local institutions members to the Legislative Council,” Mr. Patil noted in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/postpone-polls-to-council/article37449618.ece
12 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah asked to provide information on bitcoin scam||Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah should stop issuing bland statements about involvement of BJP leaders in the bitcoin scam and instead comment on the kin of Congress legislators whose names figure in the charge-sheet filed against the main accused in the scam, said State BJP spokesperson and former MLC Ganesh Karnik here on Thursday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Karnik said that Mr. Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar are just issuing plain statements pointing fingers at BJP leaders said to be associated with the main accused, Srikrishna Ramesh alias Sriki, while remaining silent on Congress MLA N.A. Haris’ son Nalapad Haris and the former MLA Rudrappa Lamani’s son Darshan Lamani whose names figure in the statement of Srikrishna Ramesh annexed in the charge-sheet filed by Bengaluru’s K.G. Nagar Police. “Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Shivakumar should first clarify about the role of Nalapad Haris and Darshan Lamani in the scam,” Mr. Karnik said. Mr. Nalapad Haris and Srikrishna Ramesh were accused in the case registered in 2018 over a fight between two groups in a hotel. “There is strong suspicion that this case was hushed up by the then Siddaramaiah Government to prevent matters of bitcoin scam from becoming public,” Mr. Karnik said. Mr. Karnik said that the State Government has made it clear that the bitcoin scam will be investigated in a transparent manner and whosoever involved in it will be booked. “If Mr. Siddaramaiah is responsible, he should provide information about the scam to the police rather than issue statements to paint the government in a poor manner,” he said.  ‘Both Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar are silent on Congress MLA N.A. Haris’ son Nalapad Haris and the former MLA Rudrappa Lamani’s son Darshan Lamani whose names figure in the statement of the main accused Srikrishna Ramesh annexed to the charge-sheet’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-asked-to-provide-information-on-bitcoin-scam/article37449802.ece
12 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Panchayats should concentrate on tackling natural calamities’||Union Panchayat Raj Secretary Sunil Kumar on Thursday said gram panchayats, particularly in coastal states, should concentrate on effectively facing natural calamities during monsoon and resultant diseases. He was virtually addressing a regional workshop organised for panchayat representatives with the theme of economic and social development through public participation in coastal and Union territory regions organised by National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, Hyderabad and Abdul Nazeer Sab State Institute of Rural Development here. Mr. Kumar said coastal states and panchayats should ensure priority development of the coastal regions thereby solving community issues. Asking panchayats to undertake natural calamity mitigation and management measures on war-foot, the Secretary congratulated them for playing a major role in COVID-19 management and vaccination drive. These kinds of activities should be given institutional framework, he suggested. In his message, Karnataka RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa said there was need for a detailed discussion on issues being faced by coastal states. At the end of the workshop, panchayats should be able to frame effective plans to address the issues, he said. Addressing the inauguration virtually, State RDPR Principal Secretary Uma Mahadevan said the Karnataka Government has undertaken several measures to strengthen panchayatraj institutions. She said the Panchayat Raj Act provides for community participation in developmental works. Ms. Mahadevan said the two-day workshop should focus on addressing soil erosion and livelihood issues being faced in the coastal region. COVID-19 outbreak could be contained because of community participation, she noted. RDPR Commissioner Shilpa Nag said the hybrid mode of training for empowerment of panchayat members to strengthen panchayatraj institutions has been of much help. Representatives from three-tier panchayatraj system from different coastal states, officers from central and state governments, policy makers, subject experts and others are attending the two-day conference. Union Panchayat Raj Joint Secretary Rekha Yadav, Nazeer Sab Institution Director K. Lakshmi Priya, Karnataka Panchayatraj Director Ekanthappa, Dakshina Kannada ZP CEO Kumara and others spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panchayats-should-concentrate-on-tackling-natural-calamities/article37449781.ece
12 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fuel sales see a jump in border areas||With prices of petrol and diesel becoming cheaper in the State compared to almost all neighbouring States since November 4, following reduction of State duties along with cut in Central excise duty, fuel stations in border areas have been witnessing a big jump in sales volume. Vehicle owners in the border districts of neighbouring States, including Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Maharashtra, have been thronging fuel stations across the border where petrol is cheaper by about Rs. 5 a litre and diesel by about Rs. 10 a litre. Prices in BJP-ruled Goa, however, became cheaper than in Karnataka after the government slashed State duties taking a cue from the decision of the Union Government. Karnataka reduced value added tax on petrol from 35% to 25.9% and on diesel from 24% to 14.34% resulting in a reduction of about Rs. 7 a litre each, effective on November 4. Neighbouring non-BJP States, however, did not reduce VAT on these fuel arguing that the Centre should have slashed more excise duties. Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekara Rao argued that his government had not increased VAT for a long time and it was the Centre that had regularly hiked duties. Sales tripled Yashodhar, operating the Talapady Service Station of Indian Oil Corporation at Talapady in Dakshina Kannada on the Kerala border, told The Hindu that diesel sales have increased from about 3,000 litres a day to 11,000 litres and that of petrol from 1,000 litres to about 4,000 litres a day. Ganesh, a private bus conductor on Kasargod-Talapady route, said that he saves close to Rs. 400 on filling 40 litres of diesel every day in Talapady, instead of in Kerala. A Bharat Petroleum Corporation outlet just across the border that had displayed a banner stating fuel was cheaper in Kerala till November 4, has now removed the banner. Similar banners have now come up near fuel pumps in the border areas in the State. While petrol was sold at Rs. 99.9 and diesel at Rs. 84.36 in Talapady, they were sold at Rs. 105.38 and Rs. 92.58 in Kasargod on Thursday. The prices in Belagavi were Rs. 100.03 and Rs. 84.79 against Rs. 110.17 and Rs. 92.98 in Kolhapur; Rs. 101.38 and Rs. 85.77 in Bidar against Rs. 108.18 and Rs. 94.61 in Hyderabad and Rs. 100.56 and Rs. 85 for petrol and diesel, respectively, in Bengaluru against Rs. 103.58 and Rs. 92.61 in Dharmapuri, Tamil Nadu.  Petrol and Diesel prices (in Rs. / litre) in border districts of Karnataka and districts of neighbouring states District Petrol Diesel Dakshina Kannada 99.9 84.36 Kasargod (Kerala) 105.38 92.58 Belagavi 100.03 84.79 Kolhapur (Maharashtra) 110.17 92.98 Bidar 101.38 85.77 Hyderabad (Telangana) 108.18 94.61 Bengaluru 100.56 85 Dharmapuri (Tamil Nadu) 102.58 87.26||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/border-area-fuel-stations-see-high-sales-as-rates-are-cheaper-in-state/article37449425.ece
12 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Follow Glasgow summit impact on climate change: climatologist||Climatologist and Professor, University of Maryland, Raghu Murthugudde has urged students and youth to keep a watch on the developments in the recent Glasgow summit and the implementation of its resolutions. Speaking virtually in “Ecospot”, a programme organised by students of Gandhian Centre for Philosophical Arts and Sciences, MAHE, Manipal, on “Climate change and what you can do?”, he cited several examples of living sustainably so that one can bring down the carbon footprint collectively. Expressing happiness over youth taking the lead in climate change matters, he asked them to keep a vigil on climate treaties and put pressure so that collectively “we can make a difference”. Prof. Murthugudde maintained that collectively one can make a difference in arresting the evil effect of climate change, and one needs to lead by one's own example. The only consistent effort of everyone should be a solution for climate change. The top one percept people with the highest income are the reason for more than 74% of annual carbon emission, but more than 50% of people with the lowest income have suffered climate change for decades, he said. Prof. Murthugudde is a professor of atmospheric and oceanic science and earth system science at the University of Maryland. He has been working on numerical modelling of the earth system. Centre Director Varadesh Hiregange said that there has to be a conversation among scientists, ecologists, and those who are directly affected by climate change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/follow-glasgow-summit-impact-on-climate-change-climatologist/article37449784.ece
12 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two arrested in cheating case||The police arrested two Tibetan residents of Mundgod in Uttara Kannada on the charge of cheating. The Cyber Economics and Narcotic Crime Police gave the names of the arrested persons as Lobsang Sangyes (24) and Dakpa Phunde (40). Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters that C.D. Alexander, a resident of Attavar, submitted his credit card to the State Bank of India for renewal on March 23, 2021. A man claiming to be an SBI representative called Mr. Alexander for renewal of the card four days later and obtained OTP from him. Then, an amount of Rs. 1.12 lakh was removed from Mr. Alexander’s account. Using Mobikwik Wallet App, this amount was transferred to two accounts of Fincare Small Finance Bank’s branch in Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. Following a complaint to Cyber Economics and Narcotic Police Station, the police found that the Rs. 1.12 lakh was further transferred to the account of Lobsang Sangyes in Canara District Cooperative Bank in Mundgod. Sangyes reportedly told the police that the money was transferred as per the advice of Phunde. Mr. Kumar said that the police are on the look-out for a garment trader who operated in Tibetan settlement and some people in Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra who are involved in the case. The police have found that Phunde was involved in illegal hawala transactions of converting Indian currency to Tibetan currency and vice-versa . He has made use of the banned Wechat and Red Pack apps for illegally transferring money and to keep in touch with other money exchange agents, Mr. Kumar said. The two arrested persons belong to Shar Gaden Monastery whose activities are under the surveillance of Central investigation agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-in-cheating-case/article37449787.ece
12 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Make all preparations for swimming event’||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Thursday asked the Youth Empowerment and Sports Department to make all necessary arrangements for the forthcoming Swimming Federation of India’s 17th Master Championship events scheduled from November 26 to 28 in the city. Chairing a meeting here, Dr. Rajendra said that the events would be held at the international-level swimming pool of St. Aloysius College wherein over 1,000 swimmers aged above 25 are expected to participate. As such, Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. should complete all the ongoing Smart City Works within the next 10 days, he said. The Deputy Commissioner asked the department to take up social media campaign for spreading the message about the event. Adequate medical, lodging, boarding and other facilities should be provided to participants arriving from different states as well as from abroad, he said. Karnataka Swimming Association president Gopal B. Hosur, Secretary Satish Kumar, Youth Empowerment deputy director Pradeep D’Souza, St. Aloysius Institutions Rector Fr. Melwyn Joseph Pinto and others attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/make-all-preparations-for-swimming-event/article37449797.ece
12 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hajabba felicitated||As white shirt and white dhoti clad Harekala Hajabba entered the conference hall of the Police Commissioner’s office, all police personnel present stood up to clap and welcome him on stage. They did the same when he was honoured by Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar and retired Inspector-General of Police Gopal B. Hosur here on Thursday. On November 8, the elderly orange seller Hajabba, who worked towards building a government school in his village, received the Padma Shri Award from President Ram Nath Kovind. “I never imagined that a poor man like me will be called to New Delhi and honoured by the President. I will remember this for my lifetime,” said a humble Mr. Hajabba and remembered all those who donated generously for realising his dream of having a government school in his village. “Bureaucrats supported me and so have elected representatives. Media persons highlighted my work. I am really indebted for all the support and honour bestowed on me,” he said. Mr. Hosur urged police officers to stand by the voiceless who come to the police station for justice. “Give preference to the poor and the downtrodden. Bureaucrats have the power to help people in need,” he said. Mr. Kumar said that with selfless people like Mr. Hajabba receiving the award, the value of Padma awards has increased. Mr. Hajabba has inspired police personnel to serve society in a selfless way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hajabba-felicitated/article37449799.ece
12 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Production too peaks||Coinciding with reduction in petrol and diesel retail prices, production of these fuel at Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (MRPL) that caters to major areas in the State, too has seen a jump. There has been an increase in production since October 4, while it has picked up in the recent days. Production of petrol for the domestic market witnessed about 30% increase when compared to pre-COVID days — from around 90,000 tonnes to around 1.3 lakh tonnes a month, while diesel production has reached pre-COVID levels (about 3.3 lakh tonnes a month), said MRPL spokesperson Rudolph V.J. Noronha. Sales of these fuel at MRPL’s 27 retail outlets in the State too have witnessed about 10% increase, Mr. Noronha added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/production-too-peaks/article37449785.ece
12 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Involve ward panel members in park development’||The Mangalore Civic Group has urged the Mangaluru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) to involve citizens and the newly created Ward Committees in the planning and execution of the 15 parks that MUDA has envisaged to develop in the first phase to give more green space to Mangaluru city. A delegation comprising Prathapchandra Kedilaya and Suresh Nayak MCC Civic Group met MUDA Chairman Ravishankar Mijar and Commissioner N. Bhaskar at the MUDA office recently and submitted a memorandum in this regard, said a release. They congratulated MUDA for having conceived the idea of developing parks at every Ward in Mangaluru. Both the Chairman and the Commissioner welcomed the appeal and assured the representatives of the Group of favourable consideration. Mangalore Civic Group was at the forefront of the campaign to start Ward Committees and Area Sabhas for local ward governance in Mangaluru. The Mangaluru City Corporation has now constituted Ward Committees in all 60 Wards of Mangaluru. Maintenance of parks is one of the functions of the Ward Committees as mandated by the Karnataka Municipal Corporations (Amendment) Act of 2011. Involving the citizens of the Ward represented through Ward Committees and Area Sabhas by the MUDA would be a boon to participatory democracy, the Group said. Mangalore Civic Group looks forward to work with MUDA on developing excellent parks for Mangaluru. The Mangalore Civic Group was formed in 2015 under the erstwhile name MCC Civic Group to foster citizen participation in local self-governance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/involve-ward-panel-members-in-park-development/article37449791.ece
12 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Youth washed away in Addahole||A 20-year-old man hailing from Rajasthan has gone missing after he was washed away at Addahole, near Gundya, off the National Highway, on Wednesday. According to Uppinangady Police, Sitharam, along with his relative, were going in a automobile spare parts supply vehicle from Mangaluru to Bengaluru. They stopped the vehicle and Sitharam stood on a rock, while his cousin was taking video of the scenery around. Sitharam slipped from the rock and was washed away at around 4 p.m. Sitharam’s cousin rushed to Gundya and informed the police and local residents. Fire and Emergency Services personnel, police and local swimmers are carrying out a search operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youth-washed-away-in-addahole/article37449779.ece
12 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MCC wants to improve tax collection||After failing toget property tax dues despite reminders and warnings, the Mysuru City Corporation has now resorted to target top defaulters with a novel campaign of putting up banners in front of the gates of their properties here with details on the extent of dues and the names of the owners. The campaign is aimed at prompting the owners to clear the dues and help the corporation improve its revenue. MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy told The Hindu that the arrears have accumulated to the tune of Rs. 100 crore. Some top players are delaying payment and some have not paid for over eight to 10 years. This cannot be tolerated as the MCC’s income solely hinges on tax collection. He said the top 20 tax defaulters have been identified in each MCC zone. “We are not targeting small defaulters and moreover the MCC has been flexible with the tax payers as sufficient time was being given to them to clear their dues. If they cannot clear the entire dues, they can clear at least half of it. Yet, some of them are not coming forward to pay up. Such properties are being targeted in this drive.” Mr. Reddy said the MCC has to provide various mandatory services to the people of Mysuru and it can carry out its responsibilities in a proper manner if the tax was paid regularly. “The total property tax dues stand at Rs. 230 crore and this year we have targeted to collect Rs. 140 crore. We have managed to collect Rs. 120 crore,” he said. The water bill dues have also been a worrying factor for the MCC as the outstanding dues are around Rs. 170 crore. “When we resorted to disconnection drive, the collection went up. From Rs. 3 crore a month, the collection has risen to Rs. 6 crore to Rs. 8 crore. We have set a collection target of Rs. 10 crore every month. All top defaulters have been identified, including marriage halls,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-wants-to-improve-tax-collection/article37449811.ece
12 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Will Mysuru bag the top award this year?||The city is on the cusp of being ranked high and bagging an award yet again under the Swachh Survekshan 2021 the results of which will be announced on November 20. Mysuru is among 8 cities in Karnataka which have qualified for a rank under different categories the details of which will be announced by the President at a function in New Delhi. Notified The Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has already notified the respective local authorities who have qualified for the award and the list includes – apart from Mysuru – Bruhat Bengaluru, Hubbali-Dharwad, Mudhol, Hosadurga, K.R.Nagar, Kumta and Periyapatna. Mysuru was ranked the cleanest medium-sized city with a population ranging from 3 lakh to 10 lakh last year and was ranked 5th overall among the top 100 Urban Local Bodies with a population over 1 lakh while Indore in Madhya Pradesh had bagged the cleanest city rank. MCC Health Officer D.G.Nagaraj said they expect to repeat, if not improve, last year’s performance and were confident of scoring high on different parameters this year due to a slew of measures that have been put in place. This includes measures for use of treated and recycled water for fountains and maintenance of lawns. One of the reasons why the city used to consistently fall short of bagging the cleanest city tag was the legacy waste of nearly 2 lakh tones to 2.5 lakh tones that has accumulated over the last two decades at the sewage farm in Vidyaranyapuram. However, tenders have been finalised for biomining of the entire waste and recycling the garbage besides reclaiming the land. But the benefit of this measure is expected to show up in the future editions of Swachh Survekshan. In all, 4,329 urban local bodies were evaluated this year as against 4,242 towns and cities last year under Swachh Survekshan. This includes 3,898 ULBs with a population less than 1 lakh, 423 ULPs with a population between 1 lakh and 10 lakh and 53 ULBs with a population above 10 lakh. New category The MoUHA has also announced new category of awards based on various indicators including segregation of wet, dry and hazardous waste, processing capacity installed against wet waste generated, processing and recycling of wet and dry wastes, C and D waste processing, and percentage of waste going to the landfills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-mysuru-bag-the-top-award-this-year/article37449818.ece
12 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MMCRI resident doctors go on strike over salaries, grant||The resident doctors of Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) have threatened to go on a hunger strike demanding timely release of salaries without any cuts. The doctors, who have launched an indefinite strike from Thursday in support of their demands, said they got salary for the month of September but with the deduction of Rs. 15,000. The PGs’ monthly salary is Rs. 50,000 but Rs. 35,000 was credited into their accounts, cutting Rs. 15,000, which was given as a part of allowance for discharging COVID-19 duties. Citing the order issued on May 5, 2021 by the government, the protesting doctors said the government had promised to provide a sum of Rs. 10,000 every month along with the stipend of Rs. 50,000 to the resident doctors until the COVID-19 situation becomes normal. “After paying the allowance for three months (Rs. 30,000),it is now being deducted through our salaries. This is unfair as we were paid the allowance as we did the COVID-19 duties. Moreover, we had not asked for the allowance but the government itself announced to pay us the allowance. But now the sum is being taken from our salaries,” one of the protesting resident doctors told The Hindu . Claiming that the resident doctors were promised orally that the allowance would be given at least for a period of six months, the protesting doctors, who are pursuing their PG studies at the MMCRI, said they sacrificed their academics for combating the pandemic. “In the line of duty, many junior doctors contracted COVID-19 and a few of them survived the infection after fighting it while on ventilator support. When this is the case, how could the government take the decision of deducting the allowance already paid to us,” they asked. Demanding timely release of monthly stipend in full without any cuts, the doctors demanded that the deducted amount of Rs. 15,000 be credited back to their accounts.  The doctors have also raised the issue with the Deputy Commissioner, Mysuru, and sought his intervention in resolving the salary and COVID-19 allowance issue. In support of their demands, the resident doctors have boycotted OPD and OTs as part of their protest at K.R. Hospital and the Cheluvamba Hospital, attached to the MMCRI. They are, however, carrying out emergency duties. They have planned a march from the K.R. Hospital to the Deputy Commissioner’s office on Friday in support of their demands. The Resident Doctors’ Association of MMCRI had sought the immediate intervention of the Minister for Health and Medical Education in September this year as it said that the MMCRI had not released the salaries and COVID-19 allowances of junior doctors even after their working in the hospitals for two-and-a-half months. They also staged a protest at the hospital. Salary denied The Association said the MMCRI has denied salaries to the government-appointed junior residents as per the Compulsory Rural Service-2021. It claimed that the medical colleges have to pay the JRs through the funds available with them and this fact was also confirmed by the financial advisor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mmcri-resident-doctors-go-on-strike-over-salaries-grant/article37449814.ece
12 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah’s remarks ‘do not augur well for senior leader’, says Nanjangud MLA||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah has drawn flak from Nanjangud MLA B. Harshavardhan for his recent remarks against the latter accusing him of corruption. Mr. Siddarmaiah had remarked that Nanjangud had become a “collection centre’’, thus alluding to corruption and swindling by the sitting MLA to which Mr. Harshavardhan has taken strong exception. He criticised Mr. Siddaramaiah for making such allegations and said these remarks do not augur well for a senior leader who should be guiding and mentoring newcomers into politics. The MLA also questioned as to how the present development works in Nanjangud could be attributed to the fund released during the chief ministership of Mr. Siddaramaiah as claimed by him. Mr. Harshavardhan said he would also release a white paper on the funds released and utilised in his constituency before the next Assembly elections. Claiming that he had persuaded H.D. Kumaraswamy, when he was the Chief Minister, to release Rs. 12 crore for Nanjangud, Mr. Harshavardhan said the Nugu irrigation project was sanctioned in the budget during Mr. Kumaraswamy’s tenure, while the funds were released during the period of B.S. Yediyurappa as Chief Minister. Mr. Yediyurappa had also released funds for many projects, he pointed out. Primacy was being accorded to drainage system work in Nanjangud while the issue of lack of infrastructure in the town was being addressed, said Mr. Harshavardhan. The MLA said that the irrigation projects in his constituency were approved by the Kumaraswamy government and the field works began after 2018 and not during the 2017 Nanjangud bypolls as claimed by Mr. Siddaramaiah. The BJP MLA said the scheme to fill 123 tanks, the construction of a mini-Vidhana Soudha, and a well-equipped bus-stand, besides the establishment of a degree college, were granted in 2008.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiahs-remarks-do-not-augur-well-for-senior-leader-says-nanjangud-mla/article37449815.ece
12 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Man saves four lives by donating his organs||A 27-year-old man, who was declared brain dead, has saved the lives of four persons by donating his organs, in Mysuru. Hemanth was shifted to Apollo BGS Hospitals here on November 4 around 2.30 p.m. as per the advice of the doctors at the Mandya Government Hospital after giving him first aid for some injuries. Initial CT scan showed cervical spine and brain stem injuries and the patient underwent surgery for the same. He was shifted to ICU on November 8 at 2.20 p.m, a release from the hospital said. As the patient was in critical condition, he was put on life support for two days. However, on the third day (on November 10), Hemanth was declared brain dead due to brain stem failure. “Mr. Hemanth was healthy before the incident and further tests confirmed his eligibility for organ donation. The patient’s family was counselled for organ donation as per the defined protocol. The deceased patient’s uncle, brother and relatives came forward to donate his organs,” the hospital said. As per the organ donation protocol, officials from Jeeva Sarthakathe, which was earlier known as ZCCK, initiated the process in accordance with organ recipients’ waiting list. Retrieved At around 6.15 a.m. on November 11, Hemanth’s organs – heart valves, kidneys, and liver - were retrieved at the hospital. While one kidney was received by the Apollo BGS Hospitals, the other one was received by the NH Bengaluru. The heart valves were received by NH Bengaluru and the liver by Apollo BGS Hospitals, Mysuru. Appreciation The hospital has thanked the family of the deceased patient for coming forward for the cause of promoting organ donation and said the hospital is now a licensed centre for multi-organ transplants here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-saves-four-lives-by-donating-his-organs/article37449816.ece
12 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Pothole repair works to start soon, funds allotted||Each ward in Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) will get a grant of at least Rs. 8 lakh for taking up works to fill up potholes. Tenders for the same are in progress. MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy said the work will commence soon. If potholes are numerous in some wards, such wards will get more funds. Funding can go up to Rs. 15 lakh depending on the extent of damage. Damaged Most roads across the city are pothole-ridden, troubling motorists. The recent rains further worsened the condition. Some roads, especially those in the city centre, were repaired during the recent Dasara festivities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pothole-repair-works-to-start-soon-funds-allotted/article37449812.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Honour for seer||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/honour-for-seer/article37449789.ece
12 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Kandiyoor bypass road to open today||The Kandiyoor bypass road will be opened for traffic on Friday. It will be inaugurated by Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas. The bypass road was proposed several years ago as a panacea to traffic snarls in Mavelikara town. The foundation of the project was laid in 2006. However, the project made hardly any progress. In 2012, the project was put back on track but the contractor left soon, resulting in further delay. Rs. 3.75-crore project Later the government retendered the project and the work was awarded for Rs. 3.75 crore. Due to floods and shortage of gravel, the work got disrupted several times before the project was completed. The bypass road, which commences from the western side of the Mavelikara municipal busstand, passes through Manakkad Puncha before reaching the eastern side of Kandiyoor temple. The road, just over 1 km long, has a width of eight metres, including a 5.5-metre carriageway. With the opening of the bypass road, vehicles heading towards Mannar, Thiruvalla, and Chennithala need not pass through the busy Mitchel Junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kandiyoor-bypass-road-to-open-today/article37449744.ece
12 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Keravan Kerala a hit among entrepreneurs||It appears that Kerala Tourism’s Keravan Kerala has been an instantaneous hit among entrepreneurs in the State. People have made a beeline for operating tourist caravans and setting up caravan parks under the caravan tourism project. Within the first two days of opening of online registration, the Tourism Department has received applications for around 100 tourist caravans and 25 caravan parks. The caravans are expected to hit the road in January 2022. “The initial response to the registration is fantastic. Among those registered are young and new individuals who are looking to do something afresh. This shows that there are many young entrepreneurs willing to come forward. We have also received some enquiries from the film fraternity. We hope some of them will register in the coming days,” says Tourism Director V.R. Krishna Teja. The State Government unveiled the caravan tourism policy in September. It garnered great interest from the travel and hospitality sectors, among other stakeholders in tourism. As per the policy, two types of tourist caravans can be operated in Kerala — rigid (vehicle and accommodation facilities are built as a single unit) and towed/trailer caravans (separate accommodation facility, which will be towed by a suitable vehicle for transportation). The caravans will have all the necessary facilities for a comfortable stay. Subsidy The Government has also announced subsidies for the first 300 caravans registered. The first 100 caravans will receive an incentive of Rs. 7.50 lakh or 15% of the total cost, whichever is less. The next 100 vehicles will get Rs. 5 lakh or 10% of the expenditure. For caravans 201 to 300, the subsidy will be Rs. 2.50 lakh or 5% of the cost. The investment subsidy will be given to a maximum of five caravans per entity or individual. The caravan parks will come up in eco-friendly settings while ensuring the safety of tourists. It will have facilities for meeting the requirements of caravans and tourists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keravan-kerala-a-hit-among-entrepreneurs/article37449757.ece
12 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Water level in Idukki dam dips||The water level in the Idukki reservoir on Thursday reached the blue alert level from orange alert, as per the new rule curve fixed by the Central Water Commission. The water level was 2,397.70 ft on the day. As per the new rule curve, the red alert level is 2,399.03 ft and the upper rule curve is 2,400.03 ft. The full reserve level is 2,403 ft. No rainfall A dam safety official said the inflow had declined and the Moolamattom power plant was generating power to the maximum extent. There was no rainfall in the catchment area on Wednesday. The water level at the Mullaperiyar dam continued to be steady at 138.78 ft with Tamil Nadu drawing water at the same level of inflow at 900 cusecs. There was a decline in rainfall at Periyar village resulting in a fall in the water level, according to a Tamil Nadu PWD official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-level-in-idukki-dam-dips/article37449749.ece
12 November 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Conservation of petroglyphs on Thovari hills remains on paper||The conservation of prehistoric petroglyphs (rock carvings) on the Thovari hills near Edakkal Caves in Wayanad is yet to be a reality, thanks to the alleged apathy of officials of Forest and Archaeology departments. The rock carvings at Edakkal caves have been protected by government agencies but a similar one at Thovarimala, just 5 km from Edakkal, is yet to be declared a protected monument by the Department of Archaeology. Former Wayanad District Collector Kesavendrakumar had asked the State Archaeology Department in 2015 to expedite measures to declare the site as a protected monument and later his successor S. Suhas in 2018 had directed the Deputy Tourism Director to develop the site as a major ecotourism destination in the district . But all the steps to conserve the prehistoric monument remain on paper. Miscreants who reportedly frequent the site had defaced some of the precious carvings by wanton etching. More than 50 motifs have been engraved on the rock walls and many of these resemble the rock carvings of Edakkal. The cave, in the middle of a vested forest under the South Wayanad Forest Division, also provide visitors with a panoramic view of the place. “Though the Edakkal cave carvings outdo the Thovari carvings in beauty, the interpretive possibility of the carvings at the latter is immense,” says historian M.R. Raghava Varier. “This monument is priceless and should be properly protected,” Dr. Varier, who has done extensive work on the antiquities of Wayanad, said. The rock engravings at Thovari are similar to those at Edakkal in the style of depiction and different in content. The area around Thovari was rich in megalithic monuments and articles such as burials cists, burial urns, and stone circles. The place had also yielded neolithic polished stone axes, he said. However, P.D. Prabhat, Deputy Director, Tourism Department, Wayanad, told The Hindu that they had asked the permission of the Forest Department to allot land to develop the area as a major tourist destination as per the directions of former collectors but the department was yet to take any steps. “We also requested the Archaeology Department to declare the site as a protected monument but it was also yet to be materialised,” Mr. Prabhat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/conservation-of-petroglyphs-on-thovari-hills-remains-on-paper/article37449687.ece
12 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Court dismisses Surendran’s plea||The first class judicial magistrate court at Sulthan Bathery on Wednesday dismissed a petition filed by BJP State president K. Surendran for conducting his voice test in a Central forensic laboratory instead of the State forensic laboratory in Thiruvananthapuram. The case relates to the allegation that Mr. Surendran had bribed Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party (JRP) leader C.K. Janu to contest as a National Democratic Alliance candidate in the last Assembly elections. Mr. Surendran said there were chances of fabrication if the test was conducted in the State. The court directed the State Government to submit a report to clarify its stance in connection with the petition. Assistant public prosecutor Aneesh Joseph opposed the application, stating that the State laboratory had adequate facilities and the accused had no right to dictate the course of the investigation. The Crime Branch had collected his voice sample to verify the authenticity of an audio clip released by JRP treasurer Praseeta Azhikode. Reacting to the magistrate court’s order, Mr. Surendran told mediapersons that he would approach a higher court with the demand for conducting his voice test in a Central forensic laboratory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-dismisses-surendrans-plea-for-voice-test-in-central-lab/article37449681.ece
12 November 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Males may be more susceptible to autism: CUK study||The Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) affects 1 in 100 children in India. But the exact set of causes of autism remains unknown, and there is no cure for the disorder. However, a study by researchers at the Central University of Kerala has found that males are more susceptible to Autism-like behaviour than females when exposed to heavy metals like lead. The study, published in the journal Molecular Neurobiology , also proposed that autism in children could be ameliorated by antioxidant therapy. Dr. H.P. Gurushankara, who led the team of researchers, including Shilpa Olakkaran, Anupama K.P., and Anet Antony, from the Department of Zoology, said that several studies had shown a link between genetics and environmental pollution for ASD. However, their research aimed at understanding the role of lead-induced oxidative stress in developing ASD behaviour. Dr. Gurushankara said that lead, a naturally occurring heavy metal, was extensively used in medicines, batteries, and other objects, making human exposure inevitable. The Centre for Disease Control and Prevention had established that even a low level of lead in blood would correlate with intelligence quotient deficit, social behavioural disabilities, autism, and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. In order to study the subject, they used the common fruit fly ‘Drosophila melanogaster’, which showed the core diagnostic features of human autistic behavioural phenotypes, he said. “We found that early developmental exposure of lead (Pb) in the Drosophila leads to accumulation in the brain, induces oxidative stress, and causes sex-specific human autistic-like behaviour, such as reduced climbing, increased grooming, increased social spacing, and decreased learning and memory,” said Dr. Gurushankara. On the contrary, overexpression of antioxidant genes such as Superoxide dismutase (Sod) and Catalase (Cat), attenuated the ASD-like behaviour, strengthening the role of antioxidants in alleviating ASD, said Ms. Shilpa. These results were significant, and they proved that ASD in children could be ameliorated by antioxidant therapy. She said that the study also revealed that lead treatment during the Drosophila’s developmental period significantly affected the biochemical and behavioural parameters, demonstrating sex dimorphism. Lead-exposed males were more prone to these behavioural deficits than females. Epidemiological studies of humans had revealed the susceptibility of males over females to ASD. Interestingly, their study observed the same phenomenon, when, both human and Drosophila data were correlated, she said. Ms. Shilpa said that they were able to successfully carry out the study on Drosophila, a widely used model to mimic genetic and pathological aspects of the human disorder. Understanding the complex aetiology of autism was primarily hampered due to the unavailability of a suitable animal model. However, the research also proved that Drosophila was a model to analyse the effects of environmental pollutants on the onset of neurodevelopmental disorders, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/males-may-be-more-susceptible-to-autism-cuk-study/article37449688.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cash-strapped civic body in a fix over metro road widening||The previous governing committee’s undertaking to fund a 22-metre four-lane road complete with a state-of-the-art bus terminal alongside the proposed extension of the Kochi metro from S.N. Junction to the railway station seems to have landed the cash-strapped Thripunithura Municipality in a soup. With the pandemic hitting its finances hard, the Municipality can ill-afford the proposed project entailing an estimated Rs. 100 crore. To make things worse, Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL), trusting the Municipality’s past undertaking, has not included the road in its financial estimate, thus threatening nightmarish congestion on the narrow road whenever the extension happens. Left with hardly any other alternative, the Municipality has now passed a unanimous resolution asking KMRL to bear the cost of widening the road to 22 metres. A people’s movement spearheaded by Thripunithura Rajanagari Union of Residents Associations (TRURA) has also gathered momentum. “We are hardly in any financial position to take up such a huge project. Hence, we have passed the resolution and given it to KMRL,” said Rema Santhosh, Municipal Chairperson. A delegation led by Hibi Eden, MP, and including representatives of TRURA, had on Monday met KMRL Managing Director Loknath Behera. “Mr. Behera seemed open to the idea, which may cost an estimated Rs. 50 crore. The hardly thought out undertaking by the previous municipal governing committee has definitely complicated things, since a local body with limited resources can hardly afford such a project. Besides, it is unfair to ask one local body to bear the expense when no other local body along the entire metro stretch had to undertake any such liability for road infrastructure,” said Mr. Eden. Land availability Mr. Behera said technical and feasibility aspects of the proposal were being looked into. “We are looking into the monetary aspects and technical aspects like whether sufficient land is available for widening,” he added. TRURA chairman V.P. Prasad said extending the proposed four-lane road 350 metres beyond the railway station up to Hill Palace Road will serve the purpose of a bypass. “A project revision has now been necessitated by the action of the previous governing committee. However, we can overcome that hurdle through concerted efforts cutting across political affiliations,” he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cash-strapped-civic-body-in-a-fix-over-metro-road-widening/article37449701.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||A ray of hope for beneficiaries of urban housing project||The construction of the second tower of the Rajiv Gandhi Awas Yojana (RAY) housing project for the urban poor in Thuruthy colony in Fort Kochi will begin shortly. Soil test and other groundwork have been completed, and the work is expected to be launched early next month, said T.K. Ashraf, chairman, health standing committee of the Kochi Corporation. The construction of eight floors of the first tower is over, and the remaining four floors will be built without much delay, he added. The RAY project had run into trouble earlier, as it had failed to take off as planned. The project was plunged into further crisis, as the previous regime under then Mayor Soumini Jain had returned the security deposit to the contractor on his request, and the project came to a grinding halt in 2019. The Thuruthy project is the largest multi-dwelling housing unit construction undertaken by the Corporation. As many as 396 families will have a roof over their head on completion of the project. Each unit will have a carpet area of 325 sq ft. The project, which is coming up in Fort Kochi Division-2, is spread over an acre, said Mr. Ashraf, who represents the division in the Corporation council. The project was originally conceived way back in 2013. However, it did not take off due to various issues. Later, the Corporation merged it with the Kochi Smart City project, and Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) is now involved in its construction. The Corporation council is holding monthly reviews to ensure that the work progresses as scheduled, Mr. Ashraf said. The civic authorities hope to hand over the housing units to beneficiaries in three years. Besides the ground floor, which will be rented out for shops and commercial units, the 12th floor will be rented out to individuals. The rentals from the two floors will be used to meet the common expenses of the two structures, including lifts and lighting, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-ray-of-hope-for-beneficiaries-of-urban-housing-project/article37449713.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Slew of steps for coexistence||The master plan prepared by the Kerala Forest Department to address human-wildlife conflict in the State was handed over to the Chief Minister on Tuesday. Forest Minister A. K. Saseendran handed over the document, which suggests measures for preventing the entry of wild animals to human habitats, setting up of warning systems, conducting search operations using drones, and formation of Jana Jagratha samitis. The document speaks about steps for providing crop-loss insurance and setting up of wildlife protection centres. The formation of eco development committees, maintaining water holes for animals, replacement of invasive trees with indigenous ones and training programme for experts in handling human-wildlife conflicts form part of the action plan. The suggestions for mitigating human-wildlife conflict include digging of trenches in human habitations and agricultural holdings for preventing the entry of wild elephants. The setting up of fixed line solar fences and hanging solar fences and creation of bio-fences using plants that deter wild animals have been mentioned, according to a communication issued by the Forest Department. Action plan The action plan suggests steps for scaring away wild animals, especially elephants that enter farmlands, radio collaring of troublesome wild animals, caging of wild pigs and releasing them in tiger habitats, setting up of fences in farmlands to prevent the entry of wild pigs and use of trained dogs to keep wild pigs at bay. The project document proposes sterilisation of female monkeys, shifting of troublesome monkeys to monkey shelters, planting of fruit trees in forests for monkeys to feed and evolution of farm practices to avoid monkey menace. Studies on the population of peafowl and purple moorhen and formation of conflict management teams using experts in handling human-wildlife conflicts are also part of the suggestions. The department plans to house troublesome wild elephants in separate facilities to be set up for the purpose. Compensation for crop less, financial assistance to those who lost lives and suffered injuries in human-wildlife conflicts, providing insurance cover for field staff are also part of the suggestions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/slew-of-steps-for-coexistence/article37449689.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||IFS body rallies behind official||Apprehending that the suspension of Chief Wildlife Warden (CWW) Bennichan Thomas from service for granting permission for felling trees in Mullaperiyar will demoralise the Forest Service, the Kerala chapter of the Indian Forest Service Association has sought his reinstatement. Association leaders led by president P. Pugazhendi met Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday and submitted a memorandum. The association said a meeting of the Central Water Commission held on October 26 had asked the State to expedite the decision on the application for forest clearance. The Kerala representative had also accepted the decision. A note prepared by counsel for Kerala, who appeared in the Supreme Court in the Mullaperiyar case, had indicated that permission had been granted for strengthening the baby dam. The Additional Chief Secretary (Irrigation) had on November 1 sought an action taken report on forest clearance from the CWW before November 5 so that a compliance report could be filed in the apex court. Clearance under the Forest Conservation Act is needed for axing trees. The permission of the Ministry of Environment and Forests is also required for tree felling. The CWW had referred the applications for repair of roads to Mullaperiyar to the State Wildlife Board. It can only be after obtaining all such clearances that Tamil Nadu could strengthen the baby dam, the officials pointed out. The association said the official was not responsible for bringing the issues to the notice of the Government, as it was the mandate of the Secretaries concerned. The action against Mr. Thomas, an official of impeccable track record, for no fault of his will demoralise the entire Forest force, they submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ifs-body-rallies-behind-official/article37449758.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Art show harks back to lockdown months||The artists who have put together a show at the Durbar Hall Art Gallery are elated by the response it has drawn from the crowd. “We have had a steady stream of visitors to the show; a huge encouragement after the pandemic lull,” says sculptor Anu B.S., one among the 12 participating artists and a faculty member in the Department of Sculpture, RLV College of Music and Fine Arts, Thripunithura. “Resilience” that opened on November 6 has a collection of paintings and sculptures that explore the artistic experience during the lockdown months. As galleries locked their doors and shows migrated online, artists struggled to continue their art practice, often making do with available supplies and battling creative strife. “The Internet offered possibilities, but there is nothing quite like being at a physical art show, beholding a work in its full size, understanding the scale and texture,” says artist and farmer O.J. Dileep, whose oil paintings depict his connection with his immediate surroundings. First show Organised by Mithram, an artists’ collective that has been regularly hosting art shows since 2011, the show is its first after galleries reopened. Co-ordinated by sculptor Manesha Deva Sarma S.N., who teaches at the College of Fine Arts, Kerala, the show is not just a platform for the artists to showcase the works, but also an opportunity to engage with the viewers. “Art speaks for itself, but the artist is here to talk about his work,” says Anu, whose sculptures in terracotta, wood and copper explore the visual vocabulary of artifacts seen in museums. The show marks the re-entry of Godfrey Das, artist, designer and retired faculty member of the College of Fine Arts, Kerala, who has three of his watercolour works on display. “This is my first official showcase, after working as an artist for 33 years,” he says. A member of the Kerala Shastra Sahitya Parishad, Godfrey designed over 4,000 book covers for it. He did book covers and illustrations for other organisations including the Kerala Sahitya Akademi. “Now, I feel I have more time to get back to my original interest,” he says. All three of his works are 4x3 ft done on 640 gsm watercolour paper. Sculptor Prakasan K.S. says that he used the lockdown period to refine his sculptural language. His intricately sculpted works in terracotta, which have a tactile quality, reflect his early memories of having grown up in coastal Varappuzha. The show is on till November 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/art-show-harks-back-to-lockdown-months/article37449704.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Prisoner leads way in resuming literacy programme||The desire expressed by a 26-year-old illiterate bike theft convict to study during a counselling session was what triggered the resumption of the Kerala State Literacy Mission’s (KSLM) literacy programme at the district jail at Kakkanad earlier this week. It turned out that the youngster is an orphan and never had an opportunity to go to school. Moved by his tale, the jail authorities decided to give him an opportunity to fulfill his wish. “We could have arranged for his learning alone, but we wanted to give that opportunity to a wider circle of similarly enthusiastic inmates. Despite our mass education campaigns, there still seems to be sections in our society who remain left out and hence should be coopted into the world of knowledge,” said George Chacko, Welfare Officer, District Jail. The literacy programme at the jail, which was disrupted in the wake of the pandemic, was relaunched since then and has so far attracted 25 inmates, including 15 migrants. Predominantly, basic literacy sessions are organised using the prescribed textbooks of KSLM. “We are preparing a list of inmates who are interested in doing the 4th, 7th and 10th standard equivalent courses. They will be guided to our ‘preraks’ in the respective local bodies so that they can continue the courses even if they happen to leave the jail before in between,” said Deepa James, District Coordinator, KSLM. Online sessions Except for the basic literacy sessions, the rest continues to be online though the participants of 10th and higher secondary equivalent courses can go through the lessons in KSLM’s YouTube channel, Aksharam, any time. “Increasingly, more inmates are showing interest in the courses. Classes and exams will be held at the jail itself, while those appearing for the 10th standard equivalent exam alone will have to be taken to the exam centres concerned with police security,” said P. Vijayan, Jail Superintendent. A large number of inmates being remanded prisoners, the duration of their stay threatens to hamper their uninterrupted participation in the courses. The literacy programme at the district jail is being supported by the Thrikkakara Municipality, which has promised to sponsor textbooks and other learning accessories, said Rasia K.K, KSLM prerak, Thrikkakara Municipality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/prisoner-leads-way-in-resuming-literacy-programme/article37449715.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Gaps in waste management to fore in Thrikkakara, Aluva||An assessment by the Local Self-Government Department (LSGD) has revealed a gap of around 75% in collection of non-biodegradable waste from the doorstep of residents in Thrikkakara and Aluva municipalities. According to estimates prepared by the department, the civic bodies were able to collect waste from the doorstep of only 25% households, exposing gaps in waste management. Speedy action ordered The municipalities have been asked to step up efforts to ensure compliance with the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 without delay. The Thrikkakara Municipality has to enhance doorstep coverage to 70% by March, 2022, while Aluva has to achieve 100% coverage during the same period. Thrikkakara should attain 100% coverage by March, 2023. More HKS members The Government has directed the civic bodies to deploy more vehicles to collect waste from the doorstep. They should also engage more Haritha Karma Sena (HKS) members for collection of dry waste. Doorstep collection of non-biodegradable waste from commercial establishments in Thrikkakara is also lagging behind, according to the department. Commercial units Only 35% of commercial establishments have been brought under the purview of doorstep waste collection in the Municipality, while the corresponding figure in Aluva is 11.5%. Both have been given time till March, 2023 to attain 100% target. The civic bodies have to increase the number of material collection facilities for storage and segregation of waste by March next year. They should submit action taken reports on a regular basis to the department. Municipal secretaries will be responsible for empowering elected members with the implementation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The Government has also asked the two civic bodies to accord top priority to waste management initiatives while chalking out programmes during the financial year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gaps-in-waste-management-to-fore-in-thrikkakara-aluva/article37449718.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||All praise for a gender inclusive model||The gender-inclusive learning environment created by the 106-year-old Government Lower Primary School at Valayanchirangara in Ernakulam district has hit the limelight again amid the ongoing discussions in the State for ensuring gender equality in and through education. A social media post by V. Sivankutty, Minister for General Education, in support of the campaign for gender inclusion recalled that the Valayanchirangara Government Lower Primary School had set an example by introducing unisex uniform in 2019. “We need similar efforts to achieve the goal of gender equality in education and other fields” he said.  The Hindu had carried a report on the school’s gender-neutral uniform and progressive outlook back in 2019. Raji C., former headmistress, said gender-neutral uniforms were introduced for children of the pre-primary section as an experiment in 2018. “It was a success and provided us with the confidence to extend it to the over 500 children in the lower primary section. The girls were happy, as their skirts were replaced by knee-length shorts to facilitate easy movement and break the conventional thought that they need to wear skirts,” she added. Benoy Peter, former president of the Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) and executive director of the Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development, said the school had always taken the lead in propagating gender-inclusive learning models on the campus. “We had come up with handbooks that carried images of a father making snacks instead of the usual picture of the mother preparing them for the children. It also included images of differently abled children aimed at conveying the message of inclusivity among stakeholders,” he said. Ms. Raji said the school logo had the image of a girl and a boy as part of sustained efforts to ensure gender equality. “We had also implemented a social audit through which students of Master of Social Work at the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady, were invited to the school to assess the skills and capabilities of our children,” she added. The school authorities pointed out that parents had also cooperated with their gender inclusive initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-gender-inclusive-model-steals-the-limelight-again/article37449721.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held for supplying forged documents||The Ernakulam Rural police arrested a man who was accused of arranging forged documents for travelling to France. Muthappan, 35, of Kadinamkulam was arrested by a special team constituted by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. “We have expanded the probe, and more persons are likely to be arrested,” said Mr. Karthik. The arrested is accused of giving forged documents to one Rijo of Thrissur for migrating illegally to France in the guise of attending a business meeting there. However, he was detained by officials at the Kochi airport after they grew suspicious about his documents. He was later handed over to the police. The police reportedly found the documents, including a letter assigning him as the representative of a company, to be fake. The arrested had charged Rs. 4.50 lakh for the forged documents, which he confessed to have procured from a man in Chennai. A team comprising Nedumbassery Inspector P.M. Baiju, Sub Inspector Aneesh K. Das, Assistant Sub Inspector Pramod, and senior civil police officers Ajith Kumar and Sajimon made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-supplying-forged-documents/article37449699.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man arrested on charge of assaulting mother||The Aluva East police on Thursday arrested a man on the charge of assaulting his mother. The police said Muhammed Aslam, 26, of West Kandungalloor was a drug addict and used to harm his mother often. He had in the past smashed household utensils and burnt clothes. He is an accused in a couple of drug cases. A team led by Sub Inspectors T.V. Shaju and C.K. Zacharea, Assistant Sub Inspector P. A. Shahi, and senior civil police officer T.A. Fasilo Beevi made the arrest. The accused was produced in court and remanded. Accident The Muvattupuzha police arrested a man in connection with the death of a motorcyclist at Pezhakkappalli in Muvattupuzha town. Joy Joseph, 36, of Avoli, drove the car involved in the accident under the influence of alcohol as per medical examination. The accident occurred on October 17, and the victim, Ananthu, succumbed to his injuries. The accused was produced in court and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-arrested-on-charge-of-assaulting-mother/article37449707.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Lakshadweep lifts travel curbs for vaccinated||With no case of COVID-19 reported from the Lakshadweep islands since October 16, the Dweep administration has revised travel restrictions and quarantine norms. No test needed According to the new rules, no COVID-19 test is required for travel between the mainland and the islands for people who have taken both doses of COVID-19 vaccine two weeks prior to their departure. There will be no quarantine for people who have taken both doses of vaccine, but unvaccinated or partially-vaccinated people must carry RT-PCR negative report obtained within 48 hours of travel. They are also required to be in quarantine for three days. Shore leave will be allowed to all ship and high-speed catamaran (HSC) crew who are vaccinated with both doses. Thermal scanning of all passengers at Kochi and at all ports of arrival will continue, as per the order issued by S. Asker Ali, District Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lakshadweep-lifts-travel-curbs/article37449674.ece
12 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||High Court pulls up Govt. for project delay||The Kerala High Court on Thursday pulled up the State Government for doing “nothing” with regard to construction of a judicial complex in Idukki despite passage of 25 years since the project was first proposed. The High Court was also displeased with the Government’s stand that the allocation, back in 1997, could not have been done by a local self-government institution as the land in question was vested with the Revenue Department. ‘A sad day’ “You (State) are waking up to this 25 years after the proposal? This is a sad day as far as the judiciary is concerned,” Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan said during hearing of a plea moved by the Bar Association of Idukki challenging an order cancelling allotment of two acres earmarked for construction of the judicial complex. The association, represented by advocate George Mathew, said in its plea that the special court under the POCSO Act, Judicial First Class Magistrate’s Court, Munsiff Court were functioning out of the district headquarters at Idukki. “There arose a need for more facilities,” the plea said. Hence the matter was taken up with the Idukki Development Authority (IDA) in 1997, it added. Two acres allotted The IDA had allotted two acres for construction of the complex and the procedure, including taking possession of the land, was completed by September 2019. However, in June this year, the Government cancelled the allotment of land and sought a revised proposal on construction of the complex, the plea said. It claimed that this latest order “was not warranted” and was an attempt to ensure that establishment of an independent judicial complex at the district headquarters in Idukki was “thwarted or delayed”. The court listed the matter on Friday and hinted that it might lay down a timeline for construction of the complex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-pulls-up-govt-for-project-delay/article37449747.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Beauty parlour firing case accused arrested||The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) from Kerala on Thursday arrested a man from Mumbai on the charge of hiring gangster Ravi Pujari for extorting money from actor Leena Maria Paul that eventually led to a firing outside her beauty parlour at Panampilly Nagar here a couple of years ago. Yusuf Ziya of Uppala in Kasaragod was detained at the Mumbai airport by immigration officials and was handed over to the ATS. The man was nabbed while reportedly attempting to flee the country using a fake passport in the wake of a lookout circular against him. The ATS team left for Mumbai after being alerted about the detention of the accused. ATS sources said efforts were on to fly him down to Kochi on Thursday night itself or latest by Friday. Two motorcycle-bound men had fired the shots outside the actor’s beauty parlour in December 2019. So far, investigators have arrested six persons, including Pujari, in the case. The involvement of the arrested came to light reportedly during the interrogation of Pujari. He had hired the gangster reportedly using his Dubai connections based on information that the actor had immense funds. The arrested had criminal antecedents and had at least four cases against his name, sources said. He is also suspected to have links with smuggling and hawala rackets. Whether he had travelled using the fake passport in the past is also being looked into. One more at large According to sources, only one more person, Ajaz, remains at large in the case. It is suspected that Ajaz and Yousuf used to be in contact and discussed details about the actor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beauty-parlour-firing-case-accused-arrested-from-mumbai/article37449673.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC bans travel on tractors||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has directed the police stations at Sabarimala and Pampa to ensure compliance with the court’s earlier directive not to allow passengers, including devotees, police personnel and other officials, to travel on board tractors used for taking goods through the trekking path to the Sannidhanam. The Bench passed the order on Thursday observing that movement of such tractors through the trekking path, in a rash and negligent manner, caused a threat to the safety of devotees. At any rate, the tractors used for transportation of goods could not be used as a mode of transport for devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-bans-travel-on-tractors/article37449722.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Children’s Park to reopen on Nov. 14||After remaining closed for about three years on account of maintenance and repair, the Children’s Park in Ernakulam (Indira Priyadarshini Children’s Traffic Training Park) will be opened for children on November 14, according to the District Council for Child Welfare secretary. Spread over five acres near the Marine Drive boat jetty, the park is owned by the District Council for Child Welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/childrens-park-to-reopen-on-nov-14/article37449706.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Search using drone to track suspected leopard||A search assisted by a drone for a suspected leopard on the loose was launched by the Forest department in Vengoor panchayat in Ernakulam district, on Thursday. A 30-member team of Forest officials and the local residents undertook the search for the animal in the panchayat wards bordering the forest area. The presence of the animal was suspected along these areas in consecutive days earlier this week with domestic animals, including dogs, coming under its attack. This was immediately after an animal, suspected to be the same one, had made similar attacks in the neighbouring Kottapady panchayat. Cage set Following the development, a delegation from Vengoor panchayat led by president Shilpa Sudheesh had visited Divisional Forest Officer Ravikumar Meena to draw his attention to the matter. A cage was also placed to trap the animal in its wake. Forest officials have asked people to be on the guard since the animal has not potentially ventured out for hunting prey in the past couple of days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/search-using-drone-to-track-suspected-leopard/article37449702.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||922 test positive in Ernakulam; TPR 9.3%||Around 922 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Thursday. Nearly 902 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in as many as 14 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 9.3%. Around 8,388 persons are under treatment for the disease in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/922-test-positive-in-ernakulam-tpr-93/article37449711.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Monson case: CBI probe supervised by court sought||Benny Behanan, MP, on Thursday demanded that the probe against Monson Mavunkal, collector of fake antiquities, be handed over to the CBI. He said it would be good if the probe was supervised by the court. Since there is suspected involvement of senior police officials in the case, fair investigation is needed to expose the biggies involved. “It is not enough to suspend an IGP. That intelligence reports against the accused remained concealed is serious, and only a court-supervised investigation will bring the culprits to book,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/monson-case-cbi-probe-supervised-by-court-sought/article37449675.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Excise yet to crack Chennai link in drug case||Months after a major haul of a narcotic drug, which was initially mistaken as premium party drug MDMA, from an apartment in Thrikkakara, Excise could not yet make any breakthrough with regard to the Chennai link of the case from where the drug was smuggled in. The drug had turned out to be Methamphetamine in chemical analysis. Though low in grade compared to MDMA, it is also a synthetic drug possessing which attracted near similar stringent punishment. Though Excise Crime Branch (ECB) investigating the case has so far arrested 20 persons in the case, it did not include anyone from Chennai from where the drug was sourced. The drug was believed to have been sourced from Triplicane area in Chennai. But none involved in the deal there could yet be tracked down. The original source of the drug also remains to be confirmed though it is suspected that it was smuggled in from Spain. “We also suspect that the smuggling was plotted in Sri Lanka,” said a senior official associated with the probe. Among the 20 arrested, six were directly involved in the smuggling while the remaining 14 were accused of being facilitators either by way of funding or being part of the retail network of the racket. It did not help that two of the accused managed to flee abroad. “They were initially in our list of suspects though we could not get their bank statements in time. By the time we got it, they had managed to escape to the Middle East. We are now about to issue lookout notices for them,” said the official. Recently, the investigation team had arrested three persons –Vishnu aka Unnikuttan, Deekshith, and Shahid, all residents of Kozhikode. Investigators are continuing interrogation of suspects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-yet-to-crack-chennai-link-in-drug-case/article37449719.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Pampa sand case: Forest dept. seeks closure of proceedings||The State Forest Department has urged the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to close the proceedings in the case related to the removal of sand from Triveni at the Pampa river in the foothills of Sabarimala in May last year. Counsel for the department informed the court recently that the Government-owned Kerala Clays and Ceramics Products Ltd. had moved only a negligible quantity of sand and silt out of the forest area and it was done in good faith to facilitate the Sabarimala pilgrim season. Suo motu notice The Southern Bench of the tribunal had taken suo motu notice of a The Hindu report, ‘Forest dept. told to permit sand removal from Pampa’, published on May 30, 2020. The court had asked the State respondents to file their independent responses to the circumstances under which the National Disaster Management Act was invoked for desilting without following the necessary procedures. The controversy The controversy over the removal of sand had escalated after the Forest Department issued an order countermanding the one issued by the Pathanamthitta District Collector authorising the removal of sand. The Forest Department had said in a report filed by the tribunal in March, 2021 that “such removals will definitely attract the relevant portions of the Forest (Conservation) Act”. Statement filed The statement filed by counsel for the Forest Department said only 49.5 cubic metres of sand mixed with silt and debris was transported out of the forest area, apprehending the issues that had emerged following the flash floods in August, 2018 and 2019. The remaining sand still remains in the forest, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pampa-sand-removal-case-forest-dept-seeks-closure-of-proceedings/article37449751.ece
12 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam to get a parallel brigade of nurses||Government hospitals struggling with unsustainable workload may soon get some extra hands through Malakhakoottam, an innovative project launched by the Kollam district panchayat. In a bid to address the staff shortage in hospitals and to support qualified women, the panchayat will provide on job training with stipend for 100 Scheduled Caste women who have completed General or BSc Nursing. The duration of apprenticeship will be two years and the panchayat has set aside Rs. 60 lakh for the initial months till the next financial year. “A local body is introducing such an initiative for the first time in Kerala. The COVID brigade included a large percentage of nurses and its disbanding has affected many hospitals. We are offering government hospitals a workforce of 100 nurses, while helping the women find placement,” says Sam K. Daniel, district panchayat president. On November 19 The District Scheduled Caste Development office has shortlisted the 100 beneficiaries and Minister for Devaswoms and Welfare of SC/STs and Backward Classes K. Radhakrishnan will hand over the appointment letters to them on November 19. While the project is expected to provide a breather to burdened healthcare facilities, it also helps the beneficiaries work near their homes and earn the experience required for jobs outside the State and abroad. “Those who completed general nursing will receive a monthly honorarium of Rs. 10,000 while it will be Rs. 12,500 for fresh BSc Nursing graduates. The selected candidates will be deployed this month itself. They can join duty from December,” adds Mr. Daniel. 68 govt. facilities The District Medical Office has forwarded a list of 68 Government facilities in Kollam facing staff shortage. The beneficiaries were screened by a committee including experts from government nursing schools. According to officials, the demand was very high, with most hospitals, including Government Medical College and District Hospital, requesting allocations. “We received around 110 applications from qualified women in areas under the Kollam district panchayat. Those selected will be allocated hospitals near their homes,” says S.S. Beena, District Scheduled Caste Development Officer.  Burden of hospital staff will ease and scheme beneficiaries will get stipend and work experience   While move will ease burden of hospital staff, beneficiaries will gain experience and work near their residences Those who completed general nursing will get Rs. 10,000 a month, those with BSc Nursing, Rs. 12,500||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-to-get-a-parallel-brigade-of-nurses/article37449745.ece
12 November 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Elocution contest||NS Cooperative Hospital is organising an online elocution competition for LP and UP students in connection with Children’s Day. ‘Education in times of COVID-19 - My Perspective’ is the subject. Students should record a five-minute video and send it to 9400364000 along with their name, class, school, and contact details. Videos should be submitted before 2 p.m. on is November 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elocution-contest/article37449746.ece
12 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Velloor newsprint unit to open in Jan.||The defunct Hindustan Newsprint Limited (HNL) at Velloor is all set to become operational from January next year under a reconstituted director board. A decision to reopen the unit, named as Kerala Paper Products Limited (KPPL), was announced after a meeting between Industries Minister P. Rajeeve and representatives of various trade unions. The former Central public sector unit, located on the 700 acres provided by the State government, had shut down its production plant two years ago citing financial losses. The State Government took over the company after the Union Government had initiated plans to privatise the unit. According to the Minister, operations of the new company will be completed in four phases over a period of 46 months. “The first two phases are aimed at producing newsprint, write and print paper, while the paper board manufacturing and craft grade paper production are expected to be done in the third and fourth phases respectively,” he said. The State Government has already constituted a board of directors and appointed a special officer for its operations. Employees of the new company will be recruited in phases and priority will be accorded to the existing workforce of the defunct company based on skills so as to optimise the cost of production. The trade unions, which participated in the meeting, demanded that HNL workers be given due benefits. 1,200 staff once The HNL, in its prime days, had up to 1,200 employees on its rolls. But for a portion of the salary dues disbursed as part of the takeover process, the employees have not received their salaries from December 2017. On completion of the takeover, the State Government will bifurcate the 700-acre campus by allocating 400 acres for Kerala Rubber Limited.  Hindustan Newsprint Limited, a Central PSU, shut down two years ago State Govt. took over company when Centre began move to privatise it||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/velloor-newsprint-unit-to-open-in-jan/article37449742.ece
12 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU to host global meet on materials science||A three-day international conference on Material Science and Technology (ICMT-2021) organised by the School of Energy Materials, Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU), will begin here on Friday. The event is being held in association with the Wroclow University of Technology, Gdansk University of Technology, National University of Science and Technology, and the Institute of Jean Lamour. The event, to be held online, will be opened jointly by Tatiana Volova and Ekaterina Shishatskaya from the Siberian Federal University, Russia, along with Maciej Jaroszewski from the Wroclaw University of Technology and Józef T. Haponiuk, Gdansk University of Technology in Poland. Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor of MG University and an international expert in materials science, will preside over while the sessions will be coordinated by Hanna J Maria. The conference, which will have 12 plenary sessions with speakers from different countries, focusses on the recent developments of materials science, their applications, present challenges, new opportunities, and future solutions. The first day of the conference will have a brainstorming discussion on innovation and entrepreneurship with industries and academia. For details, visit https://macromol.in/nanomaterials2021 or write to nanomaterials@macromol.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-to-host-global-meet-on-materials-science/article37449741.ece
12 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||No steps yet to streamline students’ movement on Kozhikode city roads||Managements of city schools located along national and State highways are yet to adopt measures to reduce the huge rush of students on roads during peak hours in the morning and evening. The sudden entry of a large number of students into narrow stretches creates long hours of traffic snarls on the Kozhikode-Kannur and Kozhikode-Wayanad national highways, giving back-breaking work to the traffic police. In the absence of clear instructions, drivers of many of the educational institution buses and private vehicles are using the limited space along roads to pick and drop children. Even schools that have grounds to facilitate the pick-and-drop service are misusing the highway space, adding to the woes of motorists. “All are somehow adjusting with this daily harrowing experience in their run for job or other emergency purposes. The city is witnessing quite a chaotic situation due to poor planning in this area,” says Vineesh Babu, a bank executive from Chettikkulam. He adds that the earlier system of allowing students to hit the road only in batches is no longer being followed by schools. Some of the private bus operators in the city say the helter-skelter walking of students and their run for boarding schoolbuses parked along the highways during peak hours are posing a threat to their safety. “There are also students who never use the pedestrian crossing, interrupting the smooth flow of vehicles. To sneak through the traffic chaos, many two-wheeler riders and light motor vehicles even defy lane disciplines,” says M. Krishnadas, an autorickshaw driver from Eranhipalam. Meanwhile, representatives of some of the school managements claim that they have a system in place where students who work with Red Cross and Student Police Cadet project function as volunteers to facilitate smooth traffic and prevent the reckless movement of students on the road. They also add that the reluctance of some of the private bus operators in the city to pick students who travel on concession tickets is the biggest reason for road blocks in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-steps-yet-to-streamline-students-movement-on-kozhikode-city-roads/article37449679.ece
12 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Search on for man accused of sexual assault||A 46-year-old man who was booked by the Balussery police on the charge of sexually assaulting a differently-abled woman and her niece is still at large despite the investigation team intensifying the search for the accused and issuing a lookout notice. It was on November 8 that the elderly woman and her seven-year-old niece were allegedly assaulted by the man who was a Gulf-returnee. The woman was attacked when the child managed to escape from his grip. Police sources said the suspect was known to the victims’ family very well and that they could gather clear evidence against him. After the assault, the man fled from the spot on a scooter. Though the local police managed to secure CCTV footage from various spots, they could not track his location or the vehicle. The police also carried out searches in the houses of some of his close friends and relatives but in vain. ‘In full swing’ A police official from the Balussery station said search was in full swing in the nearby districts as well based on the already gathered digital evidence and statements of some of the local residents. “We have already covered various locations of Wayanad district. All local police stations in Kozhikode, Wayanad and Malappuram districts have been asked to extend their support in the case,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/search-on-for-man-accused-of-sexual-assault/article37449683.ece
12 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Teachers divided over ordering textbooks early||A State government directive to give the orders for Classes 9 and 10 textbooks for the next academic year by this November 15 has led to divergent views among head teachers. While one section has welcomed it saying it will help them avert a possible shortage next year, another group foresees possible financial losses. According to sources, head teachers used to procure textbooks each year as per demand from students from district-level book depots till 2009. From the 2010-11 academic year, schools directly started handling book distribution, which was monitored by the State authority in Thiruvananthapuram. Head teachers are supposed to place orders on behalf of schools six months in advance after assessing the demand from students. Free textbooks After the Right to Education Act came into force, education till the age of 14 became free and the students till Class 8 need not pay for the textbooks. Only those in Class 9 and 10 are supposed to pay for them. Some times, some of these students get books from their seniors to avoid this, leading to excess stock in schools. Head teachers keep them for distribution for next year. If, however, the textbooks are revised, these may not be useful and the head teachers may have to incur financial losses. A section of teachers point out that after the textbooks were revised in 2015-16 and 2018-19 academic years, some schools and the head teachers there were left in the lurch with old text books. Though a demand was made to take them back, it did not work out. Another section of teachers, meanwhile, said that such a possibility was very remote. A head teacher from a government school in Kozhikode city claimed that placing orders in advance was a good move. “Things such as textbook revision don’t happen every year. So there is unlikely to be a chance for head teachers incurring financial losses. Placing the orders in advance will help avoid shortage of textbooks,” he added.  A section points out that if textbooks are revised, schools and head teachers will be left in the lurch with old textbooks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/head-teachers-divided-over-ordering-textbooks-in-advance/article37449680.ece
12 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rajan promises to solve land data bank anomalies||Revenue Minister K. Rajan has promised to take steps to sort out the anomalies in the land data bank of the Kozhikode Corporation and clear applications for conversion of land. He was speaking at a meeting to review various development works of the civic body on Thursday. Mr. Rajan directed the tahsildar and the corporation authorities to identify land for the government’s ‘Take a Break’ project to set up public toilets and rest room complexes along national and State highways. The Minister promised to follow up on the court cases related to removal of encroachments on the Kallai river. Land would be allotted for the LIFE Mission project after taking into view the corporation’s suggestions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rajan-promises-to-solve-land-data-bank-anomalies/article37449682.ece
12 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||4.7 kg of gold seized at Calicut airport||The Customs Air Intelligence Unit has seized about 4.7 kg of gold in compound form valued at nearly Rs. 2 crore from passengers who arrived from Gulf countries at the Calicut international airport. Officials said that 2.38 kg of gold has been recovered from K. Haneefa, 37, of Kozhikode. He arrived from Bahrain. Based on an input from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), the Customs has seized 2.06 kg of gold in compound form from Raveendran, 53 of Tirurangadi. The passenger arrived from Sharjah, officials said. The third case involved the seizure of 355 gm of gold, also in compound form, from Abdul Jaleel, 35 of Malappuram, who arrived from Sharjah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/47-kg-of-gold-seized-at-calicut-airport/article37449755.ece
12 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Speaker hails Alathur’s hero||Pranav M.B., an armless social worker from Alathur, will be celebrating his 23rd birthday like never before on Friday. He will plant trees on the premises of 23 government offices in and around Alathur. “I am going to have the happiest birthday ever,” he said after meeting Speaker M.B. Rajesh and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at their respective offices in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday. Pranav surprised the Speaker by giving him his portrait that he sketched with his toes. Mr. Rajesh accepted the portrait, appreciated it, and shook Pranav’s right foot with his right hand in gratitude. An inspiration In a Facebook post, the Speaker praised Alathur’s armless hero and shared his excitement in meeting him. “He surmounted his disability through sheer grit and determination. And he remains an inspiration for large number of people,” said Mr. Rajesh. The Speaker has responded positively to Pranav’s desire to plant one of the 23 trees in the Assembly compound. “We will arrange for that,” said Mr. Rajesh, extending his birthday greetings to Pranav. His meeting with the Chief Minister too was heart-warming. Two years ago, on his 21st birthday, Pranav had met the Chief Minister along with his parents and handed over the funds he collected through the foot paintings he did in reality shows to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund. Moved by his humanitarian gesture, Mr. Vijayan had written in his FB post: “It’s an invaluable contribution.” K.D. Prasenan and K. Babu, MLAs of Alathur and Nenmara respectively, accompanied Pranav on Thursday. If it was the Chief Minister who went viral with a photo of him shaking Pranav’s right foot two years ago, it was the Speaker who went viral on social media with a similar act on Thursday. Pranav was in the news when he polled his maiden vote using the second toe of his right foot in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. The district administration roped him in as the youth icon representing the differently abled for the Systematic Voter Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) programme conducted by the Election Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/speaker-hails-alathurs-hero/article37449932.ece
12 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Firm on fuel tax cut, UDF walks out||United Democratic Front legislators cycled to the Assembly on Thursday in a symbolic protest against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) Government’s refusal to slash State tax on fuel. They later walked out of the House, accusing the State Government of “tax terrorism.” In his walkout speech, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the Government earned Rs. 5,000 crore annually from local taxes. However, it was brazenly unwilling to cut the local levy on petrol and diesel to help the common man weighed down by the COVID-19 pandemic. Other States and Union Territories had cut local fuel tax to help consumers. However, the Kerala Government obstinately refused to follow suit. Inflation Kerala was facing an inflationary spiral due to the rise in fuel prices. The cost of transportation and freight had increased manifold, and Kerala, a predominantly consumer State, bore the brunt. The UDF strongly felt the Centre should forsake the prohibitive Central cess and additional excise duty it had slapped on fuel, Mr. Satheesan said. Congress legislator K. Babu, who sought leave of the House for an adjournment motion, said Kerala lost crores in fuel tax daily because most vehicle owners in border districts were tanking up from neighbouring Tamil Nadu or Karnataka where the price of diesel and petrol was relatively lesser. Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal said Kerala had slashed the tax on diesel and petrol by Rs. 2.37 and Rs. 1.60 a litre respectively. It had not increased the local levy on fuel since 2018. In contrast, the Oommen Chandy Government had increased fuel tax 13 times between 2011 and 2016. States don’t benefit States did not benefit from the Centre’s sizeable cess and additional and special excise duty on fuel. The revenue was for the Centre alone and not channelled to the divisive pool. The Congress should ideally join hands with the LDF to fight the Centre’s trespasses on fiscal federalism instead of erroneously blaming the State Government for the fuel price hike. Kerala had not reduced its welfare and developmental push despite the Centre’s attempt to stifle the State’s finances. It had offered free COVID-19 medical care and expanded the social welfare net, the Minister said. The Congress was responsible for deregulating fuel prices. It had stopped the oil pool account that helped the Centre to cushion the country from the worst ravages of the increase in the international price of crude, he added. Speaker M.B. Rajesh rejected the UDF’s plea for the adjournment motion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/firm-on-fuel-tax-cut-udf-walks-out/article37449766.ece
12 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State to implement SAANS to cut pneumonia deaths of kids||The State will implement the Social Awareness and Action to Neutralise Pneumonia Successfully (SAANS) campaign that was launched by the Union Health Ministry last year in November, Health Minister Veena George said in a statement here on Thursday. The campaign, being launched in the State on the occasion of World Pneumonia Day on November 12, is aimed at reducing child mortality due to pneumonia and will be carried out till February next. The Centre has set a target of reducing child deaths due to pneumonia to less than three per 1,000 live births by 2025. The campaign primarily aims at creating awareness on pneumonia amongst the community and the need to seek treatment for the disease as fast as possible. It will also focus on training field-level health workers and other health personnel to identify critical signs and symptoms of pneumonia early and initiate early intervention so as to prevent loss of life. Treatment delays are often what leads to death in the case of pneumonia and hence people should be encouraged to seek treatment as soon as possible, Ms. George said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-implement-saans-to-cut-pneumonia-deaths-of-kids/article37449916.ece
12 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Crops worth Rs. 493 cr. lost in rain: Minister||The State suffered a crop loss of Rs. 493.4 crore during the recent spate of rainfall, Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has said. According to the preliminary data gathered through the Agricultural Information Management System (AIMS) portal, 1,26,957 farmers reported crop loss across 59,110.81 hectares of land from October 12 to November 4. The rain fury during October 16-18 had led to a loss of Rs. 216.3 crore with 66,322 farmers reporting crop loss in 21,941.55 hectares. The inclement weather had then triggered flash floods, mudslides, and landslips in many districts. Alappuzha witnessed extensive damage across 19,348.86 hectares with 28,351 farmers suffering loss of crops worth Rs. 75.24 crore, while Thrissur suffered loss worth Rs. 95.07 crore with 18,930 farmers reporting damage across 17,841.88 hectares. Mr. Prasad said the affected farmers would be provided compensation from the State Disaster Response Fund along with additional assistance by the State government. Farmers who have enrolled in crop insurance schemes will benefit through the State Crop Insurance Scheme, the Centre’s Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, and the Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme. Within 30 days He said the deadline for seeking compensation for crop damage that occurred between October 12 and 30 through the AIMS portal has been extended to November 15. Orders have been issued to inspect the affected areas and dispose of applications within 30 days.  Reacting to instances of paddy seeds of inferior quality being supplied to farmers as compensation for crop loss, Mr. Prasad said such seeds were being taken back. Good quality seeds procured from within the State through the Kerala State Seed Development Authority were being distributed. Fertilizer shortage The Minister said shortage of chemical fertilizers was being addressed. The Centre has dispatched sufficient quantity of fertilizers, including diammonium phosphate, potash and urea. The consignments have reached the seaports in Kakinada, Krishnapatnam, Mangaluru, and Chennai. Efforts are on to arrange their delivery through trains. He was responding to a question raised by P.S. Supal (CPI).  Affected farmers will be provided compensation from the State Disaster Response Fund along with additional assistance by the State government. P. Prasad Agriculture Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crops-worth-rs-493-cr-lost-in-rain-prasad/article37449691.ece
12 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CAG raps Govt. for off-budget borrowings||Criticising the off-budget borrowings made through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) yet again, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) has asked the State Government to include them in its annual Budget statement. In its latest State Finances Audit Report tabled in the Assembly on Thursday, the CAG asked the State Government to disclose details of off-budget borrowings made through KIIFB and the Kerala Social Security Pension Ltd (KSSPL) in the Budget and accounts. Borrowings of these concerns ultimately constitute liabilities of the State Government.“These off-budget borrowings are not taken into the disclosure statement in the Budget documents or in the accounts, nor have legislative approval.” Further, such borrowings have the effect of bypassing the net borrowing ceiling of the State by routing loans outside the Budget through government-owned or controlled entities despite being responsible for the repayments. Financing expenditures through off-budget borrowings raised public debt and went against the letter and spirit of the Kerala Fiscal Responsibility Act, the CAG observed. “If the State Government increasingly resorts to these off-budget routes to finance both its capital as well as revenue spending, the liabilities of the State may increase substantially over a period of time leading to a debt trap, without the legislature even knowing that such liabilities are being created,” the report observed. During 2019-20, the Government had resorted to off-budget borrowings to the tune of Rs. 1,930.04 crore through KIIFB and Rs. 6,843.65 crore via the KSSPL for financing its capital and revenue spending, the CAG report said. The CAG did not accept the State Government's contention that the KIIFB borrowings are not off-budget borrowings. It also rejected the argument that the records and statements of KIIFB are laid before the legislature and, therefore, the borrowings have legislative approval. The KIIFB borrowings and expenditures are not included in the budget documents for the vote of legislature as exercised under Article 203(2) of the Constitution, the CAG said. In the KSSPL's case also, the CAG did not accept the Government's contention that it is a separate entity incorporated under the Companies Act and that its liabilities were not of the State's. This is not the first time that the CAG has raised this issue. In the previous State Finances Audit Report for the year ended 2019 tabled in January this year, the CAG had observed that the off-budget borrowings of KIIFB were “not in accordance with the Constitution'' and that ultimately it would turn out to be a direct liability of the State Government.  Report says State’s liabilities may increase substantially, leading to a debt trap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cag-raps-government-for-off-budget-borrowings/article37449677.ece
12 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Self-financing college employees Bill passed||The Kerala Assembly on Thursday passed the landmark Kerala Self-Financing College Teaching and Non-Teaching Employees (Appointment and Conditions of Service) Bill, 2021 that puts in place a law to guarantee service conditions for employees in private colleges. The Act will pave way for them to enjoy benefits including salary, allowance, insurance and leave that are on a par with the Government and aided sector. The Bill, piloted by Higher Education Minister R. Bindu on October 11 and subsequently referred to the Subject Committee on Education, was unanimously passed by the legislature. The legislation, recommended by the Kerala State Higher Education Council, is being viewed as one that would standardise rules to ensure service conditions for those employed in the unaided sector. Employees and educational agencies will be required to enter into agreements that specify conditions including post, scale of pay, increment, grade, promotion, period of appointment, salary allowance and overtime duty. Besides, unqualified employees will be required to meet the eligibility norms laid down by the University Grants Commission and other regulatory bodies. Employees will be able to appeal against disciplinary actions. Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan, who moved the motion to pass the Bill in the absence of Dr. Bindu, sought to allay concerns that the law would impede the rights of minority organisations. While the Government did not intend to usurp freedom, it aimed at creating an environment that was conducive to teaching and learning in unaided colleges. Exploitation of staff There have been numerous instances of employees being subjected to exploitation in the absence of regulations that guaranteed their welfare, he said. K.T. Jaleel, MLA, urged Health Minister Veena George to introduce a similar law for the nearly 500 private colleges affiliated to the Kerala University of Health Sciences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/self-financing-college-employees-bill-passed/article37449761.ece
12 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chicken stall shut down for food safety breach||A chicken outlet functioning at Kanyakulangara on the outskirts of the city without food safety licence has been closed down following an inspection. The inspection at the outlet, Kerala Chicken, was conducted following a complaint that chicken liver bought from there was unfit for consumption. During the check, it came to light that the establishment lacked food safety licence and used to source chicken liver that was not properly preserved for sale. Caution sounded Senior Food Safety Officer A. Sakeer Hussain has asked those purchasing only chicken liver from chicken stalls to be cautious. Fish and chicken stalls are required to obtain food safety licence and display it at the outlet. Hotels too should display the licence and the food safety toll-free number, 18004251125. Any food-related complaints may be communicated on the above number, he said. Meanwhile, the food safety squad conducted inspections at Venjaramoodu, Vembayam and Kanyakulangara areas on the directions of the Food Safety Commissioner. Besides Mr. Hussain, food safety officers Indu V.S. and Arshita Basheer were part of the squad. More inspections are expected to continue in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chicken-stall-shut-down-for-food-safety-breach/article37449917.ece
12 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local holiday today||The district administration has declared a local holiday after noon for all Government offices and educational institutions in Thiruvananthapuram and Neyyattinkara taluks on account of the annual Feast of Christ the King at Madre de Deus Church at Vettucaud on Friday. The holiday will also be applicable for various places under Kattakada taluk, including Amboori, Vazhichal, Kallikkad, Ottasekharamangalam, Keezhattoor, Kalathummal, Maranalloor, Malayinkeezhu, Vilavoorkkal and Vilappil villages. Public examinations scheduled for the day will, however, go ahead as declared, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-holiday-today/article37449920.ece
12 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Murder of wife: search on for Palode man||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police have launched a manhunt for a Palode native who has been accused of murdering his wife. The police identified the accused as Abdul Rahim of Peringamala. He has been absconding ever since his wife, Nasila Bheegum (42) who hailed from Parankimamvila, was found dead in her bedroom during the early hours of Thursday. According to the Palode police, the incident occurred at Nasila’s ancestral house where the couple had been residing along with their 13-year-old daughter and Nasila’s parents. Nasila was found dead on her bed drenched in blood. Mysteriously, Nasila’s daughter was lying close to her, unaware of the death. After waking up, the child showed unease and was hospitalised after she vomited. Nasila’s parents suspect that the accused fed Nasila and their daughter with sweets laced with sedatives before they went to sleep last night. While Nasila was found to have suffered deep stab wounds on her neck and chest, the police was yet to recover the murder weapon. Abdul, who worked as a clerk at the Chakka Industrial Training Institute), is known to have been undergoing treatment for liquor de-addiction, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/murder-of-wife-search-on-for-palode-man/article37449922.ece
12 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 1.4-crore loss to dairy sector||Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development Minister J. Chinchurani pegged the loss suffered by the animal husbandry sector during the rain in October at Rs. 1.4 crore. She informed the Assembly on Thursday that several farmers lost their cattle between October 16 and 22. Cattle sheds were also damaged. In the rain, 23 cows, five buffaloes, 18 heifers, 18 calves, nine pigs, 44 goats and 25,084 poultry birds were killed. As many as 114 sheds, 29 coops and 13,035 kg of cattle feed were destroyed. The Government had launched 114 relief camps to accommodate over 4,800 animals in various parts of the State. Cattle feed worth Rs. 9.5 lakh had been supplied in these camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-14-crore-loss-to-dairy-sector/article37449676.ece
12 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Residents’ associations welcome law panel report||The Federation of Residents’ Associations Thiruvananthapuram (FRAT) and the Confederation of Residents’ Welfare Association (CoRWA) Kerala have welcomed a report prepared by the Kerala Law Reforms Commission to provide legal protection to activities of residents’ association. In a statement here on Thursday, the office-bearers called on the Government to find solutions to concerns through discussions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residents-associations-welcome-law-panel-report/article37449918.ece
12 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||7,224 COVID cases in State||The State reported 7,224 new cases of COVID-19 when 73,015 samples were tested in 24 hours. The cumulative COVID-19 case burden stands at 50,42,082. The cumulative case fatality now stands at 35,040 with the State adding 419 deaths to the official list on Thursday. These include 47 deaths which occurred in the past few days and 372 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following appeals filed by families. Active cases declined to 69,625 with 7,638 recoveries. Among the districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 1,095, followed by Ernakulam 922, Thrissur 724, Kozhikode 708, Kollam 694, Kottayam 560, Kannur 471, Pathanamthitta 448, Palakkad 335, Malappuram 333, Idukki 306, Wayanad 254, Alappuzha 250, and Kasaragod 124.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7224-covid-cases-in-state/article37449759.ece
12 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RTC will buy 460 buses: Minister||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is set to add 460 buses to its fleet, Transport Minister Antony Raju informed the House on Thursday. He said the efforts to procure the buses, which include 310 CNG-powered and 50 electric ones, were nearing completion. Orders have been issued to purchase 100 buses for Rs. 50 crore in the current fiscal. Mr. Raju said the Government had initiated steps to convert 3,000 diesel buses into eco-friendly fuels such as compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquefied natural gas (LNG). The contract to convert five diesel buses to CNG has been awarded to a New Delhi-based firm. The electric buses will be procured with the assistance of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rtc-will-buy-460-buses-minister/article37449760.ece
12 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Marakkar in cinemas on December 2||Big budget film, Marakkar: Arabikadalinte Simham , starring Mohanlal and directed by Priyadarsan, will hit the screen in cinemas on December 2. Culture Minister Saji Cherian, who held discussions with representatives of the film producers’ association, told reporters here on Thursday that the film would be released in cinemas without any conditions. The Minister’s announcement comes after several attempts to dissuade the film’s producer Antony Perumbavoor from releasing it on the OTT (over-the-top) platform. He said the producer had backed down on his demand for a minimum guarantee from exhibitors for releasing the film in cinemas. “He did this in the interests of the cinema industry and workers in the sector,” he said. Tax waiver Mr. Cherian added that the Government would waive the property tax on cinema halls during the COVID-19 period when screenings were suspended. The Government had earlier decided to exempt the entertainment tax on films till December 31. The Minister said the demand to relax the 50% occupancy for cinemas would be considered later. Representatives of the Film Exhibitors United Organisation of Kerala and Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce and chairman, Kerala State Film Development Corporation, Shaji N. Karun were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marakkar-in-cinemas-on-december-2/article37449764.ece
12 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Orientation session for KTU students||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) will organise an orientation programme for first-semester undergraduate students from November 22. The week-long induction programme, titled Student Technological Awareness, Review and Training (START), is aimed at providing students a better understanding of their chosen fields of study and to create awareness about the potential of the courses. While it will get under way with workout activities, the programme will feature online interactive sessions with experts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/orientation-session-for-ktu-students/article37449919.ece
12 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,095 new COVID cases||The capital district recorded 1,095 new COVID-19 cases and 1,247 recoveries on Thursday as the active caseload dropped to 9,986. The test positivity rate (TPR) in the district stood at 12.5% on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1095-new-covid-cases/article37449921.ece
12 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2 arrested for sending lewd messages to minor girl||The Pettah police on Thursday arrested two youths for sending obscene messages to a minor girl. The accused have been identified as Akhil (22) of Kadakampally and Sujith (29) of Muttathara. They are suspected to have obtained the contact details of the girl through an online class session, according to the police. The duo soon began to send her lewd messages and threats through various social networking platforms. Despite going into hiding, the duo were soon caught on the basis of a complaint by the girl’s parents, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-arrested-for-sending-lewd-messages-to-minor-girl/article37449923.ece
12 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Maximum permitted headload cut to 55 kg||The maximum headload permitted for workers has been lowered from 75 kg to 55 kg, while that for women and adolescents has been limited to 35 kg. The Kerala Headload Workers Welfare (Amendment) Bill was among the 10 Bills tabled by Minister for General Education and Labour V. Sivankutty during this session of the Assembly and their passage ensured. While one Bill pertained to education, the remaining was in connection with the Labour Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maximum-permitted-headload-cut-to-55-kg/article37449928.ece
12 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Anupama begins indefinite stir||Anupama S. Chandran, who has alleged that her child was given up for adoption without her knowledge, began an indefinite protest in front of the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare at Thycaud in the capital on Thursday morning. Anupama is seeking the removal of council general secretary Shiju Khan J.S. and District Child Welfare Committee (CWC) chairperson N. Sunanda from their positions till the departmental investigation ordered by the Government is completed. She also wants her child, who is in pre-adoption foster care, to be brought back to the State at the earliest. Meets Minister Anupama said she did not have much confidence in the investigation since both the council general secretary and the Child Welfare Committee chairperson remained in their posts, making it possible for them to destroy evidence or influence people. She had met Minister for Women and Child Development Veena George to press her demands but to no avail. “Why can’t they be removed for the duration of the probe?” she asked. Files awaited Anupama expressed unhappiness with the pace of proceedings launched by the CWC in connection with re-examining the adoption procedures on the orders of the Family Court here. Though the CWC said it would get the child back and get the DNA test done, files sought by it from the child welfare council were yet to reach it 10 days after the court direction, she said. Anupama said she feared that this would, in turn, cause more delays in bringing back the child. “We do not know why it is taking this long despite the direction of the court,” she said. On Wednesday, she had written to the Child Welfare Committee and the State Police Chief seeking urgent measures to get back her child from the adoptive parents as feared that they may try and take the child out of the country or harm him. She wanted the child to be housed safely under the protection of the State Government till the Family Court pronounced a judgment in the case. She alleged that as per information from the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, both the council and the Child Welfare Committee were yet to submit reports to them. Anupama said she wanted to find out why her pleas had not been considered and her child kept away from her for so long. Even the departmental probe had been ordered to ascertain if there were any lapses. “Why demur and not remove them from their responsibilities?,” she asked. She had staged a day-long agitation in front of the Secretariat last month to press the demand for an inquiry into the child’s adoption without her consent.  She asks for her child, who is in pre-adoption foster care, to be brought back to the State at the earliest||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anupama-begins-indefinite-stir/article37449690.ece
12 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||GST seminar from today||The country’s experience with the Goods and Services Tax (GST) will be the subject of a two-day international seminar which begins here on Friday. Organised by the Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation (GIFT), the seminar will explore how the GST regime, introduced in 2017, has impacted the Indian economy in general, the finances of States, businesses, the people and the Centre-State dynamics. Experts on finance and taxationare expected to attend the event which is being held offline on the GIFT campus and online on Zoom, GIFT director K.J. Joseph said. It will also look at the international experience with GST, what India and the States can learn from it and the way forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gst-seminar-from-today/article37449743.ece
12 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||34 Bills passed, House session concludes||In all, 34 Bills were passed during the 21-day third session of the 15th Kerala Assembly which concluded on Thursday. On the final day, the Supplementary Demands for Grants and the Kerala Appropriation (No.4) Bill, 2021 were passed. The third session, which began on October 4, was specially convened to pass Bills which replaced 44 Ordinances, some of which had been repromulgated multiple times. Public health Bill In all, 35 Bills came up for the consideration of the members during the session. Of these, 34 Bills were passed and the Kerala Public Health Bill was referred to a 15-member Select Committee for a more detailed examination. As many as 30 were passed unanimously, Speaker M.B. Rajesh said. Of the 44 Bills planned, two Bills were avoided due to technical reasons and certain others of a similar nature were clubbed and introduced together. The Assembly adjourned sine die.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/34-bills-passed-house-session-concludes/article37449763.ece
12 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||AKPCTA protests against college action||The All Kerala Private College Teachers’ Association (AKPCTA) has protested against the ‘disciplinary action’ taken against five teachers of S.N. College, Chempazhanthy. In a statement on Thursday, AKPCTA president Jogy Alex and general secretary C. Padmanabhan lashed out at the decision to suspend two teachers from service and transfer three others to other colleges. The action by the college management apparently came after the teachers had expressed solidarity with six students who had accused another faculty member of sexual harassment. The organisation alleged that the college violated norms by failing to seek explanations from the teachers and acting on a report by the Principal alone. The move also contravened a Government order that forbade colleges from transferring employees at a time when steps were under way to study the issue concerning work load and post creation. The action came in the wake of an Internal Complaints Committee enquiry that has become a subject of dispute in courts. “Initiating action against the teachers on the charge of supporting the complainants is tantamount to challenging the rule of law,” the AKPCTA alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/akpcta-protests-against-college-action/article37449929.ece
12 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur city stinking, says Oppn.||The city is stinking of rotten garbage and corruption, the Opposition in the Thrissur Corporation council has alleged. In a symbolic protest, the Opposition United Democratic Front councillors carried garbage baskets to the council meeting. “People have lost confidence in the Mayor. The Opposition is planning to bring a non-confidence motion against Mayor M.K. Varghese,” said Leader of the Opposition Rajan K. Pallan. Corruption alleged “Countdown has started for the number of days the Mayor is in power. Rotten garbage is seen on all roads in the city, including Sakthan Nagar. Even after repeated demands, the Mayor has not taken any steps to remove garbage. It is inefficiency of the Mayor and Health Standing Committee Chairman P.K. Shajan. The garbage treatment plants are not functioning. There is corruption amounting to crores in the name of garbage disposal,” he said. The councillors said the Left Democratic Front (LDF) was looting the people. Even though there was a government order for exempting fees, the corporation was charging Rs. 15 for residency certificates. The Mayor should explain who gave the order without the knowledge of the council, they said. Tariff hike “The corporation is exploiting people by increasing power and drinking water tariff without the knowledge of the council. A council meeting on March 25, 2017 had decided not to increase charge of domestic water connections. Still the LDF increased the charge from April 1 this year cheating the council as well as the people,” Mr. Pallan alleged. The Mayor and LDF parliamentary party leader P.K. Shajan had said that no fee would be charged henceforth for residency certificates, he said. The Opposition councillors asked the corporation not to build an open stage at the place acquired for a shopping complex at Pattalam Road. The project would not only result in traffic block but also cause huge revenue loss to the corporation, they said. They said the city was witnessing drinking water shortage and the water supplied was of poor quality. The Opposition demanded that a third pipe line be installed to solve the drinking water shortage. The Mayor said a meeting would be convened with the water authority soon to address the drinking water issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-city-stinking-says-oppn/article37449934.ece
12 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||‘Kneel down’ agitation for bridge, road||Social worker Vinod Vithayathil staged a kneel down agitation in front of the office of V.R. Sunil Kumar, MLA, at Mala on Thursday demanding steps to rebuild a road and a bridge damaged in the 2018 floods. The Kodavathukunnu- Kottamuri road and the Vynthode bridge were damaged in the floods in 2018. Authorities had not taken action despite repeated demands of the local people for rebuilding the road and the bridge. “The kneel down agitation is to press the genuine demand of the people here who are suffering a lot without a motorable bridge and road,” Mr. Vithayathil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kneel-down-agitation-for-bridge-road/article37449936.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Congress in Kerala displaying fascist tendencies, says CPI(M)||The Congress in Kerala has acquired an intemperate fascist character under the current leadership. The intolerance manifested recently in the continuing attacks on actor Joju George, disrupting cinema production and blindly opposing Kerala’s attempt to create basic infrastructure, chiefly K-Rail (SilverLine). The Congress protests has also gained a violent edge, according to CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan. Mr. Vijayaraghavan, who chaired a meeting of the CPI(M) State secretariat here on Thursday, said the party perceived that the Congress had adopted a Sangh Parivar style of functioning under Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K. Sudhakaran and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan. Notably, former KPCC president V.M. Sudheeran had raised a similar charge against Mr. Sudhakaran. Derailing development Mr. Vijayaraghavan said the Congress spoke BJP’s language in Kerala. It has joined hands with the BJP to derail the State’s developmental aspirations. Both the parties had demanded a referendum on SilverLine. The electorate had sanctioned the project by voting the Left Democratic Front back to power in the 2021 Assembly polls. He said that by blaming the State Government for the fuel price hike, the Congress provided cover for the Narendra Modi Government at the Centre. Protest on Nov. 16 The Centre has to slash the cess and additional excise duty on fuel and Kerala has not increased local taxes on fuel since 2018. LDF activists holding elected office will protest against the fuel price hike and consequent inflation and price rise from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on November 16. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the protest in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-in-kerala-displaying-fascist-tendencies-says-cpim/article37449724.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In obeisance||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-obeisance/article37449717.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Obstacle course||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/obstacle-course/article37449685.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Royal procession||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/royal-procession/article37449925.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pot shot||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pot-shot/article37449927.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Raising a stink||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raising-a-stink/article37449753.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fort beckons||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fort-beckons/article37449938.ece
12 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains to Tirupati from Dec. 1||The SCR will run daily special trains between Tirupati and Kadiridevarapalli via Dharmavarm, Anantapur and Guntakal from November 30. The Tirupati-Kadiridevarapalli (07589) train will depart from Tirupati station at 11.05 p.m. daily. It will reach Kadiridevarapalli at 1 p.m. the next day. In the return direction, the train ( 07590) will leave Kadiriverapalli at 3.15 p.m. from December 1 and reach Tirupati at 3.35 a.m. En route, the trains halts at Chandragiri, Panapakam, Pakala Junction, Damalcheruvu, Piler, Madanapalle Road, Mulacalacheruvu, Nallacheruvu, Kadiri, Mudigubba, Chinnekuntapalli, Dharmavaram Junction, Chigicherla, Zangalapalle, Prasannaya Palli, Anantapur, Taticherla, Garladinne, Kalluru, Khadarpett, Vankatampalle, Gulapalyamu, Guntakal Junction, Bantanahal, Bevinahalu, Virapur, Hagari, Bellary Junction, Obalapuram, Somalapuram, Rayadurg, Avuladatla and Kalyanadurga stations in both the directions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-trains-to-tirupati-from-dec-1/article37449840.ece
12 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur students land jobs||Students of Anantha Lakshmi Institute of Technology and Sciences got jobs in the Wipro through the Wipro National Talent Hunt Test. College placement officer M. Narendra Naidu said 200 wrote the test of which 82 were given offer letters .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-students-land-jobs/article37449834.ece
12 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rowdy-sheeter ‘murdered’ in broad daylight||A rowdy-sheeter identified as Dollu Devendra, 40, was allegedly done to death by his neighbour Lakshminarayana in broad daylight in Rudrampeta Colony in the city on Thursday. IV-Town Circle Inspector K. Srinivasulu said that the police received a call about the incident at around 10.30 a.m. Primary investigation revelaed that Lakshminarayana and Devendra had a verbal duel over some personnel comments the latter had made. In a fit of rage, Lakshminarayana allegedly hit the victim with a big boulder on his head, leading to his instantaneous death. The accused is absconding. The police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rowdy-sheeter-murdered-in-broad-daylight/article37449835.ece
12 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNTU cancels examinations||The JNTU, Anantapur, has announced the closure of all colleges affiliated to it in the State on Friday and Saturday in view of the rain on Thursday and prediction of further rains. Controller of examinations Keshava Reddy Eddula announced the cancellation of the M.Tech and M. Pharm examinations including the ‘Last Chance’, and said new dates would announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jntu-cancels-examinations/article37449839.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Did not discuss Bitcoin scam with Modi: Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has claimed that he did not discuss the alleged bitcoin scam that has created political heat over the last few weeks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during their meeting in Delhi on Thursday. The discussion, instead, revolved around various political and administration issues related to Karnataka, he said. In reply to a question on the bitcoin scam, the Chief Minister said, “The Prime Minister did not wish to dwell much on the bitcoin issue. However, I myself raised the issue. The Prime Minister told me not to bother much about it. He asked me to just focus on working for the welfare of the people with integrity and boldness, and that things would fall in place.” High-profile names The Opposition Congress has alleged that high-profile names, including Ministers, BJP leaders, and senior civil servants, are involved in the scam through hacker Srikrishna Ramesh alias Sriki, who was arrested and is now out on bail. During his visit to Delhi, Mr. Bommai also met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national president J.P. Nadda and discussed the political situation in Karnataka. The bitcoin scam was not discussed with both these leaders either, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Bommai said Mr. Shah and Mr. Nadda advised him to work hard to win maximum number of seats in the Legislative Council polls scheduled on December 10. Mr. Nadda is expected to visit Bengaluru for a day and meet leaders from Karnataka. PM embarrassed: HDK Meanwhile, expressing suspicion over Srikrishna securing bail, JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy accused that there have been efforts to bury the bitcoin scam. He said that if strict action had been initiated during the Congress regime when the accused was first held in connection with a drug case, the issue would not have grown big. “There is an allegation that police officials and politicians are involved in the scam,” he said. Mr. Kumaraswamy said that information on some persons involved may not have been revealed to prevent embarrassment to the country. “It looks like the Prime Minister was informed about the bitcoin scam, which embarrassed him. That is the reason why he has taken the case seriously,” said Mr. Kumaraswamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/did-not-discuss-bitcoin-scam-with-modi-bommai/article37449134.ece
12 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Abul Kalam laid foundation for education sector: Sajjala||Adviser, Public Affairs, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that Moulana Abul Kalam Azad was one of the greatest freedom fighters who believed in unity in diversity and laid a strong foundation for the education sector in the country. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy took part in National Education Day celebrations commemorating the 134th birth anniversary of Abul Kalam Azad, the first Education Minister of independent India, at the YSRCP central office in Tadepalli on Thursday. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy recalled that the former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had strived hard for the development of minorities in the State and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had been continuing with the same spirit. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has brought in revolutionary changes in the education sector and launched Vidya Kanuka, Amma Vodi and other schemes for students. The government had been spending Rs. 30,000 crore on the education sector, he added. Many YSRCP leaders paid tributes to Abul Kalam Azad. Deputy CM Amzad Basha, MLC Appi Reddy, MLA Hafeez Khan, party Minority Cell president Khader Basha, Urdu Academy Chairman Nadeem Ahmed and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/abul-kalam-laid-foundation-for-education-sector-sajjala/article37449375.ece
12 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP election offences exposed, says Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has no right to continue in office as the YSRCP’s election offences have now been exposed in the court. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy should own up moral responsibility for using forged documents to announce the withdrawal of TDP nominee Vijaya Lakshmi and her husband in the 7th division of the Tirupati Municipal Corporation. The forensic report has established that forged signatures have been used to prevent the couple from contesting the election,” Mr. Naidu said while addressing the media at the party’s national office here on Thursday. “The ruling YSRCP has been committing such criminal election offences right from the beginning,” Mr. Naidu alleged. Questioning how the Kuppam police could keep TDP MLA Nimmala Ramanaidu and party leader P. Nani under house arrest even after the High Court ordered against it, Mr. Naidu said, “The DSP concerned is now hinting at serving another notice to prevent the TDP leaders from campaigning.” “How can the TDP leaders be restricted even as a Minister and YSRCP leaders are allowed to move freely in Kuppam?” the TDP president questioned. He said the TDP would file cases with documentary evidence and make the Returning Officers and all the police officers who were party to the “YSRCP election offences” accountable. “All these officers will have to pay a heavy price. The SP and the DSP are being asked to file counters in the High Court over the illegal arrests of the TDP leaders in Kuppam,” Mr. Naidu said. The TDP president appealed to the people to boldly vote against the ruling YSRCP candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-election-offences-exposed-says-naidu/article37449859.ece
12 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP violating model code’||The YSRCP has urged the State Election Commissioner to initiate action against the TDP for “launching a campaign in the print, electronic and social media, which states that people who give a missed call to the number, 8801033322, will be exempted from paying taxes.” In a letter to the SEC, party State general secretary L. Appireddy said the campaign was a violation of the MCC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-violating-model-code/article37449857.ece
12 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CBI charges against VANPIC, Nimmagadda not justified’||The charges by CBI pressed against VANPIC and industrialist Nimmagadda Prasad that they secured permissions for projects by investing money in businesses belonging to Y.S. Janmohan Reddy were not justified, their lawyer T. Niranjan Reddy said on Thursday. Appearing for VANPIC and Mr. Prasad before the bench of Justice Shameem Akther of Telangana High Court, the senior counsel sought to know why the government failed to act against them if they allegedly misled it. CBI had filed charge-sheets against Vaadarevu and Nizampatnam Port and Industrial Corridor (VANPIC) project and Mr. Prasad accusing them of making investments in Jaganmohan Reddy’s businesses in return of favours received using official position of his late father Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy who was Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh then. They filed discharge petitions in CBI court but they were dismissed. Eventually, they moved the HC filing criminal petitions which came up for hearing before Justice Shameem Akther on Thursday. Presenting contentions, Mr. Niranjan Reddy said that after Y.S. Rajasekher Reddy, two others K. Rosaiah, N. Kiran Kumar Reddy and N. Chandrababu Naidu worked as Chief Ministers but they did not cancel permissions accorded to VANPIC. Why did not the successive governments withdraw permissions to the project if the project developers indulged in any malpractices, the lawyer asked. Government did not mean only Chief Minister. A Council of Ministers would be assisting the CM and they would be furnished with information by officials. No action was initiated against any top official though the CBI alleged that officers misled the Ministers and the CM, Mr. Reddy argued. He stated that earlier the HC had said that genuine investors must be identified in the petitioners filed targetting Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy, the present AP Chief Minister. However, the investigators somehow did not treat VANPIC and Mr. Prasad as genuine investors and industrialists. The next hearing was posted to November 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cbi-charges-against-vanpic-nimmagadda-not-justified/article37449654.ece
12 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP demand on paddy ridiculed||Telangana Rashta Samithi (TRS) has ridiculed the protests staged by the State unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in front of Collectorates demanding purchase of paddy produced in the Kharif (Vanakalam) season, when the exercise is already in progress and accused them with playing with the lives of paddy farmers in the State. Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, Rythu Bandhu Samithi (RBS) Chairman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, Civil Supplies Corporation (CSC) Chairman Mareddy Srinivas Reddy and others alleged that the Centre was discriminating against the State in the matter of paddy/rice procurement stating that when it was lifting over 2 crore tonnes of rice every year from Punjab, only half of it was being taken from Telangana for two years. Production of paddy in Telangana was over 3 crore tonnes during 2020-21 agriculture year, they noted. On the procurement of paddy produced in the Kharif, Mr. Rajeshwar Reddy said about 5,11,334 tonnes worth over Rs. 1,000 crore was already purchased with minimum support price (MSP) at 3,550 out of 6,663 paddy procurement centre opened so far. Terming the BJP’s protest on Kharif procurement as a political drama, the TRS leaders suggested them to get the Centre’s nod on procurement of rice produced in the Rabi season. They also suggested that the BJP leaders get the FCI letter on not procuring boiled rice produced in Rabi withdrawn. On BJP leaders’ doubts over paddy extent in the Kharif season, Mr. Reddy reminded them of the fact that Union Ministry of Agriculture would keep a tab on cultivation and production of all crops in every State by collecting information on weekly and monthly basis and said the extent was about 62 lakh acres this year. Asked why the State could not produce more raw rice, Mr. Reddy said producing it in Rabi season was difficult in Telangana due to the extreme temperate conditions. He admitted that raw rice milling capacity was less in TS and it would need about two years to scale it up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-demand-on-paddy-ridiculed/article37449660.ece
12 November 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||16 mosques to honour 1921 rebellion martyrs||Granite plaquettes featuring the names of Variamkunnathu Kunjahamad Haji, Ali Musliyar, and other martyrs of the 1921 Malabar Rebellion will be put up at the precincts of a few mosques in Ernakulam, even as the Indian Council for Historical Research (ICHR) is set to consider a proposal to delete these names from the Dictionary of Martyrs: India’s Freedom Struggle.  The plaque with the names of all the 387 martyrs engraved on it will be installed at 16 mosques affiliated to the Vypeen zonal committee of the Ernakulam District Muslim Jamaat Council. The installation is part of a protest against what is described as a distortion of history and proposal to delete the names from the list of martyrs of the freedom struggle. The first plaque was unveiled at Edavanakkad Juma Masjid the other day. Similar ones will be installed at Badariya Juma Masjid, Edavanakkad, Mahal Juma Masjid, Nayarambalam, and Sanketham Ajeed Juma Masjid, Malippuram, in the coming weeks, says T.A. Ahamad Kabeer, president of the district council. “No one can obfuscate the history of the freedom struggle and delete the 1921 Rebellion and its leaders from the annals of history. The Malabar Rebellion was part of the freedom movement and all the 387 were killed by the British,” says Mr. Kabeer.  The Hindu had earlier reported on the ICHR subcommittee recommendations to delete the names, which had triggered a series of political debates in the State. “Seven mosques in the region will have the plaques installed in the first phase, followed by others. Enquiries are pouring in from different parts of the State about the initiative,” says E.K. Ashraf, general secretary of the council. ‘Inappropriate move’ However, a member on the ICHR subcommittee, says compartmentalising the martyrs on religious basis and displaying their names at places of worship is inappropriate. There cannot be Hindu, Sikh or Muslim martyrs. Places of worship should not be misused for such purposes. The subcommittee member, who preferred not to be named, says the move is an attempt to convert a historical issue into a religious one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/16-mosques-to-honour-1921-rebellion-martyrs/article37449324.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||There can’t be cover-up in Monson case: HC||The Kerala High Court on Thursday observed that there could not be any cover-up in the investigation in the cases registered against self-styled antiquities dealer Monson Mavunkal merely because some high-ranking police officers are allegedly involved in them. Justice Devan Ramachandran, while hearing a petition filed by Ajith E.V., a former driver of Monson alleging police harassment, impleaded the Enforcement Directorate (ED) as a respondent in the case as the court felt that the probe had to be held on a larger scale and the police required the assistance of other agencies. The court observed that the communication addressed to the Director General of Prosecution by the Superintendent of Police, Crime Branch, said Anitha Pullayil, global coordinator of the women’s wing of the Pravasi Malayali Federation, was in the picture. That apart, in the letter addressed to the ED, former State Police Chief Loknath Behera wrote that there were various incriminating inputs against Monson. Something much more The court observed that prime facie there appeared to be something much more than what meets the eye. There should be a proper investigation into the activities of the fake antiquities dealer. The court asked why no police officer had been arraigned as accused in the case and whether an investigation was carried out into the role of the non-resident association. The court asked why no action was taken under the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act, 1972 against Monson after the former State Police Chief raised doubts regarding the genuineness of the antiques. Director General of Prosecution T.A. Shaji submitted that the Government had nothing to hide and the ED was already alerted about the activities of Monson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/there-cant-be-cover-up-in-monson-case-hc/article37449135.ece
12 November 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala court dismisses plea in church row||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Thursday dismissed a writ appeal filed against an interim order of a single judge in the Malankara Church dispute case. The appeal was filed by Manu Kurian Thuruthel. According to him, though the petitioner was not a party in the case, he was aggrieved by the order. He said the single judge ought to have recused himself from hearing the writ petitions seeking police protection for conducting rituals in churches by vicars appointed by the Orthodox Church. The Bench said the single judge had only directed the police to ensure that the areas where the parish churches are situated are protected. As for the recusal, it said it was a matter for the judge to decide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-court-dismisses-plea-in-church-row/article37449136.ece
12 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Landslips hit Kottayam, Pathanamthitta||The eastern high ranges of Kottayam and Pathanamthitta, which came under a spell of extreme showers on Wednesday midnight, were hit by a series of landslips in the early hours of Thursday. According to officials, back-to-back mudslides were reported inside the forests at Kanamala and Mookkenpetty in Erumely in Kottayam district, and Kodamala and Kokkathodu at Konni in Pathanamthitta. Residential areas in the downstream of these locations witnessed a heavy gush of water and mud, which entered several houses and commercial establishments. Crops in several acres of land were reported to have been destroyed. Vehicles, including autorickshaws and two-wheelers, were washed away or got stuck in the mud. No casualities were reported though an elderly woman, a native of Kanamala, had a narrow escape after being caught in the influx of mud. As many as 34 people from nine families have been shifted to a relief camp at Kanamala. The heavy rain caused traffic disruptions at Kanamala, Edakadathi, Eruthuvapuzha, Attachakkal, and also along the Konni-Achencoil route. In Pathanamthitta, at least four houses at Kokkathodu were destroyed. As per estimates, Achencoil received 179 mm of rainfall while Avanipara received 245 mm. A seven-member team of pilgrims from Varkala which had gone to the Achencoil temple through the forest route from Konni were trapped inside the forest for several hours. The back-to-back mudslides also caused a sharp rise in the water level of the Achencoil and Kallar rivers, which inundated several houses on its banks. Teams of the Fire and Rescue Services were deployed in the disaster-struck locations. Revenue officials led by the tahsildar and the village officer coordinated the rescue and relief operations in respective locations. In Kollam In Kollam, a house near Kunjuman canal was completely inundated in a landslip inside the Kulathupuzha forest following heavy rain on Thursday morning. The family has been shifted to a safe place and no casualty reported. Water entered the nearby houses of Nadarajan and Chellappan. A bridge across the canal remained submerged for some time affecting movement in the area. Heavy rain was reported in Aryankavu as well and another landslide was reported from the Kodamala area in Achencoil. The debris were removed and the traffic was restored around afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/landslips-hit-kottayam-pathanamthitta/article37449327.ece
12 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sabarimala all set for pilgrimage||Marking the beginning of yet another pilgrimage season, doors of the Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala will open for the annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku season on November 15. Outgoing head priest V.K. Jayaraj Potti will open the sanctum sanctorum in the presence of chief priest (Tantri) Kandararu Mahesh Mohanararu at 5 p.m. This will be followed by the opening of the upadevata temples and transferring of the scared fire to the aazhi. Later in the day, the installation of newly selected melsanthis for the Ayyappa temple and the Malikappuram Devi temple will be performed. The new melsanthis will hold charge of their respective temples for the next one year. The Mandala puja festival this year is from November 16 to December 26, while the temple will reopen for the Makaravilakku festival from December 30 to January 20 next year. Devotees, who have booked for darsan through the virtual queue system, will be permitted entry to the temple from November 16. After the Makaravilakku festival on January 14, the temple will be closed on January 20.  The Sabarimala Safe Zone Project by the Motor Vehicles Department, which aims at bringing down vehicular accidents along the trunk roads leading to the temple, will begin on Friday. At a function to be held at Elavunkal, Transport Minister Antony Raju will inaugurate the event. Authorities are expecting a sharp rise in the arrival of devotees this season as entry to the temple was restricted last year due to the pandemic situation. Parking of vehicles Arrangements have been made for parking of vehicles carrying pilgrims at the Nilackal base camp. After parking the vehicle at the designated location, devotees are required to board the Pampa-Nilackal chain services operated by the KSRTC. In case of the drivers staying back, pilgrims may be dropped at Pampa before returning to the parking lot. Verification of slots booked in the virtual queue will be carried out at the counter near the Ganpathi Kovil. The devotees are also required to keep a copy of their vaccination certificate or result of the RT-PCR test conducted within 72 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sabarimala-all-set-for-pilgrimage/article37449325.ece
12 November 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Irrigation EE taken into custody in DA case||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths on Thursday took Irrigation Executive Engineer of Nandyal Divison M. Jacob Rajasekhar into custody on charges of possessing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income and registered a case after conducting simultaneous searches at Kurnool, Nandyal, Yemiganur, and Proddutur in Kadapa district. ACB Deputy Superintendent of Police J. Siva Narayana Swamy said during the searches conducted so far, the ACB found three houses in Kurnool, one acre of agricultural land in Panyam, three house sites in Vijayawada, two house sites in Proddutur. The searches were still on and two bank lockers were yet to be opened, he said. The raid continued till the last report came in. Action will follow after the list of the disproportionate assets was finalised, the ACB officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/irrigation-ee-taken-into-custody-in-da-case/article37449833.ece
12 November 2021||MANCHERIAL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pay Rs. 1 cr. each to 4 Singareni mine accident victims: unions||The tragic death of four coal miners in Wednesday’s roof collapse in the SRP 3 & 3A incline underground mine of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) in Mancherial district robbed their families of their only breadwinners, triggering demands from trade unions for sanction of Rs. 1 crore ex gratia each to the four bereaved families. The mine accident plunged the four families into profound sorrow even as a host of trade unions operating in the coal belt region are gearing up to launch a joint stir to press for speedy disbursement of Rs. 1 crore ex gratia each to the bereaved families. Two senior coal miners and two new entrants had perished in Wednesday’s incident. B Laxmaiah, 60, a timber man, of Srirampur met with a tragic end during his extended period of service. He had retired from service in July this year and was subsequently re-inducted into service in August following enhancement of age of superannuation from 60 years to 61 years by the State government with effect from March 30, 2021. His tragic death left his family members including his wife and two unmarried sons heartbroken. G Satyanarayana Raju, 32, of Yellandu in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, who secured “Badli worker” job in the company under compassionate appointment following the retirement of his father on medical invalidation grounds in September last year, died in Wednesday’s accident. Another new entrant R Chandrasekhar, 32, of Jannaram in Mancherial district, was also killed in the roof collapse incident. He was appointed as Badli worker on compassionate grounds in March last year. He is survived by his wife Navya, six months old son and elderly parents. The SCCL management has already announced that matching grant, gratuity and other terminal benefits totalling around Rs 70 lakh to Rs one crore each will be paid to the bereaved families of the four deceased coal miners. The company management also decided to provide a job to one eligible member from each bereaved family in the company. SCCL sources said the company had disbursed cheques for Rs. 15,95,000 each (ex gratia, special ex gratia and funeral expenses) to the kin of those killed. Speaking to The Hindu , Singareni Coal Mines Karmik Sangh (SCMKS) general secretary and a member of the Joint Bipartite Committee for Coal Industry (JBCCI) P Madhava Naik alleged that Wednesday's mine accident exposed glaring safety lapses. The accident brought to an abrupt end the long careers of two new entrants in the company, he deplored. Last year, 12 workers were killed in nine mine accidents and this year ten workers perished in four accidents including the latest incident in SRP 3 & 3A in the SCCL, Mr Naik said, reiterating his demand for a detailed probe into the accidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pay-rs-1-cr-each-to-4-singareni-mine-accident-victims-unions/article37449330.ece
12 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held, red sanders logs worth Rs. 20 lakh seized||The sleuths of the Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force seized red sanders logs worth about Rs. 20 lakh and arrested three people in this connection, at Kothapalli in Udayagiri forests in Nellore district on Thursday. The accused have been identified as P. Narasimhulu(37), N. Nagaiah(37) and D. Ravi(48). Acting on a tip-off, the task force sleuths launched a combing operation in the thick forests on Wednesday night and found the accused moving in a suspicious manner in the wee hours of Thursday. Following the inputs gathered during the interrogation of the accused, the task force seized eight red sanders logs that were about to be transported to Chennai, task force Deputy Superintendent of Police Muralidhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-red-sanders-logs-worth-rs-20-lakh-seized/article37449841.ece
12 November 2021||NELLORE/ ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal A.P. deluged||Incessant rains under the influence of the depression over the Bay of Bengal pounded South coastal Andhra Pradesh on Thursday. The rains which started late on Wednesday continued through out the day in several places in the Nellore and Prakasam districts, throwing the normal life out of gear. Arterial roads leading to the VRC Centre, KVR petro bunk centre, NTR Colony, Sunday market and Gandhi Bommaa Centre in Nellore remained under a sheet of water as the depression that crossed the coast close to Chennai on Thursday evening, triggered heavy rains. In Nellore city, railway underbridges at Magunta Layout, Ramalingapuram and Atmakur bus stand centre turned into a cesspool. Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force rushed to the coastal mandals lashed by heavy rains in the last two days. The sea remained rough in the coastal mandals including Doravarisatram, Chittamur, Chillakur, Vakadu, Indukurpet, Kodavaluru and Vidavaluru. Crops in more than 3,200 acres in among other places Sullurpeta, Naidupeta and Venkatagiri, were inundated, said a preliminary report compiled by the Agriculture Department. Tada bordering Tamil Nadu received a maximum rainfall of 102.8 mm, followed by Sullurpeta (60.4 mm). Traffic hit Vehicular traffic on the Chennai-Kolkata national highway was disrupted near Sullurpeta as Mamidi canal and Kalangi river were brimming. Road connectivity was hit in several localities in and around Gudur as Kommaleru and Kandaleru canals were in spate. Fishermen did not venture into the sea. Power supply was suspended in many places in the Sullurpeta division as a precautionary measure. Weathermen forecast moderate rain at most places and very heavy rainfall at a few places and extremely heavy rain at isolated places.The sky opened up in Ongole late on Wednesday and the heavy rain continued on Thursday, bringing cheers to farmers who were waiting to start rabi operations .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heavy-rains-throw-normal-life-out-of-gear-in-south-coastal-ap/article37449837.ece
12 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati farmers march on amid rain, police curbs||Notwithstanding the incessant rain lashing Prakasam district and the police curbs en route, a group of 157 farmers from the Amaravati capital region enthusiastically continued their 45-day march to Tirumala from N.G. Padu village in Prakasam district on Thursday. Barricades erected by the police to regulate the crowd did not deter tens of thousands of people from scores of villages in the S.N. Padu Assembly segment to follow the farmers on the 11th day of their walkathon. Tempers ran high as the local farmers raised ‘Jai Amaravati’ slogan as an expression of their solidarity with the Amaravati farmers, who had parted with their lands for the purpose of Amaravati. The farmers were opposing the YSRCP government’s three-capital decision and demanding that Amaravati be retained as the sole capital of the State. Tension mounted when a mob broke through the police cordon near Chadalawada village and rushed towards N.G. Padu to join the farmers from Amaravati. Police resorted to lathicharge to restore order after a rope party tried in vain to regulate the crowd that also removed the police barricades erected at different places and ran helter-skelter. In the melee, one farmer broke his hand. Home-makers and others walked along with the women from Amaravati, who had been waging a protracted struggle since the government announced its three-capital policy. They showered flower petals on the farmers and followed them up to Mukthinuthalapadu. TDP leaders under house arrest Heated arguments were witnessed when electronic mediapersons tried to interact with the Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti leaders during the walkathon. The police, who had allowed leaders of the opposition parties to take part in the march since it entered the district on Saturday, kept under house arrest TDP leaders, including MLAs G. Ravikumar and Y. Sambasiva Rao, and former MLAs D. Janardhana Rao and B.N. Vijaykumar, in view of the Model Code of Conduct in force for the MLC and local body elections. Condemning the police curbs, TDP Ongole Lok Sabha unit president N. Balaji alleged that the ruling YSRCP, unnerved by the “tremendous response” to the ‘maha padayatra’ from the people, was trying to place hurdles by using the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-farmers-march-on-amid-rain-police-curbs/article37449861.ece
12 November 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLC seat: Vikrant thanks CM, Dy. CM for nomination||YSRCP leader Palavalasa Vikrant, who has been chosen as the party candidate for an MLC post from MLAs’ quota, is the son of former ZP chairperson P. Rajasekharam and brother of Patapatnam MLA Reddi Shanti. Mr. Vikrant played a key role in organising Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s Odarpu Yatra in 2010 and padayatra in 2019 in the district. The family has a good political following in Palakonda and Rajam Assembly constituencies in the district which were reserved for STs and SCs respectively. It is said to be one of the main reasons behind Mr. Vikrant not getting an opportunity to contest in the last elections. Mr. Vikrant belongs to Kapu community. Easy victory expected He is expected to be elected to the Upper House as the YSRCP has a comfortable majority to get the required votes. Mr. Vikrant thanked Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the nomination and vowed to strive hard to strengthen the party in the district. Later, he met Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas in Srikakulam on Thursday and thanked him for his support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mlc-seat-vikrant-thanks-cm-dy-cm-for-nomination/article37449890.ece
12 November 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book released on Sri Mukhalingeswara Swamy||Former Inspector General of Police Sattaru Umapati on Thursday released book titled 'Antiquity of Sri Mukhalingeswara Swamy' at the famous Srikurmam temple in Srikakulam district. Chief priest of the temple Naidugari Rajasekhar has written the book in English, explaining the history and mythology connected with the temple. He explained the temple’s progress under various dynasties beginning from the 3rd century CE. Mr.Umapati congratulated Mr. Rajasekhar for taking the initiative to write the book. He added that it would serve as a reference book for students and a guide for pilgrims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-released-on-sri-mukhalingeswara-swamy/article37449885.ece
12 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CAG pulls up State for lapses in 2018 floods||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has pulled up the State Government for lapses and policy and infrastructure deficiencies that hamstrung disaster response during the 2018 floods. The CAG report on ‘Preparedness and Response to Floods in Kerala,’ covering the 2014-19 period, was tabled in the Assembly on Thursday. The audit by the CAG noted that the Kerala State Water Policy was not updated in tune with the National Water Policy and lacked provisions for flood control and flood management. Floodplain zoning The State had not enacted floodplain zoning legislation and floodplains were not identified and demarcated. “Had the exercise of identification and demarcation of floodplains been undertaken, the same could have been used by the Government of Kerala in its activities on flood control,” it said. Flood-hazard maps, vital for pinpointing flood-prone regions, used by the State dated back to 2010 and did not conform to the criteria set by the Central Water Commission. At the time of audit, the State was yet to have a large-scale flood-hazard map satisfying the criteria. The CAG recommended that the Government take corrective measures in all the three issues. Only six rain gauges were in place in the Periyar basin instead of 32, the recommended minimum requirement. Dearth of rain gauges “Audit observes that the shortfall of 26 rain gauges in the basin resulted in lack of real-time data on spatially distributed rainfall, which could have had an adverse impact on flood forecasting and alleviation measures.” The audit also noted that communication infrastructure was non-functional in some areas, including dam sites and government offices during and subsequent to the 2018 floods. The report noted that the Edamalayar reservoir lacked a rule curve during the 2018 floods. In the case of Idukki, the rule curve was framed in 1983 and was not reviewed until after the 2018 floods. Hike in built-up area The Land Use Land Cover analysis for the Periyar basin — in Idukki and Ernakulam districts — revealed an increase in built-up area by nearly 450% (from 60 sq km to 330 sq km) during 1985-2015. Waterbodies fell by 17%. The report noted that the encroachments on the Cheruthoni riverbed hindered the free flow of water, resulting in heavy damage. “The Government needs to prioritise speedy resolution of the issues relating to unauthorised constructions from the construction-free zones of Cheruthoni as also to ensure no new construction is allowed to come up in future within the demarcated zone.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cag-pulls-up-state-for-lapses-in-2018-floods/article37449328.ece
12 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fervour marks Pushpa Yagam||Fervour marked the annual Pushpa Yagam festival at the temple of Lord Venkateswara on Thursday. About 14 varieties of flowers and six types of leaves weighing eight tonnes were used in the rituals performed at the hill shrine in the afternoon. The ankurarpanam ritual was performed the previous night. The processional deity of Lord Malayappa, flanked by his two consorts, was seated atop a high altar as the priests ceremoniously rendered floral ‘aahutis’ to the recitation of holy texts by a battery of Vedic pundits. Each time, the floral ‘aahutis’ formed into a mound and touched the chin of the deities and the priests cleared them and repeated the ritual for seven times. Earlier in the day, special pooja was also performed to the flowers at the TTD garden office, from where they were carried in a procession to the Lord Venkateswara temple in hundreds of bamboo baskets and handed over to the priests. Devotees from Tamil Nadu contributed four tonnes of flowers, while three tonnes more were received from Karnataka and the rest from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, the TTD officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fervour-marks-pushpa-yagam/article37449844.ece
12 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sampangi is ‘Sthala Vruksham’ of Tirumala||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Thursday notified Sampangi ( Magnolia champaca ) as the ‘Sthala Vruksham’, native plant of Tirumala. The decision was taken based on the historical importance of the aromatic flower used extensively in all daily rituals performed inside the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara. Apart from this, the mention of ‘Sampangi Vanam’ in the Bhavishyottara Puranam and description about the existing 30-foot-high inner circumferential wall between the Nadimi Padakavali and the Mahadwaram as ‘Sampangi Prakaram’ at the hill temple also influenced the decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sampangi-is-sthala-vruksham-of-tirumala/article37449845.ece
12 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala ghat roads closed||The TTD on Thursday ordered temporary closure of both the ghat roads in the wake of inclement climate conditions that resulted in the uprooting of trees and rolling down of boulders at several places. The roads will remain closed till 6 a.m. on Friday. Pilgrim activities were greatly impacted as incessant rains and gusty winds swept across the town. The temple town which experienced sporadic incidents of minor landslides in the morning witnessed falling of huge trees on the ghat roads, Alipiri trekking route besides slipping of boulders post-noon. The engineering, vigilance and forest personnel cleared the debris instantly without much inconvenience to the motorists. With high velocity winds accompanying the incessant rains, the roads leading to Srivari Padalu and Papavinasanam theertham were also temporarily closed as instances of tree fall were reported at a couple of places en route. According to Superintendent Engineer–II Jagadishwar Reddy, the town which registered 55 mm of rainfall in 24 hours till 8 a.m. on Thursday, added another 50 mm of rainfall by 7 pm in the evening. Crest gates lifted While minor drinking water projects like Akasa Ganga, Kumaradhara and Pasupudhara which lack the flood gate mechanism experienced over-flowing of water, the crest gates of Papavinasanam and Gogarbham dams were lifted to release the surplus water downstream. Meanwhile, there was also an alleged drop in the turnout of devotees from the rain ravaged State of Tamil Nadu which alone aggregates an average of nearly 40% of the pilgrim crowd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tirumala-ghat-roads-closed/article37449842.ece
12 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low-lying areas inundated as heavy rains lash Tirupati||Several low-lying areas were under knee-deep water as heavy rains lashed Tirupati and the eastern mandals of Chittoor district on Thursday, under the impact of the depression over the Bay of Bengal. It started drizzling late on Wednesday while heavy rain lashed Tirupati for several hours till Thursday morning. After a brief halt, it rained heavily again in the evening. Low-lying areas such as Madhura Nagar, STV Nagar and Lakshmipuram remained submerged, while the arterial roads resembled tanks. Water entered into many houses. MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy, Mayor R. Sireesha and MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha teams of officials and inspected the inundated areas and rushed relief material wherever needed. Decades-old trees got uprooted and fell on the road, disrupting flow of traffic and the mobility of rescue teams. The disaster response teams chopped off the branches of trees and inspected the sewer lines and storm water drains. Srikalahasti also witnessed a heavy downpour, leading to inundation of low-lying streets such as Mangala Veedhi and Kaikala Veedhi. Rivers in spate The Kusasthali, Aruna and Swarnamukhi rivers flowing in eastern and southern Chittoor district were in spate. Gates of the Kalangi reservoir near Srikalahasti and Krishnapuram reservoir in Karvetinagaram were briefly lifted to discharge water. The release of water from the Araniar reservoir for the last couple of days helped safeguard the higher reaches in Pichatur, even as the outflow affected Nagalapuram and Uthukota (Tamil Nadu) areas downstream. Farmers of Nindra and Vijayapuram mandals, who cultivated sugar cane after losing their paddy crop in last year’s cyclone, however heaved a sigh of relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-lying-areas-inundated-as-heavy-rains-lash-tirupati/article37449848.ece
12 November 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSPDCL sets up control rooms in rain-hit districts||Following incessant rain in several districts, the Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (APSPDCL) has set up control rooms in five districts coming under its purview. Company’s Chairman and Managing Director H. Haranatha Rao issued a high alert notice to the field staff in Chittoor, Kadapa, Nellore, Anantapur and Kurnool districts, asking them to watch out for exigencies pertaining to disruption of power service, uprooting of electric poles, snapping of live wires and so on. In a teleconference with the Superintending Engineers, Executive Engineers and Senior Accounts Officers of the respective circles (districts), he asked them to make available drilling equipment and walkie talkie sets to the field staff. People can contact the following mobile numbers in case of power related emergencies: Chittoor 94408 17412, Kadapa 94408 17440, Kurnool 73826 14308, Anantapuram 94910 67446, Nellore 94408 17468. Mr. Rao appealed to the public to stay away from power utilitiesduring high velocity winds and incessant rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apspdcl-sets-up-control-rooms-in-rain-hit-districts/article37449846.ece
12 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chicken feathers turn poultry feed||Chicken feather, a slowly-degrading waste that pervades the vicinity of a poultry farm for years, causes enormous pollution with no easy means of disposal. However, a project pursued by the Sri Padmavati Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam offers a solution with twin applications that not only gets rid of the menace, but also makes productive use of it by converting it into chicken feed and soil nutrients. As per a study, with 400 million chicks being processed across the world every week, an estimated 25,000 million tonnes of feather are rendered waste across the world. “Similar to hair, feather is a typical example of pure keratin protein, in which nutrients are locked up and bound in keratines. India stands fifth in terms of generating feather waste, which is either dumped into landfills or incinerated. The project taken up by V.V. Lakshmi, a retired professor of microbiology at Sri Padmavati Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) under DSIR’s Promotion of Research in Individuals, Startups and MSMEs (PRISM) sticks to the adage ‘wealth from waste’. The project’s stature got enhanced and scope got widened when DBT’s Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council (BIRAC) supported it under Biotechnology Ignition Grant (BIG). Though keratin waste is processed by chemical treatment to produce feed or fertilizers, it is either considered low in nutritional value or economically uncompetitive, and is hence not reckoned as a viable option. “Feathermeal is a source of protein for farm animals and fertilizer for organic farming, but the slow release of nitrogen makes it less nutritive and less remunerative,” Dr. Lakshmi told The Hindu . By introducing soil micro organisms from Tirumala, Dr. Lakshmi initiated a fermentation process. Keratenase enzyme, a most-sought-after product in feed, fertilizer, detergent, leather, textile, biotechnology and biomedical industries, is isolated in the first three days. The subsequently-derived Keratenase Treated Feather (KTF) is used to produce poultry feed and organic manure. “The process is complete with the extraction of three products, making it totally eco-friendly,” says Dr. Lakshmi, brimming with pride. Farmers dependent on fish waste or soyabean can now make their own nutritional feed from feather, making poultry viable. Her startup ‘Sri Dharani Agrotech’, launched under the mentorship of IKP Knowledge Park, Hyderabad, is now incubated in Women Biotechnology Incubation Facility (WBIF), a state-of-the-art facility at SPMVV campus. She has filed for a patent for the indigenous technology of producing organic fertilizer from feather waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chicken-feathers-turn-poultry-feed/article37449838.ece
12 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appearance day of Vedanta Desika observed||The appearance day of Srivaishnavite Savant Sri Vedanta Desika was observed with fervour at his sub-shrine in Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple complex here on Thursday. Belief has it that the ‘Ghanta’ (bell) at the Tirumala temple took the incarnation of Desika, and hence he shares the birthday with the Lord on ‘Sravana’ star of the auspicious Tamil month of Purattasi. However, as the day marks the ending of Sri Venkateswara Brahmotsavam at Tirumala , it is a practice only in Tirupati to observe the grand event on the Sravana star of the subsequent ‘Aippasi’ month. As a symbol of the arrival of the Lord to his devotee’s house on the latter’s birthday, the processional deities of Sri Govindaraja Swamy and his consorts Sridevi and Bhudevi were brought to Vedanta Desika’s shrine, where rituals such as ‘Snapana Tirumanjanam’ and ‘Sathumora’ were performed in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appearance-day-of-vedanta-desika-observed/article37449849.ece
12 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM sounds heavy rain alert to Collectors of four districts||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed the Collectors of Chittoor, Kadapa, Nellore and Prakasam districts to be on high alert in view of the possibility of heavy rains, especially in the southern parts of Nellore district bordering Chennai. In a video-conference with the Collectors on the situation arising from the depression in the Bay of Bengal, on Thursday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy ordered that relief camps be set up wherever required. Immediate relief He directed the officials to be liberal in helping the needy in terms of food and drinking water, with the cooperation of the NDRF and SDRF teams. He said the affected people in the inundated areas should be paid Rs. 1,000 each as an immediate relief. He told the Collectors to keep a close watch on the reservoirs, dams and other irrigation structures to ensure that there were no breaches. “Complacency in this regard may lead to deaths,” the Chief Minister cautioned. He further directed the officials to take up repairs, particularly to the roads, once the rains subside, and that he and other top officials would be a phone call away any time to extend any assistance. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy also wanted that required medicines be made available at the PHCs and the area and district hospitals, and that the personnel of the Fire Services Department be kept on standby. Officials of the Meteorological Department informed the Chief Minister that the depression was likely to make a landfall in Chennai by evening, and bring in its wake winds with speed reaching up to 70 kmph. ‘Another system’ They said that a low-pressure had formed in the Bay, and it might develop into a cyclone and cross the coast in the southern parts of the country by November 17. It could trigger another spell of heavy rains, the officials said. Deputy Chief Minister Sk. Amzath Basha, Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma, Special Chief Secretary (Municipal and Urban Development) Y. Srilakshmi, and Principal Secretary (Revenue) V. Usharani were among other senior officials present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collectors-of-4-ap-districts-put-on-alert/article37449322.ece
12 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTI reply exposed fraud in sand tenders: TDP||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national spokesman K. Pattabhi Ram has accused the State Government of committing serious irregularities in awarding multi-crore sand tenders to Jaya Prakash Power Ventures. At a press conference here on Thursday, Mr. Pattabhi Ram alleged that the government used dummy companies like KNR Constructions and Trident Chemphar to carry out the massive tender fixing fraud. The dummy companies quoted just Rs. 1 crore to Rs. 2 crore above the base price of all the three sand tenders. Eventually, JP Power bagged all the three packages by quoting Rs. 5 crore to Rs. 7 crore above base price. The TDP leader said the YSRCP sand fraud stood exposed following a reply from Metal Scrap Trading Corporation (MSTC), a GOI company, to an RTI question. As per the MSTC reply, just three companies took part in the three multi-crore sand tenders. JP Power was the only company which took part in all three tenders and finally bagged all of them. Mr. Pattabhi Ram said the Government fixed a base price of Rs. 470 crore for the first package for which KNR bid for Rs. 472 crore as against JP Power’s Rs. 477.5 crore. In the second package, the base price was Rs. 740 crore while KCR bid for Rs. 741 crore as against Rs. 745.70 crore of JP Power. In the third package, the base price was Rs. 300 crore while Trident Chemphar bid for Rs. 301.50 crore as against JP Power’s Rs. 305.60 crore. The TDP leader said that MSTC’s RTI reply revealed the ‘dummy tenders’ and ‘match fixing’ resorted to by the Jagan Mohan Reddy regime. The Chief Minister owed an explanation on this to the lakhs of construction workers who suffered starvation due to lack of work and many of whom had committed suicide. Lakhs of poor and middle class families suffered due to lack of sand. They had to stall constructions due to high prices, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rti-reply-exposed-fraud-in-sand-tenders-tdp/article37450041.ece
12 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State again reports 3 deaths in 24 hours||The State has again reported three more deaths due to COVID-19 and 286 infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The cumulative tally and toll reached 20,69,352 and 14,409  respectively with a recovery rate of 99.15% and death rate of 0.70%. The number of active cases slightly came down to 3,196 as only 307 patients have recovered in the past day. The total recoveries stand at 20,51,747. The test positivity rate of the 37,540 samples tested in the past day 0.76% and that of the 2.98 crore samples tested so far was 6.92%. Chittoor, Krishna and Srikakulam districts reported one death each in the past day. Chittoor reported 53 infections in the past day and was the only district with more than 50 infections. It was followed by East Godavari (37), Visakhapatnam (36), Krishna (34), West Godavari (33), Guntur (30), Nellore (15), Anantapur (14), Kadapa (12), Srikakulam (11), Prakasam (7) and Kurnool (4). Vizianagaram reported no infection in the past day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-again-reports-3-deaths-in-24-hours/article37449851.ece
12 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Include freight corridor in PM Gati Shakti’||Minister for Industries and Commerce and Information Technology Mekapati Goutham Reddy met Union Minister of Commerce Piyush Goyal in New Delhi on Thursday and discussed the implementation of various projects. Mr. Goutham Reddy proposed that the east coast dedicated freight corridor running from Kharagpur to Vijayawada could be included in the PM Gati Shakti (a national master plan for multi-modal connectivity) to facilitate its expeditious development. Mr. Goyal said he would positively look into it, an official release here said. Mr. Goutham requested Mr. Goyal to sanction one of the three proposed critical power and renewable energy equipment manufacturing zones in the country to Andhra Pradesh, and choose Mannavaram in Chittoor district for it. The government had allotted 750 acres of land there for a project of the NTPC-BHEL consortium. Mr. Goutham Reddy informed the Union Minister that the State government undertook the establishment of a textile park at Kopparthy in Kadapa district, and sought the Central government’s cooperation for the same under the Atmanirbhar Bharat programme. He also appealed to Mr. Goyal to consider reducing the State’s share in the Visakhapatnam-Chennai Industrial Corridor project cost from 20% to 10%. A.P. Bhavan Resident Commissioner Bhavana Saxena, APIIC MD J.V.N. Subramanyam, AP MedTech Zone CEO Jitendra Sharma, and adviser Lanka Sridhar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/include-freight-corridor-in-pm-gati-shakti/article37449854.ece
12 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Light to moderate rain in Krishna district||The city witnessed light rainfall on Thursday due to the low pressure area which later turned into a depression in the Bay of Bengal. Other parts of Krishna district witnessed light to moderate rainfall. According to district officials, as of morning 2 mm rainfall occurred in Vijayawada Urban and Rural mandals. Coastal mandals witnessed up to 10mm rainfall during the 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday Nagayalanka recorded 10 mm rainfall, while Machilipatnam and Kruthivennu mandals recorded 8 mm. Mandals in the western part of the district witnessed no rainfall. The district received an average of 2.5 mm rainfall during the past day. Later in the day, the city witnessed a few spells of rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/light-to-moderate-rain-in-krishna-district/article37449372.ece
12 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Aided institutions’ takeover will jeopardise students’ future’||BJP leader Lanka Dinakar, who heads the party’s State political feedback wing, said by proposing to take over aided educational institutions and proceeding with it stubbornly, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was jeopardising the future of students. He alleged that the Chief Minister was more interested in raising additional debt on extra revenue on liquor being generated by increasing the rates, than taking up meaningful reforms in the education sector. Addressing media persons here on Thursday, Mr. Dinakar said the government had committed an act of impropriety by diverting the liquor revenue to an escrow account instead of the Consolidated Fund and even issued a G.O. for it. Andhra Pradesh was perhaps the only State in the world that was dependent on liquor revenue for its sustenance, he commented and sought to know if the adviser who was appointed to facilitate prohibition was actually meant to shore up revenues from the Excise Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aided-institutions-takeover-will-jeopardise-students-future/article37449373.ece
12 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workshop on how to grow bonsai at home||Members of the Amaravati Bonsai Society plan to organise a two-day exhibition-cum-workshop on how to grow and style one’s own bonsai trees at home, at Enikepadu on November 13 and 14 (Saturday and Sunday). Addressing a press conference in the city on Thursday, the society president T. Akhilandeswari Rani and secretary Venkatesh Y. said Krishna Collector J. Niwas would inaugurate the exhibition. They said bonsai plants had their own charm and it was possible to plant them at home and style them with a little guidance. Timings On Saturday, the exhibition will be open for public from 11 a.m. till 8 p.m. and on Sunday from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. The association president Amrit Kumar, vice-president Y. Padmaja, secretary P. Nagalakshmi, joint secretary G. Sunitha, treasurer K. Durga Sowjanya and others were present at the press meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/workshop-on-how-to-grow-bonsai-at-home/article37449376.ece
12 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Neradi, Janjhavathi projects beneficial for A.P. and Odisha’||While hoping that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s recent deliberations with his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik will eventually lead to breaking of the deadlock on the inter-State projects, the Andhra Pradesh government has asserted that the Neradi barrage and the Janjhavathi project are not only beneficial to A.P. but also Odisha, and hence the latter should cooperate to find a lasting solution to what are hitherto considered by sceptics as “intractable problems.” Official sources say that the Neradi barrage proposed to be constructed across the Vamsadhara river, with Odisha on the left side and A.P. on the right, with a storage capacity of 0.61 tmcft, will provide assured irrigation facility for a total gross cropped area of 33,280 acres in Odisha, drinking water to 20 villages, and meet the future industrial needs in the backward Gajapathi district. It also helps in recharging groundwater and regulating the floods. Besides, the A.P. government is insisting that the stored water from the foreshore can be used to meet the critical requirements for irrigation, domestic, drinking and industrial needs upstream also, besides creating an opportunity for fishing in the reservoir. Odisha is, therefore, expected to cooperate in the conduct of a joint survey under the supervision of the Central Water Commission (CWC), and hand over 106 acres of land required at the earliest. As far as the Janjhavathi project (it has a storage capacity of 3.40 tmcft) is concerned, the A.P. government has said that the availability of water has been assessed to be 8 tmcft, and it can be shared in 50:50 ratio as per the inter-State agreements dated September 24, 1975, and December 15, 1978. Dam connectivities, head regulator and canals have been completed, leaving a gap of 60 metres in the river portion to avoid submergence on the Odisha side as per the inter-State pacts. As per the A.P. government, the benefits to Odisha are: It can use its share of 4 tmcft of water for the benefit of the predominant tribal population, and year-long availability of stored water for irrigation, domestic and industrial needs in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/neradi-janjhavathi-projects-beneficial-for-ap-and-odisha/article37449856.ece
12 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toddler dies after falling off second floor||A toddler succumbed to injuries after falling off the second floor of a building in Sai Nagar of Penamaluru area, near the city. According to the Penamaluru police, one-and-a-half-year-old Nehananda Sai was playing in the verandah of his house and accidentally slipped through the railing grills. The boy died on the spot and was found lying in a pool of blood by the residents of a flat in the ground floor of the building on Thursday morning. Police registered a case under Section 174 of Cr.P.C. and took up investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toddler-dies-after-falling-off-second-floor/article37450040.ece
12 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jana Sena condemns lathi-charge on farmers||Jana Sena Party (JSP) political affairs committee chairman Nadendla Manohar condemned the use of force by the police on those who were expressing solidarity with the Amaravati farmers, in Prakasam district on Thursday. In a press release, Mr. Manohar said that it was the democratic right of the people to support such peaceful protests. “Unfortunately, the government is trying to scuttle the agitation undertaken by the Amaravati farmers against its move to set up three capital in the State, and silence all the critics,” he said. The government’s intention was clearly to cover up the facts related to its ill-advised move to divide the capital Amaravati into three parts under the guise of decentralization, the JSP leader said, demanding that the farmers’ maha padayatra should be allowed to proceed smoothly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jana-sena-condemns-lathi-charge-on-farmers/article37450045.ece
12 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gurajala poll: HC orders adequate protection||Justice D. Ramesh of the Andhra Pradesh High Court has directed the State Election Commission (SEC) and the Gurajala Urban police to provide adequate protection to ensure free and fair election to the Gurajala Nagar Panchayat scheduled to be held on November 15. The single-Judge Bench passed the interim order on a writ petition filed by 12 persons who submitted nominations, and complained of being threatened by their opponents of dire consequences for contesting the election. Government pleader V. Maheswara Reddy appeared for the Home Department and S. Chandra Reddy for the SEC. Advocate N. Srinivasa Rao presented the arguments on the petitioners’ behalf during the hearing on November 10. The court ordered the petitioners to make representations regarding the threats received by them, to the SEC and the Gurajala town police SHO for necessary action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gurajala-poll-hc-orders-adequate-protection/article37449855.ece
12 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh condemns police action||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh has condemned the lathi-charge on the farmers in the Chadalawada area in Prakasam district during the Amaravati farmers’ ‘maha padayatra’. In a statement on Thursday, Mr. Lokesh demanded that the government take action against the policemen responsible for the lathi-charge on “the peaceful protesters.” The authorities should make available best medical treatment to the injured, he said. “The padayatra is giving sleepless nights to the government. The police are being used to obstruct the walkathon,” Mr. Lokesh alleged. “Is it a crime on the part of the farmers to extend their solidarity to their Amaravati counterparts?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-condemns-police-action/article37449862.ece
12 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Signature campaign against VSP sale begins||Former Vice-Chancellor of Acharya Nagarjuna University V. Bala Mohan Das called for the struggle against privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) to be transformed into a mass movement by involving the public in large numbers. Prof. Bala Mohan Das inaugurated the ‘1 crore signature campaign’, being organised by people’s organisations and trade unions, at Gandhi Statue on Thursday. He recalled that the steel plant was achieved after the sacrifices made by several people, and reiterated that the plant should continue to remain in the public sector. “The PSUs have stood as the foundation for industrial development in the country and they should continue to remain in the public sector in order to protect the economy,” Prof. Bala Mohan Das said. The former V-C said that it was the government’s responsibility to ensure the growth of the PSUs. The Centre had invested Rs. 5,000 crore in VSP but the plant had given back Rs. 44,000 crore as dividends to the government so far, he said, alleging that the government was trying to mislead people by stating that there would be no change in the functioning of the steel plant after its privatisation. He called upon all sections of the people to support the signature campaign against the privatisation of VSP. ‘Won’t allow entry’ CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao alleged that the Centre was trying to secretly send members of various committees to value the assets of the steel plant and warned that they would not be allowed to enter the premises of the plant. All the gates of VSP would be closed from morning to afternoon on Friday (November 12) in solidarity with the call given by the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee (VUPPC), he said, and called upon all workers to participate in the protest and make it a success. Workers and Trade Unions JAC chairman M. Jaggu Naidu presided. Various leaders of trade unions such as AITUC, INTUC, CFTUI, IFTU, AIDWA and CITU attended the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/signature-campaign-against-vsp-sale-begins/article37449897.ece
12 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vegetable prices scale new highs||The prices of vegetables are burning a hole in the pockets of the average middle class people in the city. The steep hike in fuel prices and the damage to crops, during the Cyclone Gulab continue to impact vegetable prices. Tomatoes are selling at Rs. 60 a kg at the Rythu Bazaars and in the open market they range between Rs. 70 and Rs. 80 a kg. Green peas cost Rs. 120 a kg, Rajma Rs. 90 and capsicum was sold at Rs. 84 a kg at Rythu Bazaars in the city on Wednesday. Their cost in the open market is generally higher by Rs. 10 to Rs. 20 a kg, based on the demand. Though the prices of vegetables are hitting the roof, most of the vegetables were of poor quality but the consumers hardly have a choice both at the Rythu Bazaars and in the open market. The winter season, normally brings with it, fresh vegetables to the market but this year it seems to be different. It is a different matter that vegetables are generally in high demand as a vast majority of the consumers shift to a vegetarian diet during the auspicious Karthika masam apart from ‘Ayyappa’ devotees, who have to strictly follow a vegetarian diet till they have darshan of Sri Ayyappa Swamy in Sabarimala. “We are buying tomato crates at high rates and about 15 to 20% of the tomatoes are being damaged during transport. Consumers are shelling out high rates but we are helpless. The farmers are also not getting remunerative prices for tomatoes and they dumping them on the roads is some districts as middlemen are exploiting the situation,” says a vegetable vendor outside the Rythu Bazaar at Marripalem. Most of the vegetables are produced in K. Kotapadu and other rural areas in Visakhapatnam district and at Ramabhadrapuram in neighbouring Vizianagaram district. “The Cyclone Gulab has resulted in destruction of vegetable crops at these places. They were sown again and we expect the situation to improve by November-end. Some of the vegetables like onions and potatoes are being procured from the Wholesale Vegetable Market at Gnanapuram in the city but the high transportation cost is resulting in the prices going up,” says Varahalu, Estate Officer of Seethammadhara Rythu Bazaar. “The saving grace for us is that we continue to get vegetables from Araku as there was no water stagnation during the cyclone in the hilly areas,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vegetable-prices-scale-new-highs/article37450054.ece
12 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI obtains arrest warrants against two accused staying abroad||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday filed charge sheets against six accused in the ongoing investigation of a case related to derogatory posts on social media against Judges and the judiciary, including some of the verdicts delivered by Judges of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh. The accused, who are in judicial custody, were earlier arrested by the CBI on October 22 from various places of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. With this, the CBI has filed 11 separate charge sheets in the case, as five were earlier arrested and charge sheeted. Investigation against one more accused is in progress and efforts are on to gather evidences against him. His YouTube channel has also been blocked. Moreover, warrants of arrest have been taken by CBI in the names of two of the accused who are abroad from the competent courts in India, and process for arresting them had been initiated through diplomatic channels. The CBI has gathered information about the two accused who are staying abroad by issuing Blue Notice through the Interpol. Sources said that one of them is Punch Prabhakar, who is said to be very active on social media. The CBI initiated action after it registered the case to get objectionable posts removed from social media platforms, public domains and a lot of such posts/accounts were removed from the Internet. During the course of investigation, 13 digital gadgets, including mobiles and tablets, had been recovered. The CBI collected call data records of 53 mobile connections, and 12 accused and 14 others were examined in the case. During examination, evidences from digital platforms had been collected using Digital Forensic Technique. The CBI moved through Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty (MLAT) channel for gathering the information related to the Facebook profiles of the accused, Twitter accounts, Facebook posts, tweets, YouTube videos from Facebook, Twitter, Google, etc. The CBI had registered the present case on November 11, 2020, against 16 accused and had taken over the investigation of 12 FIRs from the CID, Andhra Pradesh, in pursuance of the orders of A.P. High Court. The original FIRs were registered on the complaints from Registrar-General of the High Court. It was alleged that the key personnel occupying posts of prominence in Andhra Pradesh, by intentionally targeting the Judiciary, made derogatory posts on social media platform against Judges and the judiciary following some court verdicts delivered by the Judges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/6-chargesheeted-in-derogatory-posts-case/article37449329.ece
12 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Micro-level certification courses proposed by AU||Andhra University is planning to introduce a series of micro-level certification courses in the near future, Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy said. Prof. Reddy was delivering the inaugural address at the National Education Day celebrations held on Thursday to commemmorate 133th birth anniversary of freedom fighter and India’s first Union Minister for Education Maulana Abul Kalam Azad. The programme was jointly organised by AU and Maulana Abul Kalam Trust. Mr. Prasad Reddy pointed out that micro-level certification is the future, as education is moving towards niche areas. “We will be shortly launching Microsoft certification courses. A number of certification courses are being designed for every discipline,” he said. The Vice-Chancellor recalled Abul Kalam’s vision and commitment, and how he used to say that education alone can liberate the country from all vagaries and empower the youth of the country. On the occasion, the trust gave away merit certificates and medals to 150 toppers from Class X to PG in the city. Registrar V. Krishna Mohan and Rector Prof. K. Samatha spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/micro-level-certification-courses-proposed-by-au/article37449892.ece
12 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||50 lakh in dist. get COVID vaccine||The number of people who have received at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine in the district crossed the 50 lakh-mark on Thursday. According to statistics retrieved from the CoWin Dashboard, 50,04,581 people have been administered at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine as of 7.30 p.m. on Thursday. Of these, 19,69,387 people or around 40%, have been given both their doses, whereas 30,35,194 people have received only their first dose. Around 19,000 people were administered the COVID-19 vaccine on Thursday. 36 new cases The district recorded 36 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours ending Thursday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,58,562. During the last 24 hours, 21 persons undergoing treatment have recovered. The death toll stands unchanged at 1,100. The number of recoveries and active cases are 1,56,722 and 740 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/50-lakh-in-dist-get-covid-vaccine/article37450049.ece
12 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains for Secunderabad to clear passenger rush||Special trains will be operated between Visakhapatnam and Secunderabad to clear the extra rush of passengers. The Visakhapatnam -  Secunderabad Special Express (No. 08585) will leave Visakhapatnam on November 16 and 23 at 5.35 p.m. to reach Secunderabad the following day at 7.10 a.m. In the return direction, the Secunderabad - Visakhapatnam Special Express (No. 08586) will leave Secunderabad on November 17 and 24 at 9. 05 p.m. to arrive in Visakhapatnam the following day at 9.50 a.m., according to ECoR Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. These trains will stop at Duvvada, Samalkot Junction, Rajahmundry, Eluru, Vijayawada, Guntur, Miryalaguda and Nalgonda. The Danapur – Earnakulam Junction Special SF Express (Train No. 06044) will leave Danapur at 1.30 p.m. on November 14 (Sunday) and reach Earnakulam Junction at 3.40 p.m. on November 16. The one-way special train will have halts at Srikakulam Road (11.54 a.m. / 11.56 a.m.) on (November 15); Vizianagaram (12.55 p.m. / 1 p.m.); Visakhapatnam (2 p.m. / 2.20 p.m.); and Duvada (3 p.m. / 3.02 p.m.) in Waltair Division. The Visakhapatnam-LTT-Visakhapatnam Special (No. 08519 / 08520) will be augmented with one extra sleeper class coach on a temporary basis from November 9 to 14 from Visakhapatnam and from LTT (Mumbai) from November 11 to 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-trains-to-clear-passenger-rush/article37450042.ece
12 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Life coach gives pep talk at Bullayya College||Motivational speaker and author of two bestselling books Sreedhar Bevara delivered a talk at Dr. Lankapalli Bullayya College here on Thursday. In a highly interactive session, Mr. Sreedhar urged students to improve their presence of mind and logical thinking and spend more time in the library to expand their knowledge. Mr. Sreedhar, who is also the CEO of BMR Innovations, a global management and technology consulting firm, advised the students to harness four qualities such as manifestation of vision, applying the mind and thought to achieve the vision, a plan to achieve the vision and keep trying till the goal is achieved. Though there is a stigma that we should not compare ourselves to others, he insisted that one should compare with the best but compete with oneself. Secretary and Correspondent of the college Dr. G. Madhu Kumar and other staff members and senior faculty members were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/life-coach-gives-pep-talk-at-bullayya-college/article37449894.ece
12 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two youth from Delhi held with 40 kg ganja||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) arrested two youths from Delhi while they were allegedly trying to shift a consignment of 40 kg of dry ganja near Gnanapuram on Thursday. An SEB team arrested Shoaib Ali (28) and Mohd. Amjad (27) of East Delhi while they were allegedly carrying the ganja in some bags. The officials said that the youths procured the ganja from a person near NAD Junction and were trying to transport it to Hyderabad, where they were supposed to hand over to some unidentified persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-youth-from-delhi-held-with-40-kg-ganja/article37450048.ece
12 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘No pressure on aided institutions’||Collector A. Mallikarjuna said that there is no pressure from the State government on aided educational institutions for a merger. He took part in a meeting with representatives and managements of around 55 aided educational institutions including degree colleges, schools and junior colleges in the district on Thursday. Mr. Mallikarjuna said the members must not misunderstand the option given by the government. Steps will be taken only based on the interest of the institution. Students from only those institutions which express interest will be shifted to nearby schools. There is no need for students and parents to panic over the issue, he said. Institutions that have already evinced interest in a merger can once again rethink their decision, he said. The Collector also advised managements to not give out false information. If such cases come to our notice, strict action would be taken, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-pressure-on-aided-institutions/article37450050.ece
12 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man killed in accident||A 35-year-old man was killed in a hit-and-run accident on NH-16 near Koppaka under Anakapalle (Rural) police station limits on Wednesday night. Sub-Inspector of Anakapalle (Rural) police station J. Ramesh said that the victim, identified as P. Ramana Kumar of Kasimkota, was heading towards Visakhapatnam city from Kasimkota at around 8.20 p.m., when he was hit by an unidentified vehicle. “He was killed on the spot. CCTV footage is being verified to identify the vehicle. Ramana Kumar’s body was handed over to his family after a post-mortem. A case has been registered,” Mr. Ramesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-killed-in-hit-and-run/article37449891.ece
12 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||World Quality Day celebrated at NSTL||The Naval Science and Technological Laboratory (NSTL), a premier research laboratory of the DRDO, celebrated the World Quality Day-2021 as part of the ‘Azaadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ on Friday. The theme for this year was ‘Sustainability: Improving our Products, People and Planet’. R. Srihari, Scientist ‘G’ and Technology Director (QRS), in his welcome address, said the celebration was aimed at raising the level of quality awareness and to recognise efforts and contribution of quality professionals. Participating in the programme, NSTL Director Y. Sreenivasa Rao said the theme reminded the NSTL personnel of the importance of quality in attaining sustainability in all phases of system development. “Long-term sustainability can be achieved with continuous efforts and by developing quality culture in the organisation. The quality lies in innovation,” he said. Samir V. Kamat, Director General (Naval Systems and Materials), who participated as chief guest, said sustainability could be achieved by giving quality solutions to the recycling issues of any developed system. Quality should meet or exceed user’s expectations, he said. The event also included three short lectures on the theme by Cmde. R.K. Jena, Chief Inspector of Naval Armaments (East), Rear Admiral S. Misra, Ex-Director General of Naval Armaments Inspection (DGNAI), DRDO Fellow and A. Srinivas Kumar, Outstanding Scientist & Technology Director (Batteries & Explosives). Mr. Kamat, along with the NSTL Director, distributed prizes to the winners of a quiz contest on quality and reliability. Senior scientists, officers, members of NSTL Civil Employees Union and Works Committee and staff of NSTL took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/world-quality-day-celebrated-at-nstl/article37450055.ece
12 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Source segregation of waste crucial, says Commissioner||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Lakshmisha instructed sanitary inspectors to create awareness on segregation of waste and ensure that people hand over household garbage after separating it into dry, wet and hazardous waste, saying it was crucial to do so. Mr. Lakshmisha conducted inspections at Waltair, Tamil Street, Masjid Street, Koya Street and colonies in Ward 21 under Zone III on Thursday. Mr. Lakshmisha said that plastic covers and disposable glasses were seen scattered in large numbers at public places in the city, and instructed officials that they should be cleared by sanitation workers while wearing gloves. He also asked them to organise a special drive and clear all the garbage piled up in drains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/source-segregation-of-waste-crucial-says-commissioner/article37450057.ece
12 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Mastermind’ of Rs. 31-cr. input tax credit racket held||Officers from the Directorate General of GST Intelligence, Visakhapatnam, arrested a 34-year-old resident of Hyderabad who had allegedly set up 20 fake entities to run a fake input tax credit racket, here on Thursday. According to a release from the GST Intelligence office, the entities were predominantly set up in the districts of Guntur and Hyderabad and were used to create a complex network of fake ITC (input tax credit) generating entities in different levels. They were spread across different States in a bid to camouflage the fraudulent transactions. The entities were managed by the accused who generated fake invoices to the tune of Rs. 265 crore, involving passing of fake ITC to many functional companies to the tune of Rs. 31 crore, enabling them to fraudulently utilise the same and evade payment of taxes. Judicial custody  The mastermind was arrested after sustained field work by the intelligence officials and was remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mastermind-of-rs-31-cr-input-tax-credit-racket-held/article37449863.ece
12 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State to get heavy rain as depression makes landfall||The depression over southwest Bay of Bengal crossed north Tamil Nadu and adjoining south Andhra Pradesh coasts, close to Chennai, on Thursday evening with a maximum sustained wind speed of 45–55 km/hr, gusting to 65 km/hr. It lay centred on north-coastal Tamil Nadu close to Chennai as of 6.30 p.m. on Thursday. It is likely to move west-northwestwards and weaken gradually into a well-marked low pressure area by Friday morning. Under the influence of this system, moderate rainfall is likely at most places over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema till Saturday morning. Extremely heavy rainfall is likely at one or two places over Prakasam, Nellore, Kadapa and Chittoor districts. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur, Kurnool and Anantapur districts. Heavy rainfall is likely at a few places in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts till Friday, according to a bulletin issued by the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam, on Thursday night. Heavy rain is likely at isolated places over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema on Saturday, according to the forecast. Advisory for fishermen Squally weather, with wind speed reaching 45 to 55 km/hr, gusting to 65 km/hr, is likely to prevail along the State’s coastline on Thursday. The sea condition would be rough to very rough and fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea till Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-to-get-heavy-rain-as-depression-makes-landfall/article37450047.ece
12 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Mortgaging public assets a wrong move’||Former Vice-Chancellor of Dravidian University K.S. Chalam has opined that it is wrong to mortgage public assets to improve the financial condition of the State. At a discussion on ‘State’s economic situation – praja spandana’ organised by the Marxist Study Centre on Thursday, Prof. Chalam said it was unfortunate that the government was showing Visakhapatnam as the ‘face of development’ while tribal people and backward classes in the north Andhra districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam were living in penury. “Governments have failed in allocating adequate funds to north Andhra in the budget year after year. The government must look for alternatives to raise funds for welfare schemes instead of mortgaging assets” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mortgaging-public-assets-a-wrong-move/article37450056.ece
12 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI seeks reopening of sugar factory||Communist Party of India State secretary K. Ramakrishna on Thursday urged the State government to take steps immediately for reopening of Bhimasingi sugar factory and other closed industries which had been providing direct and indirect employment to thousands of people in the district. He visited the factory in Jami mandal and interacted with farmers to know their grievances. Later, he told the media in the town that the closure of many sugar industries in the North Andhra region was a major concern. “The government should respond over the issue sincerely since the Bhimasingi factory provides livelihood to thousands of farmers and workers,” he said. Earlier, Mr. Ramakrishna interacted with various leaders, including former MLC Jalli Wilson, CPI State secretariat member P. Kameswara Rao, CPI district secretary Ommi Ramana and CPI assistant secretary Bugata Ashok at a party workshop at Amar Bhavan. He directed them to create awareness on ‘anti-people’ policies such as privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant and stopping of financial assistance to aided colleges among others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-seeks-reopening-of-sugar-factory/article37449883.ece
12 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cow festival evokes good response in Vizianagaram||Goshastami cow festival jointly organised by Kusumanchi Foundation and Go Saramkshana Samiti here evoked good response. People from across the town and activists of the BJP and Hindu religious organisations actively participated in a procession which started at Cantonment and culminated at Good Shed junction, passing through important areas like R and B junction, Mayuri junction and railway station. Foundation president Kusumanchi Subbarao said that the event was aimed at making youngsters aware of the importance of cow. He urged the government to stop slaughter of cows by conducting raids on slaughter houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cow-festival-evokes-good-response-in-vizianagaram/article37449887.ece
12 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||North-coastal A.P. lashed by cold winds, showers||People remained indoors as cold winds and occasional showers lashed many parts of Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts on Thursday. The damp, cold weather was due to the impact of a depression near the north Tamil Nadu coast, according to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). Officials said there was a possibility of more rain in the coming days in North Andhra as the depression is expected to move in a west-northwest direction at a speed of 27 km per hour. More rain expected The depression currently lay centered 300 km east-southeast of Chennai and 280 km east-southeast of Puducherry. Srikakulam and Vizinaagaram district administrations have been monitoring the situation as the two districts are expected to receive more rain although the major impact would be on South-Coastal Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/north-coastal-ap-lashed-by-cold-winds-showers/article37449888.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Timely help||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/timely-help/article37450044.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sun worship||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sun-worship/article37450052.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fishing competition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fishing-competition/article37449332.ece
12 November 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Withdraw false cases against tribals: Brinda||CPI (M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat has demanded that the TRS government withdraw the “false cases” filed against hundreds of tribal men and women in the State for exercising their rights under the Forest Rights Act, 2006, and give them compensation for “lodging” them in jails and “subjecting” them to severe injustices. She was addressing a gathering of tribals after inaugurating memorials in honour of the CPI (M) former MLAs from Bhadrachalam late Kunja Bojji and Sunnam Rajaiah in the temple town on Thursday. Earlier, she participated in a huge rally taken out by Adivasis in the tribal heartland of Bhadrachalam. CPI (M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram and others took part in the rally. She paid glowing tributes to the late tribal legislators who led a simple life and served selflessly to defend the rights of marginalised sections and voiceless masses till their last breath. Addressing the tribal people from various parts of Bhadrachalam Agency, Ms Karat said the TRS government under pressure from the relentless movements organised by the CPI (M) and other Left parties, various other Opposition parties including Adivasis themselves issued a circular to give pattas for podu cultivators. The CPI (M) State committee spearheaded a concerted struggle against the BJP-led Central government’s policy to destroy the hard-won Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, and the TRS government’s attempts to sabotage the Act by denying the podu farmers the rights guaranteed under the RoFR Act, she said. Under the RoFR Act every Adivasi and every traditional forest dweller had the right to the land in their occupation. Podu cultivation is a customary practice which is recognised by the law, she noted, adding: “Who is this government which filed so many false cases and sent scores of Adivasis to jails because they exercised their rights under the Act.” The Narendra Modi government launched a huge assault on basic rights of people of the country and thrust unbearable burden on common man in the form of skyrocketing prices of petrol, diesel and LPG, she charged, alleging that the BJP dispensation at the Centre was allowing corporate loot and burdening common people. On November 26, the historical struggle of farmers against the Centre’s three farm laws will complete one year and to mark the anniversary solidarity programmes will be held across the country to press for the scrapping of the three farm laws, Ms Karat said. Terming both Bojji and Rajaiah champions of downtrodden and underprivileged sections, she called upon all to work together towards fulfilling their ideals under the red flag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/withdraw-false-cases-against-tribals/article37449667.ece
12 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana’s vaccine coverage surpasses national average||As many as 84.3% of the total population has received the first dose of vaccination against coronavirus in the State till Wednesday. The percentage of population covered under the second dose of vaccination stands at 38.5. The figures are above the national average of first and second doses pegged at 79% and 37.5%, Health Minister T. Harish Rao said on Thursday. The Minister, who was given the Health portfolio a couple of days ago, reviewed the COVID situation, vaccination, setting up of new medical colleges and progress in construction of new multi super speciality hospitals with senior officials on Thursday. He wanted officials to take steps to speed up the construction of the speciality hospitals. Meeting with Collectors The meeting decided to hold a video conference with District Collectors and district Health officials on Saturday to chalk out the modalities for speeding up vaccine coverage for the entire population. Regular service With the incidence of COVID receding, it was decided to revive regular medical services at the 350-bed King Koti Hospital and the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS), where 200 beds would be reserved for COVID patients. Due payment The meeting also decided to take steps for payment of salaries pending for TIMS staff and ensure that dues were paid at the earliest. Mr. Harish Rao, accompanied by senior officials, participated in a video conference conducted by Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and explained him about the progress of vaccination programme in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telanganas-vaccine-coverage-surpasses-national-average/article37449636.ece
12 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rs. 5.5 crore worth drugs seized||In a joint operation, the sleuths of Begumpet Police and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence seized 14.2 kg of pseudoephedrine concealed in parcels destined to Australia. The two parcels were interdicted at an international courier agency at Begumpet on November 9. Police said that the parcel boxes contained photo frames and other products. “On careful examination of the photo frames revealed plastic cover containing white powder-like substance sandwiched between two layers of the photo frame. This substance tested positive for Pseudoephedrine, a controlled substance under the NDPS Act 1985,” police said. A total of 22 photo frames were found in those two parcels, with each parcel containing 11 photo frames. Preliminary investigations by both the investigating agencies revealed that the consignments were booked using fraudulent Aadhaar cards having Hyderabad addresses by two persons, possibly from Tamil Nadu. The value of the seized drug in grey market is around Rs. 5.5 crore. It was a continuation of a series of more than 15 cases involving over 300 kg of ephedrine and pseudoephedrine consignments destined to Australia by courier, air and sea cargo detected by DRI Hyderabad - in the last one year at various locations including Chennai, Delhi and Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drugs-destined-for-australia-seized/article37449652.ece
12 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Several flyovers up for scrutiny||Several flyovers in the city, constructed decades ago, are up for periodical maintenance, but the same is being deferred due to the inconvenience it could cause to commuters. By virtue of being in the localities with very high vehicle turnout, these bridges are being taken for repairs only when it becomes absolutely necessary. The GHMC had taken the Lalapet flyover for repairs during May 2019 at a cost of close to Rs. 6 crore, and carried out the works for close to a year, against the scheduled three months. Adikmet on radar Officials informed that the next structure to be taken up for repair and maintenance would be the flyover at Adikmet, as it is showing up a few snags. “Jumpy ride is the first indicator of a flyover in need of repairs. It shows that the bearings supporting the slabs from underneath, which provide suspension for the vehicles, need replacement. Widening gap between the expansion joints is another indication,” an official said. A flyover, well maintained, lasts for a minimum of 50 years, or even more. Usually, completion of 30 years after construction should automatically qualify a flyover for a scrutiny and overhaul if needed. By that standard, several bridges, including the flyover leading to Khairatabad, and the one at Begumpet merit a re-look, as they are among the oldest flyovers in the city. “Khairatabad flyover is showing up gaping separation between the slabs, and emits vibrations while driving. It’s high time officials have taken an inspection of it,” Syed Mohinuddin, a commuter said. Dabeerpura flyover, the most aged in the old city, too is cause for some concern, as it had been damaged and repaired temporarily during the recent heavy rains. Next in line would be the flyovers at Basheerbagh, Masab Tank and Narayanguda, which were built around the same time as Lalapet flyover, more than 30 years ago. However, if they are taken under repair, traffic will have to be diverted which could generate chaos. When the Lalapet flyover was taken for maintenance, only one side could be blocked at a time, with vehicles being allowed on the other side. Even then, the area witnessed severe traffic issues, delaying the works by close to eight months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flyovers-under-scrutiny/article37449648.ece
12 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Art works in Hyderabad left to rot||Nearly nine years after they popped up under flyovers, city squares, thoroughfares as art, making a statement about biodiversity, the works of art don’t draw attention any more. If some of the murals under the Panjagutta flyover have lost their original hue, some have been torn out of their places. The art works near Patny Circle are no longer visible under the grime and dust created by heavy traffic. The Thinking Money sculpture by C.V. Ambaji has been torn out of its location near Biodiversity Park and is located yards away near Mindspace Junction. It is barely visible. It appears as if the city was never spruced up for the biodiversity meeting known as Conference of the Parties (CoP11). “No maintenance. No care. There is no money to take care of the art works,” says Ramana Reddy, whose works were part of the art project in 2012 and can still be seen under the Patny flyover. “There has been no encouragement for art. The few art works that were commissioned show animals. I think, after the biodiversity conference all artists in Hyderabad became attracted to animal motifs,” he says. A major chunk of the art works during CoP11 were executed by students of Jawaharlal Nehru Architecture and Fine Arts University. The art works have been left to rot in the absence of sense of ownership and the sheer size of canvas be it the sculptures or the murals. “There has been no upkeep of the art that was commissioned at that time. Much of it has disappeared or has become invisible,” says artist and curator Avani Rao Gandra. While urban art installations are part of branding efforts by major cities, in Hyderabad there has been no movement despite commissioning of expensive art. “There has to be a civic sense and awareness about art. Art gives us visual relief while we are driving or when tourists or visitors come to the city. We should use social media to create awareness about art,” says Ms. Gandra. Forget civic sense, the space under the Panjagutta flyover has now become a haven for drunks and hoboes. On Thursday, a dead dog was floating in the small water channel under the flyover while the yellow colour of Kathakali dancer and Banjari dancer looked like shades of brown under a layer of soot and grime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/art-works-in-city-left-to-rot-post-cop11/article37449638.ece
12 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Atul Karwal appointed NDRF chief||Senior IPS officer and director of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy, Atul Karwal, has been appointed Director-General of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). The appointment committee of the Cabinet has approved the proposal of the Ministry of Home Affairs of the appointment of Mr. Karwal, a 1988 batch IPS officer of Gujarat cadre. The post of DG, NDRF, has been temporarily upgraded on a personal basis for a period of two years from the date of joining the post or till further orders, whichever is earlier. However, the government did not issue orders so far in respect of appointing a new director for the SVP NPA. In all likelihood, Mr. Karwal would continue to act as director till a new incumbent is posted. “The appointment of the new director will be known latest by Monday,” a source in the academy said. Considered to be the “blue-eyed boy” of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Karwal took charge as the 32nd director of the country's premier police school in December 2019, and since then he had made several important changes in the academy, with major focus on physical training of the probationary IPS officers. The country’s first bureaucrat to scale Mount Everest in 2008, Mr. Karwal was earlier posted as the assistant director (outdoor training) of NPA from 1999 to 2002. Prior to this, he served as the Additional Director General of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). His wife Anita Karwal is Secretary of the Department of School Education and Literacy, and prior to this, she was the chairperson of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The couple has two daughters -- Janvi and Tanvi. A fitness, sports and adventure sports enthusiast, the officer holds a first degree in black belt in Wing-Tsun Kung Fu and is trained in martial arts from Donald Melville. A passionate sky and scuba diver, Mr. Karwal also completed several full and half marathons, including Half Ironman held in Goa. Last year during an interaction, Mr. Modi said he was also “trained” by the academy director Karwal earlier in his political career.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/atul-karwal-appointed-ndrf-chief/article37449644.ece
12 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor initiates pilot study on malnutrition among tribals||Governor Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan had initiated a pilot study in Adilabad, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, and Nagarkurnool districts on malnutrition issues and other vulnerabilities among people belonging to the Primitive Tribal Groups. The pilot study was launched in association with Central institutes like the ICMR-National Institute of Nutrition (NIN), ESIC Medical College, Indian Red Cross Society, Telangana branch, and other universities, in the identified districts. A need-based nutritional and livelihood improvement project will be implemented soon through a multi-pronged approach through this initiative, she said on Thursday. The Governor made a presentation of the project on tribal development and healthcare at the 51st conference of Governors and Lt. Governors, chaired by President Ram Nath Kovind, at the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi. Dr. Soundararajan was one among the six Governors chosen to make a presentation at the meeting, also attended by Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. She highlighted the different initiatives taken by Raj Bhavan, Telangana, and Raj Nivas in Puducherry, where she is holding the charge as the Lt. Governor, to reach out to people during the COVID-19 pandemic times. The initiative to dispel vaccine hesitancy in general and tribal women in particular was also mentioned during the presentation. Dr. Soundararajan’s special efforts in ensuring accessibility of online education to students belonging to the underprivileged sections and initiatives to improve quality of education in universities were also discussed. Initiatives like ‘Chancellor Connects Alumni’ and efforts to promote awareness and implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) also formed part of her presentation, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-initiates-pilot-study-on-malnutrition-among-tribals/article37449633.ece
12 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Pay Rs. 5 lakh each to victims who died of electrocution’||A district consumer commission directed the Telangana State North Power Distribution Company Limited (TSNPCL) to pay Rs. 5 lakh ex-gratia each to two persons who died after being electrocuted. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission at Adilabad was dealing with a clutch of consumer cases filed by Laxmi Mutyala, Kinnaka Bujang Rao and Kinnaka Sombai, Gurundla Madunakka and Gurundla Pochanna, kin of those died due of electrocution. The complaint filed by Kinnaka Bujang Rao and Kinnaka Sombai was dismissed. The complainants stated that the victims Mutyala Guruvaiah and Gurundla Vijay Kumar were electrocuted from snapping of live power cables. While Laxmi Mutyala, a resident of Ellaram village, stated that her husband Mutyala Guruvaiah, a 47-year-old coolie, was fishing at Patha Yellaram village canal, a live electric wire snapped and fell on him, resulting in death due to electrocution. The other complainants Gurundla Madunakka and Gurundla Pochanna said that their son Gurundla Vijay Kumar was working in an agricultural field when he accidentally came in contact with a power cable and died of electrocution. The complainants stated that TSNPDCL’s negligence led to the death of breadwinners of respective families. This also caused hardship and mental trauma to the families. For their part, the TSNPDCL in the case of Mr Guruvaiah’s death, said that the victim had extended electricity supply illegally from overhead lines. They said that the a non-insulated wire was inserted in the river, and he died of electrocution after slipping into the water. In connection with Mr Vijay Kumar’s death, the TSNPDCL said that no electric cable had snapped. On the contrary, all cables were intact. “The said wire was laid by the deceased himself for providing solar fencing through batteries and solar panels to his agricultural field to kill animals entering his fields. Neither the wire belongs to the department of the opposite parties and nor the supply was given in to the said wire by the department .. on the other hand, the deceased himself setup solar fencing to his field,” the contented. While dealing with case on Mr Guruvaiah’s death, the commission stated that maintaining power lines is TSNPDCL’s duty so as to prevent injuries or fatalities. It also stated that Mr Guruvaiah’s kin had sent a legal notice which was ignored, which shows negligence on their part. The commission observed that in case of Madunakka’s death, that “death cannot occur due to batteries generated power in this case. The death occurred instantly which can only happen due to high voltage power supply.” The commission ordered Rs. 5 lakh as compensation in each case and ordered costs of Rs. 2,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pay-rs-5-lakh-each-to-those-electrocuted/article37449650.ece
12 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kishan Reddy is spreading misinformation: Harish||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has alleged that Union Minister of Culture and Tourism G. Kishan Reddy is spreading misinformation in the matter of sanction of new medical colleges to Telangana and on allotment of land to AIIMS Medical College coming up at Bibinagar. Minister for Finance and Health T. Harish Rao said here on Thursday that that BJP leaders from the State including the Union Minister were creating confusion on many issues including purchase of paddy/rice, sanction of medical colleges, Central Government share in KCR kit scheme for new-born babies in government hospitals, value added tax on domestic gas cylinder and others. Responding to the Union Minister’s posts on a social media platform that the State Government had not allotted land completely to AIIMS Medical College, Mr. Rao stated that buildings constructed for Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) at Bibinagar were handed over to AIIMS in 2015 itself and about 201.24 acres land of Kondamadugu and Rangapur villages in Bibinagar mandal were transferred to AIIMS Medical College in May 2020 and the Centre had acknowledged the transfer. On Mr. Krishna Reddy’s remark that no effort was made by the State Government to get the new medical colleges sanctioned, Mr. Harish Rao reminded that the then Health Minister C. Laxma Reddy wrote to the then Union Health Minister J.P. Nadda in June 2015 and met him with request to upgrade at least some of the district hospitals to medical colleges. In November 2015, Mr. Nadda had replied that it was not possible. Similarly, another letter was written to Union Health Minister Harshavardhan in August 2019 with the same plea but the reply was that it was not possible in the first and second phases but could be examined in the third phase.  The State Government on its own had started four new government medical colleges in the first phase in addition to five established till 2014 and eight more were sanctioned in the second phase, which would start functioning from the next academic year. Another four medical colleges would come up in the third phase, Mr. Harish Rao explained adding that PG seats were also increased beyond 1,000 from 531.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kishan-is-spreading-misinformation-harish/article37449661.ece
12 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plea to stay ‘eviction’ of forest dwellers||Telangana High Court on Thursday issued notices to State government and others in a PIL petition seeking an order to stay the attempts of the government to evict tribals, forest dwellers and other traditional dwellers from the lands they were cultivating in forest areas. Retired university professor P.L. Vishweshwara Rao, Dr. Cheruku Sudhakar and K. Shravan Kumar filed the PIL plea. They alleged in their petition that the government was not complying with the provisions of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Rules-2008. While traditional forest dwellers were cultivating lands in forest areas for past several decades, the authorities suddenly started evicting them from those places without adhering to the rules and rulings issues by the Supreme Court, their counsel Chikkudu Prabhakar said in the court. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajasheker Reddy, which heard the plea, issued notices to the government. However, the bench declined to pass any stay orders in the matter. In a separate PIL petition over the audit of deaths due to COVID-19 in the State, the bench granted four weeks to the State government to file a detailed counter affidavit. The pleas was filed by Congress spokesperson Dasoju Sravan Kumar seeking a direction to the government to constitute audit committees to ascertain precise number of people who died of Coronavirus in the State. Mr. Kumar contended that families of persons who died of COVID-19 should get compensation from the government. But there was no official version of the precise details of persons who succumbed to Coronavirus. Special Government Pleader Santosh Kumar informed the bench that already the government had issued orders to constitute death audit committees. This was in compliance with guidelines issued by the Centre. The bench said it cannot pass specific directions since the government assured that already death audit committees were being constituted. The plea was posted after six weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-to-stay-eviction-of-forest-dwellers/article37449664.ece
12 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Impressive run of Registration and Stamps dept. continues||The impressive run of Registration and Stamps department in earning revenue is continuing with the department registering over Rs. 900 crore revenue during October this year. The onset of the auspicious Kartika Maasam has further bolstered the prospects of the department which registered Rs. 400 crore revenue through sale of documents and registration charges in the first 10 days. Of these, transactions pertaining to agricultural properties constituted 20 per cent amounting to Rs. 80 crore. Senior officials are hopeful that the spike in registrations is likely to continue well into next month. The growth in revenue during the current month is likely to be around 15 per cent taking the total earning to over Rs. 1,000 crore. The department witnessed registration of close to 50,000 agricultural properties during October earning revenue of Rs. 130 crore and revenue through registration of non-agricultural properties stood at Rs. 780 crore for the month. The department has crossed the half way mark of Rs. 12,000 crore stiff target set for it during the current financial year. Revenue through Registration and Stamps crossed Rs. 6,300 crore one month after the commencement of the second half of the financial year from October. The department witnessed a spurt in the revenue which crossed Rs. 1,200 crore in July and this was due to sudden rush for registrations ahead of upward revision of registration charges and stamp duties. “There has been constant rise in the number of registrations and the revenue per month is around Rs. 1,000 crore since the total lifting of restrictions imposed due to COVID-19,” a senior official told The Hindu . Registration and Stamps department was among the revenue earning departments which suffered adversely due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. But the department revived itself since the lifting of restrictions from April this year registering Rs. 716 crore revenue. The trend is continuing, but for May when it dropped to Rs. 234 crore due to closure of sub-registrar offices on account of COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/impressive-show-by-registration-dept/article37449665.ece
12 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three youths held for drug peddling, 110 MDMA pills seized||Three youngsters, including two students, were arrested by the Asif Nagar police for allegedly possessing Methylenedioxy Methamphetamine (MDMA) pills for sale. The accused are Dharawath Sai Charan (25), an engineering graduate, from Hayathnagar, Racharla Ankith (22), a BBA graduate from Ameerpet, and Belly Ajay Sai (22), engineering final year student LIG Ramachandrapuram, BHEL. On Thursday, Asif Nagar police received credible information that some persons are indulging in the sale of banned psychotropic substances at the Mehdipatnam bus stop. Immediately, a team was sent, who apprehended Ajay Sai and Ankith and seized 50 MDMA pills. Further on their confessing, 60 pills were seized from Sai Charan, all worth Rs. 3 lakh. “The accused purchased the banned pills for a price of Rs. 1,500 each and sold it to the consumer for a price of Rs. 2,500 and more,” Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said. The Commissioner of Police said that the trio supplied the drugs to their customers through mobile apps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/110-mdma-pills-seized/article37449651.ece
12 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Millet snack firm raises Rs. 55 crore||Millet snacks maker Troo Good has raised Rs. 55 crore ($7.4 million) from private equity fund OAKS Asset Management, in a Series A round funding, which it intends to deploy for foray into new markets across the country. Focused on the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana markets and having three factories in the Telugu States, the Hyderabad-headquartered firm is planning to set up 5 more factories in the coming months. The company will be setting up factories at Nellore, Visakhapatnam and one in Telangana. “We will be entering Chhattisgarh market in December this year and set up a factory there in the next six months. There are also plans to foray into Haryana market in the near future,” CEO and founder Raju Bhupati said on Thursday, announcing the fund raise. Troo Good in a release said it manufactures Millet Chikkis from its three facilities -- two of which are in Hyderabad and the other in Rajahmundry. Local employment On the proposed facilities, it said the move would help benefit from a reduction in the cost of transportation and logistics as well as provide employment to the local people. With the funds raised, the company also plans to expand product portfolio by introducing new millet based products. It currently has 14 products. Troo Good had earlier raised $1 million from AppLabs founder Sashi Reddi and his family in the Seed round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/millet-snack-firm-raises-rs-55-crore/article37449642.ece
12 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR to protest at Sircilla||After December 8 last year, when Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) had taken to streets in support of the farming community agitating against the new farm laws enacted by the Centre, the ruling party in the State is all set to hit the roads again on Friday demanding that the Centre procure paddy/rice produced in the Rabi season. The party leadership has already asked its leaders at constituency level to make arrangements to stage protest from 10 am to 1 pm by taking permission from the District Collectors in view of the model code in force for elections to the 12 Local Authorities’ Constituencies of the Legislative Council. Working president of the party and Minister for IT and Industries K.T. Rama Rao will participate in the protest at Sircilla, the constituency represented by him. Similarly, other ministers will participate in the protests in their constituencies as also MLAs, MLCs, MPs and other leader leaders in their areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-to-protest-at-sircilla/article37449662.ece
12 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||14 charge-sheets filed in drunken driving cases||The Punjagutta traffic police filed 14 charge-sheets against 14 persons who were caught driving under the influence of alcohol, before the IV Metropolitan Magistrate Court, Nampally. The court has awarded punishment to 12 persons with a fine of Rs. 10,500 for being caught for the first time while driving the vehicles after consuming alcohol. A person was sentenced to five days imprisonment with a fine of Rs. 10,500, while another person got 12 days imprisonment with Rs. 16,500 fine for getting caught for the second time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/14-charge-sheets-filed-in-drunken-driving-cases/article37449904.ece
12 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State records 153 fresh COVID cases, two deaths||Telangana on Thursday registered 153 fresh COVID-19 cases, pushing the tally to 6,73,140, while the toll rose to 3,971 with two more fatalities. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 52, followed by Nalgonda 14 and Karimnagar 12, the government bulletin said with details as of 5.30 p.m. on Thursday. The number of recoveries outnumbered fresh cases on Thursday, with 160 people recovering from the infectious disease. The cumulative number of recoveries till date was 6,65,432. The number of active cases was 3,737, the bulletin said. It said that 36,510 samples were tested on Thursday and the total number of samples tested till date was 2.79 crore. Samples tested per million population was 7,50,959. The case fatality rate is 0.58%, and recovery rate 98.85%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-153-new-cases-two-deaths/article37449641.ece
12 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Resolution against farm laws sought||Congress senior leader V. Hanumantha Rao has demanded that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao pass resolution against the farm laws made by Union Government if he was really worried about the fate of farmers. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, Mr. Hanumantha Rao said that the TRS leaders were going to hold dharna at Dharna Chowk near Indira Park which was banned by the government after coming to power. “The ruling party leaders are going to hold dharna at Dharna Chowk, which they have banned. I have challenged the decision of government in the court,” said Mr. Hanumantha Rao adding that the Chief Minister should prove his sincerity towards farmers and if there was a positive change towards farming community it should be continued. He suggested that the Chief Minister open gates of Pragathi Bhavan to the public and meet them regularly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/resolution-against-farm-laws-sought/article37449658.ece
12 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||18 nominations filed for standing committee||A total of 18 nominations have been filed for the election for GHMC standing committee, by Thursday, the final day for filing of nominations. Of the candidates, 11 were from TRS and seven were from MIM. None of the corporators who contested from BJP have reportedly filed nominations. The council has a total of 56 elected members from TRS and 44 from MIM. Of the remaining, 47 are from BJP and three from Congress. The nominations will be scrutinised and final list of valid nominations will be published on Friday. With withdrawals allowed up to November 15, the final list of the contesting candidates will be published on the same day. Polling will be conducted on November 20, after which counting will be taken up. Results will be announced forthwith on the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/18-nominations-filed-for-standing-committee/article37449905.ece
12 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rousing welcome to Revanth Reddy||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy received a rousing welcome in Miryalaguda on Thursday. He attended the marriage function of District Congress Committee (DCC) Shankar Naik’s son. Large number of party workers walked along the vehicle of Mr. Revanth Reddy and raised slogans welcoming him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rousing-welcome-to-revanth-reddy/article37449908.ece
12 November 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||566 kg. ganja seized||The stepped-up vigil across various mandals, bordering Andhra Pradesh, led to the seizure of 566 kg of dry ganja worth about Rs 1.42 crore in Sattupalli town late on Wednesday evening. Sattupalli town police intercepted a lorry bearing Maharashtra registration number at JVR park in the town late in the evening. The police recovered a huge consignment of dry ganja concealed in the lorry and detained two suspected members of an inter-State ganja smuggling gang. The illegal consignment originated from the Agency area of AP’s Visakhapatnam district and meant to be delivered to suspected ganja peddlers in Maharashtra’s Ahmednagar town. The accused were identified as Yogesh Limbaji, 30, lorry driver, and Irfan Sadar Pathan, 39, lorry driver, both hailing from Maharashtra. Another member of the gang belonging to Ahmednagar is at large and efforts are on to nab him, police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/566-kg-ganja-seized/article37449909.ece
12 November 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||More chickpea varieties by genome sequencing||An international team of researchers from 41 organisations has assembled chickpea’s pan-genome by sequencing the genomes of 3,366 chickpea lines from 60 countries. Led by ICRISAT, the team identified 29,870 genes that include 1,582 previously unreported novel genes. The research is the largest effort of its kind for any plant, putting chickpea in a small group of crops with such an extensive genome map. “By employing whole genome sequencing, we have been able to affirm the history of chickpea’s origin in the Fertile Crescent and identify two paths of diffusion or migration of chickpea to rest of the world. One path indicates diffusion to South Asia and East Africa, and the other suggests diffusion to the Mediterranean region (probably through Turkey) as well as to the Black Sea and Central Asia (up to Afghanistan),” said Prof. Rajeev Varshney, a research programme director at ICRISAT and leader of the study. Grown in more than 50 countries, chickpea is the world’s third-most cultivated legume. It is indispensable to diets in many nations and an important source of dietary protein, especially in the Global South.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-chickpea-varieties-by-genome-sequencing/article37449902.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Pullela Gopichand on ‘Shuttler’s Flick’: I did not want my autobiography to be dull and preachy||“I am a work in progress,” says badminton coach and former player Pullela Gopichand, speaking to The Hindu ahead of the launch of his autobiography Shuttler’s Flick: Making Every Match Count (Simon & Schuster publication). The book that he has co-authored with Priya Kumar will be unveiled in Hyderabad on November 12. The seeds for the book were sown in 2016, when Gopichand served as the official Indian Olympic badminton team coach. P V Sindhu won her first Olympic silver at Rio: “I prefer to focus on the task at hand, rather than document my achievements. However, people around me felt it was the right time to tell my story,” he recalls. Writer and motivational speaker Priya Kumar was recommended by a friend and the consensus among those who knew Gopichand closely was to put out an autobiography that can also serve as a guidebook for future champions. Shuttler’s Flick intersperses Gopichand’s story with Priya Kumar’s observations on his journey and lists pointers for aspiring players, parents and coaches. A bulk of the work happened in 2018 and 2019, with Priya Kumar meeting Gopichand’s family members, friends and colleagues at the Pullela Gopichand Badminton Academy. Gopichand quotes a friend who urged him to tell his story: “He said, ‘thoughts are pregnant for a book’ and that I should write. I didn’t want it to be a preachy self-help book.” Once the first draft was completed, the co-authors shared it with friends and also those who were not keen followers of the sport, to get an outsider perspective. Close-knit circle Gopichand didn’t have to go too far to piece together the story, for, some of his close friends and colleagues are now part of the badminton academy: “I had a limited friends circle while growing up. I knew very little outside of badminton,” he mentions, “Hamid Hussain sir’s (his first coach) son Azam, who was my doubles partner in childhood, and Prabhakar who was my doubles partner as an 18-year-old, are at the academy. I also reached out to Sudheer Babu (former player and now actor) and others.” The book opens with an account of Gopichand’s biggest win — the All England Open Badminton Championships in 2001, and then recounts his recovery from a debilitating knee injury in the 1990s that required a risky arthroscopic surgery to treat an acute anterior cruciate ligament tear. Gopichand had been written off. No one thought he would be fit to play the sport, forget winning national and international championships. “It was a painful period,” he admits. “There was no precedent for anyone having undergone such a reconstruction surgery and returning to play badminton.” The slow progress from the wheelchair to the badminton court involved tremendous grit: “Badminton was my only source of happiness. So I had to find my way back into it. There was little else to distract us in the 1980s and the 90s. If I lost badly, I would withdraw into a shell and channel that hurt into devising a method to return stronger with a win.” In his younger days, Gopichand played other sports before finding his groove in badminton. The experience helped build agility. At the academy, parents walk in to enroll young children in the sport, with an eye on international tournaments. He cautions against undue stress on young minds, “In school, children learn mathematics, physics, chemistry and other subjects. Not everyone is expected to be an Albert Einstein or Srinivasa Ramanujam. But kids enrolling on a sport are told from day one that they should aim to be a world champion. That is way too much pressure. Encourage them to enjoy playing a sport, stay healthy, happy, become disciplined and learn lessons from winning and losing.” Winning moments  Shuttler’s Flick , expectedly, has anecdotes from some of Gopichand’s brightest students — Saina Nehwal, P V Sindhu, Parupalli Kashyap and Srikanth Kidambi, among others. Gopichand avers that what happens on the big match day is a manifestation of the years of training; there are times he steps back to allow the players to have an easy mindset: “On the big day, there is nothing new that I tell them. Everyone wants to win, but how many have done the preparation that is required to win is all that matters.” A biopic film, with Sudheer Babu billed to portray Gopichand, is also on the cards.  (For the longer interview, check www.thehindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pullela-gopichand-on-shuttlers-flick-i-did-not-want-my-autobiography-to-be-dull-and-preachy/article37449657.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||That time of the year again||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/that-time-of-the-year-again/article37449640.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Age-old traditions||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/age-old-traditions/article37449911.ece
12 November 2021||Bhopal,||New probe into Jheeram Ghati massacre likely||Four days after the Judicial Commission submitted its report on the May 2013 Jheeram Ghati massacre to the Governor, the ruling Congress Government in Chhattisgarh nominated a chairperson and a member and expanded the ambit of the Commission and set a deadline to complete the probe. “On September 23, 2021, the Secretary of the earlier Commission has informed that investigations are still incomplete, and for that reason, time extension should be granted,” said an order issued by the Chhattisgarh General Administration Department here on Thursday. New members The term of the Judicial Commission has come to an end on September 30, 2021, the order said. The chairperson of the Commission has taken over the charge of Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court, it said, adding that the State Government has hence decided to nominate two new members to the Commission. As per the order, former High Court Judge Satish K. Agnihotri will be the chairperson and Justice G. Minhajuddin will be the member. The government has given a deadline of six months to submit its report to the State Government and has included few additional points like whether the victims were provided proper healthcare facilities after the incident and whether proper steps were taken to ensure recurrence of such incidents, among others in the order. Ever since the Commission’s secretary, Chhattisgarh Registrar (Judicial) Santosh Kumar Tiwari, handed over the 10-volume, 4,184-page report to Governor Anasuiya Uikey at Raj Bhawan, the Congress Government in Chhattisgarh have been alleging that it should have been submitted to the State Government. On Wednesday, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel gave indications of the new role of the Commission. “The tenure of the Judicial Commission [constituted in 2013] was over but it said the report was yet to be completed. So a decision will be taken after considering it,” Mr. Baghel said. On May 2013, naxals attacked a convoy of Congress leaders in Jheeram valleyof Bastar district, killing 29 people, including then State Congress chief Nand Kumar Patel, his son Dinesh Patel, former Leader of Opposition Mahendra Karma. Former Union Minister Vidyacharan Shukla was seriously injured in the attack and died during treatment.  Former High Court Judge Satish K. Agnihotri will be the chairperson and Justice G. Minhajuddin will be the member Chhattisgarh Govt. order||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/new-probe-into-jheeram-ghati-massacre-likely/article37449734.ece
12 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Fraudsters hack into IT agency CEO’s phone||Online fraudsters hacked the phone of Chief Executive Officer of Odisha Computer Application Centre (OCAC), a premier State-run IT agency, and managed to swindle Rs. 7 lakh by sending phishing messages. Manoj Patnaik, CEO of OCAC, on Thursday said he realised that his phone was hacked by online fraudsters when he received phone calls from his colleagues that they had deposited money in his account upon finding his distress WhatsApp messages. Odisha Crime Branch on Thursday deputed a Deputy Superintendent of Police rank officer to investigate into the phishing allegations. “We received message from OCAC CEO’s WhatsApp number, which talked about his medical emergency. We were requested to deposit money in a certain account number. Accordingly, I hurriedly deposited Rs. 5 lakh. Later, I came to know that it was a phishing message,” said Sohan Nautiyal, an OCAC employee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fraudsters-hack-into-it-agency-ceos-phone/article37449736.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi’s air quality ‘severe’ again, relief unlikely in next two days||The air quality in the city deteriorated to the ‘severe’ category again on Thursday. The air quality index (AQI) of the Capital has been in the ‘severe’ level for five out of seven days after Deepavali, official data show. Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai urged Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav to hold a meeting of all Environment Ministers of the neighbouring States on the issue of stubble burning. ‘Why avoiding a meet?’ “Why is it that they are avoiding calling a meeting with the State Governments when all scientific evidence suggests that stubble burning in these States is continuously contributing to the pollution around us? Hence, by calling this meeting as soon as possible, I hope the right measures will be taken to control the increasing pollution,” Mr. Rai said. The Government also started a campaign against open burning on Thursday. ‘Affects healthy people’ Air pollution of ‘severe’ level “affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases”, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The AQI is likely to stay in the next two days and stay in the ‘very poor’ to ‘severe’ range, authorities said. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi was 26% on Thursday and the number of active fires reduced to 3,914. The AQI was 411 on Thursday, up from 372 on Wednesday, as per the CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is the average of the past 24 hours. A higher value of AQI indicates more air pollution. The city’s air quality entered the ‘severe’ level for the first time this winter on Friday with an AQI of 462, a day after Deepavali. Several other cities in the National Capital Region such as Noida, Faridabad and Ghaziabad and towns in north India, including Agra, Hisar and Hapur, also faced ‘severe’ category air pollution on Thursday. “Winds at transport level reduced today but there was no change in wind direction, so the air quality remained in the same category of ‘very poor’. It is likely to be in the ‘upper end of the very poor’ to ‘severe’ category in the next two days,” said Government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhis-air-quality-severe-again-relief-unlikely-in-next-two-days/article37449531.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||DDA extends public hearings for MPD-2041||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Wednesday extended the online public hearings for the Draft Master Plan for Delhi-2041 (MPD-2041), which were earlier scheduled till November 10. According to the tentative schedule released by the DDA, the hearings will take place on November 15, 17, 22 and 24. A DDA spokesperson said the extended hearings will see the participation of “representatives from Government agencies, professional bodies, Authority members and civic bodies”. “We are considering inviting participants whose comments have been previously heard on the last day (November 24) of the extended schedule,” the spokesperson said.  Previously, the DDA had divided the online hearings into nine parts — from October 18 to November 10. However, the participants representing trader bodies, residents welfare associations and market associations had said that the hearings were being held in a “hasty manner”. “I was told to keep my suggestions brief and that I will be given ample time on November 10. However, I did not receive any invitation for the same. I have lost hope in the online hearings, it seems that they [DDA] are avoiding critical voices,” said Rajiv Kakria, the convener of Save Our City campaign. Notification ‘delay’ Responding to questions on a potential delay in the notification of MPD-2041, the DDA spokesperson said, “We are working on a fast pace to complete the required proceedings.” “There are various factors before revealing the timeline of notifying the Master Plan for 2041. We have to send our findings to the respective authorities and we do not know how they will react. But we can assure you that the work is being executed in a fast-paced manner,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dda-extends-public-hearings-for-mpd-2041/article37449542.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||Couple fails to get marriage registered even after 40 years||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the city Government to respond to a petition filed by a couple who were married over 40 years ago but are unable to get their marriage registered as the official software is not accepting their application. They were underage at the time of their wedding in 1981. Justice Rekha Palli also issued notices to the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) of Alipur and District Magistrate of North West Delhi and posted the case for hearing on December 23. Software didn’t accept In their plea filed through advocate Jai Singh Mann, the couple said they approached the SDM, Alipur, for registering their marriage with all relevant documents but it could not be done as the software did not accept their application. The couple said that the husband was below 21 years and his wife was below the age of 18 at the time of their wedding on May 28, 1981. Advocate Mann said the couple fulfil all conditions for registration of marriage as prescribed under the law as they had completed the age of 21 at the time of registration and their wedding was conducted as per Hindu vedic rites and ceremonies. The plea said the authorities have neither rectified the software nor registered the couple’s marriage so far by any other mode, which is “unjust, arbitrary and illegal” and is violative of their fundamental rights and non-compliance with the law.  The authorities have neither rectified the software nor registered the couple’s marriage so far by any other mode, which is ‘unjust, arbitrary and illegal’ Petition in HC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/couple-fails-to-get-marriage-registered-even-after-40-years/article37449526.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC seeks response on plea to label products as vegetarian or non-vegetarian||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Central Government to respond to a petition seeking to label all items used by the public, including home appliances and apparel, as “vegetarian” or “non-vegetarian” on the basis of their ingredients and “items used in the manufacturing process”. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh said everyone has the right to know and follow their belief and asked the Centre to “seriously examine” the plea by Ram Gaua Raksha Dal, a trust working towards the welfare of cows. “There can’t be no denying the fact that every person has the right to know which springs from the right to free speech. The issue raised by the petitioner has a bearing on a person’s right to life in as much as the person is entitled to profess and follow their beliefs,” the Bench said. ‘Genuine cause’ Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, appearing for the Centre, said the plea is for a “genuine cause” and that the Government will look into it. The petitioner, represented by advocate Rajat Aneja, highlighted that there are several items and commodities which are used in “everyday lives” without those professing vegetarianism realising that they are either derived from animals or processed using animal-based products. Mr. Aneja said bone char or natural carbon is used for polishing or refining white sugar, which is not fit for consumption by people professing vegetarianism. Bone china products and even crayons have ingredients of “animal origin”, he added. The petition said the information about the use of any “non-vegetarian component” ought to be disclosed and be considered as a factor to declare that product “non-vegetarian”. The High Court will hear the case again on December 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-hc-seeks-response-on-plea-to-label-products-as-vegetarian-or-non-vegetarian/article37449543.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||Free Library Festival begins in city tomorrow||With an aim to make books accessible to all, The Community Library Project (TCLP), a non-profit trust, is hosting its second annual ‘Free Library Festival’ between November 13 and 21. TCLP runs three libraries across Delhi and the National Capital Region. The festival will see a book giveaway on November 13 and 14. “A mega book giveaway will be held at our library in South Extension, where, for small donations to the free library movement, visitors will have the opportunity to take home some of the thousands of excellent books donated to our libraries over the years,” TCLP said in a press note. Apart from this, the festival will witness a series of online workshops on November 20 and 21. “There are workshops on playwriting by Annie Zaidi and on how to get published by Karthika VK of Westland, Jayapriya Vasudevan of Jacaranda literary agency and Samit Basu,” the press note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/free-library-festival-begins-in-city-tomorrow/article37449533.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks DDA’s reply to hawker federation’s plea||The High Court on Thursday asked the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to respond to a plea by the National Hawker Federation challenging the Delhi Master Plan 2021. The petition says the Master Plan does not take into account the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh sought the response from DDA and posted the case for hearing on January 12, 2022. The federation said the overarching objective of the Street Vendors Act, 2014, is to promote a supportive environment for the urban street vendors to carry out their vocation, while ensuring that vending activities do not lead to overcrowding and unsanitary conditions in public spaces. The plea, filed through lawyer Kawalpreet Kaur, said the Master Plan 2021 – which was approved in 2007 — “wrongfully retains” provisions that do not reflect the criteria set out for street vendors under the Street Vendors Act. It further stated that the sections for “informal sector” under the Master Plan are “manifestly arbitrary” and make no mention of the Street Vendors Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-seeks-ddas-reply-to-hawker-federations-plea/article37449537.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||Licence fee: Govt. won’t act against liquor retailers||The Delhi Government on Thursday assured the High Court that no coercive action will be taken against liquor retailers, for the time being, for not paying the licence fee under the Delhi Excise Policy 2021-22. The HC was hearing pleas of over 16 retail liquor traders, who are successful bidders for licences for the operation of liquor vends, seeking to declare the Government decision to levy licence fee with effect from November 1 illegal. Justice Rekha Palli posted the case for further hearing on November 15. On the number of liquor brands where MRP is fixed and where it is yet to be done under the Delhi Excise Policy 2021-22, the Delhi Government submitted that of the 30 popular brands, MRP of 10 has been fixed and that of another seven will be decided in the next two days. The petitioners in this case are successful bidders of L-7Z (zonal licence for retail vend of Indian liquor and foreign liquor) and L-7V (retail vend of Indian liquor, foreign liquor in a zone). Their plea sought directions to the authorities not to demand licence fee from the successful bidders till the Government fulfils its obligations under the tender terms and conditions and the Delhi Excise policy 2021-2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/licence-fee-govt-wont-act-against-liquor-retailers/article37449538.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||2 sets of chargesheet filed, court asks CP to take action||A Delhi court has directed the Police Commissioner to register a case against police officers for allegedly committing a fraud by filing two sets of chargesheet in a rape case, calling it a “classic case of abuse of power”. Additional Sessions Judge Gaurav Rao came down heavily on the police after noting that the chargesheet that has been filed in the court and supplied to the counsel of the accused is different from the one with the prosecutor and the complainant’s counsel. The judge, in an order dated November 8, said that filing two distinct sets of chargesheet amounts to perjury, cheating, and interference with the justice dispensation process. “It is treachery of the highest order,” he said. “Let the copy of the order be sent to the Commissioner of Police who is directed to initiate appropriate inquiry/legal action, register an appropriate case under appropriate provision of IPC against IO/SHO/ACP for committing fraud upon the court,” the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/2-sets-of-chargesheet-filed-court-asks-cp-to-take-action/article37449540.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||BJP seeks all-party meet on cleaning Yamuna||Terming it a “sacred task”, the BJP on Thursday demanded an all-party meeting to chart the way forward for a time-bound cleaning of the Yamuna. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said all stakeholders were ready to cooperate in this respect and the Delhi Government should “immediately start this holy task” by calling an all-party meeting. “The Centre has given Rs. 2,419 crore to the Delhi Government for cleaning the Yamuna,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “It is a matter of shame for all of us that instead of keeping the Yamuna clean, it is being made dirty; 18 big drains are pouring filth into the Yamuna every day. The Government is making announcements to set up sewage treatment plants, but all its projects are far behind the schedule,” he said. Instead of blaming each other, a time-bound action plan should be made, the leader said. “There should be no politics over cleaning the Yamuna.,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-seeks-all-party-meet-on-cleaning-yamuna/article37449527.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘85 garbage collection points shut since March’||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Thursday said that the civic body has shut 85 of its 302 garbage collection points (dhalaos) and installed 31 fixed compactor transfer stations (FCTS) during the past six months to improve its waste management system. EDMC chief engineer Rajender Prasad said the civic body aims to install “seven additional FCTS” by the end of November. “Some of the dhalaos that have been shut will be converted into material recovery facilities for collection of dry waste. Each FCTS can handle the amount of waste accumulated at seven to eight dhalaos. Apart from the FCTS, we have close to 76 movable compactors, which are vehicles capable of processing the waste on the go,” he said. Close to 50 material recovery had been established in areas under the East Corporation’s jurisdiction, Mr. Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/85-garbage-collection-points-shut-since-march/article37449528.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks reply on removal of online articles||Adding to the number of people who have knocked the doors of the judiciary to remove online posts, which may contain an embarrassing picture, video or news articles mentioning them, a man has moved the Delhi High Court seeking to take down articles relating to his conviction in a fraud and blackmailing case abroad. Justice Rekha Palli asked the Centre, Google, Twitter and two media houses to respond to the petition filed by the man, who was deported to India from England after undergoing his sentence. Advocate Rajesh Rai, representing the man, said his client, even after undergoing the sentence, has been haunted by his past in “the manner where anybody has his background checked online with half-truth”. This discourages the petitioner to live a reformed life peacefully, the plea said. The man was convicted by Leicester Crown Court in 2015 for fraud and blackmail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-seeks-reply-on-removal-of-online-articles/article37449532.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Stormwater drains to be free of sewage’||Delhi Water Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said all sewer lines falling into stormwater drains will be disconnected by March 31, 2022. Stormwater drains are supposed to carry rainwater and flow into the Yamuna. But currently, untreated sewage from different areas flow into these drains. “All the points where the sewer lines are connected to stormwater drains will be disconnected by March 31, 2022. DJB officials have been instructed to survey and create a list of all the old and new points within 1 month,” the Minister said. He said that all households under sewered areas will be connected with the sewer network by June 2022 under Mukhyamantri Sewer Connection Yojana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/stormwater-drains-to-be-free-of-sewage/article37449536.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||Foundation laid for largest MCD school||Union Minister Hardeep Puri on Thursday laid the foundation stone for the “largest” municipal school at Goshala Park in north Delhi. Mr. Puri thanked Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta and civic officials for the 34-room school, being built at a cost of Rs. 8 crore, and said it was due to their efforts that after removing heaps of garbage, a big school was coming up here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/foundation-laid-for-largest-mcd-school/article37449529.ece
12 November 2021||Uttarakhand,||Car mows down Gurugram pilgrim in Badrinath||A 29-year-old woman pilgrim from Gurugram, Sandhya, was run over by a speeding car in Badrinath, police said on Thursday. The driver of the car has been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/car-mows-down-gurugram-pilgrim-in-badrinath/article37449733.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Festive fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/festive-fervour/article37449535.ece
12 November 2021||WELLINGTON,||Xi warns against Cold War in Asia-Pacific||Chinese President Xi Jinping warned on Thursday against letting tensions in the Asia-Pacific region cause a relapse into a Cold War mentality. His remarks on the sidelines of the annual summit of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum came weeks after the U.S., Britain and Australia announced a new security alliance in the region which would see Australia build nuclear submarines. China has harshly criticised the deal. And in a separate illustration of strains within APEC, one Southeast Asian delegate said the group had so far failed to reach agreement on a U.S. bid to host the 2023 summit due to unmet demands from Russia. Online meeting Mr. Xi spoke in a pre-recorded video to a CEO Summit at APEC, which is being hosted by New Zealand in a virtual format. Mr. Xi is scheduled to participate in an online meeting with other Pacific Rim leaders, including U.S. President Joe Biden on Saturday. In his speech, Mr. Xi said attempts to draw boundaries in the region along ideological or geopolitical lines would fail. His reference to the Cold War echoes Beijing’s oft-stated position that the U.S. should abandon that way of thinking in dealing with China. “The Asia-Pacific region cannot and should not relapse into the confrontation and division of the Cold War era,” Mr. Xi said. He added the region should make sure to keep supply lines functioning and to continue liberalising trade and investment. “China will remain firm in advancing reform and opening up so as to add impetus to economic development.” The most pressing task in the region is to make an all-out effort to fight the pandemic and to emerge from its shadow as soon as possible, he said. Meanwhile, the Southeast Asian delegate, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they weren’t authorised to publicly discuss the issue, said Russia had refused to support the U.S. bid unless some of its diplomats were removed from a U.S. blacklist or allowed to enter the U.S. to participate in the APEC meetings. Russia’s demands The delegate said the U.S. is unlikely to agree to Russia’s demands because issues involving America’s security are considered “non-negotiable”. The delegate added that China had stayed silent on the U.S. offer. If the 21 APEC leaders fail to reach a consensus on the U.S. bid by Friday, the delegate said, a paragraph in a draft of the summit communique welcoming the U.S. offer would have to be deleted. New Zealand’s Foreign Minister Nanaia Mahuta said earlier this week that APEC was founded on consensus and that there was not yet a confirmed host for 2023. Human rights lawyer Amal Clooney also spoke at the CEO summit, saying she believed that liberal democracies could improve global human rights by pressuring autocratic nations. She said businesses also needed to play a role. “If you can’t battle evil, you can at least try to tackle apathy,” Ms. Clooney said. In all, APEC members account for nearly 3 billion people and about 60% of the world’s GDP. But deep tensions run through the unlikely group of 21 nations and territories that include the U.S., China, Taiwan, Russia, and Australia. Many of the countries in Asia endeavour to balance Chinese and U.S. influences on the economic and geopolitical fronts. China claims vast parts of the South China Sea and other areas and has moved to establish a military presence, building islands in some disputed areas as it asserts its historic claims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/xi-warns-against-cold-war-in-asia-pacific/article37449082.ece
12 November 2021||Johannesburg,||S. Africa’s last apartheid President De Klerk dies||F.W. de Klerk, South Africa’s last white President, who freed anti-apartheid icon Nelson Mandela from jail, died on Thursday aged 85, his foundation announced. De Klerk and South Africa’s first black President Mandela shared the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993 for leading the “miracle” transition from white rule over the country. He died after a battle with cancer, his foundation said in a statement. De Klerk had announced his diagnosis on his 85th birthday, on March 18 this year. “It is with the deepest sadness that the F.W. de Klerk Foundation must announce that former president F.W. de Klerk died peacefully at his home in Fresnaye earlier this morning following his struggle against mesothelioma cancer,” it said. He is survived by wife Elita, children Jan and Susan, and grandchildren. “The family will, in due course, make an announcement regarding funeral arrangements," it added. He is most remembered for his famous speech delivered on February 2, 1990, announcing the lifting of a ban on the African National Congress (ANC) and other liberation movements. In the same speech he ordered Mandela’s release from prison after 27 years in jail. But in recent years, he came under harsh criticism for his failure to account for the violence that underpinned apartheid. Several current court cases seeking answers have sought his testimony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/s-africas-last-apartheid-president-de-klerk-dies/article37449076.ece
12 November 2021||Sokolka,||Belarus threatens to cut gas to Europe||Belarus’s strongman leader Alexander Lukashenko vowed on Thursday to respond to any new sanctions imposed over the migrant crisis on the country’s border with Poland, including by potentially cutting off the transit of natural gas to Europe. “If they impose additional sanctions on us... we must respond,” Mr. Lukashenko said in comments to officials released by the presidency. “We are warming Europe, and they are threatening us,” he said, pointing out that Russia’s Yamal-Europe gas pipeline transits through Belarus to Poland. “And what if we halt natural gas supplies?” Pressure is building to address the plight of hundreds of migrants, mainly Kurds from West Asia, who are stuck at the Belarus-Poland border in freezing weather.  The West accuses Mr. Lukashenko of luring the migrants to Belarus to send them across the border, in revenge for sanctions imposed last year after a heavy crackdown on the opposition. EU officials say they expect to approve new sanctions over the migrant crisis next week. “We are in a situation in which the proper consequences (for Minsk) are overdue. This is what we want, together with our European partners,” German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said Thursday. Belarusian Foreign Minister Vladimir Makei said Minsk wanted the crisis “resolved as quickly as possible” and was ready to talk to the EU, but the bloc was refusing dialogue. Poland has deployed 15,000 troops along the border, put up a fence topped with barbed wire and approved construction of a wall on the frontier with Belarus. Meanwhile, Ukraine said it would deploy thousands of border guards and security personnel to its border with Belarus “to counter a potential crisis with migrants”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/belarus-threatens-to-cut-gas-to-europe/article37449073.ece
12 November 2021||Glasgow,||China, U.S. to increase climate cooperation||The world’s top carbon polluters, China and the United States, agreed on Wednesday to increase their cooperation and speed up action to rein in climate-damaging emissions, signalling a mutual effort on global warming at a time of tension over their other disputes. In back-to-back news conferences at UN climate talks in Glasgow, Chinese climate envoy Xie Zhenhua and U.S. counterpart John Kerry said the two countries would work together to accelerate the emissions reductions required to meet the goals of the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change. “It’s beneficial not only to our two countries but the world as a whole that two major powers in the world, China and the U.S., shoulder special international responsibilities and obligations,” Mr. Xie told reporters. “We need to think big and be responsible.” “The steps we’re taking ... can answer questions people have about the pace at which China is going, and help China and us to be able to accelerate our efforts,” Mr. Kerry said. China also agreed for the first time to crack down on methane leaks, following the lead of the Biden administration’s efforts to curb the potent greenhouse gas. Beijing and Washington agreed to share technology to reduce emissions. Governments agreed in Paris to jointly cut greenhouse gas emissions enough to keep the global temperature rise “well below” 2 degrees Celsius since pre-industrial times, with a more stringent target of trying to keep warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius preferred. Both sides recognise that there is a gap between efforts taken globally to reduce climate pollution and the goals of the Paris deal, Mr. Xie said. “So we will jointly strengthen climate action and cooperation with respect to our respective national situations,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-us-to-increase-climate-cooperation/article37449078.ece
12 November 2021||Islamabad,||Afghanistan on brink of economic collapse, warns Pak.||Afghanistan is on the brink of economic collapse and the international community must urgently resume funding and provide humanitarian assistance, Pakistan’s Foreign Minister warned on Thursday. The statement came as U.S., Chinese, Russian and Taliban diplomats met in Islamabad. Shah Mehmood Qureshi spoke at the opening of the so-called “troika plus” meeting, which included Thomas West, the new U.S. special envoy for Afghanistan. The delegates also met later on Thursday with Taliban Foreign Minister Amir Khan Muttaqi. “Today, Afghanistan stands on the brink of an economic collapse,” Mr. Qureshi said, adding that any further downward slide would “severely limit” the new Taliban Government’s ability to run the country. “It is, therefore, imperative for the international community to buttress provision of humanitarian assistance on an urgent basis.” That included enabling Afghanistan to access funds frozen by Western donors since the Taliban took control of the country in August, he added. Resuming the flow of funding “will dovetail into our efforts to regenerate economic activities and move the Afghan economy towards stability and sustainability”. Doing so would benefit Western countries also, he argued later. “If you think that you are far, Europe is safe and those areas you imagine will not be affected by terrorism, don’t forget the history,” he said. “We have learned from the history and we don’t want to repeat those mistakes made in the past.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghanistan-on-brink-of-economic-collapse-warns-pak/article37449072.ece
12 November 2021||CAPE CANAVERAL,||600 space travellers and counting in 60 years||A SpaceX rocket carried four astronauts into orbit on Wednesday night, including the 600th person to reach space in 60 years. The repeatedly delayed flight occurred just two days after SpaceX brought four other astronauts ho- me from the International Space Station. They should have been up there to welcome the newcomers, but NASA and SpaceX decided to switch the order based on Monday’s ideal recovery weather in the Gulf of Mexico and pulled it off. ‘Great ride’ “It was a great ride, better than we imagined,” mission commander Raja Chari said shortly after the spacecraft reached orbit. The launch was just as riveting for spectators at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center, as well as along the East Coast, as the Falcon rocket thundered through clouds on its way to space, turning night into day. Germany’s Matthias Maurer claimed the No. 600 position, according to NASA, based on his mission assignment. He and his three NASA crewmates should arrive at the space station in under 24 hours. The list of 600 travellers ranges from those who have barely scratched space — like actor William Shatner last month — to U.S. and Russian astronauts who have spent a year or more in orbit. This year’s surge in space tourists helped push the tally over the 600 mark. That averages out to 10 people per year since Yuri Gagarin’s pioneering flight in 1961, Mr. Maurer noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/600-space-travellers-and-counting-in-60-years/article37449080.ece
12 November 2021||Manama,||Gulf states hold naval exercise with Israel: U.S.||The United Arab Emirates and Bahrain are holding their first joint naval exercise with Israel, a year after normalising ties with the Jewish state, the U.S. Navy said on Thursday. The five-day manoeuvres in the Red Sea, which is linked to the Mediterranean through the Suez Canal, are intended to “enhance interoperability between participating forces”, a statement said. “It is exciting to see U.S. forces training with regional partners to enhance our collective maritime security capabilities,” said Vice Admiral Brad Cooper, commander of U.S. Naval Forces Central Command, or NAVCENT. “Maritime collaboration helps safeguard freedom of navigation and the free flow of trade, which are essential to regional security and stability.” The exercises, which began on Wednesday, include boarding, search and seizure training on the USS Portland , an amphibious transport dock ship. It is the first publicly announced military cooperation by the UAE and Bahrain with Israel since they opened diplomatic relations in September last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/gulf-states-hold-naval-exercise-with-israel-us/article37449074.ece
12 November 2021||Kabul,||Taliban replace Hazara statue with Koran||The Taliban have replaced the statue of a Hazara leader declared a national martyr by the former government with a replica of the Koran, Bamiyan residents said on Thursday — a move they warned could trigger violence. The original statue depicted Abdul Ali Mazari, a leader of the mostly Shia minority killed while he was a prisoner of the Taliban during their first stint in power. The statue was decapitated by a rocket-propelled grenade soon after the Taliban returned to power in August, in an incident residents blamed on the hard-line Islamists. The Taliban’s strict interpretation of Islam forbids the human form to be depicted in paintings and sculpture — and printed photographs in extreme cases. Many businesses have removed or covered up billboards and posters featuring people since the group’s takeover. “Yesterday, they completely removed the statue and replaced it with a replica of the Koran,” said Abdul Danishyar, a civil society activist in Bamiyan. “They are trying to wipe out the history from Bamiyan, the people are going to react violently to this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-replace-hazara-statue-with-koran/article37449077.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Is the economy still reeling from demonetisation?||On November 8, 2016, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that from midnight, Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 notes would no longer be considered legal tender in India. The government’s stated aim was to curb corruption and the pervasion of black money in the economy, as well as the proliferation of fake currency which was also being used in terror funding. Pronab Sen discusses with Vikas Dhoot the after-effects of the demonetisation gamble and whether the intended outcomes have been achieved. Edited excerpts:  What has been the assessment of the extent of black money in the Indian economy? PS:Black money and the black economy are not the same. Black money is transitory and there’s not a whole lot of it. The black economy, particularly black assets, is large. Various studies to quantify it have yielded a wide range of estimates (20%-60% of GDP). Black money, or cash which has not been shown, is a very small component of this larger black economy because nobody who has made black income hangs on to that cash for long. They invest it in some asset. So, most of the black economy is in the form of assets. And when you look at any asset, there is always some person or entity holding it. Whether that name is benami or not is impossible for a researcher to find out and the statistical system to capture. What was your first reaction when you heard the decision to scrap what constituted about 86% of the currency in circulation at the time? PS:Horror. The reason is that every economy in the world depends on transactions. I produce something, I sell it to you, and the transaction creates value. In a country where cash is the most common means of transaction, this was horrifying because what it said was that until we bring that cash back into circulation, transactions are going to be severely hit. This is bad news to begin with and becomes worse when you think about who was transacting in cash. Large corporates have a very small proportion of their transactions in cash. It is the unorganised sector and the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) sector which have a large proportion. It was clear that these sectors would be the ones severely hit. And these sectors included 90%-93% of our population then. So, we were talking about a very broad-brush damage to the Indian economy. Despite several rule changes, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) eventually found most of the cash returned to the system. Could implementation have been better? PS:If I was shocked by the move, the RBI was even more horrified, because it would be its job to contain the damage. And from what I gather, the RBI didn’t have a clue that this was about to happen. It was not prepared. The net result was that the remonetisation process to replace the cash took almost a year when it should have been over within a month. The cash in circulation is now higher than it was five years ago. Have we come a full circle, at least in terms of being a less-cash economy? PS:Let us thank God for that. Because if it had not happened, our economy would be in deep trouble. There is a sequence in which the various targets were announced and the less-cash economy was the last in that sequence. It was an afterthought and has not happened. We now have about Rs. 28.5 trillion in cash floating around, compared to about Rs. 18 trillion at that time. Non-cash transactions have gone up but the real question is whether that was an organic process or was accelerated by demonetisation. The Rs. 2,000 note is no longer being printed... PS:Other than the sheer physical inconvenience of carrying a stack of notes, nothing inherently demands cash to be in high denomination notes. I have no problems with high-value notes being phased out, provided there is a sufficient supply of low denomination notes to substitute them. The problem is that we again have a situation where the Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 500 notes are dominant and the low-value notes continue to be about 15% of the total cash. If you are bent on making it more difficult for people doing high value transactions with cash, moving to lower denomination currency makes a lot of sense. The non-printing of Rs. 2,000 notes is a good idea but the real question is whether these should be replaced by more Rs. 500 notes or whether we should re-invent the Rs. 1,000 notes. The Goods and Services Tax (GST) was introduced about nine months after the note ban. Has this sequencing, aimed at increasing formalisation and the tax to GDP ratio, worked? PS:I am glad you asked this because it’s not a question of whether the GST should have come but of the sequencing. Had the GST come six months before demonetisation, things would have been a lot better. Because GST encouraged, not forced, formalisation. So, the effect of demonetisation would have been less draconian if that had happened. The fact that GST came later added to a problem that demonetisation had already caused — parts of the economy dependent on cash transactions were already in the doldrums. The GST brought the rest of the MSME sector, which is less-cash dependent, into trouble as well. A State Bank of India (SBI) research report says the informal sector shrank to 15%-20% of formal GDP in 2020-21, from 52% in 2017-18. PS:The informal sector is of critical importance as it generates livelihoods for the vast majority. Now, if there has been a shift in the segments of the economy that used to be dominated by the informal sector to the formal sector, the question is, who is going to provide employment? For people who are not part of the formal sector, the future looks very bleak. And this effect will persist for a while, because the question that then arises is whether or not the informal sector will be able to bounce back and make inroads into the market share that the formal sector has already captured — not because the formal sector is any more efficient or anything, but because policy decisions changed the goalposts in its favour. So, this is a phenomenon of the big getting bigger with each subsequent shock? Where does that leave India’s inherent strength of a huge captive market with opportunities at the bottom of the pyramid, if incomes don’t grow there? PS:Yes, each of the shocks has had that effect. At the end of the day, the vast majority of the huge Indian market is at the bottom of the pyramid. The top of the pyramid is very thin. Unless incomes at the bottom of the pyramid rise consistently, the market will stagnate. We saw this happen post-demonetisation. The corporates will make a killing in the initial stages but then the lack of growth of demand starts biting. When the pandemic hit, we were already seeing several quarters of dipping growth. Now, we are again seeing corporates getting more dominant… PS:Yes. The pandemic effect is an add-on to what was there before it. The informal sector had clearly not recovered and the pandemic added to that problem. So, if you think of the chain of causation in the post-demonetisation pre-pandemic period, the negative effect on the informal sector was the lack of cash in order to carry out transactions in business. Post-pandemic, the cause was different — the lockdown led to all businesses, formal and informal, being shut. Now, since the informal sector doesn’t have a lot of reserves to be able to last out two months of lockdown, a lot of businesses closed down. The formal sector, particularly the large players who build up reserves or contingencies, not only survived but thrived after the lockdown was lifted. So, the sharp bounce-back that we are seeing in the economy is entirely driven by corporates. The informal sector has had three sequential shocks and is in dire straits, which is what the SBI report is suggesting. So, who gained from the demonetisation, GST and COVID-19 shocks? PS:Unquestionably, Corporate India, which has grabbed market share which it wouldn’t even have dreamed of before demonetisation happened. And now it has to pay lower taxes. But there’s a limit to investment opportunities, if demand doesn’t pick up to create a virtuous cycle. PS:This is the problem. I think we have got stuck in a low-level equilibrium trap. The informal sector will find it very difficult to bounce back. So, the dynamism of the Indian economy, which is the bottom of the pyramid moving from poverty-stricken to merely poor and then to lower middle class — that has stopped. What about demonetisation’s other goals like curbing terror financing and counterfeit notes? PS:An RBI study suggested that the total fake currency was Rs. 3,500 crore, which was borne out later. That is a laughable amount. On terror financing, it is about whether terrorists hang on to the cash paid to them. I suspect not. The fact that almost the entire amount of currency that was demonetised came back is an attestation of that. If terrorists had currency they couldn’t transact with, they managed to exchange it. On the hope that people depositing cash and being forced to disclose incomes will invite income tax action, we didn’t see any big numbers. PS:I don’t know where to put the blame for that. Is it that the Income Tax department simply didn’t take the opportunity? As far as I am aware, banks were meticulously keeping records on this, but then somebody would have to aggregate those records, identify the people, and then proceed. If anything, that would have been the one big thing, but it shows up nowhere in the income tax data. Is there any evidence that corruption has gone down? PS:There’s a lot of anecdotal information that petty corruption has not gone down, but has, in fact, gone up. Because the associated risks have risen and the risk-adjusted return to the bribe-taker has gone down, so they have raised their price. The real question is large-scale corruption but is that transacted through cash? Probably not. Those are probably done through transfers abroad. Moreover, now we have cryptocurrencies through which a huge amount of corruption can take place and we won’t even know about it. What are the lessons we learn from such policy shocks? PS:When you take a measure of this magnitude, somebody should be doing the homework on which agencies have a critical role to play in making it a success. In this case, there were at least two — the RBI and the Income Tax department. Neither of them was geared up to take advantage of the situation. So, we got all the damages and very few of the benefits.  The informal sector has had three shocks — demonetisation, GST and the pandemic-induced lockdown — and is in dire straits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/is-the-economy-still-reeling-from-demonetisation/article37449069.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The lowdown on India’s Glasgow announcement||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s surprise declaration on November 2, 2021 at the COP26 Climate Summit in Glasgow, Scotland, of striking enhancements in India’s emissions reduction targets did not, for several reasons, get the rave reviews the Government may have expected. Except for a few specialists, international commentators expressed disappointment that India was promising net zero emissions only by 2070 instead of 2050. In India, several analysts praised the new targets as indicating a new climate-oriented development policy. Persisting trend The Government’s raised ambition represents a welcome continuity of the cross-partisan consensus prevailing since the 2015 Paris Agreement. The new policy paradigm, initiated at the Copenhagen Summit in 2009, had departed from the earlier long-held stance that India, as a developing country, was not obliged to cut emissions, and asserted that although India was not a part of the problem, it was now willing and able to contribute to reduction efforts in global emissions. India’s pledge at Glasgow, not yet formally submitted as an updated Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) as required, adheres to the Paris Agreement decision to increase emission cuts to tackle the rapidly escalating climate crisis. India’s newly unveiled commitments deserve close examination, since they came amidst sharply contradictory signals from the Government over several months. Many interactions took place with high-ranking emissaries visiting India and at the G20 meeting before COP26, with India giving no indication of revising its current NDC. Right up to the Prime Minister’s speech, senior Indian officials were loudly proclaiming the unacceptability of net-zero and the unlikelihood of higher targets by India. People in India are familiar with the penchant for dramatic announcements by this Government, but the value of such secrecy in the climate negotiations is questionable. India insufficiently communicated the significance of its enhanced commitments, especially in contrast to the weak pledges of developed countries, and little effort was made to leverage India’s updated pledge to extract deeper emission cuts from them. At the time of writing, India has further muddied the waters and taken some sheen off its Glasgow announcement, with senior officials stating that the new pledges are contingent upon substantial financial assistance from developed countries, with figures such as $1 trillion being mentioned in press interviews. Ramifications of such post-facto conditions would unfold gradually, and further speculation here is pointless. The substance India’s new targets, details perhaps varying in an updated NDC, comprise five elements: reducing Emissions Intensity (EI), or emissions per unit of GDP, by 45% in 2030 relative to 2005 levels; cutting absolute emissions by one billion tonnes, presumably from projected business-as-usual (BAU) 2030 levels; 500 GW (1 Giga watt = 1,000 Megawatts) of non-fossil fuel installed power generation capacity by 2030; 50% electricity generation from renewable sources by 2030; and net-zero emissions by 2070. India’s existing NDC and subsequent submissions to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) confirm a steady decline in EI of over 2% p.a. from 2005 onwards. Both the 33%-35% decline promised at Paris, and the updated 45% reduction by 2030, are quite achievable and par for an emerging economy. Emissions reduction by one billion tonnes by 2030, the first time India has put an absolute number to this, can be read in different ways. India’s current annual emissions are around 2.8 billion tonnes and projected to reach about 4.5 billion tonnes in 2030 on a BAU basis, so the pledged reduction would be a substantial 20%, comparing favourably with several developed country targets. However, the Prime Minister’s speech in Glasgow mentioned the Railways’ net-zero 2030 target cutting 60 million tonnes annually, and LED bulbs cutting another 40 million tonnes a year, yielding one billion tonnes over 10 years from just these two measures, making the pledged reduction seem easy, which it probably is not. On installed power generation capacity, India’s extant NDC had incorporated the Government’s declared goal of 175 GW from renewable energy (RE) sources by 2022, even though the NDC stretched to 2030, raising an anomaly. Even so, India has reached only around 101 GW of solar and wind due to numerous constraints. If one adds large hydro and nuclear, both now considered renewable, current RE installed capacity is about 150 GW or just under 40% of total, almost achieving the NDC target for 2030 showing under-projection. The Central Electricity Authority (CEA) in its 2020 Report on Energy Mix for 2029-30 has projected around 525 GW or 64.3% non-fossil fuel installed capacity including 280 GW Solar and 140 GW wind. Only 267 GW is projected to come from coal and lignite, compared to 203 GW in 2019, so almost all of India’s future growth of capacity is to come from RE. Without actually saying so, India at Glasgow therefore seems to have pledged virtually no additional coal-based power! Even accounting for some confusion about whether the Prime Minister meant installed capacity or electricity produced, India’s Glasgow pledge of 50% electricity from RE by 2030 is just a tad more than the CEA projection of 44.7%. These commitments may prove difficult as currently witnessed, combined with the need for storage and grid stability. Address the deep inequities The Glasgow pledges come from a few sectors mostly related to electricity generation. However, a truly transformational low-carbon future must embrace many more aspects, as indeed emphasised at Glasgow by the Prime Minister as “Lifestyle for Environment (LIFE)”. It is also time that India, hitherto vociferous about equity between nations, now seriously addresses the deep inequity in access to energy and other essentials within India. Climate change is multi-dimensional, not confined to mitigation alone and, as all studies tell us, should be tackled cross-sectorally. Accelerated deployment of electric or fuel-cell vehicles must go alongside a rapid reduction in personal vehicle use and a major push for mass transportation. Carbon lock-ins and energy use need to be minimised through mandatory “green” construction codes for the huge housing and other buildings stock, highways and infrastructure yet to be built. A leap in employment-intensive recycling of waste goods and materials, including in solid and liquid waste management linked to methane recovery, would deliver substantial co-benefits across sectors. Where New Delhi slipped Two big disappointments with India’s stance at Glasgow deserve mention. First, India refused to join over 110 countries in a declaration to end deforestation by 2030. India’s pledges also do not mention the NDC target for forests and tree cover, in which India is known to be slipping, with deleterious impacts on both the environment and livelihoods of tribals and other forest dwellers. Read together, these may confirm the worst fears of many regarding efforts to dilute environmental regulations in favour of corporate interests. Second, India also did not join the Global Methane Pledge by over 100 nations to reduce emissions of the short-lived but potent greenhouse gas by 30% by 2030 from 2020 levels, when methane is among the fastest growing emissions in India. On the other hand, Glasgow saw India launch another international climate initiative called Infrastructure for Resilient Island States (IRIS), aimed at providing technical, knowledge and financial assistance to small island nations with the help of developed countries. One wishes such an initiative was undertaken in India too, where coastal erosion, sea-level rise, and urban flooding due to extreme rainfall exacerbated by haphazard urbanisation are acquiring threatening dimensions. It would be ideal too if the on-going updating of the NDC was done through a cross-partisan multi-stakeholder consultative process that would make it truly “nationally determined” and implemented. D. Raghunandan is with the Delhi Science Forum, a constituent of the All India Peoples Science Network||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-lowdown-on-indias-glasgow-announcement/article37449062.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A tax burden that attacks the federal rights of States||The Narendra Modi Government reduced excise duty on petrol and diesel on the eve of Deepavali. While the reduction for petrol was Rs. 5, duty on diesel came down by Rs. 10. The Finance Ministry ‘dedicated’ the reduction to farmers for keeping “the economic growth momentum going even during the [COVID-19] lockdown phase” and said the reduction “will come as a boost to the farmers during the upcoming Rabi season”. Not only this, soon after announcing the decision, Bharatiya Janata Party workers in Opposition-ruled States held protests demanding that these Governments decrease Value Added Tax on petrol and diesel. What else can be more hypocritical than this? The Centre has been levying around Rs. 31 and Rs. 33 as additional cess on petrol and diesel, respectively, till the beginning of November. We, the Left parties, had stridently voiced our concern when the Centre began this practice of imposing special additional excise and cess on petrol and diesel. I remember moving a statutory motion in the Rajya Sabha during the winter session of 2014 against the overall increase in the excise duty by the then Finance Minister, Arun Jaitley. The Centre then amended the rules to increase the taxes on petrol and diesel. The Constitution does permit the Centre to levy cess and surcharges beyond the basic taxes and duties in extraordinary situations. But making it manifold higher than the basic taxes is nothing but a misuse of such provisions of the Constitution. These additional taxes do not go to a divisible pool and such a high burden of taxes is an attack on the people and the federal rights of States. Surcharge is defined as a small amount of tax levied over and above the existing tax. How can it be seven or eight times higher than the basic tax? What is the justification for this? Now the basic excise duty is Rs. 1.40 and the rest of the tax is made up of special additional excise duty and cess which would not go to divisible pool and to the States. Article 271 says: “Notwithstanding anything in articles 269 and 270, Parliament may at any time increase any of the duties or taxes referred to in those articles except the goods and services tax under 246A by a surcharge for purposes of the Union and the whole proceeds of any such surcharge shall form part of the Consolidated Fund of India.” This is a saving clause, which is being misused by the Centre to curtail the rights of all States. Revenue data To make this point clear, let us look at the following estimates. The Union government has collected around Rs. 3.72-lakh crore in 2020-21 as revenue from petroleum products as per the data published by the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC). Of this, only around Rs. 18,000 crore is collected as Basic Excise Duty. Around Rs. 2.3-lakh crore is collected as cess and the rest Rs. 1.2-lakh crore is collected as special additional excise duty. Here, three important points emerge to be noted: 1. The basic tax component of the entire Rs. 3.72-lakh crore is merely Rs. 18,000 crore, which is as low as 4.8% of the total revenue from petroleum products; The divisible pool is only 41% of this Rs. 18,000 crore; Most importantly, cess and additional excise duty on petroleum products constitute around 95% of the total revenue from petroleum, which are not to be shared with the States at all. This is a classic example of undermining federalism prevailing in the country. This has to be subjected to intense discussions including dimensions of constitutional provisions under which the aforementioned duties and cess have been imposed. After the implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST), States have the right to decide the taxes on just three goods — petrol, diesel and liquor. By unilaterally taking away the bulk of the tax revenues on petrol and diesel, the Centre has done injustice to the States. This is obtuse use of fiscal federalism. All States must oppose this in a united manner. Relevant questions The Centre has made lakhs of crores of rupees from these additional taxes and cess. The Centre might have amassed lakhs of crores of rupees from these taxes even amid a pandemic. But where has this money gone? Who has received the benefits of this money? Answering these questions will unravel the real crisis of States and the Centre. The country is going through an unprecedented crisis. The novel coronavirus pandemic has worsened it. States have to earmark funds to assist the people. In a State such as Kerala, we have done our best to protect the people by providing a food kit, monthly financial assistance to Below Poverty Line families who lost their bread-winners due to COVID-19 and other necessary arrangements. Relevance of RNR The promise was that the revenue neutral rate (RNR) will be implemented, which means States would get revenues similar to what they were getting before the implementation of GST. The average taxes on goods was 16% during the initial GST period. The average rate of taxes in goods at present is 11.3%. But has any consumer benefited from it? Instead, inflation has also been rising. All essential items are more expensive than the pre-GST price. Neither Governments nor the people have benefited from this. On an average, the country collects Rs. 1-lakh crore a month as GST — Rs. 12-lakh crore in a year; Rs. 6-lakh crore each for the States and the Centre. Had RNR been maintained, the total amount would have been Rs. 18-lakh crore at the rate of 16%. States would have received at least Rs. 3-lakh crore additionally. Kerala would have got Rs. 12,000 crore as SGST and at least Rs. 2,500 crore as the State’s share from the divisible pool. So when the Centre lost Rs. 1,80,000 crore just because RNR was not maintained, Kerala lost Rs. 14,500 crore from its revenues annually. This has to be corrected. Democratically decided taxes are essential for any State or the country to survive. The promise at the time of implementing the GST was to maintain RNR. But the facts are different. A detailed analysis must be done on why States are losing revenue. GST has to be streamlined to ensure RNR, but without hurting the common people. After fleecing the States, the Centre has now proposed the National Monetisation Pipeline which will impact even the sovereignty of the Republic of India. To meet even daily expenses such as the salary of employees, the Centre is resorting to massive sale of the wealth of the country. The real reason for such a crisis is the neoliberal policies followed by governments at the Centre since 1991. As a result, even profitable Navratna companies, national highways and railway stations are up for sale. Entities that gain And who are the beneficiaries of all these steps? A handful of corporate houses. The Centre, which has calculated Rs. 6-lakh crore as the value of the public wealth that will be monetised, waved off corporate loans worth Rs. 8.75-lakh crore. Now, a bad bank will take care of the non-performing assets created by these corporate houses at the cost of public money deposited primarily in public sector banks. On the one hand, public wealth is being handed over on a platter to corporate houses while on the other hand the debt of these houses is being taken care of by the Centre using people’s money. Strange, indeed. About Rs. 1-lakh crore worth of corporate taxes were also foregone in the last financial year. The sops given to corporate houses resulted in huge revenue losses for the Centre, and in turn for the States from a divisible pool. To compensate for this, the Centre is exploiting people during a pandemic by levying taxes on petrol and diesel to the maximum possible extent. Revenues which would have helped the people during a pandemic are flowing towards a group of corporate companies. This has to stop. Collective action by all Opposition parties is needed against these policies at this time. K.N. Balagopal is the Finance Minister of Kerala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-tax-burden-that-attacks-the-federal-rights-of-states/article37449064.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A row over education||Education policies have often been mired in controversies in Tamil Nadu. The attempted Hindi imposition in 1937 and the 1960s, the Modified Scheme of Elementary Education in 1953 and the three-language formula mooted in the 2020 National Education Policy (NEP) generated intense political heat. The Dravidian parties were at the forefront of these agitations. The DMK and AIADMK have carefully handled education policies and devised a social justice model that has paid quantifiable dividends. Various concerns Against this backdrop, when the DMK government recently launched the ‘Illam Thedi Kalvi’ (ITK), a scheme to take education to the doorsteps of schoolchildren, it came as a surprise that its parent outfit, the Dravidar Kazhagam (DK); its ally, the Communist Party of India (CPI); and left-leaning activists opposed it. The stated objective of the six-month project with a budgetary allocation of Rs. 200 crore is to bridge the learning gap of students of Classes 1 to 8 who have not attended physical classes since March 2020 due to the pandemic. It involves enrolling 18- to 60-year-old volunteers or “ambassadors”, as Chief Minister M.K. Stalin put it. These volunteers will teach an estimated 34.05 lakh children in 93,000 neighbourhoods for 60 to 90 minutes between 5 p.m. and 7 p.m. The opposition to the ITK, though not intense, is the first that the DMK government has faced from its allies. The primary objection is that the ITK could turn out to be a ‘soft launch’ of the BJP-led Union government’s NEP, which provides for engagement with children through volunteers. The DK and CPI were apprehensive that Sangh Parivar members would enrol themselves as volunteers and further their “sectarian” agenda. A day before the ITK’s roll-out in 12 districts, DK leader K. Veeramani dubbed the scheme a “sweet coated poisonous (RSS) ball” and called upon the government to reconsider its decision. Mr. Stalin and School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi have sought to counter such apprehensions by insisting that they remain opposed to the NEP. Launching the scheme, Mr. Stalin said the ITK was the foundation for a renaissance in education and is in the spirit of Dravidianism. He equated it with the flagship noon-meal scheme. Accepting the argument that under the NEP, volunteers “could even interfere in the management of schools”, Mr. Poyyamozhi said no such scope would be provided in the ITK. Mr. Veeramani’s “apprehensions will help us be doubly careful, and we will pay attention to the selection of volunteers,” he told The Hindu .  The DK and CPI have since softened their views. However, opposition from activists continues. State Platform for Common School System-Tamil Nadu general secretary P.B. Prince Gajendra Babu fears that parents may stop sending girls to school if education is offered at their doorstep. Stating that the scheme is not a substitute for regular schooling, Mr. Poyyamozhi responded that there is awareness on the importance of educating girl children, and volunteers will play a pivotal role in encouraging parents to send them to school. Mr. Babu also said that it should be the responsibility of teachers, and not volunteers, to help students acquire reading and writing skills. Besides, the scheme could plant the idea that non-formal education is better and convenient. While Mr. Stalin has said the “ambassadors” will be a bridge between schools and society, the ITK handbook seeks to give them a larger role of teaching literacy and numeracy. The ITK will be extended to the whole of Tamil Nadu from November 14. Only a holistic review at the end of the six-month period will help assess its impact. sureshkumar.d@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-row-over-education/article37449071.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Undefined role||By holding the Third Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan, chaired by NSA Ajit Doval this week, New Delhi has sent out three strong messages: one, that it wishes to remain an important and engaged player in the future of Afghanistan; second, that with the exit of U.S.-NATO troops, the ideal solution to the situation is through consensus in Afghanistan’s extended neighbourhood including Russia; and third, that the Afghan humanitarian crisis should be the region’s immediate priority and political differences can be set aside to help. It is the last message that spurred New Delhi to invite the NSAs from China and Pakistan, despite the LAC standoff and deep differences with the Imran Khan government over Kashmir and cross-border terrorism. By declining the invitation, Beijing and Islamabad have made it clear that they do not intend to assist India in its Afghan engagement, further demonstrated by the Khan government’s churlishness in refusing India road access to send wheat and medicines to Kabul. To that end, the Delhi Declaration issued by the eight participating nations, including Iran and Russia, is a milestone in keeping India inside the discussion on Afghanistan. The declaration goes farther than the previous such regional discussion of SCO countries in Dushanbe in September, in its strong language on terrorism, terror financing and radicalisation. It also expands on the need for an inclusive government in Kabul that will replace the Interim Taliban regime, and promotes a national reconciliation process. While the consensus over the Delhi Declaration is a creditable feat, it does not paper over all the differences between India and the other countries over their far stronger engagement with Kabul. For instance, Turkmenistan sent a Ministerial delegation to discuss connectivity with the Taliban, while Uzbekistan accorded the visiting Taliban Deputy PM full protocol and discussed trade, transit and the construction of a railway line. Russia and Iran still maintain their embassies in Kabul, and a “Troika-plus” U.S.-China-Russia-Pakistan engagement is taking place with the Taliban Foreign Minister, in Islamabad this week. With the “normalisation” of ties with the Taliban regime growing, New Delhi must now consider how far it wishes to go in its engagement with Afghanistan. On the one hand, India has publicly held talks with Taliban officials twice and expressed solidarity with Afghans, but on the other has refused practically all visa seekers, made no monetary contribution to the humanitarian crisis there, and has made no bid to continue with plans for trade and connectivity with Afghanistan. India’s desire to lead the discussion on Afghanistan’s destiny, as demonstrated by the NSA dialogue, is a worthy goal for a regional leader, but can only be fulfilled once the Government defines more clearly what it wants its Afghan role to be, despite all its differences with the regime now in power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/undefined-role/article37449057.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Season of floods||The ongoing spell of heavy rain in Chennai has again exposed the vulnerability of the city, a coastal metropolis with a flat terrain, to floods, and raised more questions than answers about the Government’s preparedness to deal with the northeast monsoon. The first spell of heavy rain of 21 cm, mostly in the early hours of Sunday (November 7), caught everyone by surprise. Despite storm water drains and waterways running to about 700 km being cleared in the last four months, no tangible improvement was seen in the problem of inundation. The nightmare of the 2015 December floods haunted Chennai in the backdrop of the authorities monitoring the release of surplus water from the reservoirs on the outskirts. Even as the city was struggling to get back to normality, there was a depression in the Bay of Bengal, which crossed the coast near Chennai on Thursday. This time, the city did not experience very heavy rainfall but several suburbs such as Tambaram and Red Hills recorded over 22 cm of rain. In the last four days, other parts of the State too were at the receiving end of the monsoon. Nagapattinam, one of the backward areas of the Cauvery delta, was battered after 31 cm fell in a day. The crux of the problem is the issue of drainage, be it in Chennai or in Nagapattinam. In a large urban setting such as Chennai, shrinking open space, the gap between the coverage of the drains and that of sewer lines, ageing drains and sewer networks in core areas of the city, and encroachments or obstructions hampering the free flow of water are responsible for the mess. The city is blessed with a few rivers such as the Cooum and the Adyar, apart from a number of canals including the Buckingham Canal. All these waterbodies, if properly maintained, can be very effective flood carriers, sparing several residential localities from inundation. The State Government, which is executing a couple of integrated storm water drain projects, should look for durable solutions to the city’s long-standing woes and executing them in a short span of time. The Government has been swift in providing relief and its seriousness in the matter can be seen from the fact that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin visited flood-hit areas continuously since Sunday for a first-hand account of the problems. Often in the past, the determination shown in finding a long-term solution to waterlogging waned during the non-monsoon periods. Mr. Stalin, who was Chennai Mayor and Local Administration Minister earlier, is well-placed now to put his experience to use and pull the city out of the quagmire. The people too should be responsible enough in ensuring that the waterbodies and drains are not turned into dumps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/season-of-floods/article37449058.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The ‘Vatapi’ fixation||Madras, Nov. 11: By some strange process of reasoning, quite a host of artistes seem to think that the Vinayaka sthuthi piece has invariably to be the same selection if the performance is to proceed smoothly and the chosen kriti has always been Dikshithar’s “Vatapi Ganapatim Baje”. This has resulted in the kriti being repeated ad nauseam in the concert halls creating the impression that it is perhaps the only invocatory piece offering the customary homage to the Lord who is the remover of obstacles and ensuring that the concert is a success. It is not so at all for there are any number of other excellent kritis in praise of Vinayaka for the artiste to choose from if only he would free himself from the “Vatapi” fixation. If one does not want to look beyond Dikshithar for the purpose, in fact, there are other excellent compositions including the Malahari piece, “Panchamatangamuka Ganapati”, which would serve just as well for the invocatory purpose. However, unlike “Vatapi”, the Malahari kriti is a very sedate piece and offers absolutely no scope for any type of gimmickry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-vatapi-fixation/article37449065.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vaishnaw sees 5G spectrum auction likely by April-May||The auction for the 5G spectrum is likely to take place around April-May, Minister for Communications Ashwini Vaishnaw said on Thursday, signalling a slight delay. While relief measures announced in September for telecom operators marked the first set of reforms, the government would bring out a series of further reforms and “telecom regulatory structure should change in the coming 2-3 years”, Mr. Vaishnaw said. On the timeline for 5G auctions, he noted that the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India was conducting consultations on the matter. “I think they will submit their report by February-mid, maybe February-end, maximum March. Immediately after that, we will have the auctions,” he said. The comment assumes significance since the Department of Telecommunications was earlier hopeful of holding the 5G auctions by the end of the current fiscal. “Today, our estimate is by April-May. I was earlier estimating March. But, I think it will take [time]... because consultations are complex, diverse opinions are coming,” Mr. Vaishnaw said. The government was keen to ensure that the auctions were technology-neutral, and wanted to give spectrum that was consistent for many years to come. “So, 4G can be used in that, 5G can be used. So, that’s the thinking based on not just short term but more like thinking at least 5-10 years ahead,” he said. The DoT had approached TRAI seeking its recommendations on pricing, quantum and other modalities pertaining to radiowaves in multiple bands, as it prepares the groundwork for holding the 5G spectrum auction. Mr. Vaishnaw said that with reforms for telcos outlined in September, government expects the industry to focus on stepping up investments by 2-4 times, reaching out to the unconnected and improving service quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vaishnaw-sees-5g-spectrum-auction-likely-by-april-may/article37449049.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Purplle expects to close FY22 with Rs. 700-crore revenue: CEO||Beauty and personal care e-commerce platform Purplle expects to close the current financial year with a revenue of Rs. 700 crore, a 90% growth from last year, driven by new customer acquisition amid the pandemic, said co-founder and CEO Manish Taneja. The company was also planning to go for an initial public offering (IPO) in the next 3-4 years, he said. “Like for most online businesses, we’ve grown quite rapidly during COVID and for us, all of this growth is organic,” he said. “This year, we should do close to Rs. 700 crore of revenue and about Rs. 1,000-1,100 crore of GMV, and this is a growth of 90% from last year,” he added. Mr. Taneja said while last year skincare and haircare segments took off as people were at home and wanted to take care of themselves more, this year, there had been a big resurgence in the makeup segment, especially in the last 2-3 months. According to a report by Avendus, the beauty and personal care market is projected to reach $27 billion by 2025. On the company’s IPO plans, Mr. Taneja said from a capital point of view, Purplle was well-covered and most of their investors were “very long-term investors.” “But I think going for an IPO will be a good thing at some point in timeMy sense is the preparation will take us 6-12 months... we’ll have to time the IPO, maybe, after 3-4 years we can look at it,” the CEO said.  Last year, skincare and haircare took off as people were at homeManish Taneja,CEO, Purplle||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/purplle-expects-to-close-fy22-with-rs-700-crore-revenue-ceo/article37449037.ece
12 November 2021||COIMBATORE,||Pricol says in JV talks for connected vehicles||Pricol is expected to announce joint ventures (JVs) in a couple of segments by the end of this fiscal year. Vikram Mohan, MD, said the company, which hopes to be debt-free by March 2023, was in talks for JVs in areas such as sensors and connected vehicle solutions. “We are investing time in Internet of Things and connected vehicle solutions. We have also decided, to have a heavier play in sensors. Some joint ventures we are planning are in these segments. We will announce the joint ventures by the end of March 2022,” he said. Pricol plans to start investing in phases in these ventures from September 2022 and the plants are expected to become fully operational by October 2023. The JVs would be mainly for the domestic market as the next 10-15 years would be a “great time” for India, he said. With higher demand for driver information systems, there is a need for more integration of software, hardware and different technologies. A technology centre that would also house testing and prototype development would become operational here in a year-and-a-half. Mr. Mohan added though the firm had not recently focused on exports, it was looking at 20% revenue from exports and deemed exports by 2025.  Pricol is setting up a technology centre that would also house testing and prototype development||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pricol-says-in-jv-talks-for-connected-vehicles/article37449042.ece
12 November 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Toys in PLI scheme will make sector competitive’||The toy industry in India should be brought under the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) Scheme to make it competitive and get it on a fast-growth mode, said Aravind Melligeri, chairman and CEO, Aequs’ toy business. “Toy sector can be a force multiplier for the socio-economic development of tier-2 and tier 3 cities in the country given its potential to generate jobs at scale,” said Mr. Melligeri. For every $10 million generated in revenue, the toy industry has the potential to create 1,000 direct and several thousand downstream jobs in the country. The Toy Association of India (TAI) also said getting the industry under the PLI was critical for its growth. “It will usher in quantum growth for the industry and make it globally competitive,” said TAI general secretary Sharad Kapoor. The global toy market is now estimated to be about $80-100 billion and India accounts for a minuscule share of about $1.5 billion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/toys-in-pli-scheme-will-make-sector-competitive/article37449044.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Suzuki expects 6% dip in its India auto sales||Japan’s Suzuki Motor Corporation on Thursday said it expected its automobile sales in India to decline 6% year-on-year and has cut its overall global sales forecast for the ongoing fiscal by 2.25 lakh units on account of the semiconductor shortage. In a financial presentation, the company — whose unit Maruti Suzuki India is the largest carmaker in the country — forecast its total global sales for the ongoing fiscal at 24.86 lakh units, 2.25 lakh units lower from the previous forecast. Impact from India In the last financial year, Suzuki Motor Corporation (SMC) had total sales of 25.71 lakh units. “Full-year sales in India are expected to decrease by 6% year-on-year,” SMC added. In the pandemic-hit FY21, Maruti Suzuki India sold 14,57,861 units and so far in the first half of the ongoing fiscal ended September 30, the Indian carmaker had sold a total of 7,33,155 units. SMC said it had also revised downwards its annual production plan for the ongoing fiscal to 25.79 lakh units, which is 2.99 lakh units less than initially planned. In the previous fiscal, the company had total production of 26.51 lakh units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/suzuki-expects-6-dip-in-its-india-auto-sales/article37449047.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,||SFL eyes 50% revenue from non-auto business||Auto-components maker Sundram Fasteners Ltd. (SFL), has drawn up a five-year plan to raise its non-auto business revenue to 50% over the next three to five years and will be investing Rs. 1,000 crore in capital expenditure till FY24, said a top official. “The year 2025 will be the watershed year for us,” said Arathi Krishna, MD told The Hindu . “Right now, revenue from auto-component business accounts for 68%, and we are planning to bring it down to 50% over the next two to three years due to its cyclical nature. “The balance 50% revenue will come from electric vehicles (EVs), tractor implements, windmills, aerospace and defence sectors and industrial, infra and construction fasteners, over the next three to five years.” SFL posted 23% rise in its standalone net profit for the second quarter ended September to Rs. 120 crore. Revenue from operations rose to Rs. 1,063 crore from Rs. 767 crore despite operating in a challenging environment, CFO S. Meenakshisundaram said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sfl-eyes-50-revenue-from-non-auto-business/article37449051.ece
12 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||Natco Pharma profit slumps 68% to Rs. 65 cr.||Drugmaker Natco Pharma reported consolidated net profit declined more than 68% to Rs. 65.1 crore for the September quarter. The lower profit, compared with Rs. 203.90 crore in the year-earlier period, came on the back of total revenue declining nearly 50% to Rs. 415.2 crore (Rs. 827.90 crore). The decline, in revenue and profit, is primarily due to a one-off contribution in prior period earnings, the company said in a release on Thursday. The drugmaker has announced a second interim dividend of Rs. 0.5 per equity share of Rs. 2 each for FY21-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/natco-pharma-profit-slumps-68-to-rs-65-cr/article37449038.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||NMDC Q2 net profit surges to Rs. 2,326 cr.||Consolidated net profit of India’s largest iron-ore producer NMDC Ltd. surged to Rs. 2,326.14 crore for the quarter ended September, from the Rs. 752.37 crore of the year-earlier period, on the back of higher demand for iron and steel. A manifold increase, it came as total income rose sharply to Rs. 6,882.44 crore (Rs. 2,318.67 crore). “Demand for iron and steel has witnessed a boom in emerging markets,” CMD Sumit Deb said. “As a key player, we responded with proactive production-enhancement initiatives and are now reaping benefits of agile response to the demand with an exceptional quarter,” he added. Sales increased 36% to 8.99 million tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nmdc-q2-net-profit-surges-to-rs-2326-cr/article37449039.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,||TVS Srichakra profit dips 37% on input costs||TVS Srichakra Ltd.’s standalone net profit for the second quarter ended September contracted 37% to Rs. 24.85 crore due to a rise in raw material costs. Revenue from operations rose 25% to Rs. 668 crore, while cost of materials climbed 56% to Rs. 411 crore. Total expenditure rose 31% to Rs. 635 crore, it said in a regulatory filing. The tyremaker said depreciation costs dipped by Rs. 12.27 crore due to the revision in the useful life of certain plant and machinery items. Effective April 2021, the firm extended the estimated useful life of such items to 20 years on a three-shift basis instead of a single-shift basis, based on technical evaluation, TVS Srichakra said in a note.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-srichakra-profit-dips-37-on-input-costs/article37449045.ece
12 November 2021||MUMBAI,||CAD seen at 1.4% by March as crude soars||India’s widening current account deficit (CAD), driven by the massive spike in commodity prices led by crude oil, is set to put pressure on the fragile recovery, Barclays warned after revising upwards its CAD forecast to $45 billion, or 1.4% of GDP, by March. According to Barclays, the worries arise from the fact that the trade deficit has been jumping continuously since July. From an average monthly trade deficit of $12 billion till June, it jumped to $16.8 billion in July-October, with September showing the highest-ever deficit at $22.6 billion, the brokerage said. The brokerage added that the widening trade deficit could prove more sustained than initially assumed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cad-seen-at-14-by-march-as-crude-soars/article37449052.ece
12 November 2021||new delhi,||Tata Steel Q2 profit surges to Rs. 12,547 cr.||Domestic steel giant Tata Steel on Thursday said its consolidated net profit jumped manifold to Rs. 12,547.70 crore in the July-September quarter, helped by higher income. The net profit was at Rs. 1,665.07 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous financial year, Tata Steel said in a BSE filing. Its total income during July-September 2021 stood at Rs. 60,553.63 crore against Rs. 39,157.79 crore in the year-earlier period. Total expenses were at Rs. 47,135.28 crore in July-September against Rs. 37,000.28 crore a year earlier. Tata Steel is among the top steel companies in the world with an annual crude steel capacity of 33 million tonnes per annum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-steel-q2-profit-surges-to-rs-12547-cr/article37449054.ece
12 November 2021||Mumbai,||IPPB to offer Babaj Allianz Life’s term, annuity products||India Post Payments Bank (IPPB), Department of Posts and Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company have entered into a partnership to offer term and annuity products to customers through the bank’s network of 650 branches and more than 1,36,000 access points. The tie-up will enable customersliving in unbanked and underserved areas, to become financially secure and empowered, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ippb-to-offer-babaj-allianz-lifes-term-annuity-products/article37449040.ece
12 November 2021||MUMBAI,||Sun Pharma to introduce anti-Covid drug Molxvir in India||Sun Pharmaceutical Industries said it was gearing up to introduce Merck Sharpe Dohme (MSD) and Ridgeback’s molnupiravir under the brand name Molxvir in India. The Drugs Controller General of India is reviewing clinical data of molnupiravir for treatment of COVID-19 in adults in India, the drugmaker said.  Molxvir will be manufactured at one of Sun’s Indian plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sun-pharma-to-introduce-anti-covid-drug-molxvir-in-india/article37449041.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||Sapphire Foods India IPO subscribed 6.62 times||The initial public offer of Sapphire Foods India Ltd., which operates KFC and Pizza Hut outlets, was subscribed 6.62 times on the last day of subscription on Thursday. The portion for Qualified Institutional Buyers (QIBs) was subscribed 7.50 times, while that for Retail Individual Investors (RIIs) was subscribed 8.7 times and non-institutional investors, 3.46 times.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sapphire-foods-india-ipo-subscribed-662-times/article37449053.ece
12 November 2021||DUBAI,||Stoinis and Wade pull off a heist, propel Australia into the final||Marcus Stoinis and Matthew Wade launched a spectacular attack in the final overs as Australia shocked Pakistan in the second semifinal of the ICC T20 World Cup at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium on Thursday. Chasing a daunting target of 177, Aaron Finch’s men looked down and out when they slid to 96 for five in the 13th over. Stoinis (40 n.o., 31b, 2x4, 2x6) and Wade (41 n.o., 17b, 2x4, 4x6) scripted a dramatic turnaround, putting on 81 for the unbroken sixth wicket off just 6.4 overs. The highest successful chase of this edition saw Australia enter the World T20 final for the first time since 2010. With 50 needed in four overs, Stoinis took 13 runs with a six and a four off pacer Haris Rauf. In the next over, Wade went after Hasan Ali, smashing a six and a four as 15 came off it. Shaheen Afridi, one of the stars of Pakistan’s campaign in the World Cup, bowled his final over with 22 required off 12. The left-arm pacer started off with a dot ball before Wade, making full use of the dropped catch by Hasan at deep midwicket off the third delivery, hit three consecutive sixes. Wade started with an audacious scoop over short fine-leg, anticipating a yorker, before whipping the ball over the midwicket fence. He sealed it in style with another scoop that sailed over the wicketkeeper and into the stands, triggering celebrations in the Aussie camp. At the top of the order, David Warner (49, 30b, 3x4, 3x6) had provided the impetus before leg-spinner Shadab Khan seemed to have turned it Pakistan’s way with a wicket in each of his four overs (4-0-26-4). Earlier, Mohammad Rizwan (67, 52b, 3x4, 4x6) and skipper Babar Azam (39, 34b, 5x4) continued their dream run at the top, forging an alliance of 71 in 10 overs. Fakhar Zaman (55 n.o., 32b, 3x4, 4x6) was at his explosive best as Pakistan made 176 for four after being invited to bat. If Babar called the shots in PowerPlay, Rizwan came to the party in the middle overs after being tied down by the spinners. Fakhar then showed his power-hitting prowess, sending the Australian pacers into the stands to ensure that the innings finished with a flourish despite a quiet 19th over (three runs). Fakhar, after getting hit on the helmet by Mitchell Starc, waded into the left-arm pacer with two successive sixes in the final over. However, it wasn’t enough once Stoinis and Wade got into the act. Trans-Tasman final It will be a tantalising trans-Tasman final between Australia and New Zealand on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stoinis-and-wade-script-a-sensational-win-for-australia/article37449337.ece
12 November 2021||Guadalajara,||Pliskova overcomes slow start to beat Muguruza||Karolina Pliskova overcame a slow start before beating Garbine Muguruza 4-6, 6-2, 7-6(6) in her opening match at the WTA Finals. In a contest between two former No. 1-ranked players, the third-seeded Pliskova struggled early adjusting to the nearly 5,000-feet altitude of Guadalajara, Mexico's second largest city, on Wednesday. “The first set was not the best from me. The serve was amazing in the second set, many free points on the first serve," Pliskova said. “Then it was a fighting third set. I thought I just had too many chances, didn't make it really, but happy it went my way in the end.” Pliskova is playing the WTA Finals for the fifth time, having reached the semifinals in 2018 and '19. The 2020 tournament was cancelled. She didn't win any titles in 2021 but kept a high ranking by reaching the finals at Wimbledon and Montreal, and the semifinals at Cincinnati. Pliskova now has a 9-2 record against former Wimbledon and French Open champion Muguruza, who won the Chicago and Dubai titles this year and is making her fourth appearance at the season-ending event. “That was a very tough match for both of us. It was a one-point difference — I saved many match points and is a tough loss I fought as hard as I could,” Muguruza said. “I’m happy with my fighting spirit even though I lost.” Muguruza dropped serve before winning four straight games to take a 4-2 lead and eventually clinched the first set in 38 minutes. Pliskova settled down in the second and got service breaks in the second and eighth games to level the match. The third set lasted more than an hour, with Muguruza saving three match points to force a tiebreaker, and another in the tiebreaker before Pliskova sealed the win. Earlier, Anett Kontaveit extended her hot streak to 11 consecutive victories with a 6-3, 6-4 win over second-seeded Barbora Krejcikova. Kontaveit has won 27 of her last 29 matches, which include her title run at Ostrava where she beat Paula Badosa and Maria Sakkari, both of whom are competing here. “I've been in sort of top 30 for a lot of years,” Kontaveit said. “During the summer I was on a bit of a losing streak, then I started working with Dmitry (Tursunov) and was really hoping to get a few wins. I managed to win Cleveland, then it just sort of started rolling from there”.  The results: Anett Kontaveit bt Barbora Krejcikova 6-3, 6-4; Karolina Pliskova bt Garbine Muguruza 4-6, 6-2, 7-6 (6) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pliskova-overcomes-slow-start-to-beat-muguruza/article37449390.ece
12 November 2021||DUBAI,||Adept Mitchell played anchor and finisher in the same innings||New Zealand required 34 runs off 18 balls. Adil Rashid started his last over, also the final over of spin during the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup semifinal in Abu Dhabi. James Neesham, having tonked Chris Jordan all over the park in the previous over, punched one into the ground, the ball trundled to long-off and Daryl Mitchell turned down the run on offer. In real-time, it was thought that the mini-collision between the leggie and Mitchell resulted in him displaying spirit of cricket, which has in the 21st century become a hallmark of Black Caps’ cricket. But replays displayed that Mitchell hadn’t really impeded the bowler but it may have been a tactical move, to let Neesham have a go at Rashid. The next ball was sent packing over midwicket boundary. That moment underlined Mitchell, still a rookie at international stage, was not only a level-headed batter but also a tactically sound player. And once Neesham’s blitzkrieg got over five balls later, Mitchell took over the mantle and finished the job without any fuss to end England’s campaign and book New Zealand’s berth in the third successive ICC tournament final, across formats.  Mitchell’s innings was a perfect exhibition of a T20 batter at the top of the innings. With the two most renowned batters falling early, Mitchell didn’t take risks in the PowerPlay, kept the scoreboard moving in the middle and went berserk at the death. For a middle-order bat who was asked to open the innings days ahead of the T20 World Cup, Mitchell displayed in the biggest match of his career his qualities of being the anchor and the finisher in the same innings. Son of former All Blacks rugby coach John, Mitchell Jr., was as calm as he would be during a scrum in his childhood before shifting focus to cricket. Nice to get it done “For us we were very lucky that we sort of held our platform. We didn’t lose too many wickets in the middle there and it allowed us to take some risks at certain times to try and catch up. For me it was nice to sort of give it out in the middle the last few (overs). It was a struggle there throughout the middle, but it was nice to get it done,” he said while addressing a media conference. New Zealand will be hoping Mitchell continues in the same vein in Dubai on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mitchell-played-anchor-and-finisher-in-the-same-innings/article37449338.ece
12 November 2021||NANDINI NAGAR,||Sunil Kumar and Naveen retain titles||Former Asian champion Sunil Kumar retained his title in Greco-Roman 87kg category on the opening day of the National wrestling championships here on Thursday. Sunil, representing Railways, defeated his Services rival Ravinder in the final to win the crown. Naveen was another wrestler who defended his title in the 130kg category and contributed in Services taking the Greco-Roman team title, followed by Railways. World under-23 medallist Nisha, who went through mental turmoil after she was mistakenly linked to a murder on Wednesday, retained her crown in the women’s 65kg class.  The medallists: Men: Greco Roman: 55kg: Gold: Sandeep (SSCB), Silver: Sarvan (Chd), Bronze: Anup (UP), Shrikant (RSPB); 60kg: Gold: Gyanendra (SSCB), Silver: Vikas (Har), Bronze: Vikram (RSPB), & Pravesh (Del); 63kg: Gold: Sagar (SSCB), Silver: Moirang (Man), Bronze: Nitin (RSPB), Neeraj (Del); 67kg: Gold: Ashu (Har), Silver: Sachin (SSCB), Parveen (SSCB), Pritam (RSPB); 72kg: Gold: Vikas (Har), Silver: Lovepreet (Pun), Bronze: Kuldeep (RSPB), Satender (Cht); 77kg: Gold: Sajan (RSPB), Silver: Sachin (Chd); Bronze: Gokul (Mah), M. Rafiq (SSCB); 82kg: Gold: Hardeep Singh (Pun), Silver: Neeraj (Del), Bronze: Rohit (Har), Sandeep (SSCB); 87kg: Gold: Sunil Kumar (RSPB), Silver: Ravinder (SSCB), Bronze: Amit Kumar (RSPB), Sushant (SSCB); 97kg: Gold: Hardeep (RSPB), Silver: Ravi (RSPB), Bronze: Virender (Pun), Deepak (SSCB); 130kg: Gold: Naveen (SSCB), Silver: Satish (Har), Bronze: Gursewak (Pun), Ravi (RSPB).   Women: 65kg: Gold: Nisha (RSPB), Silver: Jaspreet Kaur (Pun), Bronze: Shafali (Har), Priyanka (Har); 76kg: Gold: Gursharanpreet Kaur (Pun), Silver: Pooja (Har), Bronze: Bipasha (Del), Kiran (RSPB) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sunil-kumar-and-naveen-retain-titles/article37449349.ece
12 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Vivek Sagar Prasad to lead India||Tokyo Olympics bronze medallist Vivek Sagar Prasad will lead an 18-member Indian hockey team in the men’s Junior World Cup, to be held at the Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar from November 24 to December 5. Dinachandra Singh Moirangthem and Boby Singh Dhami have been chosen as alternate players who will be allowed to play only if there is an injury or someone in the 18-member squad is ruled out of the tournament due to COVID-19, said a Hockey Indian release on Thursday. Chief coach Graham Reid said the defending champion had a well-balanced and flexible side. “The key to these guys performing on the big stage will be to trust in each other and trust in their preparation," he said. India will begin its campaign against France on November 24.  The squad: Shardanand Tiwari, Prashant Chauhan (GK), Sanjay (vice-captain), Sudeep Chirmako, Rahul Kumar Rajbhar, Maninder Singh, Pawan (GK), Vishnukant Singh, Ankit Pal, Uttam Singh, Sunil Jojo, Manjeet, Rabichandra Singh Moirangthem, Vivek Sagar Prasad (captain), Abhishek Lakra, Yashdeep Siwach, Gurmukh Singh and Araijeet Singh Hundal .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vivek-sagar-prasad-to-lead-india/article37449334.ece
12 November 2021||SAO PAULO,||Interlagos gears up for triumphant F1 return||Organisers at Interlagos are aiming for a triumphant return to the Formula One circuit this weekend, with all 170,000 tickets sold for the three days of action. Formula One cut Brazil from its 2020 calendar because of restrictions in place for the COVID-19 pandemic. Race organisers and local authorities on Wednesday said the 2021 edition will be the biggest total attendance for an event in Brazil since the virus hit the nation. The Sao Paulo Grand Prix, renamed for this year after a company tried to take the race back to Rio de Janeiro, was allowed to open for full capacity only weeks ago when the state government eased restrictions for November. “We will have a full home after a difficult year,” race organiser Alan Adler told a news conference. “We didn’t know whether we would have a Grand Prix, then whether we would have people attending, and today we are celebrating we will have 100% of our attendance.” Interlagos will host the 19th of the 22 races of the season. Red Bull’s Max Verstappen, the winner of the latest GP in Mexico, leads Mercedes driver and defending champion Lewis Hamilton in the championship by 19 points with four races left. Verstappen won in Sao Paulo in 2019. Mercedes now leads Red Bull by just one point in the constructors’ championship. Fans at Interlagos will have to wear masks when they are not eating, show vaccination certificates and bring evidence of a negative test for coronavirus. Interlagos will also have the extra ingredient of holding the season’s third qualifying sprint race on Saturday. The two previous qualifying sprint races were held at Silverstone and Monza.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/interlagos-gears-up-for-triumphant-f1-return/article37449804.ece
12 November 2021||INDORE,||Javia stuns top seed Rawat||Dev Javia knocked out top seed Sidharth Rawat 6-4, 2-6, 6-4 in the second round of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament on Thursday. Welcome run It was a welcome run for 19-year-old Javia, who had won two matches in all from eight tournaments earlier in the men’s circuit. He will face Nicolas Tepmahc of France who got past Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam in straight sets. National junior champion Karan Singh, who had beaten Niki Poonacha in the first round, failed to capitalise on 10 of 11 breakpoints and lost 6-4, 6-4 to Bharath Kumaran. Bharath will face former national champion Dalwinder Singh in the quarterfinals. Rishab Agarwal survived a match point to beat lucky loser Lohithaksha Bathrinath 5-7, 7-6(7), 6-2 in just over three hours. He will next meet second seed Manish Sureshkumar.  The results:   Second round: Dev Javia bt Sidharth Rawat 6-4, 2-6, 6-4; Nicolas Tepmahc (Fra) bt Abhinav Sanjeev Shamugam 6-4, 6-4; Philip Sekulic (Aus) bt Alexis Canter (GBr) 6-3, 4-6, 6-1; S.D. Prajwal Dev bt Nitin Kumar Sinha 6-3, 7-6(6).   Dalwinder Singh bt Ajay Malik 7-5, 6-1; Bharath Kumaran bt Karan Singh 6-4, 6-4; Rishab Agarwal bt Lohithaksha Bathrinath 5-7, 7-6(7), 6-2; Manish Sureshkumar bt Faisal Qamar 6-4, 6-4.   Doubles: Quarterfinals: Niki Poonacha & Vishnu Vardhan bt Ajay Malik & Karan Singh 6-4, 6-2; Romain Faucon (Bel) & Nicolas Tepmahc (Fra) bt Alexis Canter (GBr) & Dev Javia 7-6(4), 6-3; Paras Dahiya & Parikshit Somani bt Ishaque Eqbal & Faisal Qamar 6-0, 3-6, [12-10]; Anirudh Chandrasekar & Nitin Kumar Sinha bt Manish Sureshkumar & V.M. Ranjeet 6-4, 7-6(4) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/javia-stuns-top-seed-rawat/article37449824.ece
12 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||State senior basketball from today||The 65th State senior basketball championships, which begins on Friday, will be the first time the event is played in a knock out format. The Kerala Basketball Association (KBA) was hard pressed for time when the South Zone qualifying tournament was initially announced in the last week of November. The KBA, instead of holding open trials to select the State team, decided to conduct a short State championships in the knock out format to give players a chance to impress the selectors. Thiruvananthapuram, with its KSEB stars, holds a distinct advantage over other teams in the men's section. However, the host will miss the services of international Sejin Mathew. International R. Sreekala and Aneesha Cleetus will spearhead Thiruvananthapuram's challenge in the women's section. But the absence of international P.S. Jeena and P.G. Anjanna will hurt the side. Ernakulam will be bolstered by the presence of internationals Stephy Nixon and Smruthy Radhakrishnan and Geethu Anna Jose. Kasaragod men and Pathanamthitta women are the defending champions. The matches will be played at the Jimmy George indoor stadium and Chandrasekharan Nair stadium. The tournament will be inaugurated by MLA V.K. Prasanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/state-senior-basketball-from-today/article37449692.ece
12 November 2021||Aqaba (Jordan),||Gokulam Kerala crash out of title race||Gokulam Kerala FC suffered a 0-1 defeat to Iranian side Shahrdari Sirjan to bow out of the AFC Women’s Club Championship in a match that saw goalkeeper Aditi Chauhan being sent off for bringing down and injuring an opposition player. Superb free-kick After a goalless first half, Shahrdari Sirjan broke the deadlock just after the hour mark through Afsaneh Chatrenoor’s superb free-kick to seal the three points late on Wednesday, with the goal coming minutes after Gokulam and India goalkeeper Aditi was sent off. The Indian Women’s League (IWL) champion team is now out of the race for the title. It had lost to Amman Club of Jordan in its opening match. It next plays Uzbekistan’s FC Bunyodkor on Saturday to avoid finishing at the bottom. Four clubs from four countries are competing in this edition of the tournament, also known as 2021 FIFA–AFC Pilot Women’s Club Championship. Final on Saturday The result puts Shahrdari Sirjan, which defeated Uzbekistan’s FC Bunyodkor FC 2-1 in their opener, on six points and in for a title chance going into their final match against Jordan’s Amman Club on Saturday. Gokulam Kerala badly needed to win against Shahrdari Sirjan and the Indian side showed promise early in the match. They played a high-pressing game from the start and troubled the Shahrdari Sirjan defence early on. Gokulam Kerala’s Susan Ama Duah came close to scoring in the seventh minute but her header went into the arms of goalkeeper Arefeh Kazemi. Poor challenge Kazemi was in the thick of action again 10 minutes later when she sprinted off her line to foil an advancing Elshaddai Acheampong and the shot stopper continued to frustrate Gokulam Kerala, saving Win Theingi Tun’s effort moments later. Both sides continued to toil in front of goal in the opening minutes of the second half with Duah failing to find the target from inside the six-yard-box off Win Theingi Tun’s corner, while Gokulam Kerala goalkeeper Aditi easily saved Zahra Alizadeh’s long-range effort. Disaster struck Gokulam in the 65th minute when captain Aditi’s poor challenge on Alizadehabove the box saw the custodian sent off. That shifted the momentum in Shahrdari Sirjan’s favour with Chatrenoor breaking the deadlock four minutes later when she curled her free-kick beyond the reach of substitute goalkeeper Shreya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-kerala-crashes-out-of-title-race/article37449380.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Need to be mentally strong against Brazil’||The Indian women’s football team defender Nganbam Sweety Devi feels the squad needs to be strong mentally and play as a unit against stronger opponents like Brazil, Chile and Venezuela in the coming days. “We need to be strong mentally. Playing Brazil won’t be easy. Our coaches are looking after the tactical aspect. The most important thing for us is that we need to play together as a team. The team bonding is quite high, and we will play together. We respect them, but we will play hard,” she told the AIFF. When asked what went through her head when she first heard that the team will be playing three matches in Brazil, Sweety had one word —“Marta!” “It will be a huge challenge to play against her. We will try to stop her, and are working on our plans. If possible, maybe we can speak a few words with her too after the game,” the 21-year-old said. Take all opportunities As part of preparation for the 2022 AFC Women’s Asian Cup, the players are looking to lap up as many opportunities of playing against quality teams from all around the world. “It’s a challenge to play against superior teams. It’s a good opportunity and challenge. We are developing ourselves, and it’s a good opportunity for us to play them, so we want to take this opportunity,” she stated. “We learned a lot from the exposure tours that we recently had. We had never played these opponents —UAE, Bahrain, Chinese Taipei, and then Sweden. “The good thing was that the level of intensity of the matches slowly increased so that we could also match up to the opposition. At the end, the matches were of really high intensity,” felt Sweety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/need-to-be-mentally-strong-against-brazil/article37449382.ece
12 November 2021||Birmingham,||Steven Gerrard named Aston Villa manager||Former Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard took his first coaching role in the Premier League when he was hired as Aston Villa manager on Thursday. Villa moved quickly to appoint Gerrard after firing Dean Smith on Sunday, with the club having lost five straight games in the league to drop to 16th place in the 20-team top flight. “We are excited he has agreed to lead us in the next phase of our ambitious plans,” Villa chief executive Christian Purslow said of Gerrard, who is widely seen as a future iverpool manager. Villa finished in 11th place in the Premier League last season, but has been inconsistent since selling captain and star player Jack Grealish for £100 million — a British record fee — in the off-season. From relying largely on one player, Villa has tried to implement a new, more expansive approach, but it has left the team more open — it has conceded the third-most goals this season — and many of the players brought in with the money earned from Grealish's transfer have been injured. Gerrard's first game as Villa manager will be against Brighton on Nov. 20. He will return to Liverpool when Villa plays the Reds at Anfield on Dec. 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/steven-gerrard-named-aston-villa-manager/article37449388.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||Trials ‘all but certain’ for women boxers||With the International Boxing Association (AIBA) postponing the women’s world championship in Istanbul till March 2022, the Indian federation will, in all likelihood, hold trials to pick the team that was to comprise national champions and Olympic bronze-winner Lovlina Borgohain earlier. Marquee event The marquee global showpiece was scheduled from Dec. 4 to 18 in the Turkish city. In a letter to the national federations, AIBA said that the “COVID-19 situation is too difficult at present” and it cannot take the risk to proceed with the event. India was to be represented by the reigning national champions in all weight categories except for the 70kg division in which Borgohain, a two-time bronze-medallist at the world event, was given direct selection for her show in the Tokyo Games. “The national camp is set to be delayed a little bit because of this development and now trials across weight categories are certain because of the huge time gap of four months. We have to take stock of the fitness of the boxers also, so it is only logical that trials will be held closer to the tournament,” a top source in the national federation said. “Also, the women boxers will travel outside to prepare because it is not just the worlds we are talking about. Next year also has the Commonwealth and Asian Games.” Major controversy Borgohain’s direct selection had become a major controversy after it was opposed by national gold-winner and world youth champion Arundhati Choudhary, who has taken the matter to Delhi High Court. The HC has issued a notice to the Boxing Federation of India, which has cited Borgohain’s world ranking of number three and Olympic performance as the grounds for her direct selection. The postponement is also set to open up a window of opportunity for some other high-profile names such as six-time world champion M.C. Mary Kom and Simranjit Kaur. While Mary Kom had skipped the nationals because of short preparation time, Simranjit had lost in the semifinals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/trials-all-but-certain-for-women-boxers/article37449693.ece
12 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Balaji-Divij combine enters quarterfinals||Sriram Balaji and Divij Sharan beat the third seeds David Pel and Sem Verbeek 6-3, 6-4 in the doubles pre-quarterfinals of the €66,640 Challenger tennis tournament in Slovakia. In singles, however, Ramkumar Ramanathan was beaten 6-3, 7-6(7) by the fifth seed Alex Molcan in the first round. In the Challenger at Knoxville, USA, Prajnesh Gunneswaran was beaten 6-3, 7-6(1) by fifth seed Jack sock in the pre-quarterfinals.  The results: €66,640 Challenger, Bratislava, Slovakia: Singles (first round): Alex Molcan (Svk) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-3, 7-6(7). Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Sriram Balaji & Divij Sharan bt David Pel & Sem Verbeek (Ned) 6-3, 6-4.   $52,080 Challenger, Knoxville, USA: Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Jack Sock (USA) bt Prajnesh Gunneswaran 6-3, 7-6(1). Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Malek Jaziri (Tun) & Blaz Rola (Slo) bt Ruan Roelofse (RSA) & Arjun Kadhe 6-3, 4-6, [10-6].   $60,000 ITF women, Santiago, Chile: Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Veronica Cepede Royg (Par) bt Riya Bhatia 6-2, 6-2. Doubles (quarterfinals): Irina Bara (Rou) & Ekaterina Gorgodze (Geo) bt Maria Fernanda Herazo Gonzalez (Col) & Riya Bhatia 6-4, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/balaji-divij-combine-enters-quarterfinals/article37449385.ece
12 November 2021||DUBAI,||Conway ruled out of final||The opening T20I between India and New Zealand in Jaipur on November 17 could be played in front of a sizeable crowd with the host association putting no restrictions on entry of spectators with even single shot of COVID-19 vaccine. Those who have not been vaccinated will have to carry a valid negative test report which is not older than 48 hours from the start of the match. The Sawai Mansingh Stadium which has a capacity of 25,000 is hosting an international game after eight years. “As per the current state guidelines, we can have a full crowd. You need to be vaccinated with one dose or you carry a negative test report which will be checked at the entrance,” Rajasthan Cricket Association secretary Mahendra Sharma said on Thursday. Mahendra said there will be no entry into the stadium without masks. It will be the first international match in India with no restrictions in the COVID-19 era. Crowds were allowed during India’s home series against England, but the number was capped at 50% before a spike in cases during the white-ball leg forced the organisers to stage the games without fans. Mahendra said the tickets for the opening T20 will go on sale from Thursday night and will be available on paytm.com. “The prices start from Rs. 1,000 and the most expensive ticket will cost Rs. 15,000,” he said. While New Zealand has he reached the T20 World Cup final, to be played on November 14, nine players from its Test squad arrived in Jaipur on Wednesday. The three-match T20I series will be followed by two Tests as part of the World Test Championship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/good-news-for-spectators/article37449335.ece
12 November 2021||Leeds,||Root wants ‘change and actions’ from Yorkshire||England cricket captain Joe Root called for “change and actions” from his county team, Yorkshire, in response to a crisis over its handling of a former player’s racism allegations that have rocked the sport. “These events have fractured our game and torn lives apart,” Root said in a statement issued on Thursday in his first public comments since Yorkshire settled an employment tribunal case with Azeem Rafiq, who had reported a culture of racism and bullying at English cricket’s most successful team.  Yorkshire has already lost sponsors and the right to host England international matches at its Headingley home in the wake of an escalating scandal that has set in motion additional investigations and led to boardroom changes at the county club. The 30-year-old Root has played for Yorkshire his entire career and has been a teammate of Rafiq, who was the team’s youngest ever captain at the county. “I want to see change and actions that will see YCCC (Yorkshire County Cricket Club) rise from this with a culture that harnesses a diverse environment with trust across all communities that support cricket in the county,” Root said, adding that he will “offer support however I’m able” to the team’s leadership. Rafiq, a former England under-19 captain, said in interviews last year that as a Muslim he was made to feel like an “outsider” during two stints at Yorkshire from 2008-18 and was close to taking his own life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/root-wants-change-and-actions-from-yorkshire/article37449340.ece
12 November 2021||Johannesburg,||Pieter Malan to lead South Africa-A||Cricket South Africa (CSA) on Thursday named a 14-member South Africa-A squad for the upcoming three-match four-day contests against India-A in Bloemfontein. The home team will be led by 32-year-old opening batter Pieter Malan. The series, an opportunity for the players to vie for places in the senior squad before India’s upcoming tour of the country, will be held from Nov. 23 to Dec. 9 at Mangaung Oval. All-rounder George Linde and fast bowler Lutho Sipamla are in the squad with Warriors pacer Marco Jansen and Knights batter Raynard van Tonder also included.  The squad:   Pieter Malan (Capt.), Sarel Erwee, Dominic Hendricks, Raynard van Tonder, Sinethemba Qeshile, Senuran Muthusammy, Marco Jansen, Migael Pretorius, Beuran Hendricks, Lutho Sipamla, Glenton Stuurman, George Linde, Jason Smith and Tony de Zorzi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pieter-malan-to-lead-south-africa-a/article37449341.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Nethra clinches gold||India’s Nethra Kumanan won gold in the laser radial section of the Gran Canaria sailing championships, one of the European regional open events, held in Gran Canaria (Spain) recently. The 24-year-old finished first in three of the six races, garnering a total of 10 nett points. Beneyto Lancho of Spain came second while Martina Reino Cacho (Spain) emerged third.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nethra-clinches-gold/article37449343.ece
12 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Sharath advances||India’s top paddler Sharath Kamal stormed into the men’s singles pre-quarterfinals with a 11-4, 11-4, 11-6 victory over Takuya Jin of Japan in the World Table Tennis Contender, which commenced in Novo Mesto, Slovenia on Thursday. In a women’s singles first-round match, Diya Parag Chitale lost to Fu Yu of Portugal 11-7, 5-11, 6-11, 10-12. Earlier, two Indian men’s pairs — Sharath Kamal and Manav Thakkar, the top seeds, and the duo of Jeet Chandra and S. Snehit — bowed out in the first round (round of 16).  Indian results: Men: Singles (round of 32): Sharath Kamal bt Takuya Jin (Jpn) 11-4, 11-4, 11-6; Doubles (round of 16): Hiroto Shinozuka & Yuma Tanigaki (Jpn) bt Sharath Kamal & Manav Thakkar 11-7, 11-4, 10-12, 11-4; Kristian Karlsson & Mattias Falck (Swe) bt Jeet Chandra and S. Snehit 11-5, 11-2, 11-6.   Women: Singles (round of 32): Fu Yu (Por) bt Diya Parag Chitale 7-11, 11-5, 11-6, 12-10 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sharath-advances/article37449347.ece
12 November 2021||Gold Coast,||Stokes trains with rest of the England squad||Ben Stokes joined the England squad for a training session for the first time after his six-month lay off from cricket at the Metrico stadium on Thursday. Stokes joined captain Joe Root and seniors like Stuart Broad in one of the first full training session for the players who have arrived early in Australia. Stokes was a late addition to the Ashes squad after the all-rounder had taken time off to recover from mental-health issues as well as an injury to his finger. England’s Ashes preparations will start with two matches against England Lions, which is also in Australia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stokes-trains-with-rest-of-the-england-squad/article37449346.ece
12 November 2021||Chennai,||Nazir Hoosein memorial drive flagged off||The Nazir Hoosein memorial drive by Team Firefox was flagged off at the beginning of the week in Greater Noida by the Chief of Army Staff, General M.M. Naravane, PVSM, AVSM, SM, VSM, ADC. The first car to be flagged off was a retro-fitted Mahindra Thar driven by Col (retd.) S.S. Sekhon. The drive, a tribute to the legendary motorsport pioneer and former FMSCI president Nazir Hoosein, has over 100 participants trace the original route of the 1981 Himalayan Rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nazir-hoosein-memorial-drive-flagged-off/article37449384.ece
12 November 2021||New Delhi,||Pramod nominated for Para Badminton Player of Year||India's Tokyo Paralympics gold winner Pramod Bhagat was on Thursday named among six shuttlers for the Male Para Badminton Player of the Year by the sport's world body. Reigning world champion Bhagat, who had won a historic gold medal in the men's singles SL3 class in the Tokyo Olympics in September, was also named along with Manoj Sarkar for the newly introduced Para Badminton Pair of the Year, with five other nominees. Sarkar had bagged a bronze in the men's singles SL3 class in the Tokyo Olympics. The 33-year-old Bhagat, who had contracted polio when he was four years old, picked up the sport after watching his neighbours play. Initially, he competed against able-bodied players before getting into competitive para badminton in 2006.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pramod-nominated-for-para-badminton-player-of-year/article37449379.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 08:59 IST,||Sudoku — November 11, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-11-2021/article37450347.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Lobster bisque and an award||Chef K Damodaran, affectionately known as Chef Damu, is characteristically warm and chatty, despite being in a London cab en route to the airport. On his way home to Chennai, undeterred by airport lounges and transfers, the popular TV show host and cook book author, enthusiastically chats on the phone about his latest triumph: The Culinary Legend Lifetime Achievement Award at the Global Food, Hospitality and Tourism Achievements Award 2021. It is this unflagging enthusiasm that has kept him focussed and driven for the past 40 years in an extraordinary career, which was celebrated at a recent event organised at the House of Commons, British Parliament, Westminster. Damu says it all began when he received a telephone call, a month ago, from the World Tamil Organization UK, requesting details on his career. (A registered charity organisation, the WTO was established in 2005 with the aim of promoting the welfare of the Tamil community, with a focus on arts and culture, in the United Kingdom.) Currently the president of South Indian Chef Association, Damu is a member of the World Association of Cooks Society. He says he has judged over 10,000 cooking competitions, including the popular Cooku with Comali which aired on Star Vijay. The chef has also authored 29 cookery books. Two weeks after that call, the organisers invited him to London, as he had been selected for a Lifetime Achievement Award. “I feel greatly honoured to be selected by the WTO for this prestigious award,” he says, adding that the Global Food, Hospitality and Tourism Achievements Award was instituted this year. He adds, “This category was launched this year by the WTO and I am the first person to be selected for this award.” The award committee recognised Damu’s earlier achievements, Guinness record, academia research and cook books. “I feel elated that I got the chance to meet the who’s who of the hospitality industry from across the world,” he says, adding that over 40 internationally renowned chefs and restaurateurs were invited to the event. This included John Wood, director of Kitchen Cut, who is a former executive chef of the iconic Burj Al Arab in Dubai. Also Chef Sydney Aldridge, the chef director at Fortnum and Mason, and Chef Ellan Prem Appadurai, head of hospitality projects, WTO UK, who was formerly head chef at Harrods, London. He adds with a chuckle that he also enjoyed the dinner that was served at the ceremony. “There was lobster bisque, as well as roast chicken served with mashed potatoes.” The 62-year-old chef who was home through the pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns, says that he made the best use of the time. “Making a meal for my wife and daughter, eating every meal with my family and making periodical visits to my ageing in-laws were the best part during those days. I never had the time to spend with my family all these years and lockdown provided the best opportunity for that,” he says. Ancient recipes He was also working on an upcoming cook book Kalvettu Samayal , which is a compilation of traditional Tamil cooking from the Sangam period. “I spent my time on research and developing recipes. I have documented even 3,000 year-old-recipes which I stumbled upon during my research. meen kartuhakari , originating in Tirunelveli region, and jeera a temple offering for Lord Vishnu, made using rawa and palm sugar are just a few examples,” says Damu. He reached out to a large number of catering students across the globe during the pandemic via online classes. “I also provided consultancy on COVID-19 meals for families and restaurants.” Damu is now working towards popularising traditional South Indian and ancient dishes through his book as well as his You Tube Channel Chef Damu’s Multi Cuisine , where he will prepare simple, healing meals. “Rice with rasam and a thogayal is healthy and high on medicinal properties. Unave marundhu (food is medicine) is our food philosophy,” he says. Damu adds that one of the highlights of this year was participating as a judge in the cooking reality show Cooku With Comali . Well received by audiences across the world, it earned him the nick name, appang (Dad). Even when he landed in London, he says, people were fondly calling him appang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lobster-bisque-and-an-award/article37449292.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Aiming for clean energy||It was a few years after the 2004 tsunami had struck. Fisherman and YouTuber M Sakthivel, 29, remembers the day when the main street in his shanty in the coastal town of Thoothukudi, Tamil Nadu, was lit up with five lampposts powered by solar energy. “Until then, electricity was something we had only heard about. After sunset, all our work would be done with the help of kerosene lamps,” Sakthivel recalls. Today, Sakthivel has become a champion of sorts for affordable domestic electrification projects that use solar energy panels. He has invested his earnings from his YouTube channel Thoothukudi Meenavan — which has more than seven lakh subscribers — to install nine domestic solar power units (costing between Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 60,000) in his colony and is looking forward to setting up some more in the coming weeks. Boats be the boon In Kochi, Kerala, boatbuilding company NavAlt, in collaboration with Shell Foundation UK, has been experimenting with ideas for small solar fishing vessels. Having already tasted success with its Aditya solar-powered taxi ferries in Kerala, NavAlt is hoping to come up with boats that will provide a sustainable alternative to the current ones that run on petrol and kerosene guzzling outboard engines. “A conventional three-foot fishing boat uses 3,600 litres of petrolor diesel when it is operated for five hours daily for 240 days in a year. With nearly two-and-a-half lakh boats in operation, approximately one million litres of fuel is consumed, leading to carbon dioxide emissions of two million tonnes per boat per year,” says NavAlt CEO Sandith Thandaserry. Solar energy projects have become a means of empowerment among rural and remote communities, especially those that have never been on the conventional electricity grid.Removing fossil fuels from the picture is one of the ways to signal traditional professions like fishing to a more environment-friendly way of operation. While a traditional ferry boat’s fuel costs come up to Rs. 30 lakh, for a solar boat, it is just less than Rs. 1 lakh per year. “We want to see if we can achieve the same thing in the fishing sector. We are currently working on six models, (three each) of mono-hull and catamaran boats that are being tested by fishermen in coastal districts. If they can be convinced about the initial higher cost of a solar boat that will eventually pay for itself after a few years, then we can hope to make our target price of under Rs. 10 lakh,” elaborates Thandaserry. The NavAlt prototypes use material like aluminium and glass-reinforced plastic (GRP) and have flexible solar panels for stability, an electrical steering unit, and twin outboard motors. The models also have assisted wind power devices for night use. A modular battery design helps in both portability and shore charging. Improving dialogue Like most traditional professions, a fair amount of technology has crept into the fishing industry. Fishermen are more likely to use GPS and apps to find fishing spots rather than rely on old methods honed through years of experience and native wisdom. Despite its advantages, solar power has not been able to make much headway in small-scale fishing due to a variety of reasons, say industry figures. “Marketing and educating the people about solar power needs funds. Fishermen are not using solar power in their boats. In fact, two fishermen removed the solar panels from their boats when they modified their boat design,” explains Vincent Jain, deputy chief executive, South Indian Federation of Fishermen Societies (SIFFS), based in Karamana, Thiruvananthapuram, that groups nearly 60,000 fishermen in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. “The wide availability of small oil-fuelled generators that cost only Rs. 25,000 compared to solar power panels worth over Rs. 2 lakh, has made many fishermen go for the cheaper option. Solar energy is better as a supportive, rather than the main source of power on a boat,” adds Jain. Companies need to make solar tech products more economically feasible, especially if they want faster and greater adoption of small-scale fishing across Tier 2 and Tier 3 communities. “Having battery storage and getting charged by solar power adds a lot of value without having to run on petrol or diesel,” points out Rahul Kale, founder-CEO of Sunpower Renewables, an Australian developer of renewable energy solutions. The company’s handheld and grid-connected products are being used in fishing and leisure vessels in Thailand, Singapore and Indonesia. While the company’s pre-pandemic presence in India was confined to the B2B segment in mining, hospitality and healthcare, Sunpower Renewables is now looking at B2C solutions in e-commerce and is marketing its products through online traders like Amazon and Croma. Innovative technology has allowed solar energy products to be utilised well beyond daytime. “Traditional solar power products can only be used during the daytime, when sunlight is available, leaving backup to diesel-based generators of bulky battery inverters. But when you have the option to store solar power, they become very useful in multiple sectors,” comments Kale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/aiming-for-clean-energy/article37449313.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||sunshine||Potter V Vadivel is waiting. Seated next to a spread of wet earthen lamps he just made, he looks at the sky every once in a while: he is hoping for some sunlight. To a potter, the sun is as important as rain is to a farmer. And on that overcast afternoon at Udayar Street in Kavundampalayam, the mood is gloomy. But that does not stop some men and women — there are over 30 families in the potter’s colony — from spreading out their lamps and pots to dry in what remains of the sunlight of the day. “We cannot stop trying, can we?” asks P Manickam with a dry laugh. The 52-year-old says that the rains this year were unexpected. “This is like in 2015, when heavy rains washed out our business during Karthigai season,” he recalls. It takes one full cloudless, sunny day for a batch of lamps to dry after they are taken off the potter’s wheel. Potters wait another day for the lamps to further dry. They then bake the lamps in one of the kilns at the centre of the colony. “None of us is making anything new today,” Manickam dismisses us. “Wait!” he adds as an afterthought, “There is one man who is working at the wheel.” He directs us to a tile-roofed house under the shade of a spreading tamarind tree. Music blares from a radio inside and a pot-bellied man walks out looking at a batch of lamps he has placed outside to dry. An army of boys runs to help him take them inside: A Dinesh, A Thirukumaran, and B Balakumaran, his grandchildren, pick up the lamps one after the other. “Careful, do not bend them,” says K Velliangiri, following the boys. “Place them gently on the floor.” The 55-year-old potter sits cross-legged, picks up the still-wet lamp — it is a gigantic one that can hold two litres of oil — and pats it with a wooden implement that resembles a thick spatula. The lamps have a cavity at the centre and Velliangiri places more clay to cover this, and spreads it across, pat by pat to form the curved base. He holds a circular stone beneath the wet clay to cushion this action, and moves it along with the spatula. The boys settle around him to watch him work. “These lamps are for temples,” he says, adding, “They come in five sizes, and can carry up to three litres of oil.” He uses the potter’s wheel to shape them, while for the small ones, a modified wet-grinder replaces the wheel. The sky is still dark, but Velliangiri goes pat-pat, shaping one lamp after the other. “There will be sunlight in some time,” he says, glancing outside the window. “I must ready these by then; only then will I be able to deliver on time.” His potter’s wheel was handed down to him by his father, and is over 50 years old. It is tied with rope at various places to cover the cracks that have appeared over the years. “I usually mend it during the 10-day break I take after Pongal,” he tells us. Before the pandemic started, Velliangiri taught pottery at a local school. He enjoyed the process of teaching the art form to children. Even today, he continues to involve the children in his family in pottery — unlike other potters who do not want their sons and daughters to take after them owing to the craft’s unpredictable nature. “When the world prays for rain, I do feel guilty praying that it does not,” he says. But this is how life is at the potter’s colony. “Because rains have washed away my lamps and I will be back to where I started,” he says. “At times like those, I wonder why I waste my time at the wheel every day.” But he wakes up the next day to knead clay, nevertheless. Just then, the sun shines on the colony, and Velliangiri smiles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sunshine/article37449298.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A walk in the woods with the Birdman||Sálim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON)  November 12, 2021 marks the 125th birth anniversary of Dr Sálim Ali, the doyen of Indian ornithology who triggered modern environmental consciousness in India. Sálim Ali has motivated, nurtured and left behind a breed of researchers and bird watchers, young and old, who carry forward his legacy. Modern documentation of the natural history of India started during the late 19th and early 20th Century by western explorers. This is the time Salim Ali set standards for natural history exploration. Naturalists such as TC Jerdon, BH Hodgson, Edward Blyth and the founding member of the Indian National Congress AO Hume, dominated ornithological exploration and documentation in the Indian subcontinent during the 19th Century. The first half of the 20th Century saw the consolidation of this information through the works of eminent ornithologists such as Stuart Baker, CB Ticehurst and Hugh Whistler. Even during the time, his interest was more in the living bird. He learned the techniques from his teachers and associates, most of them were westerners, notably Europeans such as Erwin Stresemann, Richard Meinertzhagen and American Dillon Reply. Being inquisitive, meticulous, and productive, he naturally assumed a position of authority in the ornithological scenario of India. Over a period of time, the grand ‘Old Man’ became a legend of natural history observation and studies in independent India. He published several volumes and received several awards and accreditations. Still, as all his colleagues and students remember, his happiness always was in being with birds. Since then, Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) — where he worked — has become a source of inspiration to all those who love Nature and birds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-walk-in-the-woods-with-the-birdman/article37449320.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Marriage story||Actor Anand Deverakonda is a tad nervous ahead of the theatrical release of his new Telugu comedy thriller, Pushpaka Vimanam , on November 12. His previous film, Middle Class Melodies , was a roaring hit, going by the warm response it received after its direct digital release during the pandemic. But a theatrical release is a different beast altogether.  Pushpaka Vimanam was offered to him soon after his debut film Dorasani (2019). Anand was enthused by the journey of the protagonist, a school teacher at a Government school, who holds romantic notions about marriage, and is shattered when his wife elopes: “He believes that marriage is a beautiful institution. To deal with nosy colleagues and society, he puts up a charade to make people believe that he is indeed leading a happy married life.” The title harks back to director Singeetam Srinivasa Rao’s 1987 silent dark comedy Pushpaka Vimana ( Pesum Padam in Tamil), starring Kamal Haasan and Amala Akkineni. “Damodar approached Singeetam sir to inform him about the title. In that film, the title was a metaphor for Kamal Haasan’s dream of a life of luxury. The tangible reference came from a hotel named Pushpak. In our film, the title is a metaphor for my character’s journey in marriage. Incidentally, a travel agency is named Pushpak in the film.” The fictional story came up after the director chanced upon several news clippings of marriages falling apart. He wrote a comedy and narrated it to someone, only to learn that some of the incidents in the story had occurred in the life of the listener. The comedy progresses into a thriller, unravelling the mystery of the missing wife. “My character, Sundar, is going through a depressing situation but his predicament leads to comedy,” says Anand, adding, “He is an introvert and is always neatly groomed and believes that teachers should command respect in society.” When Anand was first offered the part, he went through a look test to see if he would fit the part. Taken in by the story, his brother and actor Vijay Deverakonda’s production house, King of the Hill Entertainment, decided to produce. “My dad (Govardhan Rao) and the executive producer took a chunk of the production responsibilities and I had ample time to focus on my work. Only much later I got involved in the marketing aspects,” adds Anand.  Middle Class Melodies was a confidence booster for Anand, who was disappointed with the dismal box office reception to his debut film Dorasani . There were times when he wondered if he had made the right decision by giving up a corporate career only to get trolled on social media during his launch: “Vijay had warned me early on that a career in cinema will be challenging and I shouldn’t think of going back to corporate life. It slowly dawned on me that when established personalities aren’t spared of trolling, it is bound to happen to me. During the pre-production workshop for Middle Class Melodies , there was a phase when I was sceptical. I then decided to go ahead and enjoy my opportunity to become a better actor.”  Like in Middle Class Melodies , Anand states that Pushpaka Vimanam will also benefit from an able supporting cast: “Recently in Guntur, when college students cheered at the very mention of Middle Class Melodies , I was touched by how a simple and non-massy film endeared to everyone. I hope we are able to pull it off this time as well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/marriage-story/article37449288.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Khadi and the Indian||Fashion is civil, yet disobedient. This is the tagline for actor Kamal Haasan’s new label KH House of Khaddar that launches on November 15. “Sir [Kamal] came up with this line in 30 seconds, while he was getting ready for the shoot of the label’s fashion film that will go live on the day of the launch,” says costume designer Amritha Ram who has joined Kamal’s latest venture as the designer. The label, as the name suggests, works purely with khadi. Amritha has been associated with the iconic actor for four years now, creating looks for his promotions of Vishwaroopam 2 , Bigg Boss Tamil and his upcoming film Indian 2 . While shooting for the last season of Bigg Boss , she was stuck in Hyderabad and decided to take a quick tour to see what the weavers in the nearby areas were working on. In Chittoor, she came across a fabric in white that she instantly fell in love with. She then dyed it ombre and showed it to Kamal who liked it too. When informed that the fabric was khadi, he suggested creating a few more outfits out of it. The actor has had a long association with khadi as his father, a lawyer, wore only this fabric to court. The first collection will launch in Chicago (where Kamal will also be launching a new fragrance: KH Memoir). Titled Nunool , meaning the good thread, it is also a message to turn towards a sustainable ecosystem. The fall-winter collection features skirts, short dresses, trenches and trousers for women; and crop jackets, double breasted jackets, short and long trenches for men. “It’s a complete fall palate with hues such as root beer brown, salmon pink, teal blue, mustard, charcoal grey,” says Amritha adding that they wanted a western take on this quintessentially Indian fabric, which they achieved with the cuts and patterns. “We are not doing any Indian designs or cuts for the first three collections,” she says. Sometimes synonymous with clothes that are boring, KH House of Khaddar aims to dispense such myths associated with khadi. “It is a versatile fabric and can be tweaked in any way. It can keep you warm in winter and cool in summer,” says Amritha. The team at KH House of Khaddar is pleased that their venture will benefit weavers. Currently working with a few clusters in Chittoor, Kanchipuram, and Tirupur, Amritha is researching for independent clusters to work with in the near future. “The first vision is to have weavers under our roof and create different variations in the weave in the next six to eight months,” she says. While Amritha has a free hand in the creative process, Kamal gives his inputs. “He likes to keep the design simple so the threads can speak for themselves. Nothing over the top.”  The collections will be available online on www.khhk.in, which will go live shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/khadi-and-the-indian/article37449293.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Kurup is here||Kurup , which releases in theatres on November 12, has been in the making for a while but director Srinath Rajendran is not complaining. He sees the time the team got to work on the post-production as a ‘bonus’, a luxury many Malayalam films cannot afford. “The two-year break was a good thing. Not getting time to work on post-production is a curse for Malayalam cinema. We took a year-and-a-half for its post-production!” says Srinath. The making of this film was Srinath’s ‘destiny’, as he was born around the time the events pertaining to the crime took place. The idea for the film came randomly, he says. It was conceived in 2012, soon after the release of his first film Second Show . He says the years since Second Show have been preparatory for the team. “ Kurup is a ‘period film’, years have passed since the event but people who are part of the story are still alive.” Telling the story of one of India’s most wanted fugitives spanning cities and countries takes time and research, which also included speaking to people who knew him. There were a few who were reluctant to share their stories. “We can never forget that an innocent man [Chacko] is involved, that there is another side to the story,” says Srinath. For some, Sukumara Kurup is a conman and murderer; for others, he is a mystery. No one knows whether he is alive or where he is. The case is still open, so the film is ‘inspired by’ and the lead character’s name has been changed. With the story by Jithin K Jose, it has been a tightrope to walk. Kurup got its share of flak for lionizing Kurup: Jithin Chacko, son of Chacko (who Kurup murdered), even sent a legal notice to the film’s producers. The issue was settled after a screening for Jithin Chacko and his mother Santhamma, which eased their apprehensions. The story is not an easy one to tell. There are several perspectives on Kurup, all of which had to be considered while writing the script. “This [film] is the journey of Kurup’s life, told from our perspective but culled from those of others who are part of this story. We have done it passionately and we hope everyone likes it.” Dulquer came on board when he heard of Srinath’s idea, which worked well for the film, he says. “All of us involved in the film have matured. Dulquer is the same guy he was then, he has evolved as an actor. We have all grown more.” To the question of whether they considered taking the OTT route, given the uncertainty around theatres reopening, Srinath says, “All of us thought about it. But we had faith that theatres would open. Kurup was made for theatres.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/kurup-is-here/article37449291.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A cocktail of sounds||A year ago, an independent Malayalam single ‘Thennale’ composed in Indian and western notes made waves, making its debutant composer Kevin Shaji a name to reckon with in the regional indie music firmament. In the fourth year of BTech degree, Kevin, at that point had no intention of pursuing a career in music; ‘Thennale’ was meant to be a one-off thing. Constant enquiries and accolades on his IG for the song made him realise a musical path was inevitable and prompted him to change his name to Pina Colada Blues. “I didn’t want to use my name; instead I chose the name of my favourite cocktail and colour,” laughs Kevin. A series of singles in the last year saw Kevin experimenting with various sounds and styles. He created his niche by infusing styles from dream, electro-pop, hip-hop, RnB, Carnatic and western notes. Launched by Sony Music India’s new label Day One, the Kochi-based composer recently released his first single in Hindi ‘Kyun?’ — crossing language and genre boundaries. “Right from my first song, I have never seen language or genre as a barrier to my music. If I can understand the words or the language, I then try my best to figure out what it is trying to convey. I improvise on the tune and melody and compose,” say Kevin over the phone from Kochi. ‘Kyun?’ is about relationship conflicts and the ‘unknown’ reasons for people to drift apart. With Kevin leading the track on piano and vocals by Mridul Anil, the ballad-like track is growing to be an earworm. For someone who has not studied specific genres like pop-Latino or Carnatic, Kevin developed an interest in understanding how they work. “Though it is a challenge, it is fun learning and experimenting with different styles,” says Kevin who was introduced to music at the age of five. Original music  The future of music is in South India, emphasises Kevin on being asked what is leading to a spurt in musicians from Kerala. “ I see many people coming out with originals these days and this is entirely owing to the availability of music production, recording gear and the ability to make songs in one’s bedroom. That is is also where my songs are produced. Only the vocals and the song mixing are done in studios,” explains Kevin. Add to that, the ability to post one’s covers and originals at the click of a button on social media and platforms is a primary reason for this trend increasing, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-cocktail-of-sounds/article37449304.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Baby’s library date||“Why are there no books for babies?” asks Treesa Tom, a Kochi-based book curator and teacher who began to read the picture book, Busy Animal Alphabet , to her son Christopher when he was still in her womb. She had read that the child in the womb begins to hear from the 26th week of gestation. After her son’s birth, during the pandemic, she continued to read to him and found that he showed signs of recognition to words like toucan and hippopotamus, which she used to read aloud with voice modulations. She found that books for babies were expensive and not easily available, which led her to look for sources of affordable books. She zeroed in on wholesale dealers of imported books. With a network in place, she launched her venture The Book Truck on Instagram. Soon, Treesa’s friends wanted her to recommend books for their children. “The books I buy are not brand new but they are unused,” she says. After assessing a child’s reading pattern and preferences, she curates a set of three books for a month and ships them out. Treesa began with a WhatsApp group and started posting videos of books and tips on reading. Later she structured it to post pictures of books every Monday at 8 am, followed by close-up photos of the pages so that members could see the font, illustrations and get a sense of the texture of the book. Members message her directly and buy a set, if they are convinced with her selection. Her young readers are categorised as Beginner, Proficient, Independent or Pre-Kindergarten and she also asks the parents for their budget. “Roughly, a set of three books costs between Rs. 500 and Rs. 700,” says Treesa. Love for literature With over 2,000 books in stock and collaborations with 800 dealers from across the country, Treesa is now expanding her curation to include novels for “tweens”. “We need many more book curators as people don’t know what and how to read,” says Hyderabad-based Anupama Dalmia who founded Beyond the Box, a platform to promote literature in children, in 2019. Watching the growing space for audio books, Anupama planned an audio book for kids by kids. “It will be the first audio book for children, by children,” says Anupama who plans to launch it on November 14. Bengaluru-based Vidya Mani says that her travelling children’s book shop, Funky Rainbow has been all about curation. The red bus with books travels to city schools and to social events. “When a child sees him/herself in a book, it opens up a conversation,” concludes Vidya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/babys-library-date/article37449306.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Lit For Life goes online||“Literature is a means by which we may ask questions,” said Daniel Handler aka Lemony Snicket at The Hindu Lit For Life 2019. This is something that the festival has espoused over the 10 years of its existence by asking questions on stage and off it. With much of the world moving online in the wake of COVID-19, Lit For Life too makes its virtual debut today. Renowned physicians, scientists, authors, corporate stars, filmmakers, environmentalists, and artists offer insights into the problems and challenges the world faces today and offer new ways of looking at ourselves and the world around us. The festival reflects a spirit of hope and faith in the tenacity and perseverance of the human spirit. Speakers include Indra Nooyi, the Venerable Tenzin Priyadarshi, Shashi Tharoor, Sashi Kumar, N Ravi, Amitav Ghosh, Somak Ghoshal, Pranay Lal, Ramya Kannan, Vinay Kamath, Dr Gagandeep Kang, Dr Srinath Reddy, Prof Arun Kumar, Kamini Mahadevan, Dr Pratima Murthy, Dr Shekhar Seshadri, Dr Soumitra Pathare, Dr Ennapadam S Krishnamoorthy, Neha Sinha, Dr Sanjay Gubbi, Dr Mahesh Rangarajan, Ira Mukoty, Pankaja Srinivasan, Sudha Kongara, Chithra Mahesh, Subodh Kerkar, Anuradha Kapur and Deepan Sivaraman. To register on November 12 and 13, visit https://bit.ly/THLFL21 or scan the QR code The festival sponsors are Rajasthan Tourism (associate sponsor), Casagrand (realty partner), State Bank of India (banking partner), Life Insurance Corporation of India (insurance partner), Hindustan Institute of Technology & Science (knowledge partner) and Higginbothams (bookstore partner).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lit-for-life-goes-online/article37449294.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Toy story 2.0||K Thilagarajan spent two days with an old coconut tree climber at Sholavandan learning to make a “bug that buzzes”. The 50-year-old school teacher from Madurai is a populariser of toys made from palm and coconut leaves. He travels across the State sharing with children the joys of making fans, fish, birds, rattles, flowers, animals… “The idea is to make children work with delicate material,” he says. “Once they create something on their own, they will be inclined to give it away to someone else,” he adds. “They will tend to listen, tell stories through the toys, and eventually, take over from me.” The philosophy behind his toys is to engage little hands with something organic that also stimulates the mind. “They learn science through these toys,” he explains. A bend here or a twist there can alter the entire design; a tiny fold can make an insect sing and a fan fly. Thilagarajan is a happy man when he sits surrounded by children, each engrossed in a toy of her own, forgetting his presence. It takes a toy of great value to suck a child completely into its world. The rainbow stacker does just that. Popularised by social media, it consists of a set of wooden arches of various colours. It is open-ended — there are countless ways with which a child can use it. Woodbee Toys makes the stackers in beech wood with non-toxic colours. The company has a factory near Vellore and sells through its Instagram page woodbeetoys_official. “We started in November 2020 and have 45 toys with 15 more in the making,” says K Suganya, who handles marketing. Woodbee’s toy philosophy borrows from Waldorf’s principle: their toys are simple and encourage free play. Toy designer K Kokila, who is Suganya’s mother-in-law has also come up with her own ideas: their trilinks and math rods, for instance. Learning life through play “Run, or I will shoot!,” calls out a little girl, charging out of a room with a toy gun; two boys are engaged in a dramatic plastic sword fight: scenes quite harmless in a typical household, one would think. But when did guns, knives, and swords find their way into children’s toys? Should violence be part of children’s lives, wonders Subid, a civil engineer who is trained in Product Design at IIT Delhi. His Ahimsa toys, based on Gandhi’s principle of non-violence, speak of play in a gentle way so as to not stir even a leaf. Ahimsa toys are similar to toy innovator Arvind Gupta’s toys from trash. But while Arvind’s toys teach science through everyday objects, ahimsa toys are all about “freedom, self-reliance, and sharing”. “Children do not need toys,” feels Subid, who has written Ahimsa Toys (Thannaram publications), a book with step-by-step instructions to make the toys. “All they need is freedom to play,” he says. “For them, every activity is play, and through that, they learn life.” Subid feels children can play endlessly without any object to keep them engaged, only if adults do not interfere. Ahimsa toys show that the greatest of joys can come from the simplest of things. “My focus is not science experiments,” says Subid. “Children are fed up with science,” he adds. The focus, is rather on ‘unlearning’. “My philosophy is that children come from heaven; we only have to observe them to learn from them.” To Arvind, the best toy is that which can be used over and over again. “Take Lego, for instance,” he says. “It is a great toy, but sadly, is not accessible to many children.” His toys from trash teach children not just science, but show them the immense possibilities ordinary materials hold. “An old CD, with a marble stuck in between, makes for the greatest top,” says Arvind. “It keeps spinning for two minutes.” Newspapers too are fun to play with. “A dozen types of caps can be made with them,” says Arvind. “Look at your own garbage bin and not at what the Chinese or Germans or Americans are making,” he adds. The market is filled with flashy plastic toys that create a racket, states Arvind, speaking of “expensive products that come in boxes more expensive than the toy itself”. He adds, “When children are happy, there will be peace in the world... And for children to be happy, we need to make toys affordable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/toy-story-20/article37449302.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Killing them softly||Michael C. Hall is back after a decade, reprising his iconic character of Dexter Morgan in the new series Dexter: New Blood , following the journey of the most-loved serial killer. The actor won a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award for his role in the original series. In New Blood , 10 years after he went missing in the eye of Hurricane Laura, Dexter is now living under an assumed name in the fictional small town of Iron Lake, New York. But in the wake of unexpected events in this close-knit community, his Dark Passenger inevitably beckons. Renowned for playing David Fisher in the HBO drama series Six Feet Under , Michael is excited to be back. With Clyde Phillips also back as the showrunner of the new series, expectations are at an all-time high. Excerpts from an edited interview: How did you decide whether the time was right for Dexter to return? I think there has been enough time for the show’s reappearance to be somewhat of a surprise, but hopefully not so much time has passed that we can’t take advantage of the pre-existing audience along with attracting some new people. Enough time has passed for certain storytelling opportunities to emerge, particularly having to do with Dexter’s son having reached a certain age. It was very gratifying to go back and revisit the character. Despite the fact that he is doing it under an assumed name — and pretending to be someone he is not — he is at the same time making an legitimate attempt to be a normal person, to have real relationships, and have a life that that is as full as he can manage while being abstinent. A lot of Dexter fans are most excited about the character of his son, Harrison, reuniting with Dexter on the show. Jack Alcott, the actor who plays Harrison, is one of Hollywood’s exciting young talents... You know, it is a wild thing we do as actors...jumping into something with relative strangers and endowing them with whatever is required. I was just thankful that Jack is someone who is incredibly talented and has fantastic instincts. I feel like he is someone who I believe is Rita and Dexter’s child. A lot of the experience or the chemistry that exists between us was all intuitive and unspoken. I was just glad to be sharing those scenes with an actor who was so good. How does one prepare to get back into the character after a decade has passed? All the preparation I had done, and all the time I had spent playing the character for the time was part of the preparation for this. Ever since the show ended, I knew that there was at least a possibility of a return. So maybe, somewhere inside me, he was still… cooking. A part of the preparation was just investing in this new story we were telling. But ultimately I had to show up on set and just jump back in. And when I did, I discovered that Dexter didn’t feel like a stranger to me. After all this time, I still felt an intuitive sense of who and how he was. From an ethical point, what were your thoughts on revisiting the character of Dexter? I had never imagined the show to be one that advocated the serial killer life. It certainly depicted someone who was taking responsibility in his very outside-the-box sense of ethics. But one of the things that Dexter is in the process of discovering as we rejoin him, is that you cannot run away from your past. His appetite for having a more authentic human experience of life is nice and everything, but that is not something that really goes hand in hand with killing people. He came to believe that at the end of the original series performing some sense of protracted penance. So, yeah, the ethics of the show, I mean, I don’t want to speak too definitively about that. Because I feel like that is a part of what makes the experience of watching it interesting. But it is definitely something I thought about, and that component of the show is on different grounds this time around. Dexter: New Blood , a 10-episode special event series, is currently streaming on Voot Select||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/killing-them-softly/article37449726.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Kurup is here||Kurup , which releases in theatres on Friday, has been in the making for a while but director Srinath Rajendran is not complaining. He sees the time the team got to work on the post-production as a ‘bonus’, a luxury many Malayalam films cannot afford. “The two-year break was a good thing. Not getting time to work on post-production is a curse for Malayalam cinema. We took a year-and-a-half for its post-production!” says Srinath. The making of this film was Srinath’s ‘destiny’, as he was born around the time the events pertaining to the crime took place. The idea for the film came randomly, he says. It was conceived in 2012, soon after the release of his first film Second Show . He says the years since Second Show have been preparatory for the team. “ Kurup is a ‘period film’, years have passed since the event but people who are part of the story are still alive.” Telling the story of one of India’s most wanted fugitives spanning cities and countries takes time and research, which also included speaking to people who knew him. There were a few who were reluctant to share their stories. “We can never forget that an innocent man [Chacko] is involved, that there is another side to the story,” says Srinath. For some, Sukumara Kurup is a conman and murderer; for others, he is a mystery. No one knows whether he is alive or where he is. The case is still open, so the film is ‘inspired by’ and the lead character’s name has been changed. With the story by Jithin K Jose, it has been a tightrope to walk. Kurup got its share of flak for lionizing Kurup: Jithin Chacko, son of Chacko (who Kurup murdered), even sent a legal notice to the film’s producers. The issue was settled after a screening for Jithin Chacko and his mother Santhamma, which eased their apprehensions. The story is not an easy one to tell. There are several perspectives on Kurup, all of which had to be considered while writing the script. “This [film] is the journey of Kurup’s life, told from our perspective but culled from those of others who are part of this story. We have done it passionately and we hope everyone likes it.” Dulquer came on board when he heard of Srinath’s idea, which worked well for the film, he says. “All of us involved in the film have matured. Dulquer is the same guy he was then, he has evolved as an actor. We have all grown more.” To the question of whether they considered taking the OTT route, given the uncertainty around theatres reopening, Srinath says, “All of us thought about it. But we had faith that theatres would open. Kurup was made for theatres.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/kurup-is-here/article37449729.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A surprise package||In the last quarter of the recently-released Doctor , two comic actors, along with a battalion of lead characters, are captured by the villain and are taken on a boat to an island. Knowing that they are on the way to be executed, one of the comics, a straight-faced character called Bhagat (Redin Kingsley), asks the other (played by Yogi Babu) how much longer it will take for them to reach. It doesn’t end there. Bhagat tells him he is feeling nauseous and asks if he has a lemon, leaving the audience in splits. This genius of a stretch is just the cream of the film’s deadpan humour that set the cash registers ringing. The man responsible for writing the comedy is director Nelson Dilipkumar, but the man who made sure the punches landed is Redin Kingsley. The inventiveness in writing and the way Nelson draws humour from near life-and-death situations can be attributed to Doctor ’s success — Redin, too, believes this. “Nelson understands the pulse of the audience and that shows,” says Redin, over a phone call, “But none of us expected such a response. We were confident that people would enjoy it, but none of us knew of the proportion.” Redin says he was with Nelson when Doctor ’s script was taking shape. At one point during the post-production, the director felt comedic portions were too much that he had to trim, in order to give it a breathing space. Redin and Nelson go back in time; he was supposed to be the lead comedian in the latter’s debut film Vettai Mannan , a gangster film with black humour. Since the film was shelved, Redin went back to his job as event organiser for Government exhibitions in Chennai and Bengaluru. Every year, Redin says, he would get a call from Nelson asking him to send a latest photo for a possible film he was making. “He somehow found an actor in me,” says Redin, who played a small yet effective character called Tony in Nelson’s debut work, Kolamaavu Kokila , another dark comedy. Praise from Rajinikanth But Redin felt he finally arrived when Superstar Rajinikanth himself enacted a dialogue from Kolamaavu Kokila during the making of Annaatthe , which is currently running in theatres. Redin plays a small role in the film and says he felt motivated when Rajinikanth appreciated his spontaneity in a scene that didn’t have dialogues for him. “But I said something on the spot and Rajini sir really liked it and asked Siva [director] to keep it. I am not sure if I would have got such liberty with another star,” he says, adding, “Rajini sir is the most active and always jovial on set. Likewise, when it comes to appreciating talent, he has been consistent.” All said and done, the true validation came for Redin when he got a call from Vadivelu’s team for a role in the actor’s upcoming Naai Sekar . “I met Vadivelu sir; he has seen all my comedies. He appreciated my comic timing and said, ‘You are doing well’.”  Mini profile Redin Kingsley neither has connections in films nor did he want to get into acting. Starting out as an entertainment in-charge for MGM Disney World, Redin is a professional dancer and even ran a dance school called Spellbound doing shows for popular channels. His claim to fame includes managing the 2008 ‘Chennai Pani Mazhai Kondattam’, organised by Tamil Nadu Tourism, in addition to scores of exhibitions in Chennai and Bengaluru. “I haven’t organised any exhibitions in the last couple of years. And now, I have become a full-fledged actor, thanks to Nelson,” he says. Redin has been part of all of Nelson Dilipkumar’s films and will also be seen in Vijay-starrer Beast . “I will get into trouble if I say anything about Beast ,” he says with a laugh. “What I can say is, the film is coming out well and will be true to its title.” He will also be seen in films such as Simbu’s Pathu Thala , Vijay Sethupathi’s Kathuvakkula Rendu Kadhal , Agent Kannariyam , Idiot and Naai Sekar .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-surprise-package/article37449727.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The boy from the border town||In Nargaon, a town in West Bengal that borders Bangladesh, a stick plays Santa Claus. Like the legendary herald of good cheer, the stick delivers gifts from families and friends, travelling across the barbed wire fence that separates the countries. At the ‘milan’ bazaar held here often, barely 10 metres from the boundary, an impromptu shanty springs up with people selling wares, clothes and toys. They are bought, wrapped in black plastic bags, strung on sturdy, long sticks and then extended over the fence, past no-man’s land into the eager hands of families on either side. This is how Dhauli, a Rajbanshi living in Nargaon for 15 years since she crossed over for her wedding, greets her family in Bangladesh. An uncle from across waves at her children, her sisters and she exchanges notes, even as the crowds surge and vigilant border police on both sides keep an eagle eye on the proceedings. Dhauli is one of the six protagonists in Borderlands , a documentary on life along the borders of the Indian subcontinent, directed by 30-year-old Samarth Mahajan. The 67-minute feature, produced by All Things Small and Camera and Shorts, had its Indian premiere at the Dharamshala International Film Festival after its showcase around the world at events such as DOK.fest (Germany) and New York Indian Film Festival (USA). “We were tipped off on the ‘milan’ bazaar by a Border Security Force officer while seeking permission to shoot,” says Samarth, adding “it was surreal to watch this exchange; a boundary that divides not just lands but also families and hearts.” It is stories such as these, of those caught in the cultural fault-lines that the documentary focusses on. “We wanted to consciously move away from the historical and military symbolism of international boundaries and explore how everyday people deal with the consequences of borders. We were trying to find the political in the personal,” says Samarth, over phone from Dinanagar in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district, 15 kilometres from the India-Pakistan border, where he was raised. Among those who share their stories are Deepa, a migrant from Pakistan and an aspiring nurse, struggling to speak Hindi while being fluent in Sindhi and Urdu; Imphal’s Surajkanta, a filmmaker who looks at both the militant struggle and Manipur’s place in India; Noor, who was trafficked into sex work, rescued, learnt to play the ukulele, found love and now lives in a shelter home in Kolkata; Kavita, a Nepali girl in Birgunj who works with an NGO that aims to stop the trafficking of women into India; and Rekha, Samarth’s mother who gave up work to raise her family in Dinanagar, lived through cross-border terrorism and yet had never been to the border until she accompanied Samarth to shoot a segment at Wagah. Work on the documentary began in October 2018 and finished in March 2021 with a core crew comprising Samarth, associate director Nupur Agrawal and cinematographer Omkar Divekar.  Borderlands is Samarth’s second feature documentary, his first, The Unreserved , on passengers travelling in the general compartment of the Indian Railways, won him a National Award. Samarth’s journey to filmmaking was as arduous, through the portals of IIT-Kharagpur, a corporate job and a post-graduate degree in the liberal arts. “I had made an ad film when in college and ended up getting addicted to filmmaking. I like to step away from the mainstream and tell non-fiction, invisible stories,” he says. Which is why the protagonists were chosen from a ragged jumble of tin and thatch houses, from a world littered with contested and shifting borders. He says, “We focussed on hyper-local, unusual stories rather than the macho images of the border, identities or the nostalgia of shared history. We focussed on hope.”  We wanted to consciously move away from the historical and military symbolism of international boundaries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-boy-from-the-border-town/article37449728.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Kokona Hiraki||This 12-year-old skateboarding prodigy became the youngest Olympic medalist in 85 years, when she won silver in the women’s park event at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. With this, she also set a record as Japan’s youngest Olympic medallist of all time. Interestingly, the bronze was won by 13-year-old Sky Brown of Britain who became the youngest person to win a medal for Britain at the Olympics. Kokona was also the youngest stakeholder to win a medal at the 2018 X Games in Minneapolis, Minnesota, the U.S., when she was just 10 years and 11 months. She started skateboarding when she was just five, thanks to her mother who is a big fan of the sport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/kokona-hiraki/article37449957.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||A balloon from Chacha||The sense of excitement in the house was palpable. Kamala listened, as everyone talked about a visit by someone called Jagarlanegru. She understood that he was an important person and would pass by their house. Kamala was dressed in her new red pavadai and had matching ribbons in her hair. “Who is this Jagarlanegru?” she asked. There was silence for a minute and then everyone burst out laughing. “Not Jagarlanegru, Kamala,” said her father. “His name is Jawaharlal Nehru. Children call him Chacha. He is our Prime Minister. He is visiting Madras and will go past our house in an hour. We will stand outside our gate and watch, as he drives by.” Sense of anticipation Now that Kamala knew who was waiting to see she was excited. At the gate, a crowd had already gathered. Someone had set up a stall selling lime juice, another was frying peanuts. A man carrying a bunch of colourful balloons tried to sell some to grandfather, who told him to move on. Kamala was disappointed. She would have liked to have held a red balloon to match her pavadai and ribbon. Her cousins too looked wistfully at the balloon seller. The crowds were getting larger and people were jostling one another. The elders formed a tight group around the children. Someone had started playing music. Loud, cinema music. There was an air of festivity all around. Finally, when Kamala felt her heart would burst and she could wait no longer a long row of cars came by. Then she saw a car with an open top. In it sat a man wearing a white cap and he had a kindly face. He waved and smiled as he slowly passed by. “That’s Chacha Nehru,” said her father. “Chacha! Chacha! Chacha!” they shouted. Kamala jumped up and down with feverish joy. She clapped her hands and waved enthusiastically. Her cousins too did the same. Sriram could contain himself no longer and began to dance. Kamala saw Nehru laugh as he spotted them. Then he leaned forward and said something to the driver. The cavalcade came to a halt. Close encounter The crowd became silent. Big, burly men jumped out of the car behind and rushed forward. Kamala’s face paled when she saw Nehru get out of the car and head their way. “Did we do something wrong? Is he angry because Sriram was dancing or because we were shouting?” Troubled thoughts went through her head. But Nehru was smiling as he said something to his men and pointed to the balloon seller. One of the men came back with the balloons clutched in his powerful arm. Nehru took the balloons and handed them out to each child. By the time he reached Kamala, she could hardly breathe. She looked up at him and gave him her most dazzling smile. He gave her a red balloon and gently patted her cheek and said, “This is a gift for you from Chacha.”  He is our Prime Minister. He is visiting Madras and will go past our house in an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/a-balloon-from-chacha/article37450018.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Vineet’s Magic Mantra Sweet surprise||The story so far: While undergoing punishment from his father, Vineet comes across a magic mantra in the puja room while cleaning it.  With just one reading, Vineet memorised the mantra and, unconsciously, began chanting it like the words of his favourite song. “Vineet, you have worked hard today. Go to your room and lie down. I’ll ask Richa to complete the job,” Dadi said, sitting up. Unable to believe his luck, Vineet bolted out of the room before she changed her mind. “Dadi let me go even though I’ve not completed the work,” he grinned. He had a drink of water and flopped down on his bed, his thoughts flying towards the magic mantra. Magic is might? “Has the mantra fulfilled my wish, as promised in the paper?” he wondered. Dismissing the magic mantra as hogwash, he began to dream about his favourite ice-cream, which he had seen the cook place in the freezer. He was drooling as the urge to eat chocolate ice-cream overpowered him. He entered the kitchen, pretending to get a glass of water. The cook was wiping down the platform. Seeing him, the cook growled, “What are you doing here? Lunch time is over.” “Is there a restriction on water?” Vineet asked sarcastically, as he opened the fridge door and removed a bottle of water. Again, he repeated the mantra, grudgingly admitting that the words were musical and easy to remember. “If only I was alone, I could have eaten the chocolate ice-cream,” he grumbled. “It’s no use hoping the cook would serve me a few scoops.” Vineet stared at the cook scrubbing gravy stains from the white marble counter, and chanted the mantra again, as he drank some water. “Your favourite ice-cream. I don’t think you enjoyed your lunch,” the cook said, offering him a bowl filled with two scoops. Vineet was shocked to see a concerned look on his face. Was he playing a trick, settling old scores by getting him into trouble with his father? Moving towards the kitchen door, the cook shut it firmly. “Better eat this before someone comes.”  To be continued   Unconsciously, he started chanting it like the words of his favourite song.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/vineets-magic-mantra-sweet-surprise/article37449962.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Captain capable||Name: Jawaharlal Nehru  Nickname: Chacha Nehru, owing to my love for children  Birthday: November 14, 1889  The world knows me as: The first Prime Minister of independent India.  A childhood memory: I was educated at home by private tutors till the age of 16.  Firm resolve: I spent almost nine years in jail during the freedom struggle.  My strongest belief: Children are the future of our country.  My biggest strength: The four pillars of my domestic policies: democracy, socialism, unity, and secularism.  Feather in my cap: At almost 17 years, I am the longest serving Prime Minister of India.  Iconic moment: I delivered my famous ‘Tryst with Destiny’ speech on the eve of India’s independence.  Family affair: My father Motilal Nehru was a renowned lawyer and freedom fighter. My sister Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit became the first woman president of the United Nations General Assembly. My daughter Indira Gandhi went on to become India’s first woman Prime Minister.  Style statement: The Nehru jacket, a type of coat, is named after me.  Window to my world: My autobiography, which I wrote in prison; and a collection of letters I wrote to my daughter.  Lasting legacy: My policies in various fields charted the future course of the nation.  Quote for you: “There is no end to the adventures that we can have if only we seek them with our eyes open.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/captain-capable/article37449974.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||HOW TO PARTICIPATE||Choose a topic in your category and paint on a blank A3 sized (11.7 x 16.5 inches) sheet  Log on to www.ywc.thehindu.com/ clubmahindra Completeyour registration, upload a clear scanned copy of your painting and generate your Unique Registration Number On the front of the sheet, write your Unique Registration Number and Topic. On the back, write your Name, Age, Gender, Class, School Name (with branch), City, State, Category of Participation, Parent’s name, and Registered email ID and mobile number. Entries without these details will not qualify for the next round Your physical drawing should be sent to the nearest office of The Hindu, as chosen during the online registration process On the top left of the envelope, mention, “Club Mahindra National Painting Competition 2021” Online registration closes on November 23, 2021. The physical painting must reach The Hindu Office before November 25, 2021. Those who qualify for the finale will receive the details through the registered email ID Paintings received without the Unique Registration Number or after the deadline will not be considered For help, call our toll-free number 1800 102 1878 from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (Monday to Saturday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/how-to-participate/article37450026.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Towards a brighter tomorrow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/towards-a-brighter-tomorrow/article37449993.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Flying high in the sky||From sending out satellites and probes and launching super successful missions to the moon and Mars, India has done so much in space. Here comes a book that offers an illustrated look at the country’s achievements, tells you who India’s space heroes are, and introduces you to Vyonmitra, the talking robot.   Now here's a chance for an exciting win. Answer the questions below and the first five correct entries will receive a copy of the book. 1.India’s rockets are launched from a deserted island on the eastern coast of the country. Name the island. 2.Who is known as the Rocket Woman of India? Mail your entries to youngworld@thehindu.co.in along with your name, class, school, full residential adresss and mobile number. Entries without these details will not be considered. The contest is open only to students from Class II to Class VIII. Last date toreceive entries is November 30, 2021||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/flying-high-in-the-sky/article37449965.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Starry skies||Across  1 The galaxy we are in (5,3) 5 The number of stars in a binary star system (3) 6 Path of a planet around the sun (5) 7 The outermost part of the sun (6) 9 A ____ star is one with low luminosity and mass (5) 11 A constellation of the zodiac (5) 13 Emission of rays (9) 17 Band of colours arranged according to wavelength (8) 18 “Pale Blue ___”: photograph of Earth taken from space (3) 19 The ozone layer protects us from these rays, abbr. (2)  Down  1 Earth’s satellite (4) 2 Pluto lies in the _____ belt (6) 3 ___ borealis: the northern lights (6) 4 Super___: explosion of a star (4) 8 Constellation with a belt (5) 9 ____ matter, the mysterious stuff of space (4) 10 Solar ___: a sudden explosion on the sun’s surface (5) 12 Surya, helios, sol (3) 14 “We are all made of star___” (4) 15 The ____ Cloud lies at the edge of our solar system (4) 16 A dalton (unit of mass), for short (3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/starry-skies/article37449977.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Towards a brighter tomorrow||1 The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (UNCRC) is an international human rights treaty. It spells out children’s civil, political, economic, social, health, and cultural rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/towards-a-brighter-tomorrow/article37449995.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article37449981.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article37450030.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Sudoku||The sense of excitement in the house was palpable. Kamala listened, as everyone talked about a visit by someone called Jagarlanegru. She understood that he was an important person and would pass by their house. Kamala was dressed in her new red pavadai and had matching ribbons in her hair. “Who is this Jagarlanegru?” she asked. There was silence for a minute and then everyone burst out laughing. “Not Jagarlanegru, Kamala,” said her father. “His name is Jawaharlal Nehru. Children call him Chacha. He is our Prime Minister. He is visiting Madras and will go past our house in an hour. We will stand outside our gate and watch, as he drives by.” Sense of anticipation Now that Kamala knew who was waiting to see she was excited. At the gate, a crowd had already gathered. Someone had set up a stall selling lime juice, another was frying peanuts. A man carrying a bunch of colourful balloons tried to sell some to grandfather, who told him to move on. Kamala was disappointed. She would have liked to have held a red balloon to match her pavadai and ribbon. Her cousins too looked wistfully at the balloon seller. The crowds were getting larger and people were jostling one another. The elders formed a tight group around the children. Someone had started playing music. Loud, cinema music. There was an air of festivity all around. Finally, when Kamala felt her heart would burst and she could wait no longer a long row of cars came by. Then she saw a car with an open top. In it sat a man wearing a white cap and he had a kindly face. He waved and smiled as he slowly passed by. “That’s Chacha Nehru,” said her father. “Chacha! Chacha! Chacha!” they shouted. Kamala jumped up and down with feverish joy. She clapped her hands and waved enthusiastically. Her cousins too did the same. Sriram could contain himself no longer and began to dance. Kamala saw Nehru laugh as he spotted them. Then he leaned forward and said something to the driver. The cavalcade came to a halt. Close encounter The crowd became silent. Big, burly men jumped out of the car behind and rushed forward. Kamala’s face paled when she saw Nehru get out of the car and head their way. “Did we do something wrong? Is he angry because Sriram was dancing or because we were shouting?” Troubled thoughts went through her head. But Nehru was smiling as he said something to his men and pointed to the balloon seller. One of the men came back with the balloons clutched in his powerful arm. Nehru took the balloons and handed them out to each child. By the time he reached Kamala, she could hardly breathe. She looked up at him and gave him her most dazzling smile. He gave her a red balloon and gently patted her cheek and said, “This is a gift for you from Chacha.”  He is our Prime Minister. He is visiting Madras and will go past our house in an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/a-balloon-from-chacha/article37449967.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebrating a milestone||In 1952, Y.G. Parthasarathy (YGP) and N. Padmanabhan founded United Amateur Artistes (UAA), branching off from Suguna Vilasa Sabha. Padmanabhan was the writer, and YGP the director. YGP’s son, Y. Gee. Mahendra, says, “They used pure, literary Tamil in theatres then. To reach the common man, they wanted to create plays written in colloquial Tamil, with an occasional English word thrown in.” As UAA gets set to enter its 70th year, Mahendra, at UAA’s helm since 1975, is celebrating his own 60th year in theatre. Several renowned actors started life in UAA. Cho. Ramaswamy, Mouli and Visu began at UAA, subsequently branching off on their own. Former Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa acted in two UAA plays, Under Secretary (1964), pairing with Cho, and Malathi the Menace (1966). “Her mother Sandhya wanted her to get trained in theatre before launching her as an actor in movies,” says Mahendra, now 72. Some of UAA’s plays subsequently became hit movies featuring stars such as Sivaji Ganesan. From stage to films  Pen Paduththum Paadu (1954) with Sandhya became the 1963 movie Arivaali . ‘Vietnam Veedu’ Sundaram’s Kannan Vandaan (1968) became the 1973 movie Gauravam . 1961’s Petraldhan Pillaiah (which became the 1963 movie Paar Magale Paar ) signalled Mahendra’s entry as a professional theatre actor and he has been part of every UAA play since. He mentions the excellent writers UAA has had through its long innings, including Padmanabhan, ‘Vietnam Veedu’ Sundaram, Mouli, ‘Vennira Adai’ Murthy, P.V.Y. Raman, Venkat and ‘Chitralaya’ Sriram among others. Actor A.R. Srinivasan (ARS) joined YGP in 1962 when Padmanabhan left. “ARS brought in a lot of young talent including Mouli and Visu.” ARS’ other discovery, Suppini (T.M. Subramanian), has been a fixture at UAA since joining 48 years ago. Mahendra adds, “ Sivaji Ganesan Sir, who watched all our plays until his death, would always ask if Suppini was in each one.” UAA’s Vaalibam Thirumbinal was the first Tamil play to be telecast on Doordarshan Madras on its inaugural day (August 15, 1975). Mahendra’s first movie was Navagraham , by K. Balachander in 1970. He has since acted in more than 250 films, including 33 with Sivaji Ganesan, and in more than 15 television serials, producing and directing some as well. Premiering at Narada Gana Sabha tomorrow (and on Sunday, at 6.30 p.m., followed by shows in many other venues; tickets at Bookmyshow.com) UAA’s latest play, Charukesi , is inspired by the late Crazy Mohan. Mahendra explains that Mohan had envisioned a powerful script laced with humour, keeping him in mind, but passed away before writing it. “Balaji (Mohan’s brother), Venkat and I brainstormed and Venkat completed the script in barely 10 days. It is about a star Carnatic singer who develops Alzheimer’s.” The title music is by Rajhesh Vaidhya and the background score by ‘Hindu’ Bala. According to Mahendra, UAA is the only Tamil theatre group that has travelled widely across the world. The countries visited include the U.S., Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, the Gulf countries, U.K., France, Germany, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Kenya, Canada and Thailand. UAA also has a Chicago branch now that casts for their North American shows. “My goal is to stage Tamil plays wherever there is a Tamil diaspora,” says the actor.  The Chennai-based author writes on art and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/celebrating-a-milestone/article37449251.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The energy of a live performance||Colourful rangolis and earthen lanterns illuminated the vast India International Centre (IIC) in Delhi during the week-long ‘The IIC Experience’ festival, which returned after a year. Besides music, dance and theatre, there were film screenings, exhibitions and gourmet spreads put together by master chefs. It was both a ruhaani and jismaani ghiza (feast for the soul and palate). The festive ambience uplifted the spirits of artistes and audiences alike. The evening concerts proved that even the best of virtual performances can’t match the energy of live concerts. The instant appreciation from the audience brings out the best in an artiste. The rapport between the two enhances the joy of music. It was exciting to experience this once again at Shalmali Joshi’s concert. Training and practice Trained in Gwalior, Kirana and Jaipur-Atrauli gharanas, Shalmali was initiated into music by her mother Madhuri Kulkarni and was further groomed by Chintu Bua Mhaiskar and Pt. Ratnakar Pai in the intricacies of Jaipur Atrauli gayaki, known for its jod-raag (combination of two or more raags) and the ‘anvat’ (rare) raags too. No wonder she chose Khem-Kalyan, a rare variety of Kalyan thaat, to open her concert and rendered it with appeal and grace. The melody sounded quite close to the popular evening raag Yaman but with a different flavour, created in the way the sequence of swaras ‘dha ni sa ga re’ were dealt with. And this intriguing characteristic was maintained throughout her unhurried and restrained delineation of the raag that comprised the introductory alap, the traditional bada khayal set to vilambit (slow) Teentaal, and chhota khayal set to Addha Theka of madhya (medium tempo) and drut (fast tempo) of Teentaal. Shaalmali’s fine timbre and throw of voice proved invaluable to express the inherent mood of the raag. ‘Piharwa...’, the vilambit Teentaal bandish, rendered with great feeling and beauty was the pièce de résistance . Her tonal elegance steeped in shruti-shuddhata brought alive not just the melodious raag but also the lyrics. Conceived with clarity, the systematic treatment of the raag with the gradual ( sur-dar-sur ) badhat vouched for her authentic taleem (training) while her effortless rendering of complicated taans spoke highly of her rigorous riyaaz (practice). Vinay Mishra’s evocative harmonium followed each of Shalmali’s notes and nuances like a shadow, while Tejovrush Joshi (her talented son) provided a gentle sangat on the tabla through the bada khayal. The repeated progression of the tempo during the chhota khayal, though, could have been avoided. Raag Jhinjhoti came next with a madhya-vilambit khayal, ‘Eri aali bhaag jaage, Mohan more ghar aaye’, set to Rupak taal of seven beats and a tarana, composed by her husband, Sunil Joshi, in Drut Ada Chautaal, a challenging cycle of 14 beats. Here, again, her voice had lucidity and focus. She also paid attention to the raag’s texture and bhaav. Due to paucity of time, Shalmali had to conclude the concert without singing a thumri, bhajan or natya sangeet. Facets of Shiva The inaugural evening also featured ‘Shiva... Facets of Him’, by Mumbai-based Bharatanatyam dancer and choreographer Vaibhav Arekar, along with the dancers of his Sankhya Dance Company. He brought alive the iconic representation of Shiva as a metaphor for the cosmos. Vaibhav’s production sailed through alarippu, varnam and swarajati interpreting Shiva as nirgun-niraakar (the formless) and saguna-saakar (one with a form), as ardhanarishwara (Shiva-Parvati) and Hari-Hara (Shiva-Vishnu), to depict the concept of merging identity into the principle of non-duality. He concluded with the depiction of Shiva as Nataraj, who represents the movement of life, creation, sustenance and dissolution. Opening with the strains of raag Kedar interpreting Shiva’s attributes and adjectives as Shankar, Gangadhar, Neelkant, Chandramowli, etc., with the dancers creating geometric patterns covering the entire stage at the open-air Fountain lawns, the programme was thoughtfully conceived and choreographed by Vaibhav Arekar with compositions by Adi Shankara, Muthuswami Dikshitar, Vaidyanath Bhagavatar, and Swati Tirunal. The music for the production was by Sudha Raghuram, Ambika Vishwanath, Satish Krishnamurthy, and Himanshu Shrivastava. The music at times didn’t match the movements, although the renditions by Sudha Raghuraman and Arun Gopinath were pleasing.  The Delhi-based reviewer writes on classical arts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-energy-of-a-live-performance/article37449268.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Many shades of music||When a Carnatic concert series is themed on colours, what you experience is a kaleidoscope of ragas and kritis. MadRasana’s Tinge festival, streamed between October 27 and 31, featured the works of an array of composers — from the Sangam era to the Trinity to Bharati. The theme was conceptualised by MadRasana’s Mahesh Venkateswaran along with architect, lyricist and storyteller Vinay Varanasi. The five pallavis based on five colours and presented by five artistes were written by Vinay. The series began with the colour red and the compositions chosen brought out the various aspects of the colour and the emotions associated with it. The artiste was S. Adithyanarayanan, who was accompanied by Vittal Rangan on the violin and Akshay Ram on the mridangam. The Srividya upasana speaks of the primordial guru with three feet in hues of red — raktha shukla misra — red, white and a mix of both. Dikshitar’s ‘Sri Guruguhamurte’ in Udayaravichandrika perfectly fitted this concept with the raga’s name also representing the colour of the rising sun and the moon. The dhyana shloka from Subramanya Kavacham that preceded it begins with ‘Sindhuraruna kantim’ and merged well with the kriti. Then came the composition ‘Japakusuma’ (red flower) written by Vinay and tuned by Adithyanarayanan in Kalyani. The kriti speaks of goddess Kamakshi offering the flower to Shiva, who performs the cosmic dance during twilight wearing a garland of japakusuma that emanates a vibrant red hue. . While red is conventionally seen as the colour of power, the pallavi highlighted its unique trait — compassion. Drawing reference from Adi Shankara’s Soundaryalahari , Vinay’s pallavi, ‘Karunarasamahitaam’ set to misra triputa tala with a gopuccha yati woven into it, was skilfully tuned in raga Sahana by Adithyanarayanan’s guru T.M. Krishna. The leisurely tempo gave a gentle feel to the phrases. Subramanya Bharati’s ‘Nenjukku needhiyum’ in Sindhubhairavi representing Shakti gave way to a virutham with lines from the poem ‘ Yaayum ngyaayum’ belonging to  the Kurunthogai of Sangam literature. It compares hearts overcome with love to red soil mingling with rain. The Ramayana chindu in ragamalika, set as a conversation between a fortuneteller and Sita before she met Rama, sustained the feel of the virutham. In perfect sync Anahita and Apoorva dealt with yellow, with B. Ananthakrishnan on the violin and N.C. Bharadwaj on the mridangam. A colour associated with gold and sandalwood, the two main compositions were Muthuswami Dikshitar’s ‘Hiranmayim Lakshmim’ in Lalitha and Syama Sastri’s ‘Kanakasaila viharini’ in Punnagavarali — appended to a shloka beginning with ‘Kalaleela Shala’ from the Stuthi Shathakam of Mooka Panchashathi that also has a reference to goddess Kamakshi residing in ‘Kanakagiri.’ Harikesanallur Muthiah Bhagavatar’s ‘Haridra kumkuma priye’ in Surutti extols the goddess as the one fond of the auspicious turmeric and kumkum. The niraval and swarakalpana at the charanam lines ‘Mani mantranidhi’ lent radiance. Though yellow usually refers to goddesses, the pallavi focussed on the turmeric ablution for the Venkateswara deity in Tirumala on Fridays. The lyrics ‘Kanti prabhe Govinda vaksha vihaare, haridra snana priye’ was set in two ragas, Suryakantham and Surya. The duo rendered it in the challenging misra jati matya tala in tisra nadai without the calculations overshadowing the beauty of the lyrics. The smooth interchanging of the ragas and the ragamalika section with Hemavathi and Kanakangi, again complimented the pallavi’s verses. Oothukkadu Venkatakavi’s composition in Malavi, ‘Vallare samane’ (Krishna glowing in pitambaram) with madhyamakala phrases in pallavi, anupallavi and charanam; and Jayadeva's ‘Chandana charchita’ in Madhuvanti too lent themselves to the theme well . Next, Aditya Madhavan focussed on blue. With M. Vijay on the violin and Akshay Ananta Padmanabhan on the mridangam, Aditya presented Muthu Thandavar’s composition ‘Ambara Chidambara’ in Janaranjani with chittaswaram and kalpanaswaras. Muthuswami Diskhitar’s ‘Neelotpalambikaya’ in Kannadagowla, reminding one of the blue water lily, was rendered in a slow tempo. Apt choices The choice of Tyagaraja’s compositions on Rama that have the phrase ‘Ghana neela’, deep blue, and the knowledge associated with it, reflected the thought processes that have gone into the selection of the kritis. A majestic Atana raga alapana, for ‘Ela ni dayaradu’ and the Utsava sampradaya keerthana ‘Poola paanpu’ in Ahiri that has the words ‘neela ghana Shyama hare’ in one of its lines, suited the concept well. Raga Nilambari, a natural choice for blue, brought in Annamacharya’s ‘Tholiyanu marraku’, which describes baby Krishna on the banyan leaf floating in blue water. A short verse in Marathi, ‘Mana Rama Rangle’, that tells the mind to take the colour of Rama, was in raga Yamuna Kalyani. The pallavi was inspired by the story of Shiva, who takes the form of a gopi to partake in Krishna’s rasleela (‘Krishna hrudaya vaasi Neelakantha ma swami gopi rupa dalachi’). Ragas Kaanada and Shyam Kalyan were chosen to represent Krishna and Shiva. To make the pallavi colourful, Aditya added ragas Manirangu and Saranga that have ‘rang’ (meaning colour in Hindi) in their names. Fresh notes Spoorthi Rao’s concert with Sayee Rakshith on the violin and Sai Giridhar on the mridangam was themed on green. Dikshitar’s Kamboji raga kriti ‘Maragadhavallim manasaasmarami’, with a reference to emeralds and green creepers in the very first phrase with an alapana and kalpanaswaras gave a vibrant start to the concert. Bhadrachala Ramadas’s ‘Ennaganu Rama bhajana,’ where the poet talks about how he taught a parakeet to recite Rama nama, came next. The niraval and kalpanaswaras at ‘Rama chiluka’ was a thoughtful move. The raga for the pallavi section, Vasantha, brought alive the imagery of spring. The Kannada lyrics, ‘Vanada sundari, O priya giliye’ addressed the parrot in goddess Meenakshi’s hand. The pallavi was set to tune by one of Spoorthi’s gurus, Gayathri of the Ranjani-Gayathri duo. Ragas such as Vasanti, Behag and Shanmukhapriya embellished the ragamalika section, blending well with Sant Tukaram’s abhang ‘Vrukshavalli amha soyari’, set to tune by Spoorthi in Bhimplaas, which says that for a soul to be happy it must be amidst nature. White as purity Sunil Gargyan chose white. Accompanied by R. Raghu on the violin and Sumesh Narayanan on the mridangam, he had a wide choice of songs by various composers to choose from. The swan and Saraswati dominated along with the moon’s glow and the snow-clad Himalayas. Beginning with the Tamil varnam ‘Anname aravaabharanai azhaithu vaa’ by Tiger Varadachari in Arabhi, Sunil moved on to a rarely heard piece on Hayagriva, ‘Chandramandala madhyastham’ by Swachannan Aravamudacharyar, which describes the god as ‘sunirmalam’ or of pristine nature and as one who glows with the luminosity of innumerable moons. ‘Kailasanathena’ by Muthuswami Dikshitar in Kamboji was in praise of Shiva atop Kailasa. The pallavi, a tribute to Saraswati, was creatively set in raga Hamsavinodini (Hamsa meaning swan). Sunil’s elaborate alapana and tanam deserve mention. According to Vinay, it was set in Srotovaha Yati, in which the increasing syllabic pattern is inspired by the structure of the dotted white kolam. The pallavi lines ‘Thaam, sannuthaam, Hamsanuthaam, paramahamsanuthaam, bhajeham sharadham’ addresses Sharada, whose devotee was Ramakrishna Paramahamsa. Tyagaraja’s ‘Sashivadana’ in Chandrajyoti, speaking of a glowing moon soothing an uneasy mind, was another brilliant choice. The words in the abhang ‘Avgha rang’ by Soyrabhai set in Sindhubhairavi represented shuddha satva or purity, implying that everything dissolves into the purity of paramatma. The mangalam that followed spoke of all colours converging into white. The IIT-Madras Research Park auditorium brought the theme alive in different colours each day.  The Chennai-based reviewer specialises in Carnatic music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/many-shades-of-music/article37449281.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||An iconic children’s play||Despite the fact that children have been an integral part of the Tamil theatre, especially in the early decades of the 20th century, when the Boys Company movement (where actors were aged between 4 and 13) was at its peak, there have been very few plays for them. Though short skits were written and performed on radio, there were hardly any stage plays for children. An attempt was made in 1955, when the Kuzhandhai Ezhuthalar Sangam organised a drama festival that featured many short plays for children by writers such as Bhaktavatsalam, Poovannan and Koothapiran. It, however, took a man best known for his productions based on historical subjects, T.K. Shanmugam, to stage a full-length children’s play, Appavin Aasai . The play was written by journalist and playwright Tiruchi Bharathan. Born in September 1934, Bharathan took a keen interest in children’s literature, inspired by noted writer Azha Valliappa. He even won a prize for his essay on the importance of moral stories for children in a competition organised by Pooncholai , a popular magazine then. He wrote several songs and stories for children, and Appavin Aasai, dealing with the travails of a young boy and his family, was one such. Bharathan sent it to a couple of magazines, but they did not evince any interest. Destiny, however, had other plans. Bharathan received a call from All India Radio, Tiruchi, asking for a children’s story running to a duration of 30 minutes. He submitted Appavin Aasai after making a few modifications. It was serialised and broadcast over three Sundays and was well received by listeners. One of the listeners, Suba Natesan, who was the head of the Pudukkottai Tamil Nilayam, suggested that it be brought out in the form of a book. Additions were made to the story and the book was brought out by the Tiruchi Writers Association. When TKS met Bharathan Upon hearing that T.K. Shanmugam was looking to stage a play for children, Bharathan sent him a copy of the book. Shanmugam went to Tiruchi to meet Bharathan and discuss the book, and invited him to Madras to work on the screenplay and dialogue. Bharathan has recounted this interaction in an article in the Sankaradas Swamigal Centenary souvenir and it makes for interesting reading. Bharathan writes that he received a warm welcome by Shanmugam at his home on Lloyds Road. Arrangements had been made for him to write the screenplay at a hotel, although Shanmugam suggested it could be done on the terrace of his house, under his supervision. Bharathan decided to write on the terrace. Each day’s writing session began with a discussion of the scene, after which the dialogues were written. Shanmugam and his brother Bhagavathy took Bharathan along when they went to watch plays in the evenings and introduced him to artistes. Sometimes they would have extensive discussions on that evening’s play, which proved to be a great learning experience for Bharathan.  Appavin Aasai , which was supported by the Tamil Nadu Iyal Isai Nataka Manram through a grant of Rs. 3,000, was inaugurated in June, 1965, at NKT Kala Mantap, Triplicane. The play had a mix of children and adult artistes. Justice K.S. Venkatraman of the Madras High Court presided over the inauguration with several dignitaries such as advocate K. Balasubramania Iyer and actor and political leader D.V. Narayanaswamy in the audience. The play was a grand success. In its review, the Sport and Pastime magazine commended the ‘charming performances of the juvenile artistes’ and credited the TKS brothers for their rigorous training. It made a special mention of the lead artiste, a young boy of about 11, who ‘gave a heart-warming performance with subdued acting’. This boy was no newcomer to acting, he had appeared in a few films as a child artiste. He went on to become one of Indian cinema’s shining stars. His name is Kamal Haasan.  The writer is a heritage buff and amateur Tamil theatre artiste.   This boy was no newcomer to acting, he had appeared in a few films as a child artiste||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/an-iconic-childrens-play/article37449284.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||The mark of a mature artiste||The easing of restrictions has brought the performing arts back on stage. Rasika Ranjani Sabha heralded the season with a series of dance performances in their Navaratri Mahotsav. Senior dancer Meenakshi Chittaranjan was part of the line-up. . Meenakshi, carrying on the tradition of the Pandanallur bani, began her performance with a small verse written by Adi Shankara in praise of the goddess, before moving on to a composition of the Thanjavur Quartet, ‘Sri Rajarajeshwari’ in raga Rama Manohari, Adi tala. Addressed to Brahadambha, the consort of Lord Brahadeeshwara, Meenakshi described the attributes of the goddess through simple graceful postures and gestures. Timeless appeal of a kriti Watching the Khamas raga varnam, ‘Swamiyai azhaithu odi vadi’, after a long gap was an experience of great joy. The grandeur of the composition, the interplay of swaras and sahitya in a poetic manner remains unparalleled. It proves the timeless appeal of the Thanjavur Quartet composition in which the nayika tells her sakhi to fetch Shiva, the one who wears snakes as ornaments, has tiger skin for clothes, and whose body is smeared with ash. Meenakshi explored the two facets of Shiva’s third eye — destroying Manmadha and creating the six-headed Muruga through her sancharis. The choice of a leisurely pace allowed the dancer to perform the jathi sequences in the varnam with perfection and precision in varying speeds, making it a pleasure to watch. The popular ragamalika Devarnama ‘Baro Krishnayya’ by Kanakadasa highlighted the bhakti element through a beautiful visualisation of the story of Kanakadasa. A staunch Krishna devotee, he is denied entry into the Udupi temple since he is a shepherd. But moved by his devotion, it’s the god himself who turns around so that Kanakadasa can have darshan. Meenakshi’s portrayal of Kanakadasa’s anguish over not being able to enter the temple and his excitement over seeing Krishna brought to the fore her years of experience and maturity as an artiste. The musical support that enhanced the performance was provided by Pandanallur Pandian (cymbals), singer Gomathinayakam, Kalaiarasan (violin), and Shakthivel Muruganandam (mridangam).  The Chennai-based writer reviews classical dance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-mark-of-a-mature-artiste/article37449270.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Dedicated to Poornam Viswanathan||The family members of the late Poornam Viswanathan, and members of Poornam New Theater and Gurukulam, in association with Kartik Fine Arts and Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Chennai, will celebrate the actor’s birth centenary on November 15, 6 p.m., at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Main Hall, Mylapore. The screening of a documentary on Viswanathan, produced by Mudhra, will be followed by an award function. Theatre artiste T.D. Sundararajan will be honoured with the Poornam Viswanathan Centenary Award. Gurukulam’s short play, Vandhavan , written by Sujatha and directed by Poornam Viswanathan, will be staged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/dedicated-to-poornam-viswanathan/article37449265.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebrating Parampara||Natya Tarangini’s annual Parampara festival is dedicated to 75 years of Independence. To be held in hybrid format from November 12 to 14 and November 19 to 21 (7.30 p.m.), it will feature jugalbandi performances by well-known artistes from India and abroad. The offline concert, open to limited audience, will be held at Natya Tarangini Insitute of Performing Arts, New Delhi, with a simulcast on United Nations and Raja Radha Reddy’s YouTube channels and on Natya Tarangini’s’ Facebook page. The line up includes: November 12: Raja- Radha Reddy and Yamini Reddy (Kuchipudi) with Ronu Majumdar (flute). November 13: Gauri Diwakar (Kathak) with Bhuvanesh Komkali (Hindustani vocal). November 14: Shubhendra Rao (sitar) with Saskia Rao (Indian cello). November 19: Pt. Madhup Mudgal and Sawani Mudgal (Hindustani vocal) with Arushi Mudgal (Odissi). November 20: Tiruvarur Bhaktavatsalam (mridangam) with Pt. Yogesh Samsi (tabla). November 21: Abhishek Raghuram (Carnatic vocal) with Sanjeev Abhyankar (Hindustani vocal). Passes are available on BookmyShow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/celebrating-parampara/article37449271.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Special instrumental concert||Veteran violinist A. Kanyakumari’s weekly thematic series based on Tyagaraja’s Ekaika  ragas  (in which only one kriti is thought to exist), that was launched on December 13, 2019, completes 100 episodes today. It will be marked by a special instrumental concert, ‘Shatha ekaika raga vaibhavam’, which will be led by the violinist and will feature 70 of her disciples from across the globe. To be held at 5 p.m. this evening, it is being presented by Chethas in association with Apsaras Arts and can be viewed at apsarasarts.com/avai. For tickets log on to chethas.org/events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/special-instrumental-concert/article37449275.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Immaculate raga exposition||A rare enthusiasm and freshness marked the online vocal concert of Amrutha Venkatesh for the 63rd Annual Art Festival of the South Indian Cultural Association, Hyderabad. She opened the concert on a confident note with ‘Amma Aanandadaayini’, the Gambhiranattai padavarnam by M. Balamuralikrishna. Her immaculate kalapramana and flair for rhythmical grammar came to the fore instantly. This padavarnam is a great example of the musician and composer’s spirit of experimentation and vast creativity. Melodic swaraprastara Amrutha followed this up with Swati Tirunal’s popular Mayamalavagowla composition, ‘Deva deva kalayami’ in Rupakam, with a lengthy, melodic swaraprastara at the pallavi. L. Ramakrishnan on the violin offered an equally charming response. Amrutha is known for blending tradition with innovation. She is a disciple of Prince Rama Varma and was also trained by the legendary Parassala Ponnammal. She had her earlier tutelage under M.T. Selvanarayana and Charumathi Ramachandran. Amrutha won the Music Academy’s Outstanding Vocalist award for five consecutive years from 2013. She is an eminent veena artiste as well. In this concert, the jewel in the crown, so to speak, was the leisurely and extended alapana in the not-so-often-heard Nasikabhushani, the 70th Melakarta raga. The singer faithfully brought out the authentic features of this beautiful raga. Her cruise across three octaves was admirable, especially for the rare yet pleasant phrasings. The raga rendering on the violin deserved appreciation too. Amrutha’s kalpanaswaras for Tyagaraja’s ‘Maravairi Ramani’ (Adi – Tisra Nadai) on goddess Dharmasamvarddhini of Thiruvaiyaru were a connoisseur’s delight. Then came the breezy Kadanakuthuhalam composition by Mysore Vasudevachar, ‘Neekela dayaradu Raghu Ramachandra’. How can we ever imagine a kriti in this raga without chittaswara; and this piece had one, starting with MaGaRiMaDa. The highlight, however, was Tyagaraja’s all-time favourite ‘Chakkani raja margamu’. She combined diverse features and hues of Karaharapriya here. The swaraprastara at the charanam, ‘Kantiki sundaramagu’ was lucid. The thani offered by S.J. Arjun Ganesh (mridangam) and Dr. S. Karthick (ghatam) was of high quality. While the laya artistry of Arjun Ganesh was smooth and enjoyable, Karthick gave several hints of his rhythm finesse. Amrutha Venkatesh then rendered Annamacharya’s ‘Muddugare Yasoda’ in Kurinji, evoking the emotion of bhakti. She ended her recital with her own composition, a thillana in raga Surya, invoking Surya. S. Sowmya, her student, was on the tambura. The concert is available on Hopead TV’s YouTube channel.  The Chennai-based reviewer specialises in Carnatic music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/immaculate-raga-exposition/article37449273.ece
12 November 2021||November 12 2021 00:00 IST,||Rajarani festival||The stage is back at the sprawling lawns of the 11th century Rajarani temple in Bhubaneshwar for the annual music festival, to be held from November 14 to 16. Hosted by the Odisha government’s Department of Tourism, the event will feature flautist Jabahar Mishra, Ashwini-Bhide Deshpande, Sabari Khan (sarangi), Ranjani-Gayathri, Bijaya Kumar Jena and the Akkarai sisters. The festival will be streamed on the tourism department’s social media handles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/rajarani-festival/article37449263.ece
12 November 2021||Pune,||No breakthrough in strike by transport staff||The transport impasse in Maharashtra showed no signs of resolving itself with Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) employees refusing to budge from their ongoing strike on Thursday in spite of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's earlier calls to resume duties. More than 900 staffers have been suspended by the State government since the beginning of this week for inciting and participating in the strike. While the protest has been going on for nearly two weeks now, it has intensified since Monday with the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) coming out in support of the MRTC workers and demanding that the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) Government immediately fulfill the protestors’ chief demand which is to be accepted as State government employees. Accusing Opposition BJP of stoking the fumes of protest, State Transport Minister Anil Parab claimed that while many MSRTC workers wanted to resume duties, they were being prevented from doing so. “The government will provide these workers protection… I have been repeatedly urging the ST workers to take back the strike as it is greatly inconveniencing ordinary citizens. The chief demands of the MSRTC employees will have to be solved by the State government-appointed high-level committee as per the Bombay High Court’s directions,” Mr. Parab said on Thursday. ‘Demands accepted’ Observing that the government had already accepted all the demands of the protesting workers excepting the one pertaining to increment, the Minister censured the intransigence of the agitators while noting that the High Court had already declared the strike invalid. He reiterated again that the MSRTC workers’ prime demand for merger with the State government was not one that could be acted on at a short notice. “The government had already appointed a committee to study the merger demand…there are more than 50 corporations like the MSRTC. If the MSRTC were to be merged, then all of them would be demanding a similar merger with the State government,” Mr. Parab said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-breakthrough-in-strike-by-transport-staff/article37449740.ece
12 November 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab House passes resolution against BSF’s enhanced jurisdiction||Terming Centre’s decision on extending jurisdiction of Border Security Force (BSF) in Punjab as an expression of distrust and insult towards the State police, the Punjab Assembly on Thursday passed a resolution against the Centre’s notification and demanded its withdrawal. The House also witnessed noisy scenes and multiple adjournments with members of the ruling Congress party and the Opposition Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) embroiling in heated exchanges over the issues and the farm laws. The House passed the resolution in absence of the two BJP MLAs, who left the Assembly before it was brought in. The resolution, which was moved by Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, said the decision of extending the jurisdiction of BSF from 15 kilometres to 50 kilometres by the Union government is an expression of distrust towards the State police and the People of Punjab. Speaking in the House, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi accused the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) of seeing everything through the narrow prism of politics, especially the issues of utmost importance to Punjab such as devolution of more powers to the States. “Akali Dal were the gateway through which the RSS, which has always been inimical to the interests of Punjab, managed to make inroads into the State. When the RSS and its political wing the BJP undermined the federal structure of the country by revoking the Article 370 not only did the Akalis took sides with the BJP, but SAD President Sukhbir Singh Badal spoke in favour of the move and even went to the extent of not voting against the undemocratic move,” said Mr. Channi. CM accuses Majithia The situation in the House turned tense when Chief Minister accused Akali Dal leader and former Minister Bikram Singh Majithia of supporting the illegal drug trade. Agitated over the remark, members of Akali Dal thronged towards the treasury benches. Congress members including Navjot Singh Sidhu and Mr. Majithia were seen in animated throw of words at each other. The Speaker then adjourned the House. The Aam Aadmi Party members staged a walkout over the BSF issue, accusing the Chief Minister of selling Punjab’s interests by striking a deal with the Centre government. Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said that Mr. Channi should tell his compulsion of his kneeling before the Centre government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-house-passes-resolution-against-bsfs-extended-jurisdiction/article37449545.ece
12 November 2021||Begusarai (bihar),||Mob goes on rampage after man’s death||An irate mob went on a rampage in Bihar’s Begusarai district on Thursday, setting ablaze a health centre and torching the vehicle of a government doctor and a police car after a man drowned during Chhath Puja rituals, police said. Several police personnel were also injured in the attack, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mob-goes-on-rampage-after-mans-death/article37449739.ece
