14 November 2021||Mumbai,||26 Naxals killed in Gadchiroli||At least 26 Naxals were killed on Saturday in an encounter with the Maharashtra police in Gadchiroli district, said State’s Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil. “Today’s action is historic not only in the history of the State but also of the country. We are proud of our police,” Mr. Walse-Patil said. The encounter reportedly took place in the early hours of Saturday at the Mardintola forest near Korchi in Gadchiroli district. A C-60 police commando team was conducting the search operation based on inputs when they encountered the Naxals, said Gadchiroli Superintendent of Police Ankit Goyal. Bodies recovered The team was led by Additional SP Somay Munde. Three police officials were injured during the operation and have been admitted to the hospital and are said to be stable. “We have recovered 26 bodies so far from the forest,” said Mr. Goyal. The identity of the slain Naxals was yet to be ascertained, sources said. Milind Teltumbde, a member of the Maoists’ central committee, was suspected to be among those dead, some reports said, though police did not confirm them. Mr. Walse-Patil said that the police were verifying if Teltumbde, who is also one of the wanted accused in the Bhima Koregaon case, was among the slain rebels. The district where the ambush took place lies on the border of Chhattisgarh.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/26-naxals-killed-in-gadchiroli/article37483040.ece
14 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Vigil up as rain to continue till Monday||The State Government has stepped up vigil with heavy rainfall likely to batter several districts till at least Monday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has appealed to the people to remain alert. Relief camps will be opened in landslip/mudslide and flood-prone regions. High ranges, riverine regions and tourist spots have been put on high alert. Thiruvananthapuram and parts of other southern districts logged heavy rainfall on Saturday. Thiruvananthapuram, which was on red alert on Saturday following incessant rainfall, reported localised mudslides and waterlogging in several places. Houses and roads were damaged in the rain havoc. No casualties were reported. Two trains were fully cancelled and 10 other partially following landslips in the Neyyattinkara-Parassala section in Thiruvananthapuram district and the Eraniel-Kuzhithurai section in neighbouring Tamil Nadu on Saturday morning. Till Saturday evening, 571 people were shifted to relief camps in Thiruvananthapuram. In all, 33 camps have been opened in the district. The shutters of the Neyyar, Peppara and Aruvikkara dams in the districts are in a raised position. In Alappuzha In Alappuzha, the district administration has opened at least one relief camp at Venmony in Chengannur. Six families (20 people) have been relocated here. More relief camps would be opened in the taluk as floodwaters had entered several houses, officials said. The district administration has also opened 50 gruel centres in Kuttanad taluk. Water level in major rivers in the region, including the Pampa, Manimala and Achencoil, has risen, but remains below the danger mark. Rainfall is likely to continue till Monday in the State under the influence of strong westerlies. However, the State should remain vigilant as the IMD has forecast above-normal rainfall for the State over the next two weeks, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vigil-up-as-rain-to-continue-till-monday/article37483515.ece
14 November 2021||New Delhi,||Curbs in polluted Delhi after SC moots lockdown||All schools in Delhi will remain closed for a week beginning Monday as part of steps announced to tackle air pollution in the Capital. All construction activity has been prohibited and Government employees will work from home. Private offices too have been advised to follow suit. This follows an emergency meeting convened by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday evening to assess the impact of air pollution. Earlier in the morning, a Special Bench of the Supreme Court, led by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, assembled to urge the Centre and the Delhi Government to take “emergency measures”, even proposing a two-day lockdown, to bring air quality back to normal in a capital choked by pollution. The Delhi Government, Mr. Kejriwal’s office said in the evening, would prepare a detailed proposal on imposing a lockdown across the capital till the situation improved and would submit it to the Supreme Court. “Do you know how bad the situation is? People have to wear masks even at home... Think of a two-day lockdown... Reports said air is 'severe' in Delhi and may become worse in another two or three days... You have to take immediate measures... ,” Chief Justice Ramana addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre. Mr. Mehta acknowledged that “there was a possibility that the air would go from 'severe’ to ‘emergency’ category. He said a meeting has been scheduled to decide the “emergency response”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curbs-in-polluted-delhi-after-supreme-court-rap/article37483035.ece
14 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. under pressure to revisit ‘travel bubble’ policy||With airfares for returning students and families from Europe and North America doubling and even quadrupling this winter, and permitted flights from a limited 28 countries running packed, the Union Government is facing pressure from many quarters, including foreign embassies and the tourism industry, to restore regular international flights. These flights had been cancelled due to the COVID pandemic in March 2020. Diplomatic sources told The Hindu that a number of embassies have written to the Ministry of External Affairs and Ministry of Civil Aviation demanding an end to what they see as an “unfair” system, where only those countries that the government has chosen to sign “air travel bubble” agreements with are able to run flights, and even those are limited by the Government’s reciprocal agreements. Further the agreements are meant to be only “end to end”, i.e. not valid for onward travel to a third country, meaning that travellers often have to break their journeys at multiple points to travel to a destination to which India doesn't permit a direct flight. At a recent event in the capital, Minister of Civil Aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia faced several questions from ambassadors and high commissioners on the issue, and was “besieged” by requests to normalise flights to pre-COVID levels, according to attendees. “There is a general feeling that air bubbles have dragged on for far too long. International flights could reopen in December-January. The thinking in the government has changed recently as COVID cases are on the wane," one official told The Hindu , conceding that the government is now feeling the pressure to reconsider its policy. With nearly 100 countries now accepting Indians vaccinated with WHO-approved Covishield and Covaxin, travel agents and airlines are also asking why India is not rationalising flights, even suggesting that the government is holding out for renegotiating its air service agreements. “The so-called bubbles, I don't really think are driven by COVID. Because we’ve heard of the desire on the part of the Indian Government to renegotiate their air service agreements. I think COVID is being used to mask a different issue,” International Air Transport Association (IATA) President Willie Walsh said at a press conference in Geneva earlier this month. The Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Ministry of External Affairs did not respond to requests for a comment on the allegations. However, The Hindu spoke to a number of officials who accepted that the issue over air travel bubbles was growing, especially as more travellers seek to visit India from countries that used to fly directly to India, but aren’t at present. This has particularly hit European countries. Switzerland, for example, had approached the government to restart direct flights of the Swiss International Airlines in February 2021, but no permissions have come through yet. A Chennai-Zurich ticket could now cost a traveller a whopping Rs. 2.75 lakhs. Flights from the U.S. and Canada can cost more than Rs. 1lakh one-way, while some European passengers have to break journey in two places to travel to India. Turkish Airlines, one of the more popular airlines with more than 200 flights to 90 countries, has had no flights to India for 20 months, and the Polish airline LOT, that inaugurated its first flight in September 2019, has not been able to run flights since March 2020 despite several reminders from embassies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-urged-to-rethink-travel-bubble-policy/article37483043.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||Defence establishment running parallel government: KTR||Telangana Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao said on Saturday that it appeared as if the defence establishment ran a “parallel government” and a “parallel system” by setting up obstacles to development of road infrastructure in Hyderabad. “They feel they are not part of the State,” he said at a press conference while referring to instances of closure of roads and the inability of State government to develop roads running through cantonment areas. He cited the “frustrating experience” of driving through Paradise-Shamirpet and Patny-Kompally roads as they were narrow and choked with traffic. This was brought to the notice of Prime Minister and Defence Minister several times with a request to let the State government develop them. A check dam was also constructed across analain the cantonment of Langar Houz which threatened to submerge a tank nearby. Thenalawas the outlet for rainwater coming from Banjara Hills. Mr. Rao said tens of civic issues of Hyderabad are pending clearance with the Centre. The government would ferret them out and seek their redressal by launching protests. The government adopted a dignified approach with the Centre in the last seven-and-a-half years but it’s time to raise its head now, the Minister said. The Centre only releases funds which the State is entitled to as a matter of constitutional right. It never got additional money like Bengaluru where the Centre is liberal in releasing Rs. 17,000 crore for metro rail. Mr. Rao said there is no dearth of funds for infrastructure development in the State. Its double bed room housing which had already cost the exchequer Rs. 18,000 crore is the largest in the country. One double bed room house is equal to ten Indiramma houses constructed by the previous Congress regime, he said. The government spent Rs. 3,000 crore from Telangana Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation on capital works and payment of wages to municipal staff. The wages of sanitation workers were increased four times after the TRS came to power. They got Rs. 12,000 a month in Hyderabad, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ktr-unhappy-with-defence-establishment/article37483460.ece
14 November 2021||TIRUPATI,||A.P. to raise inter-State issues, special status||The State government is all set to utilise Sunday’s 29th Southern Zonal Council meeting here to press for solutions to the some of the vexed inter-State issues, besides seeking fulfilment of the promises as per the provisions of the A.P. State Reorganisation Act. Minister for Panchayat Raj P. Ramachandra Reddy told the media here that the State would pursue its genuine demands with the Centre in a harmonious way. He said the agenda was meticulously prepared to focus on the water issues with Telangana, besides realising the promises of special status and pending grants from the Centre. “We will bring to the notice of Union Home Minister Amit Shah the development agenda of the YSRCP government, and are hopeful of a positive response from him,” he said. Mr. Reddy said the issue pertaining to the Palar river waters between Kuppam and Tamil Nadu would also be discussed, apart from border conflict with Odisha. The Minister said that conducting the Southern Zonal Council meeting in Tirupati was a matter of pride to Andhra Pradesh and Chittoor district in particular. The State government made elaborate arrangements for the meeting scheduled at Hotel Taj, which would have the presence of a galaxy of dignitaries from the southern States and Union Territories. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will deliver the welcome address, followed by the introductory addresses by the Administrator of Lakshadweep, Lieutenant Governors of the Andaman and Nicobar, and Puducherry; and the Chief Ministers of Puducherry, Karnataka, Telangana, Kerala, and Andhra Pradesh. After the opening remarks of the Union Home Minister, the item-wise discussion on agenda would be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-to-raise-inter-state-issues-special-status/article37483032.ece
14 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha woman’s gratitude to a friend in need||When Minati Patnaik recently dictated her will, relatives and neighbours were in for a surprise. The sixty-something Cuttack resident decided to bequeath all her property — including jewellery and a three-storeyed building worth Rs. 1 crore — to Budha Samal, a rickshaw-puller who has served her family for two decades. Ms. Patnaik had adopted the family of four after back-to-back tragedies struck in 2020: her husband died of cancer and six months later her daughter, a spinster, suffered a fatal cardiac arrest. “After the death of my husband and daughter, I was left alone. It was the worst phase of my life. I experienced depression and extreme anxiety. That was the time I needed my relatives to rally around me with words of comfort... but no one turned up,” she said. Mr. Samal stood by her in this hour of distress, always at her beck and call and helping out even at odd hours. She said, “I did not arrive at the decision to adopt Samal’s family and donate my property all of a sudden. He used to ferry my daughter all through her years in school and college. When my husband’s health was failing, he would only be a call away whenever we needed medicines.” Mr. Samal, his wife and two sons used to live in another part of town until three months ago when Ms. Patnaik asked them to move in with her. “The love and compassion shown by Samal and his family drove me to decide on spending the rest of my life with them. The price of property is nothing compared to their affection for me,” she said.  ‘Just did our duty’ The rickshaw-puller, whose fate has changed overnight, said he had not anticipated this generosity. “I have been associated with Ms. Patnaik’s family for two decades. We just did our duty,” Mr. Samal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-womans-gratitude-to-a-friend-in-need/article37483059.ece
14 November 2021||Mangaluru,||‘India should be freed from thoughts of the Congress’||BJP’s national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh said here on Saturday that the Congress is a weak Opposition and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intention is to free the country from the “thoughts” of the Congress. Addressing party workers at the valedictory function of the two-day State-level workshop of its ‘prakostas’ (cells), he said that the thinking of the Congress is based on the Western and the Eastern points of view and models which do not suit the country. “When the Prime Minister meant that there should be a Congress-mukt Bharat, it does not mean that there should be no Congress party. It means the country should be freed from the thoughts of the Congress,” Mr. Santhosh said. The BJP leader said that the country needs to be built further from “our own indigenous point of view” and not on the grounds of the models propagated by the Congress all these years. At one point calling Congress leader Rahul Gandhi “a part-time politician”, he said that “we don’t know from where he tweets”. Mr. Santhosh said that the Congress thinks that the politics is reserved only for the elite class. Even after 40 years of experience, some of its leaders lacked the mature leadership, he said. Referring to the growth of the BJP, he said: “Atal Bihari Vajpayee gave a benchmark for leadership and Mr. Modi gave a decisive leadership.” All these years the Congress did not gave full time for administration. It did the administration whenever it found time, he said. Mr. Santhosh said that the BJP should reach wherever it has not reached and it should be made to reach all. The party should be made to inclusive of all. State president of the party Nalin Kumar Kateel, Ministers S. Angara and Kota Srinivas Poojary were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-should-be-freed-from-thoughts-of-the-congress/article37483613.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Trade route||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trade-route/article37483034.ece
14 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kashmiris now share intel on terrorists: CDS||The people in Kashmir are now saying they will “lynch terrorists” and this is a “positive sign”, Chief of the Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat said at the Times Now summit. “Nobody [terrorists] are being allowed to go scot free... The same locals are now giving information about the terrorists. In fact, now what we are told is, the locals are saying we will lynch the terrorists, which is a very positive sign that is coming in,” Gen. Rawat said on the ground situation. “You go to social media. There are now statements coming out where locals are saying, if you want, we will now start lynching these terrorists because we will not allow these [terror attacks] to happen,” he said when asked about the source of his claim. He said it was the fear of the gun that kept the locals from disclosing information. But now they are coming forward, saying either we will lynch them or make such arrangements that they get lynched. Stating that he does not know whether this is a message for terrorists by the locals or whether it is being played up by the intelligence agencies, Gen. Rawat said if it was the former “then I would say it is a good card being played”. Gen. Rawat said it is a good card as we need to “put fear in the mind” of the terrorist. Asked if that would amount to encouraging vigilantism and violating human rights, Gen. Rawat questioned, “How can killing a terrorist be a human rights violation? If there is a terrorist operating in your area, why should you not lynch him?” Asked about the recent spate of civilian killings in Kashmir, Gen. Rawat said anyone carrying out a terror attack is being “eliminated or apprehended” within 48-72 hours. Terrorists also realise they are getting caught and that’s because locals are giving information about them, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kashmiris-now-say-they-will-lynch-terrorists-cds/article37483041.ece
14 November 2021||Bengaluru,||KSRTC plans to shift some of its buses to CNG||To bring down its expenditure on diesel, KSRTC is contemplating shifting some of its fleet to CNG. Currently, its diesel consumption constitutes close to 55% of its operational cost.Meanwhile, the BMTC has said that it has no plans to shift to CNG.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ksrtc-plans-to-shift-some-of-its-buses-to-cng/article37483255.ece
14 November 2021||Hassan,||Circular to VCs raises debate on autonomy||Many professors in universities and autonomous colleges are worried about losing autonomy over the curriculum they prescribe for their students, thanks to repeated reminders from the Karnataka State Higher Education Council to keep the syllabi “more or less same in all universities”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/circular-to-vcs-raises-debate-on-autonomy/article37483256.ece
14 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Dengue cases higher than official data’||The number of dengue cases reported in just seven big Delhi hospitals is more than the Government’s official figure of 4,362 for the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dengue-cases-higher-than-official-data/article37483370.ece
14 November 2021||Bhopal,||BJP’s bid to woo Gonds by renaming railway station||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has set the stage for Prime Minister Narendra Modi by renaming the first PPP-built Habibganj railway station after Rani Kamlapati, the 18th-century Gond queen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjps-bid-to-woo-gonds-by-renaming-railway-station/article37483062.ece
14 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab sees fewer stubble fires this year||Punjab has witnessed fewer stubble fire incidents this kharif season and the ‘rice burnt area’ has also seen a significant drop in comparison to last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-sees-fewer-stubble-fires-this-year/article37483063.ece
14 November 2021||Mumbai,||Curfew in Maharashtra town following violence||Curfew was imposed in Amaravati town of the Vidarbha region in Maharashtra after violence broke out for the second successive day with a mob going on the rampage and destroying property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curfew-in-maharashtra-town-following-violence/article37483064.ece
14 November 2021||BENGALURU,||Krishi Mela attracts three lakh visitors on day three||The number of visitors to the ongoing Krishi Mela being organised by the University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru nearly doubled with over three lakh people visiting it on Saturday. Besides, 12.96 lakh persons watched the event through digital platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/krishi-mela-attracts-three-lakh-visitors-on-day-three/article37483641.ece
14 November 2021||Chennai,||T.N. logs 809 fresh cases and 14 deaths||The State’s daily COVID-19 case count dropped to 809 on Saturday. Fourteen more people succumbed to the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-logs-809-fresh-cases-and-14-deaths/article37483296.ece
14 November 2021||Tiruvarur/Cuddalore,||Govt.’s proactive steps averted major crisis'||‘  Blaming the 10-year rule of the AIADMK for the flooding in Chennai, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday said the well-planned precautionary steps taken by his government had effectively saved Chennai from a major crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govts-proactive-steps-averted-major-crisis/article37483402.ece
14 November 2021||Chennai,||Thiruppugazh appointed chief of flood panel||Retired IAS officer V. Thiruppugazh, who served in Gujarat under the then CM Narendra Modi, has been appointed to lead a panel on mitigation and management of flood risk in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/thiruppugazh-appointed-chief-of-flood-panel/article37483403.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Paving the way for the next helmsman||On November 11, China’s Communist Party, after a four-day behind-closed-doors meeting of its Central Committee called its sixth plenum, passed what it called a “Resolution on the Major Achievements and Historical Experience of the Party over the Past Century”. As unexciting as a wordy resolution of a “plenum” may sound, few things have mattered more in the history of Chinese politics over the past few decades. Indeed, it was a resolution from another plenum in 1978 that set China on the course of economic reforms after the chaos of the Maoist years, and ushweered in an extraordinary period of growth. How history may remember the CPC’s latest plenum is an altogether different question. This was only the third such “historical resolution” passed by the party in its 100-year history. The previous two resolutions had significant ramifications on the direction of China’s politics. In 1945, Mao Zedong passed a resolution that heralded a turn away from Stalin’s influence and established what the party calls “Mao Zedong Thought” as its leading political ideology. In 1981, Deng Xiaoping passed a resolution that marked another sharp turn — away from Maoism and a personality cult to the reform era. Those resolutions certainly left very different legacies. One led to three decades of Maoist chaos, from the Great Leap Forward (1958-1962) to the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976) that led to millions of deaths. The other launched China’s growth story and propelled it towards becoming the world’s second-largest economy. They both did, however, have one thing in common — they established the unchallenged dominance of a single leader who would have the power to dramatically alter the course of his country. Important plenums A plenum is essentially a gathering of the more than 300 members of the party’s Central Committee. It usually takes place in secrecy and behind closed doors. A plenum usually lasts for three to five days, and little is known about what transpires during the meeting. The meetings usually take place in the Jingxi Hotel in west Beijing, although occasionally, as was the case this week, they are convened in the sprawling Great Hall of the People, the Parliament building that sits on the western side of Tiananmen Square. The meetings roughly take place once a year. The party chooses a new Central Committee every five years at its National Congress, and each Central Committee holds seven plenums during its term, focusing on a particular theme. Historically, the third plenum has dealt with the economy, while the sixth plenum has focused on matters of politics and ideology. A plenum often cited as the most significant in China’s history is the third plenum of the 11th Central Committee that was held in Beijing from December 18 to December 22, 1978. The plenum marked the start of the “reform and opening up” era and the return of Deng Xiaoping, who had been among many officials purged by Mao during the Cultural Revolution. An equally important plenum was held three years later. The 11th Central Committee’s sixth plenum, convened in Beijing between June 27 and 29, 1981, passed the party’s first resolution on history since 1945. What was called a “Resolution on certain questions in the history of our party since the founding of the People’s Republic of China” criticised the Cultural Revolution, acknowledged Mao’s mistakes, and brought an end to rule by personality cult. Rewriting the past This week’s resolution on history, the first such resolution in 40 years, differs sharply in its portrayal of the party’s 100-year history as an unalloyed triumph. The full text of the resolution has not been made public, but a lengthy communique that runs into 5,000 words did not mention either the Great Leap Forward or Cultural Revolution. It celebrated the party’s 100-year history, saying that under its leadership “the Chinese people had stood up and the time in which the Chinese nation could be bullied and abused by others was gone”. It hailed the legacies of Mao and Deng, with the two former leaders receiving seven and five mentions respectively. Deng’s two successors, Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao received single mentions. The communique devoted considerable space to the current leader, Mr. Xi, whose name was mentioned 17 times. It referred to “Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era”, his ideology, as “embodying the best of the Chinese culture and ethos in our times and representing a new breakthrough in adapting Marxism to the Chinese context”. It made several mentions of the need for party members to “resolutely uphold” Mr. Xi’s “core position in the party” and to “ensure that all party members act in unison”. Controlling the future The significance of plenums and resolutions goes beyond historical narrative. For Mao and Deng, the resolutions on history that they passed heralded significant changes in their country’s future. And in the days leading up to the sixth plenum, party historians were comparing the latest plenum to those that had altered the course of China’s history. Han Qingxiang, a professor at the Party School of the CPC Central Committee, told official media that China’s “national rejuvenation is marked by four critical milestones”. These were the party’s founding in 1921, Mao’s establishing of the People’s Republic of China in 1949, Deng’s decision to launch the reform and opening up in 1978, and the 18th National Congress in 2012. That was the congress that brought Mr. Xi to power. Power, and the struggle to hold on to it, is ultimately what past plenums have been driven by. Indeed, even the latest resolution on history is more about the future than it is about the past. The latest plenum leaves Mr. Xi in a dominant position ahead of next year’s 20th National Congress, when he will complete 10 years at the helm and mark the start of his third five year term. This is why it repeatedly emphasises Mr. Xi’s “core position” and the duty of every party member to protect it and support the idea of a “unified centralised leadership”. In the coming months ahead, this message will filter through its rank and file, and ultimately find its way to textbooks in schools and colleges. The message, reading between the lines, is plain and simple: Mr. Xi is here to stay. In that sense, 2021 is not very different from 1945 and 1981. What is less clear, however, is how it will be remembered 40 years into the future.  In Focus In 1945, Mao passed a resolution that heralded a turn away from Stalin’s influence and established what the party calls “Mao Zedong Thought” as its leading ideology In 1981, Deng passed a resolution that marked another sharp turn — away from Maoism and a personality cult to the reform era and faster growth  The 2021 resolution urges members to “resolutely uphold” Xi’s “core position in the party” and to “ensure that all party members act in unison”   The past historical resolutions established the unchallenged dominance of a single leader, who would have the power to dramatically alter the course of the country||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/paving-the-way-for-the-next-helmsman/article37482976.ece
14 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Glasgow summit runs into extra time||Government negotiators from nearly 200 countries have adopted a new deal on climate action after a last-minute intervention by India to water down the language on cutting emissions from coal. Several countries including small island states said they were deeply disappointed by the move to “phase down,” rather than “phase out” coal power, the single biggest source of greenhouse gas emissions. A tearful COP26 president Alok Sharma closed the UN climate summit as the deal came despite a last-gasp hitch from China and India seeking to water down language on fossil fuels in the summit’s text. An emotional Mr. Sharma told delegates: “I apologise for the way this process has unfolded. I am deeply sorry.” At the 26th edition of the United Nations Conference of Parties (COP) at Glasgow, Scotland, talks extended into Saturday after the meeting was formally scheduled to end on Friday. The summit ended when an agreement, or more specifically a cover text of the agreement, issued by the COP Secretariat led by Mr. Sharma, was agreed upon by all members. The latest version of the draft agreement was issued at 8 a.m., local time, on Saturday. Later versions of the draft differed only subtly from previous versions, with a line dropped out, a word added in, a verb modified. India intervened to state that it was not very happy with the text, especially on sections that suggested the phasing out of subsidies for coal. “I’m afraid consensus remains elusive...It is known that some countries have achieved wealth and prosperity from fossil fuels....targeting any particular sector is uncalled for. Every country will achieve net zero as per their own circumstances. Developing countries have a right to their fair share of the global carbon space,” said Environment Minister, Bhupender Yadav. A key demand from several island nations and countries in the African Union had been the establishment of a “Glasgow Facility” that would provide money to countries already suffering from the impacts of climate change. This money would be part of an “adaptation fund” to be financed by developed countries. Developed countries had committed to providing $100 billion annually by 2020. This was a clause enshrined in 2009 but none of it has actually made its way to developing countries and continues to be a major bone of contention. India has said that it will take on targets of achieving net zero by 2070 or shifting quicker to renewable energy sources by 2030, if money is coming. The draft exhorted developed countries to double collective adaptation finance from 2019 levels by 2025 and to scale up greenhouse gas emission cuts that ought to be announced latest by next year. India has demanded one trillion dollars over the next decade from developed countries to mitigate the challenges from warming, and has made this a condition for delivering on its commitments.  (With inputs   from AP, AFP)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/glasgow-summit-runs-into-extra-time/article37482941.ece
14 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||Hindi is a friend, says Amit Shah||Raising the Hindutva pitch in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday offered voters the choice between two sets of what he abbreviated as JAMs — the BJP’s Jan Dhan Yojana, Aadhaar and mobile phones as against Muhammad Ali Jinnah, Mohammad Azam Khan and Mukhtar Ansari of the Opposition. At a separate event in Varanasi, Mr. Shah, while stressing the need to strengthen Hindi, said democracy could only become successful when the language of the administration was Swabhasha and Rajbhasha. He also said there was “no conflict” between Hindi and other regional languages. “Hindi is the saheli and sakhi (friend) of all regional languages and there can never be any conflict between sakhis . They are complementary,” he said at the All-India Rajbhasha Conference. Mr. Shah said while his mother tongue was Gujarati and he loved the language, he was more fond of Hindi. He also pitched for making Hindi flexible, and said there was no need for “any struggle” for promotion of Rajbhasha and Swabhasha . Earlier, addressing a rally after laying the foundation stone of a State university in Azamgarh, considered a Samajwadi Party (SP) stronghold, Mr. Shah took a swipe at SP president Akhilesh Yadav for his recent reference to Jinnah at a rally in Hardoi. “Now you tell me do you want BJP’s JAM or SP’s JAM,” Mr. Shah asked in Azamgarh, which he said was known for “fundamentalist thinking” and being a “safe haven for terrorism” under SP rule. Mr. Shah accused Mr. Yadav of glorifying Jinnah as the election season came near. “Is there anyone here who sees a great person in Jinnah? But Akhilesh ji feels so because election season is here,” said the BJP leader. Mr. Shah said prior to 2017, rule of casteism, ‘dynasticism’ and appeasement existed in U.P. “Everyone did not get justice,” he said, adding that now Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had brought an end to these. Fight against terrorism He suggested to Mr. Adityanath, who was also on stage, that the new university be named after Maharaja Suheldev, a medieval-era mythical warrior-king who is today revered by both Pasis (Dalits) and Rajbhars (OBC). Though Suheldev’s historicity is shrouded in mystery, over the years the BJP and RSS have aggressively projected him as an ideal Hindutva warrior who halted the march of Muslim invader Ghazi Mian, a nephew of Mahmud Ghaznavi. Mr. Shah referred to this and said Suheldev had driven back “foreign invaders” from the land of U.P. and fought against “terrorism” back in his age. “If this university is named after him, it would be a big message for people,” he said. Mr. Shah’s speech was high on Hindutva rhetoric, where on the one hand he accused the Opposition of dividing people along caste lines, causing riots, indulging in appeasement and vote bank politics, on the other he said the BJP had fulfilled the promise of a Ram Mandir in Ayodhya and diluting Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, apart from making U.P. free from all mafia. He lauded Mr. Adityanath for making Purvanchal “ machhar and mafia mukt ,” a reference to the Chief Minister’s law-and-order policy and handling of encephalitis outbreaks in the region. Mr. Adityanath said the new university would convert Azamgarh into Aryan Garh. Mr. Shah told voters that their blessings would help the Prime Minister to move forward and strengthen his resolve in making India a big global force and get the due respect for the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hindi-is-a-friend-says-amit-shah/article37482956.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Of disappearing women and theatre of the senses||All the writings and sources of evidence were often lost or obfuscated easily when it came to women in history, author and historian Ira Mukhoty said on Saturday. In a conversation with Pankaja Srinivasan, senior journalist, on the second day of The Hindu Lit for Life 2021 organised virtually, Professor Mukhoty said it was quite hard to find sources for her book on the women of the Mughal empire, Daughters of the Sun , though she was dealing with the well-documented period of late 16th century to early 18th century. Highlighting that the idea of her latest book, Song of Draupadi - A Novel , was to look at the Mahabharatha through the lens of the women characters, she said it was her search for good Indian role models from history or mythology for her daughters that led her to writing the book. Professor Mukhoty said there was a strange dichotomy in the country’s attitude towards women. While on the one hand, there were women in history and mythology who did all sorts of things, there was, on the other hand, a tendency to whitewash them and present them to the public as perfect goddesses or warriors, who did not feel like women of flesh and blood. In another session of the festival titled “This is my story”, filmmaker Sudha Kongara discussed the portrayal of women in cinema with Cancare Foundation founder Chitra Mahesh. “I don’t like them to be limp or unidimensional,” Ms. Kongara said. “Even in a male-centric film like Soorarai Pottru (inspired by the life of Captain G.R. Gopinath, who founded Air Deccan) the female character stands out. Gopinath’s wife Bhargavi herself is an example of a strong woman. She ensured that there was food on the table till her husband’s dream venture took off. It angers me when women are shown as a flitting butterfly,” she said. Anuradha Kapur, founder member of Vivadi and former director of the National School of Drama, and Deepan Sivaraman, director, scenographer, and founder of Oxygen Theatre Company, discussed the evolving nature of theatre in a session titled ‘Sense Smell Touch: Collaboration in Theatre Making.’ “Sensorial theatre needs a different kind of spectatorial intervention and positioning. You cannot have a complete sensorial experience if you sit in only one place and watch throughout,” Mr. Sivaraman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/of-disappearing-women-and-theatre-of-the-senses/article37482962.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||From revolution to oligarchy||If one were to emerge in 2021 out of a time capsule hidden in 1979 and were to meet Daniel Ortega, the person would scarcely believe that he is the same man 42 years later. Mr. Ortega got “re-elected” as President of Nicaragua in the elections held on November 7 that were widely discredited as a “sham” exercise. Several opposition candidates were arrested prior to the polls and were unable to campaign or contest the elections. International observers were not allowed to monitor the vote and even the official turnout figure —65% — has not been accepted as credible by poll-watchers, who claimed that the actual voting percentage was barely 18.5%. There are barely any traces of similarity between the man who was re-elected for the fourth time as President and is ruling the country with an authoritarian fist and the face of the Sandinista revolution that overthrew the Somoza dictatorship in 1979. Then, Mr. Ortega was one of the leaders of a collective in charge of the Sandinista National Liberation Front (FSLN), the opposition group which included armed guerrillas fighting the U.S.-supported Anastasio Somoza’s regime. After Somoza’s rule was overthrown, Mr. Ortega became a member of the five-person ‘Junta of National Reconstruction’ that ruled the country and soon became the face of the government as it embarked upon a programme of social and economic reforms based on a mixed economy model. Later in the 1980s, the Sandinistas had to wage another civil war against rebels, mostly drawn from the Somoza regime, called the “Contras”, who were supported by the U.S. The Sandinistas were returned to power in 1984 but Mr. Ortega lost in the 1990 elections to the National Opposition Union in a peaceful transition. Party of reconciliation Mr. Ortega then spent several years in the opposition before returning to power in 2007; by this time the FSLN led by him had moved away from orthodox leftist policies and had rebranded itself as a party committed to “reconciliation” with the conservative sections of Nicaraguan society. Soon, Mr. Ortega had managed to overturn the constitutionally mandated term limits and was re-elected to power in 2016, but prior to the elections, the FSLN had already delegitimised the political opposition and removed it from the legislature. By now, Nicaragua had transitioned into to a “hegemonic electoral autocracy” (as a paper by Martí i Puig et al in 2020 termed it). Far from a collective leadership which included ex-revolutionaries and democratic-minded popular civil society figures (that the 1979-1990 arrangement entailed), Nicaragua, under Mr. Ortega, resembled caudillo-style personalised rule that reverted to patronage to sustain its popularity. This was made possible by ample funding from other allies in the region — Venezuela, in particular. But once Venezuela experienced its own economic crisis and the aid dried, Mr. Ortega’s regime embraced austerity. This led to severe protests in 2018, but they were brutally put down with the help of paramilitary groups and armed police. Since then, Mr. Ortega’s regime has transitioned further into a new oligarchy that is not too dissimilar from the Somoza regime that terrorised and controlled Nicaragua for four decades from the 1930s. Nicaragua’s economy has suffered since 2017 — The Economist reported that political unrest hurt business confidence and tourism, leading to a shrinking of the GDP by a seventh, and formal jobs falling by a fifth before the pandemic struck. Mr. Ortega’s family is firmly in control of institutions such as the media. His wife and the country’s Vice President, Rosario Murillo acts as the regime’s spokesperson and his immediate family has captured the media airwaves in a vice-like grip as a Reuters investigation revealed that many media companies had been bought by them. The Organization of American States condemned the November 7 elections as being “not free, fair, or transparent” and that they “lack democratic legitimacy”. The Joe Biden administration in the U.S. has plans to announce new sanctions against the regime. The rising discontent and fissures within the ruling FSLN and growing disenchantment with the Ortega-Murrillo dynastic rule from the poor in Nicaragua suggest that it will not be easy for Mr. Ortega to weather the growing storm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/from-revolution-to-oligarchy/article37482978.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The rebel within||For many years, BJP MP Varun Gandhi was, for most of India, a bewildered-looking child clad in white on the sidelines of a series of tragic family funerals that dogged the Gandhis in the 1980s. After that, he was the man who was arrested, at the height of an election campaign in 2009, for alleged hate speech (subsequently acquitted in court). A few years on, he has, in defiance of party discipline, spoken out for farmer groups protesting against the three farm laws passed by Parliament last year, and called out efforts by a film actor to denigrate India’s freedom struggle. From being the BJP’s ‘Gandhi’ to opposing the party line on the farmers protest and the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, Mr. Gandhi has defied easy categorisation throughout his life, but there is a definite trajectory to his evolution from a politician who was accused of hate speech to a political moderate within the BJP. Born in New Delhi in March 1980, he lost his father when he was just three months old. With his mother, former Union Minister Maneka Gandhi, estranged from the larger Gandhi family, he remained out of the Congress fold. Political ambition, however, ran deep in him. Even before he was 25 (the legal age when one can contest polls), Mr. Gandhi joined the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led BJP in 2004. For a party that decried dynastic politics, the pride it took in recruiting a member of the Gandhi family was one of the paradoxes of Indian politics. As one BJP parliamentarian told this reporter once, “After all, we may own a (M.F.) Husain painting, but Varun Gandhi owns a Husain of himself (a painting of Varun as a child with his mother Maneka Gandhi)!” Both the BJP and Mr. Gandhi, according to many, seemed aware of this distinction. First election All that was put to test in the 2009 general election, when Mr. Gandhi contested, for the first time, from Pilibhit, Uttar Pradesh. By all accounts, it was a difficult election but Mr. Gandhi won with a handsome margin. He did, however, create headlines for all the wrong reasons for allegedly indulging in hate speech at a public rally and was later arrested and acquitted in that case. That cast a pall on the young leader, but it was something he worked hard to overcome, he later told this reporter. During his incarceration in Pilibhit’s District Jail, he befriended two Catholic nuns from Kerala who used to visit inmates as part of social work. He asked them to pray for his release. And once out of jail, he financed their trip to the Vatican. His subsequent political rhetoric has steered clear of communal bias, and he has written much on the rural economy and spent generously from his local area development fund as an MP. Mr. Gandhi has, however, repeatedly chafed under the yoke of party discipline. As general secretary of the BJP in charge of West Bengal in 2013, he contradicted the party line by stating that public rallies attended by then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi in the State were not as well attended as claimed. The ascendancy of Mr. Modi, both in the BJP and Indian politics, has been a development that forced many politicians to rethink their strategy for upward mobility. For Mr. Gandhi, too, the case has been the same. He had already moved to a politically moderate position, after 2009, and was ready, by 2016, to target the chief ministerial position in Uttar Pradesh. Posters of Varun Gandhi as the future leader of the BJP in Uttar Pradesh sprang up overnight just as the party was to hold its National Executive meet in the then Allahabad in 2016, a year before the Assembly election. The party did not view these kindly and Mr. Gandhi’s attempts to push for a position came a cropper. Uneasy stand-off In the latest round in the stand-off with the BJP, Mr. Gandhi was dropped from the national executive of the party and his mother was not included in the Council of Ministers in 2019. His views on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident were seen as an open call to chart his own path. As of now, neither the BJP nor Mr. Gandhi is willing to say more than what is already out in the public domain. The question that arises from all of this is whether Feroze Varun Gandhi, one of the inheritors of the Nehru-Gandhi legacy who turned into ‘the BJP’s Gandhi’, is now ready to be his own version of a “Gandhi”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-rebel-within/article37482980.ece
14 November 2021||Mumbai,||Curfew in Maharashtra town||Curfew was imposed in Amaravati town of the Vidarbha region in Maharashtra after violence broke out on the second successive day with a mob going on a rampage destroying private and public property. On Friday, Muslim organisations called for a bandh in several cities of Maharashtra protesting against the incidents in Tripura where Muslims were allegedly targeted. The bandh turned violent in Malegaon, Nanded and Amaravati cities as the mob threw stones and damaged private properties. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) gave a call for an Amaravati bandh on Saturday in protest against the violence in the city. This bandh called by the BJP, however, turned violent with the mob started throwing stones and damaging cars which led to a lathicharge from the police authorities. State’s Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil called for calm and patience, and appealed to the citizens not to believe in rumours. “I have directed the police administration to ensure no untoward incident takes place in the State,” he said. Leader of the Opposition and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said that Ministers in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) Government were making provocative speeches which had led to the unrest among the Muslim community. “The Muslims are being provoked on a false narrative of burning down of a mosque in Tripura. No such incident took place there. It was false propaganda and Muslims were asked to gather for a protest. Hindus were targeted which is extremely dangerous,” said Mr. Fadnavis. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), which holds the Home portfolio in the State, condemned the violence and said the guilty will be punished. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that a conspiracy was being hatched in Maharashtra to incite riots. “Those who called for a bandh were involved in violence. Now they will say that law and order situation is under threat in the State and will meet the Governor,” Mr. Raut said. The Congress too slammed the BJP claiming the latter was creating communal tensions in Maharashtra to benefit in the coming Assembly polls. “When ED and CBI fails, the other way to destabilise the Government is to orchestrate riots. But we will not let this happen,” said Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/curfew-in-maharashtra-town/article37482937.ece
14 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Local bodies receive funds for healthcare||The Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, has released an amount of Rs. 8,453.92 crore as health sector grant for rural and urban local bodies of 19 States, including Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar and Chhattisgarh, according to a release issued by the Union Government on Saturday. The grants have been released as per the recommendations of the Fifteenth Finance Commission. The commission, in its report for the period from 2021-22 to 2025-26, had recommended a total grant of Rs. 4,27,911 crore to local governments. The grants recommended by the commission inter alia include health grants of Rs. 70,051 crore. Of this amount, Rs. 43,928 crore has been recommended for rural local bodies and Rs. 26,123 crore for urban local bodies. These grants are meant to strengthen healthcare systems and plug critical gaps at the primary healthcare level. The commission has also identified interventions that will directly lead to strengthening the primary health infrastructure and facilities in both rural and urban areas and earmarked grants for each intervention. These interventions include support for diagnostic infrastructure to the primary healthcare facilities in rural areas (Rs. 16,377 crore), block-level public health units in rural areas (Rs. 5,279 crore), construction of buildings at sub centres, PHCs, CHCs in rural areas (Rs. 7,167 crore), among others. The release said that the health grants recommended to be released in the financial year 2021-22 total Rs. 13,192 crore and includes Rs. 8,273 crore for rural and Rs. 4,919 crore for urban local bodies. “Rural and urban local bodies can play a key role in the delivery of primary healthcare services, especially at the ‘cutting-edge’ level and help in achieving the objective of universal healthcare. Strengthening the local governments in terms of resources, health infrastructure and capacity building can enable them to play a catalytic role in epidemics and pandemics too,” said the release. Health grants to the remaining nine States will be released after proposals are received from them through the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/local-bodies-receive-funds-for-healthcare/article37482973.ece
14 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Stop misleading ads on crypto: Govt.||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday chaired a meeting to consider the regulatory prospects for cryptocurrencies with the top brass of the Reserve Bank of India and the Ministries of Home Affairs and Finance, where a strong consensus was reached to stop ‘attempts to mislead the youth through over-promising & non-transparent advertising’. Noting that unregulated crypto markets cannot be allowed to become avenues for money laundering and terror financing, the PM and other attendees concluded that a close watch and pro-active steps are necessary for the sector, senior Government sources said. “There was consensus also that the steps taken in this field by the Government will be progressive and forward looking,” a source said, stressing that the Government will continue to pro-actively engage with experts and other stakeholders. Collective strategies “Since the issue cuts across individual countries’ borders, it was felt that it will also require global partnerships and collective strategies,” the source added. The PM-steered meeting comes ahead of a Parliamentary committee hearing on Monday, November 15, with industry experts on the challenges and opportunities that cryptocurrencies throw up. Tight-lipped The Finance Ministry has been tight-lipped on the progress of a Cryptocurrency Bill which had been readied for the Union Cabinet’s approval as far back as August, as per earlier statements by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The Bill is now expected to be tabled in the winter session of Parliament that begins on November 29. On Friday, the Ministry’s top brass shied away from queries about who would be held responsible if investors betting on crypto assets were to make heavy losses. With advertisements for cryptocurrency exchanges and trading on their platforms proliferating across the country, particularly during the recent cricket events, the Government has been expected to bring in some regulatory framework to rein them in and ensure investors don’t lose their savings. In the absence of a clear regulatory framework, even as several investors, especially the youth, have been betting on cryptocurrencies for seemingly easy returns, there’s still uncertainty on the Government’s treatment for the same. While the Supreme Court has lifted the ban on trading of cryptocurrencies imposed by the central bank, the RBI continues to have concerns over them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stop-misleading-ads-on-crypto-govt/article37482947.ece
14 November 2021||Bhopal,||Ahead of PM’s trip, station gets Gond queen’s name||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has set the stage for Prime Minister Narendra Modi by renaming the first PPP-built Habibganj railway station after Rani Kamlapati, the 18th-century Gond queen. “I thank PM Modi for renaming Bhopal’s Habibganj railway station after the tribal queen, Rani Kamlapati. She was the pride of Gond society. She was the last Hindu queen of Bhopal,” Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan tweeted in Hindi. Two days ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s scheduled inauguration of the modernised and re-developed railway station at a cost of Rs. 100 crore, the BJP Government had shot poff a letter to the Ministry of Home Affairs for renaming it. Many believe Rani Kamlapati was the widow of Gond ruler Nizam Shah, chief of Ginnorgarh. They say the station was built in 1905 and was named Shahpur (presently one popular area in new Bhopal is known as Shahpura, named after Shahpura lake). In 1979, when the railways was looking for land for the expansion of the station, Habib Miya decided to give land free of cost and the railways named the station after him. Mr. Modi’s visit will take place with a special focus on tribals. The State Government has organised an Adivasi Gaurav Divas to mark the birth anniversary of Birsa Munda and has termed him Lord ahead of the PM’s visit. More than 2 lakh people from different tribes will participate in the programme and one crore tribals will be connected to it through webcast, as per Government estimates. “There are two contexts of the mahasammelan. First, it is being held on the birth anniversary of Lord Birsa Munda. It is a matter of pride for the State that Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi will address it,” Mr. Chouhan said reviewing the preparations. The Gond community comprises the largest tribal group in India with more than 1.2 crore population. The community’s population is largely spread in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattsigarh and Jharkhand. And political parties take a lot of effort to win over the Scheduled Caste and Tribe voters. In the previous Assembly election, the BJP recorded its worst performance in a decade in reserved seats across Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand. It won just two of the 28 reserved seats in Jharkhand in the 2019 Assembly elections. In Chhattisgarh, it has three of the 29 seats reserved for the STs, and won 16 of the 47 reserved ST seats in Madhya Pradesh in the Assembly elections held in 2018. Madhya Pradesh Food and Civil Supplies Minister Bisahulal Singh and a senior tribal leader admits that the BJP was thrown out of power because it was unable to retain the reserved seats. The sammelan is going to help the party, Mr. Bisahulal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjps-bid-to-woo-gonds-by-renaming-railway-station/article37482953.ece
14 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||Akhilesh uses inflation card to target BJP||“The BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) promised that the poor who wear hawai chappal (simple footwear) would be able to fly in hawai jahaaz (aeroplanes) but the Government made diesel and petrol so expensive that now people are unable to even move their motorcycles,” Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav said on Saturday as he led a yatra from Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s bastion Gorakhpur. “What did you get, my poor brothers? The BJP people had shown you big dreams,” Mr. Yadav said at a gathering in Kushinagar. In a bid to expand his social base ahead of the 2022 Assembly election, Mr. Yadav accused the BJP of fuelling discrimination, “making castes fight”, and snatching the rights given to people by B.R. Ambedkar. Mr. Yadav tried to punch holes in the welfare schemes promoted by the BJP through the question of inflation. Along with a hardline Hindutva pitch, the BJP in the U.P. has been trying to woo voters through ration and welfare schemes, he said. Mr. Yadav said that while the Government had introduced cooking gas cylinders under the Ujjwala scheme, people were now finding it difficult to refill them due to high prices. Women were unable to refill the cylinders, said the former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister referring to this segment. He also said farmers had to stand in line for hours to purchase fertilizers. The BJP picked the pockets of the poor and filled the coffers of industrialists, Mr. Yadav said. Mr. Yadav also said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had “made personal attacks on him and his father Mulayam Singh” because, when in power, he [Mr. Ahkilesh Yadav] had distributed laptops to youth, ambulance services to people, and Dial 100 emergency police services. In Gorakhpur, Mr. Yadav said no other Government had made so many false promises as he reminded farmers that the BJP had said their incomes would be doubled. “Your farms will be snatched,” Mr. Yadav said, warning farmers against the three new farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-uses-inflation-card-to-target-bjp/article37482954.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Lit for Life seeks to build bridges across social divides’||The Hindu Lit for Life is a very important part of the group’s portfolio brand events that are designed to engage with the readers beyond the printed word, L.V. Navaneeth, Chief Executive Officer, The Hindu  Group Publishing Private Ltd., said in his opening address on the second day of the 10th edition of the The Hindu Lit for Life 2021. “Some of the areas are integral to our ethos. I do hope the conversations around ideas and with authors at this year’s edition engage our readers, offer them plenty of thoughts worth thinking about and inspire them to expand both the depth and width of what they read,” he said. In his special address, Suresh Nambath, Editor, The Hindu , said the newspaper’s support for the principle of freedom of speech had remained the festival’s cornerstone. “The newspaper began the Literary Review in 1990. This was the only supplement devoted to books and literature brought out by a daily. From this was born the idea of a literature festival to commemorate the 20th anniversary of The Hindu ’s Literary Review in 2010,” he recalled. From a single session over an evening, the festival grew to a three-day event that reflects the spirit of creativity and strength of the written word and to investigate the issues of the time, Mr. Nambath said. The effort is to build bridges across political and social divides and create conversations to further debate, he noted. Pandemic lessons At a discussion on “Lessons of pandemic”, participants felt the delay in recognising the threat of SARS-CoV-2 virus spread, not strengthening primary care, low availability of testing kits, poor understanding of the unorganised sector workers, led to preventable deaths. Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology, and Laboratory Director, The Wellcome Trust Research Laboratory, Division of Gastrointestinal Sciences, Christian Medical College, Vellore, said India had not prepared for the goal of isolating the infected. Srinath Reddy, President of the Public Health Foundation of India, felt the focus should have been on containing the virus spread when it was still an urban phenomenon. While reports from China were alarming, India was relaxed, instead of recognising the war-like situation, said Arun Kumar, Malcolm Adiseshaiah Chair professor at the Institute of Social Sciences, New Delhi. Kamini Mahadevan, former consultant editor of Penguin group, moderated the discussion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lit-for-life-seeks-to-build-bridges-across-social-divides/article37482964.ece
14 November 2021||Chennai,||On wildlife conservation and Gandhi’s legacy||“We associate wildness in animals as a bad thing, because they are not tamed,” said Neha Sinha, conservation biologist and author of Wild and Wilful , to a question on the title of her book. She and wildlife biologist and conservationist Sanjay Gubbi were in conversation with author and historian Mahesh Rangarajan at the session ‘In the wqild: conversations about conservation’ on day two of The Hindu Lit for Life 2021. “We use the word wilful in a similar connotation… I wanted to give this term a positive connotation,” Ms. Sinha said. “…we have man-eating leopards, rogue monkeys, angry tuskers... It is an image that is seen as animals being murderers. I wanted to say that they are wilful, they are outside the bounds of human society. But that may not necessarily be a bad thing.” Dr. Gubbi spoke about the leopard being a “much more elastic species” when asked if the human-tiger interface was different when compared to the human-leopard interface. “I would call it the poster boy of India’s conservation success stories,” said Mr. Gubbi, whose latest book Leopard Dairies – The Rosette in India is based on studying the animal up close for years. Reclaiming Gandhi A few minutes into his session “Reclaiming Gandhi”, Subodh Kerkar played an audio clipping. It went: ‘Lab dab, lab dab…’ The sound was of Gandhiji’s heartbeat, that Kerkar, a doctor and artist based in Goa, had recreated from Gandhi’s ECG report which he found at the National Gandhi Museum, Delhi. It set the tone for the session, one that was filled with anecdotes from Gandhiji’s life, capsules of his teachings, sharing of photos of art works done by Kerkar and other artists, and views by personalities such as Albert Einstein and Nelson Mandela on how Gandhiji inspired them. “Mahatma Gandhi is a huge contribution to the world,” Mr. Kerkar said. “He gave a new method of opposing injustice. His teachings can help deepen democracy, diminish violence, and create a just and humane society.” He spoke about how Gandhiji continues to be relevant: “I was getting agitated seeing what was happening in my country; the polarisation based on religion, curtailing of freedom of expression, putting innocent people in prison…I was getting worked up,” he said. “Gandhian studies helped me calm down.”  I would call the leopard species the poster boy of India’s conservation success stories Sanjay Gubbi Wildlife biologist, conservationist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-wildlife-conservation-and-gandhis-legacy/article37482971.ece
14 November 2021||Srinagar,||With power playing truant, heated sales of Kangri in Kashmir||A prolonged power outage has spurred the sale of kangri s, the wicker-covered, charcoal-filled earthen pot used for heating in the winters by people in Kashmir, three years after the Government promised round-the-clock electricity with Rs. 35,000 crore of investments in new power projects. Kashmir faces unscheduled power cuts of six to 12 hours a day in its urban pockets, with the minimum temperature already hovering at less than one degree Celsius in most parts of the Valley. Continuing to be popular with the lower middle class and in rural pockets even after the more affluent switched to electricity-powered heating gadgets, the centuries-old heating device now finds favour among all classes of society to keep warm in the bitter cold of winter. A kangri , which can cost Rs. 250 to Rs. 1,500, depending on the intricacy of the work on the wicker basket, has become a barometer of the deteriorating power situation in the Union Territory. Shabir Dar, 60, a resident of Sumbal, is surprised by the brisk sale of kangri s at Srinagar’s Batamaloo and its renewed popularity among all. “Earlier, my customers were mostly from the lower middle class and people from rural pockets. This year, however, decorated kangri s are equally in demand from Government officers and businessmen. I am expecting over 200% increase in my sales, given the demand,” Mr. Dar said. There have been complaints from rural pockets in north and south Kashmir on defunct transformers and the non-availability of electricity for days at end. Ghulam-ud-Din, convener of the Civil Society Sonawari civic group in north Kashmir, says power supply is especially unreliable after sunset. “Non-availability of electricity is affecting the education of children, industrial units and the normal routine of life badly. What happened to the promises made about round-the-clock electricity,” Mr. Din asked. People in Srinagar accuse the J&K Power Development Department (PDD) of failing to stick to its recently announced power cut schedule under which non-metered areas were to face four to five hours of power cuts a day, compared with two to three hours in metered areas. Rohit Kansal, Principal Secretary, PDD, in a recent meeting, alerted the Government on the supply deficit. Official figures suggested that J&K’s peak load touched 1,653 MW in 2021 when compared with 1,546 MW in 2020, stating: “Power supply to the Kashmir valley has been of the order of 5719.6 million units, an increase of 12% over the previous year.” Official sources said J&K is receiving less than 1,300 MW of power supply against the demand for 1,653 MW. Supply can be boosted only when upcoming grids at Amargarh, Delina and Mir Bazar are commissioned. The Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, has directed the police and local authorities to enforce a ban on the sale of crude electric heating equipment,nichrome coils.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/with-power-playing-truant-heated-sales-of-kangri-in-kashmir/article37482958.ece
14 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.S. lawmakers meet Modi ahead of S400 delivery||Ahead of the expected year-end delivery of the sophisticated Russian S400 surface-to-air missile defence system, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met with a high-power U.S. Congressional delegation here on Saturday. The Russian missile system will increase India’s chances of coming under CAATSA (Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act) but official statements issued after Saturday's meeting avoided mention of the matter. A statement from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the delegation led by Senator John Cornyn discussed issues related to the developments in South Asia and the Indo-Pacific region. “Prime Minister appreciated the consistent support of the U.S. Congress in deepening the India-U.S. strategic partnership ,” stated a press release that was issued by the MEA after the meeting. Following the meeting Senator Cornyn, who is the co-founder and co-Chair of the Senate caucus on India and Indian-Americans, said that both sides discussed "pandemic and supply chain stability." The meeting with Mr Modi took place a day after External Affairs Minister Dr. S. Jaishankar hosted the delegation and discussed Afghanistan. Though official statements on both occasions chose to avoid mention of the Russian missile system, three Republican Senators have already moved a bill to exempt India from possible CAATSA sanctions for taking the delivery of the S400 missile system. The visiting Congressional delegation however conveyed a positive outlook of India-U.S. relationship. “Prime Minister and the visiting delegation noted the increasing convergence of strategic interests between the two strategic partners and expressed desire to further enhance cooperation with an aim to promote global peace and stability,” MEA said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-lawmakers-meet-modi-ahead-of-s400-delivery/article37482944.ece
14 November 2021||AHMEDABAD,||20 fishermen set to be released by Pak.||A week after killing an Indian fisherman in a firing in the mid-sea by the Pakistan Marine Security Agency (PMSA) on November 6, Islamabad will release 20 fishermen lodged in Landhi jail in Karachi on Sunday and will hand them over to the Indian authorities the next day at the Wagah border. The fishermen to be released are from Gir Somnath and Porbandar districts of Gujarat. Before the mid-sea firing incident on a fishing trawler Jal Pari, India had released 10 Pakistan fishermen jailed in Gujarat on November 2. On November 6, the PMSA had in a rare act of allegedly chased and fired at Jal Pari, which had six fishermen aboard, while it was fishing at the Arabian Sea off Gujarat coast. Shreedhar Chamre, a fishermen from Palghar in Maharashtra, was allegedly killed in the firing while Dilip Solanki, captain of the fishing boat was wounded. Six others on the boat were reportedly abducted and taken to Pakistan. The fishermen to be released were apprehended by the PMSA for allegedly crossing over to the Pakistan side of the International Maritime Boundary Line (IMBL) at the Arabian Sea off Gujarat coast during deep sea fishing. They are being released after completion of their jail term. “Even after the release of the fishermen, there are still around 600 fishermen, mostly from Gujarat and the Union Territories of Diu and Daman, who are languishing in jails in Pakistan,” said Manish Lodhari, a prominent activist and chief of the Marine Fisheries Cooperative Society in Porbandar. He and other activists working for the welfare of the fishermen demand that both countries must voluntarily release the fishermen lodged in each other’s jail. “There are 62 Pakistan fishermen in jail in Gujarat,” said Jivan Jungi, another activist from Gujarat. According to Mr. Jungi, the nationality of 376 of the 600 fishermen has been confirmed by India and they must immediately be released and repatriated. The 20 fishermen are among the 376. Besides seeking the release of Indian fishermen, activists and people associated with fisheries in Gujarat have been demanding the release of around 1,200 boats taken away by the PMSA while also apprehending fishermen also. The boats are lying anchored at the Karachi harbour. “Each boat is worth Rs. 50 lakh, totalling approximately Rs. 600 crore. The Indian Government must work with the authorities in Pakistan to get the boats, which are mechanised trawlers used in deep sea fishing, released and handed them back to their rightful owners,” Mr. Lodhari told The Hindu . With almost 1,680-km long coastline, Gujarat is among the largest fisheries producing States. There are around 25,000 boats registered for fishing and almost 2.5 million people directly and indirectly dependent on related activities. According to Mr. Lodhari, an average 75-90 Indian boats are apprehended by Pakistan’s national agency every year during fishing in the deep sea. Since 2003, only twice less than 100 boats were released by Pakistan — in 2014 and in 2017. Both India and Pakistan have been engaged in detaining fishermen to the dispute over the alignment of the IMBL in the Arabian Sea. From Pakistan side, it’s national agency PMSA apprehends a few hundred fishermen along with their boats for allegedly crossing over to the other side of the notional maritime border while the Indian Coast Guard and other security agencies detain a few dozen Pakistani fishermen for allegedly crossing over to the Indian side of the IMBL. The detained fishermen are then handed over to the local police who lodge them in jails while initiating proceedings against them for violating laws. They are periodically released and repatriated after completion of jail sentence and establishing of nationality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/20-fishermen-set-to-be-released-by-pak/article37483220.ece
14 November 2021||KANTABANJI (ODISHA),||From Balangir, the ‘bonded bricks’ of economic revival||It is 11.15 p.m. in the sleepy town of Kantabanji in Odisha’s Balangir district when the Korba-Visakhapatnam Link Express pulled into the railway station. But even at the late hour, the arrival of the train saw a swarm of people rushing towards the compartments. As the Indian economy tries to shake off the debilitating impact of COVID-19 pandemic, it is these thousands of migrant workers from the remote corners of Balangir who form the unseen building blocks of a revival. Not surprisingly, the Korba-Visakhapatnam Link Express stops at Kantabanji for 10 minutes — its longest halt at a non-junction station. Adept at making lakhs of bricks in a matter of few weeks, these workers are heading to the major cities of southern India for a livelihood as the promised Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme (MGNREGS) payments get delayed and the expected paddy harvest has fallen short after an erratic monsoon. Resuming annual migration after a gap of four years, 45-year-old Yudhisthir Tandi with five other family members from Karlabahali village of Balangir is among the many on the Link Express. A 17-year-old college-going daughter and 15-year-old son, who would have appeared for his matriculation examination this year, have joined Mr. Tandi and his wife on the journey. The youngest member of the labour-team was Surekha, a class IV student, whose service would be required to help in cooking and babysitting at the brick kiln. So what drove the Tandi family to migrate enmasse? “The paddy harvest from my one acre land turned out to be below par due to harsh weather condition. I have a large family to look after and wage earned under MGNREGS was not enough. We are migrating after receiving wage advance of Rs. 35,000 per person,” said Mr. Tandi. Distress migration About 75,000 families from poverty-stricken western Odisha districts migrate annually to work in brick kilns. Due to acute poverty, these workers take advance wages — a form of ‘debt bondage’ — which ties them to the kilns and the abysmal work conditions. “The underlying reason behind people opting for heartless employment year after year is poverty and lack of meaningful employment back home,” said Umi Daniel, head of the migration unit of Aide et Action, an NGO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/from-bolangir-the-bonded-bricks-of-economic-revival/article37482966.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Curbs in polluted Delhi after SC moots lockdown||“Do you know how bad the situation is? People have to wear masks even at home... Think of a two-day lockdown... Reports said air is ‘severe’ in Delhi and may become worse in another two or three days... You have to take immediate measures...,” Chief Justice Ramana addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre. Mr. Mehta acknowledged that “there was a possibility that the air would go from 'severe’ to ‘emergency’ category. He said a meeting has been scheduled to decide the “emergency response”. “Schools have been opened now. Little children are out on the roads to reach their schools. You are exposing little children to pollution, pandemic and dengue...” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, on the Bench, addressed the government. The Delhi government told the court that pollution markers are off the chart. The AQI has worsened by 471 points compared to just 84 points on October 30. PM10 is a whopping 593 to 87 last month. PM2.5 is 399 points to merely 34 last month. “And you have opened up all the schools in Delhi, you have exposed their lives and lungs to grave pollutants... Schools are Delhi’s jurisdiction...” Justice Chandrachud told senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for Delhi. Mr. Mehra compared the air to smoking 20 cigarettes a day even though “we are not smokers”. He said stubble burning in neighbouring Punjab and Haryana was a major contributor to the pollution. Mr. Mehta also began his submissions by saying there was a “spurt of stubble burning from Punjab in the last five to six days”. “You first control Delhi... Are your [smog] towers working?” the CJI asked the Delhi government. “Everybody blames farmers. What about the ban on fire crackers? What has been happening for the past five or six days? What is the Delhi Police doing? This is an emergency situation, emergency measures have to be taken,” Justice Surya Kant, also on the Bench, lashed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/curbs-in-polluted-delhi-after-supreme-court-rap/article37482934.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Assam Rifles officer, family killed in Manipur||During Col. Tripati’s tenure in Mizoram, the battalion has carried out major seizures of drugs and several successful operations to disrupt illegal smuggling including narcotics along the Myanmar border and hinterland. “The battalion has also recovered several weapons and war-like stores which could have landed in the hands of anti-national elements thus avoiding major casualties,” Assam Rifles said. “The anti-drug campaign conducted by his battalion in January 2021 received laurels and the awareness created by him in the State won him praise from locals,” the first officer cited above,  who had also worked with him, said. In May, the 46 Assam Rifles had received Unit Citation from Governor of Mizoram P.S. Sreedharan Pillai for their all-round performance during its employment across Saitual Mamit, Kolasib, Champhai and Aizawl districts from April 17 to May 28. “The battalion has exhibited excellent professionalism, dedication and compassion in guarding the Indo-Myanmar border and has also performed exceedingly well in assisting the local populace and has served the people of Mizoram through focused activities under civic action, student outreach and health campaigns especially during challenging times of COVID-19 pandemic,” the citation read. While insurgency within the State has come down in recent years, insurgent groups find sanctuary across the border who resort to violence. Also with security forces conducting intelligence-based operations, IEDs and ambushes have emerged as the preferred way to mount attacks on security forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-rifles-officer-family-killed-in-manipur/article37482935.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Kashmiris now share intel on terrorists: CDS||“You go to social media. There are now statements coming out where locals are saying, if you want, we will now start lynching these terrorists because we will not allow these [terror attacks] to happen,” he said when asked about the source of his claim. He said it was the fear of the gun that kept the locals from disclosing information. But now they are coming forward, saying “either we will lynch them or make such arrangements that they get lynched.” Stating that he does not know whether this is a message for terrorists by the locals or whether it is being played up by the intelligence agencies, Gen. Rawat said if it was the former “then I would say it is a good card being played”. Gen. Rawat said it is a good card as we need to “put fear in the mind” of the terrorist. Asked if that would amount to encouraging vigilantism and violating human rights, Gen. Rawat questioned, “How can killing a terrorist be a human rights violation? If there is a terrorist operating in your area, why should you not lynch him?” Asked about the recent spate of civilian killings in Kashmir, Gen. Rawat said anyone carrying out a terror attack is being “eliminated or apprehended” within 48-72 hours. Terrorists also realise they are getting caught and that’s because locals are giving information about them, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kashmiris-now-say-they-will-lynch-terrorists/article37482939.ece
14 November 2021||Ghaziabad,||Tensions in Agra over death of woman||Agra turned tense late on Friday as two communities clashed over the mysterious death of a 22-year-old woman in an inter-faith marriage. An FIR was registered against Fahim, his parents, brother, and sister under Sections 498A (husband or relative of the spouse of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 304B (dowry death) of the IPC, and Sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act 1961. Faheem, along with his father and brother, were arrested late on Saturday. SSP Sudhir Kumar Singh said an autopsy revealed that it was a case of “ante-mortem hanging”. The police have also lodged an FIR against unidentified men for indulging in rioting. Local sources said stones were hurled, gunshots fired and slogans raised against a community by leaders of the BJP’s allied organisations. A heavy police force was deployed to bring the situation under control. A year ago, the victim named Varsha married Fahim, 25, who runs an automobile garage. On Friday, Faheem’s family said Varsha ended her life by hanging. It led to tensions in the communally sensitive area. The mother of the victim said, “If they [Fahim’s family] could not look after her, they could have sent her back to us.” The victim’s brother said his sister could not have ended her life and there was foul play.  (Suicide prevention helpline can be reached at 011-40769002)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tensions-in-agra-over-death-of-woman/article37482948.ece
14 November 2021||Srinagar,||‘All communal parties can be compared to IS’||Taking a jibe at Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday said all the communal parties that intend to divide Hindus and Muslims can be compared to organisations like the Islamic State (IS). “Communal political parties are not less than the IS because they both have killed people in the name of religion and communalism,” the former Chief Minister said in Jammu. The remarks come after Congress leader Azad termed such comparisons “factually wrong and an exaggeration”, while commenting on Mr. Khurshid’s comparison in his new book. Ms. Mufti also said the BJP and the RSS had hijacked Hinduism and Hindutva. “I think it’s not about Hindutva or Hinduism. The real Sanatan Dharam doesn’t teach communalism. It’s the RSS, the Jan Sangh and the BJP which are communalising the situation by making people fight in the country.” She said that the real meaning of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam is the whole world is one family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-communal-parties-can-be-compared-to-is/article37483218.ece
14 November 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal Govt. to table resolution on BSF order||The West Bengal Government will bring a resolution in the Assembly against the Centre’s move to increase the territorial jurisdiction of the Border Security Force. State Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Partha Chatterjee said that a resolution would be brought under Rule 185 of the procedures of conduct of business of the State Assembly. “The resolution will be against the increase in territorial jurisdiction of the BSF from 15 km to 50 km,” Mr. Chatterjee said. The resolution is likely to be brought in the House on November 16. “Our view is that law and order is a State Subject and BSF’s responsibility is guarding border and such developments will lead to conflict between Centre and State,” the Minister added. Considering the strength of the Trinamool in the Assembly, the resolution can be easily passed. The BJP MLAs are likely to be present in the State Assembly and oppose the resolution. “The Trinamool opposes anything which is in the interest of national security,” BJP national vice president Dilip Ghosh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-govt-to-table-resolution-on-bsf-order/article37482959.ece
14 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Trinamool fields ex-Goa CM for Rajya Sabha||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday nominated former Goa Chief Minister Luizinho Faleiro as a Rajya Sabha candidate. “We are extremely pleased to nominate @luizinhofaleiro to the Upper House of Parliament. We are confident that his efforts towards serving the nation shall be appreciated widely by our people!,” the party tweeted from its official handle. Election to the Rajya Sabha seat is scheduled for November 29. The seat fell vacant after Trinamool MP Arpita Ghosh tendered her resignation on September 15. Mr. Faleiro is likely to file his nomination next week. The former Congress leader joined the Trinamool on September 29 and was later appointed vice-president of the party. The nomination of the Goan leader comes at a time when the Trinamool is trying to extend its footprint in the western coastal State. Trinamool chairperson and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee visited Goa in October and held a series of public events. The Assembly poll in Goa will be held in 2022 and the TMC wants to project itself as an alternative to the BJP. Trinamool sources said Mr. Faleiro is likely to contest the Assembly polls. The Trinamool has ruled out any pre-poll alliance in the State. The party appointed Krishnanagar Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra as in-charge of Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-fields-ex-goa-cm-for-rajya-sabha/article37482960.ece
14 November 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat civic bodies go after non-veg. food stalls||The BJP-ruled civic bodies in Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Junagadh in Gujarat have launched a drive against hawkers and vendors running non-vegetarian food joints in the cities on the ground that it “hurts religious sentiments”. The civic bodies have directed the vendors to either stop selling non-vegetarian food items or have them covered so that people cannot see it. Though no official notifications have been issued, the elected wings of the civic bodies have orally directed the officials to ensure that carts and joints selling non-vegetarian and egg dishes on the streets remain invisible to common people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-civic-bodies-go-after-non-veg-food-stalls/article37482967.ece
14 November 2021||Chennai,||Healing minds, and believing in hope||In coping with COVID-19, we talk of the second and imminent third wave, but there is also a fourth wave, said veteran child psychiatrist Shekhar Seshadri — that of mental health issues brought on by the pandemic. On its second day, The Hindu Lit for Life’s penultimate session focused on mental health. Dr. Seshadri, along with Director of National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) Pratima Murthy, and Director of the Centre for Mental Health Law & Policy, Indian Law Society, Soumitra Pathare, were in conversation with behavioural neurologist and neuropsychiatrist Ennapadam S. Krishnamoorthy. Exploring mental health in COVID-19 times, Dr. Pathare pointed out that the pandemic had strained an already strained system. “Middle class India discovered mental health during the pandemic,” he said. It is an odd situation when awareness for mental health has increased while accessibility to it has decreased, he added. The speakers dissected the causes of anxiety, with Dr. Murthy talking about domestic violence and substance abuse and de-addiction. This much-needed sobering session was followed by a hopeful one — Lit for Life’s final discussion was between philosopher, the Venerable Tenzin Priyadarshi, and N. Ravi, Chairman of Kasturi & Sons Ltd. and publisher of The Hindu Group of Newspapers. They discussed Priyadarshi’s book, Running Toward Mystery , an account of his journey to becoming a monk — part personal, part philosophical reflections. The President of The Dalai Lama Center for Ethics and Transformative Values at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ran away from home as a 10-year-old, willing to renounce the traditional world, and ended up at a Buddhist monastery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/healing-minds-and-believing-in-hope/article37482969.ece
14 November 2021||KARGIL,||Ladakhi leaders announce stir to press for statehood||Accusing the BJP-led Central Government of being non-serious towards the issues and concerns of the people of Ladakh, prominent leaders from the Union Territory on Saturday announced a mass agitation to press for their four main demands. These include full statehood and constitutional safeguards for the region, one more Lok Sabha seat and two Rajya Sabha seats besides a special recruitment drive for the local youth to fill up over 10,000 vacancies in Ladakh. The Leh-based apex body of the People’s Movement for 6th Schedule and the Kargil Democratic Alliance (KDA) jointly called for a general strike on December 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ladakhi-leaders-announce-stir-to-press-for-statehood/article37483367.ece
14 November 2021||New Delhi,||Curbs in polluted Delhi after SC moots lockdown||All schools in Delhi will remain closed for a week beginning Monday as part of steps announced to tackle air pollution in the Capital. All construction activity has been prohibited and Government employees will work from home. Private offices too have been advised to follow suit. This follows an emergency meeting convened by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday to assess the impact of air pollution. Earlier in the morning, a Special Bench of the Supreme Court, led by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, assembled to urge the Centre and the Delhi Government to take “emergency measures”, even proposing a two-day lockdown, to bring air quality back to normal in a capital choked by pollution. The Delhi Government, Mr. Kejriwal’s office said, would prepare a proposal on imposing a lockdown till the situation improved and would submit it to the court. “Do you know how bad the situation is? People have to wear masks even at home... Think of a two-day lockdown... Reports said air is 'severe' in Delhi and may become worse in another two or three days... You have to take immediate measures... ,” CJI Ramana addressed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. Mr. Mehta acknowledged that “there was a possibility that the air would go from 'severe’ to ‘emergency’ category. He said a meeting has been scheduled to decide the “emergency response”. “Schools have been opened now. Little children are out on the roads to reach their schools. You are exposing little children to pollution, pandemic and dengue...” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, on the Bench, addressed the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/curbs-in-polluted-delhi-after-sc-moots-lockdown/article37483531.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. under pressure to revisit ‘travel bubble’ policy||“There is a general feeling that air bubbles have dragged on for far too long. International flights could reopen in December-January. The thinking in the government has changed recently as COVID cases are on the wane,” one official told The Hindu, conceding that the government is now feeling the pressure to reconsider its policy. With nearly 100 countries now accepting Indians vaccinated with WHO-approved Covishield and Covaxin, travel agents and airlines are also asking why India is not rationalising flights, even suggesting that the government is holding out for renegotiating its air service agreements. “The so-called bubbles, I don't really think are driven by COVID. Because we’ve heard of the desire on the part of the Indian Government to renegotiate their air service agreements. I think COVID is being used to mask a different issue,” International Air Transport Association (IATA) President Willie Walsh said at a press conference in Geneva earlier this month. The Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Ministry of External Affairs did not respond to requests for a comment on the allegations. However, The Hindu spoke to a number of officials who accepted that the issue over air travel bubbles was growing, especially as more travellers seek to visit India from countries that used to fly directly to India, but aren’t at present. This has particularly hit European countries. Switzerland, for example, had approached the government to restart direct flights of the Swiss International Airlines in February 2021, but no permissions have come through yet. A Chennai-Zurich ticket could now cost a traveller a whopping Rs. 2.75 lakhs. Flights from the U.S. and Canada can cost more than Rs. 1lakh one-way, while some European passengers have to break journey in two places to travel to India. Turkish Airlines, one of the more popular airlines with more than 200 flights to 90 countries, has had no flights to India for 20 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-urged-to-rethink-travel-bubble-policy/article37482946.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||KTR livid with defence establishment||He said there is no dearth of funds for infrastructure development in the State. Its double bed room housing which had already cost the exchequer Rs. 18,000 crore is the largest in the country. One 2BHK house is equal to 10 Indiramma houses constructed by the previous Congress regime, he said. The government spent Rs. 3,000 crore from Telangana Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation on capital works and payment of wages to municipal staff. The wages of sanitation workers were increased four times after the TRS came to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ktr-livid-with-defence-establishment/article37483461.ece
14 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC poser to State Govts. on encroachments||The Supreme Court on Saturday wondered whether State Governments should bear the liability for rehabilitating residents of slums who encroached railway lands due to the oversight of local authorities. “If a local authority has allowed encroachment to take place, how can State be responsible for rehabilitation?” a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar asked. The question came during a hearing on the rehabilitation of inhabitants of a slum situated on the railway land at Surat in Gujarat. The point of discussion was whether the Gujarat Government or the Surat Municipality was responsible for the rehabilitation of the residents of the slum. The apex court had ordered status quo in August on the demolition of about 10,000 jhuggies in Gujarat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-poser-to-state-govts-on-encroachments/article37482945.ece
14 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Disha Ravi blames Govt. officials||Climate activist Disha Ravi has blamed lack of cooperation from Government officials for not getting her passport on time which ultimately made her miss the COP26 summit in Glasgow. In a statement posted on social media, the activist has claimed that she did not get the Indian passport 88 days after sending in the application. Disha Ravi, 22, was arrested in February this year by the Delhi Police from her Bengaluru residence after she shared documents online that supported rights of the farmers who have been protesting against the farm laws. The police had accused her of sedition and conspiracy. She subsequently got bail. In a written statement, she said a Bengaluru police official refused to facilitate delivery of the passport and rebuked her mother for “raising a rebel”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cop26-disha-ravi-blames-govt-officials/article37482942.ece
14 November 2021||Ghaziabad,||FIR lodged in U.P. custodial death case||Four days after the death of 22-year-old Altaf in police custody in Kasganj, the Uttar Pradesh Police registered an FIR against unidentified policemen on murder charges. The FIR lodged on the complaint of the victim’s father Chand Miyan said the police picked up his son for questioning on Monday. “I followed him but I was sent back. The next day, we were told that Altaf has ended his life by hanging in the washroom of police station. It is not possible for a five-ft-tall man to hang from a two feet high water tap,” Mr. Chand said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fir-lodged-in-up-custodial-death-case/article37483217.ece
14 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Arrested terror accused involved in June 12 attack’||The National Investigation Agency suspects that the two alleged conduits of terror outfits, who were arrested in Jammu & Kashmir earlier this week, were involved in the killing of two policemen and as many civilians in Baramulla in June. The two accused, Rashid Muzaffar Ganaie and Nasir Mir, are residents of Sopore in Baramulla where the civilians, Manzoor Ahmad Shalla and Bashir Ahmad, and constables Showkat Ahmad and Waseem Ahmad, were killed in an indiscriminate firing on June 12. Several others were injured in the incident. The policemen were deployed to ensure the COVID-19 standard operating protocol when the terrorists struck. Preliminary findings indicate that the accused were linked to those who carried out the attack. It is learnt that among the assailants was a Pakistani national, for whom a hunt has been launched. The National Investigation Agency has so far arrested 27 persons following the recent spate of killings by the terror outfits in J&K, as part of the conspiracy to thwart the Government’s move to extend domicile status of various categories of people and to promote industrial development in the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arrested-terror-accused-involved-in-june-12-attack/article37482938.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Trade route||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/winter-is-coming/article37482950.ece
14 November 2021||Patna,||Mid-term poll likely in Bihar: Chirag Paswan||Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) chief Chirag Paswan on Saturday said that mid-term election was likely in Bihar and his party would be part of an alliance in the polls. Mr. Paswan further announced that his party would contest the coming Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. He said Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and his favourite officials were responsible for the recent hooch deaths in the State. “Mid-term poll is likely to take place in Bihar and my party will be part of an alliance in that poll,” Mr. Paswan told presspersons in Patna. However, he did not reveal whether his party would be part of the NDA or the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal-led grand alliance. Likely to be RJD sources close to Mr. Paswan told The Hindu that his party had decided to contest the election in the State along with the grand alliance led by RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav. Asked about his party’s performance in the recently held by-elections, he said its candidates had come third similar to where his party stood in the 2020 Assembly election in the State. “And, keeping the results in view, my party has decided to contest the upcoming election in Bihar in alliance,” he added. Mr. Paswan declared that his party would contest the upcoming Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab next year. “Proposal to contest Assembly polls in these two States had come from our party’s State units which has been accepted by our party,” said Mr. Paswan but refrained from revealing whether the LJP would contest the election in these States alone or in alliance with some regional parties. On the controversial statement given by Kangana recently, Mr. Paswan said it was “condemnable and insulting to the brave martyrs of the country”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mid-term-poll-likely-in-bihar-chirag-paswan/article37482951.ece
14 November 2021||Mumbai,||Woman gets bail in cruise drugs case||The alleged seizure of narcotic drugs from Nupur Satija, an accused in the drugs-on-cruise case, was “illegal” as it was not conducted by an authorised woman officer, a special NDPS Act court has said while granting her bail. The Narcotics Control Bureau had arrested 20 persons including actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan after raiding a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2. The detailed order became available on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/woman-gets-bail-in-cruise-drugs-case/article37483228.ece
14 November 2021||Mumbai,||Vaze’s custody extended till November 15||A magistrate court on Saturday extended the Crime Branch custody of Sachin Vaze, who is a dismissed assistant police inspector of Mumbai Police, till November 15 in connection with extortion cases against him and former Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. He is currently lodged at Taloja Central Jail and was taken into custody by Mumbai Crime Branch on November 1. The case refers to an extortion call made to builder-cum-hotelier Bimal Agarwal between January 2020 and March 2021. The accused are former Police Commissioner of Mumbai Param Bir Singh, Sumit Singh alias Chintu, Alpesh Patel, Vinay Singh alias Babloo and Riyaz Bhati. They have been booked under Sections 384 and 385 (both pertaining to extortion), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. On October 20, the Maharashtra Government had told the Bombay High Court that Mr. Singh is not traceable and that it cannot give a statement that no coercive action will be taken against him. So far three non-bailable warrants have been issued against Mr. Singh. This statement was made when the court was hearing a plea filed by Mr. Singh seeking to quash one FIR filed against him registered at two places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vazes-custody-extended-till-november-15/article37482974.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Water stagnation persists even two days after rain||While water receded in a majority of the inundated areas in Chennai, many localities continued to reel under the impact of stagnation even two days after heavy rains battered the city. Major stretches of Kavignar Bharathidasan Road, its adjacent Tiruvalluvar Salai and Seethammal Colony, all barely one km away from Chief Minister’s residence, had stagnation on Saturday. Despite being under the focus of officials, there was water stagnation in some sections of T. Nagar, West Mambalam and Mandaveli. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi and other senior officials inspected the work in Mandaveli and Seethammal Colony on Saturday evening. In Peravallur near Perambur, one of the worst-affected localities, residents complained that the situation worsened on Saturday. K. Ravi, a resident, alleged that water stagnation in Jawahar Nagar increased as water pumped out from nearby localities reached it. Jennifer, a resident of Poompuhar Nagar in Thiru Vi Ka Nagar zone, said that water-logging persisted in her area for a week. “Residents in areas like Poompuhar Nagar 2nd Main Road, 28th Street, 28th Cross Street, 22nd Street, Yamuna Nagar and Vasantham Nagar are facing hardship. We do not have access to water and are finding difficult to come out for essentials like milk, water cans and groceries,” she said. Residents of Valliammal Nagar in Villivakkam and members of Democratic Youth Federation of India staged a demonstration on Saturday, alleging inaction to drain water from the locality. Residents of Kalakshetra Colony near Adyar complained of water stagnation for nearly a week in the locality. Chandrasekar, a resident of Vembuliamman Koil Street in Virugambakkam, said although there was not much water on their street, they were afraid that the water on a vast open land would overflow and flood the locality. “Water from residential localities around Ramapuram are emptied onto this site,” he said. No respite Water stagnation persisted in some parts of Velachery on Saturday even two days after the rains had stopped. Udhayam Nagar, in east part of Velachery, and some parts of west Velachery comprising Padmavathy Nagar, Kalki Nagar, Muruga Nagar, Ram Nagar and Srinivasa Nagar, were reeling under floods. In many localities, residents complained of mixing of sewage and stormwater. K.S. Kannan, a resident of AGR Garden in Mettukuppam in Mugalivakkam, said flooding in addition to mixing of sewage was posing a risk to public health. “We have complained to the Corporation and the officials of the State government. We have not received any help,” said Mr. Kannan. Water was yet to be cleared from many localities on the peripheries of the city such as parts of of Mudichur and Hasthinapuram. In Hasthinapuram, sewage network started overflowing creating a health hazard in some areas. The sewers in Nethaji Nagar, Jain Nagar Extension and Arul Murugan Nandanavanam Nagar were oozing out sewage. T. Murugesan, a resident of Jain Nagar Extension, said the residents often faced sewage overflow in the the past two years but the issue was yet to be fixed. In Mudichur, areas like Rayappa Nagar, Varadharajapuram and Bhuvaneshwari Nagar were flooded although the situation was gradually improving. V. Rajasekaran, an office-bearer of Mudichur Residents Welfare Association, alleged that though a lot of amount was allotted to strengthen the bunds of the Adyar river and construct integrated stormwater drains, no work was actually done.  (With inputs from Deepa H. Ramakrishnan and R. Srikanth)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-stagnation-persists-even-two-days-after-rain/article37483305.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Several temple tanks filling up||Copious rains this monsoon have filled up many temple tanks in the city, including those of Sri Kapaleeswarar Temple, Sri Parthasarathy Swamy Temple and Sri Vadapalani Andavar Temple. A total of 2,359 tanks attached to 1,586 temples under the control of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department in the State have reached their capacity, helping recharge groundwater in their surroundings. “The water, if retained for the next few months, will come in handy during the annual float festivals [theppothsavam] of the temples,” said a former official of the department. However, the big tank at Tiruvottiyur Thyagarajaswamy temple, popularly known as Vadivudaiamman temple, has been not among those that got water this season. “It is an unfortunate situation. It is called the Adishesha Theertham. Successive governments have done nothing to ensure that the tank has water. All the streets in Tiruvottiyur resemble lakes and tanks but the temple tank is dry with water at one end alone,” said Tamil scholar and devotee Ma. Ki. Ramanan. Water from the four mada streets (streets surrounding the temple) are supposed to empty into the tank, but road cuts, damages to drains meant to carry rainwater to the tank and incomplete work on North Mada Street have led to the tank not getting any run off water, he said. At Mylapore, the tank of Sri Audikesava Perumal Temple overflowed causing great inconvenience to residents in the vicinity. “We were battered by the incessant rain and two days ago when the tank overflowed, dirt and some green algae entered our homes. There was no use complaining to the Greater Chennai Corporation. The tank does not seem to have any outflow system,” said P. Muralidharan, a resident. Meanwhile, the department has completed repairs, including construction of inlet and outlet channels, steps, compound water, removal of encroachments and restoration of 835 temple tanks. Plans have been drawn up to restore and repair around 230 tanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/several-temple-tanks-filling-up/article37483328.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Why is govt. silent on Kerala freezing permit?’||Questioning the DMK Government’s silence over the Kerala Government’s decision to freeze its permission for felling trees downstream from the baby dam at Mullaperiyar, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Saturday urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to insist Kerala to revoke its decision. He also demanded that an all-party meeting be held to decide the future course of action over the issue. In a statement, Mr. Panneerselvam asked the Chief Minister to question the Kerala Government over the hurdles it had created, over the years, notwithstanding the Supreme Court’s order to Kerala to not obstruct the strengthening of the baby dam. He said Tamil Nadu should take steps to assert its rights to strengthen the baby dam. The Tamil Nadu Government should not give any scope for talks to the neighbouring State over the construction of any new dam, Mr. Panneerselvam said. Rejecting a statement made by a Kerala Minister that officials had granted permission for the felling of trees, without the knowledge of their Chief Minister, Mr. Panneerselvam said Kerala’s action of suspending the official was not only condemnable but also amounted to contempt of court. “It is surprising to know that the [Tamil Nadu] Chief Minister, who thanked the Kerala Chief Minister the second after the order, granting permission [for felling 15 trees] came out, has been silent over the incidents that followed eventually,” he said. Referring to a statement made by the Minister for Water Resources that the Kerala Government’s action of suspending its official was an internal matter of the State, Mr. Panneerselvam said the DMK’s allies were hesitant to speak out. “Is not the silence maintained over the Mullaperiyar dam issue, the lifeline of Tamil Nadu, a betrayal of Tamil Nadu and its people?” he said. Questioning the silence of the allies of the DMK Government over the issue, Mr. Panneerselvam said farmers and people were increasingly of the view that the allies of the ruling dispensation were taking sides with Kerala. “There could be differences between parties in Tamil Nadu. But when it comes to asserting the rights of the State, all MLAs, MPs and Ministers should remain united,” Mr. Panneerselvam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/why-is-govt-silent-on-kerala-freezing-permit/article37483337.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGT slams lax enforcement of ban on plastics||The southern bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has issued directions to the Chief Secretary and the Environment Secretary to revive the steering committee and the regional monitoring committees to implement the ban on single-use plastics in the State in letter and spirit. The Bench said this was required to protect the environment and life on earth. “The government must understand the need for protecting the environment, which has been expressed by world leaders in the recent UN Climate Change Conference (COP26) in Glasgow,” the Bench said. The court took note of the submissions by the TNPCB and said steps had been taken by the authorities concerned to implement the ban, and closure orders were issued against units that manufacture such plastic articles. However, the petitioner had submitted photographs of the use of single-use plastic, to which the NGT said, “It shows the pathetic implementation of the ban on one-time use and throw plastics, and it is still used in grassroots level, especially by small vendors.” The Bench stated that if the regulators trace the source from where vendors procure these plastics, action could be taken against those violating the ban.  Pointing out that the Chennai Collector had a pro-active role in implementing the ban, the Bench said the government should supply bio-degradable bags at subsidised rates to such vendors as an alternative to single use plastic bags. “Mere issuance of notice will not be sufficient unless there is a will. The government agencies, which are expected to implement the ban, will not be able to implement it in letter and spirit,” the Bench said. The agencies should continuously monitor and penalise those who flout the ban, the Bench added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ngt-slams-lax-enforcement-of-ban-on-plastics/article37483343.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 809 fresh cases and 14 deaths||Even as the State’s daily COVID-19 case count dropped to 809 on Saturday, a few districts saw a marginal rise in fresh infections, when compared with the previous day. While Coimbatore, Chennai and Chengalpattu saw a small rise in cases, Mayiladuthurai, Perambalur and Tenkasi logged none. Coimbatore topped the table with 134 people testing positive. The district had recorded 108 cases the previous day. In Chennai, 120 people tested positive, as against 114 on Friday. There were 65 cases in Chengalpattu and 76 in Erode. While Tiruppur logged 51 cases, Salem and Tiruchi saw 43 and 41 cases respectively. As many 16 districts reported fewer than 10 cases each, with three recording just one. The fresh cases took the State’s case tally to 27,14,025. Fourteen people succumbed to the infection. This took the toll to 36,273. Twenty-nine districts did not report any death. There were three deaths each in Chengalpattu and Chennai, while Coimbatore accounted for two. With 934 people being discharged, the total figure rose to 26,68,001. Active cases fell to 9,751. Another 1,01,034 samples were tested. The total count touched 5,25,42,503. According to Friday’s data, the State’s positivity rate stood at 0.8%. Chengalpattu had the highest positivity rate at 1.4%, followed by Coimbatore and Tiruppur with 1.3%. For the second day in a row, the daily vaccination figures exceeded three lakh — 3,51,403 people got jabs. This took the overall coverage in government centres to 5,83,71,312.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-809-fresh-cases-and-14-deaths/article37483316.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Most subways reopened, traffic continues on waterlogged roads||The police announced that all subways except for Madley have been opened for vehicles. As many as 11 subways were waterlogged after the recent spell of rain and were closed for traffic on Thursday. According to the police sources, the following places are still waterlogged: Veterinary Hospital-Vepery High Road Mosque, Brickklin Road, Beach Service Road (Closed), R.R. Stadium, N.H. and K.H. Sterling Road to Loyola, T.T.K. Road, Eldams road, Postal Colony, Ram Theatre-Vadapalani, Bazullah Road-North Usman Road, Vani Mahal, G.N. Chetty Road, V.R. Road, Arunachalam Road, P.T. Rajan Salai, Kamarajar Salai, Mohamed Sathak College Road and J10 Global Hospital. However, vehicle movement in these places still continued, the police said. The following roads still remain closed: Jawahar Nagar Road and Peravallur 70 Feet Road. Buses diverted Due to potholes, buses on R.K. Mutt Road were diverted while entry for other vehicles was restored. Traffic towards Valluvar Kottam towards Vani Mahal was permitted on Thirumalaipillai Road following yesterday’s cave in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/most-subways-reopened-traffic-continues-on-waterlogged-roads/article37483310.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna Library illuminated in blue to mark World Diabetes Day||Anna Centenary Library in Kotturpuram here was lit blue by M.V. Hospital for Diabetes on Saturday on the eve of World Diabetes Day. In line with the trend of many landmark buildings across the world being lit blue to mark World Diabetes Day, the hospital said it was illuminating iconic buildings in Chennai for the 13th consecutive year. Buildings that were lit blue in the past included War Memorial, Queen Mary’s College, Napier Bridge, Ripon Buildings, LIC Building, and Valluvar Kottam.  The theme for this year’s World Diabetes Day is “Access to Diabetes Care – If not now, when?”. The hospital will be launching a new programme to focus on people with diabetes who were at a higher risk of amputation, said Vijay Viswanathan, head and chief diabetologist, M.V. Hospital for Diabetes and Prof. M Viswanathan Diabetes Research Centre, Royapuram. He is also the president of D-Foot International.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-library-illuminated-in-blue-to-mark-world-diabetes-day/article37483342.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||I have no intention to seek publicity by insulting anyone: Suriya||Suriya Sivakumar rejected PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss’s charge that the actor’s recent film, Jai Bhim , had insulted the Vanniyars. He said he and the film crew had no intention to insult any community; in fact, changes were made to the film immediately after a few such instances were pointed out. In a statement, Mr. Suriya said, “I am doing my best to improve the lives of fellow human beings. I have the support and love of people belonging to all sections across India. I have no need or intention to seek publicity by insulting anyone.” He said that while he agreed that freedom of speech should not be used to insult any community, the right to freedom of speech should be protected from attacks. “The film is not a documentary, and it begins with a disclaimer that the story is fictionalised, based on a real incident. It also states that the incidents and the names do not refer to anyone or any incident in particular,” he said. “Those who do not really care about the vulnerable will use their power against them. In this respect, caste, religion, language and race doesn’t matter. There is evidence to prove this throughout the world.” Mr. Suriya said Dr. Anbumani Ramadoss’s similar criticism that the character of a police officer was named ‘Gurumurthy’ to hint at late PMK leader J. Guru was also made by others who said the character was named after another personality. “If the name of the antagonist is believed to refer to someone or the other in every case, there is no end to it. The voice of protest against injustice should not be turned into politics of ‘names’ and diluted.” CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan requested Mr. Suriya to extend financial assistance to Parvathi, wife of Rajakannu, whose death at the hands of the police was depicted in Jai Bhim . “Ms. Parvathi, who fought the case with courage, makes a living as a daily-wager in Chennai. You highlighted the problems of the suppressed sections in the film. I request you to extend a helping hand to her,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/i-have-no-intention-to-seek-publicity-by-insulting-anyone-suriya/article37483757.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rush to repair vehicles damaged in the floods begins||In the last two days, many mechanics in the city have been constantly getting calls from customers seeking to repair their vehicles damaged in the floods. B. Saravanan, who has been running an automobile shop in T. Nagar for more than two decades now, said he had been receiving numerous calls from residents in T. Nagar, G.N. Chetty Road and West Mambalam. “I had to turn down many requests because I’m not able to handle so many at a time. But thankfully, most of the repairs, are not very major ones. Many cars need some minor brake and clutch repairs. These will cost anywhere between Rs. 5,000-Rs. 7,000,” he says. Major problem arises when water reaches the petrol or diesel tank or the engine itself and it may be pretty expensive to fix it, he added. But the number of calls were much less compared to 2015. And the repairs too, were largely not serious, the mechanics said. Suresh R, who own an automobile service station in Kolathur, said residents from not just Kolathur, which was one of the worst flood-hit areas this time, but those from Koyambedu and Madhavaram too called him. “I got over 50 calls, but I could do water damage repairs for 10 vehicles so far because I don’t have adequate manpower as most of my staff haven’t returned from the Deepavali holiday,” he said . Mechanics in Alwarpet and West Mambalam said they had been getting hundreds of calls as many didn’t expect such a massive flooding over a short span of time. Many residents in Velachery decided to park their vehicles on the flyover and some in their office spaces. S. Karthik, who has a car service station in Ramapuram said, “I had a few clients for whom I took the vehicles from the underground parking lot and took it to my garage so that they are protected. Many mechanics did it for their customers and stationed the vehicles in safer places,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rush-to-repair-vehicles-damaged-in-the-floods-begins/article37483335.ece
14 November 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Minister for ruthless removal of encroachments on waterbodies||As Kanniyakumari district is facing one of its worst natural calamities, Information Minister Mano Thangaraj made a strong case for ruthless measures to remove encroachments on waterbodies. “We have to do it without any compromise. We should also ensure that there are no constructions in low-lying areas in the future. In the last 10 years, constructions have come up on wetlands and paddies well irrigated by the dams of the district. These developments have obstructed the flow of water,” Mr Mano Thangaraj told The Hindu . The Minister said he had never seen Valliyar, one of the major rivers in the district, overflowing the road. “Construction of a petrol bunk and other developments obstruct the flow of water,” he said. Explaining that constant monitoring of major dams in the district had helped avoid any major disaster, the Minister said the administration was keeping its fingers crossed as all the waterbodies had reached their capacity. “Water is still flowing from hills and forest areas and we do not know where to direct them. The three rivers Palayar, Valliyar and Thamiraparani and other canals are seeing very heavy flow of water,” he said. Mr. Mano Thangaraj said there was also an urgent need to desilt the waterbodies as their capacity over the years had come down drastically. “We need to do it immediately and prohibit all constructions in low-lying areas and command areas of the dams in the district,” he said. The average rainfall in Kanniyakumari district is 100.48 mm, highest in the last 40 years. It has been raining for the last four days and water has entered 200 villages. The water level in Palayar was so heavy it overflowed the bridge near Oluginachery. As the bund of Periyakulam in Shenbagaramanputhur breached, water has entered the highway in Thovalai. In the northern region, the big tank in Erachakulam has also breached. Fire and Rescue Services personnel rescued and shifted people to safe areas. As the railway tracks have been inundated and landslides have occurred in some places, train services between Nagercoil and Thiruvanathapuram were cancelled. Kanniyakumari and Ananthapuram Express were stopped at Nagercoil.  Water is still flowing from hills and forest areas and we do not know where to direct them Mano Thangaraj Information Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remove-encroachments-on-waterbodies/article37483416.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘37,024 tonnes of monazite can be extracted from beach sand stored by private miners’||The Madras High Court has directed the State government and private beach sand mineral exporters to respond to a claim made by an amicus curiae that 37,024 tonnes of monazite, a radioactive atomic mineral used for production of thorium, can be extracted from several lakh tonnes of raw/processed/semi-processed sand now lying in the sealed godowns, stockyards and factories in Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari districts. First Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu took serious note of the submissions made by amicus curiae V. Suresh that “it is a matter of concern that these stocks which are ostensibly ready for sale/export contains such high concentration and quantity of monazite. The possibility of clandestine sale of processed minerals mixed with monazite is not a hypothetical issue but something requiring investigation by competent agencies”. The amicus curiae also told the court that over 88.40 lakh tonnes of raw sand appeared to have been mined illegally by some of the mining companies from the year 2000 till 2013 when the State government imposed a complete ban on beach sand mining activity in the three districts. He claimed that the illegality continued even thereafter and came to a grinding halt only when the court ordered strict enforcement of the ban in November 2016. Acceding to a request made by Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram to grant him time to deal with the report of the amicus curiae , the judges said: “The State will deal with the report, along with the counter affidavits to be filed by the individual mining operators, by way of a status report to be filed within three weeks from date. The State will indicate, in particular, the extent of vigilance now exercised in the three southernmost coastal districts.” Union Govt. impleaded The Bench also impleaded the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests and Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board as respondents to a suo motu public interest litigation petition pending in the court since 2016 and observed that the latter could also file an independent report on the action taken by it with respect to the perceived illegal mining. The orders were passed after Mr. Suresh filed a summary of the proceedings since 2016. He told the court that illegal mining and transportation of garnet, ilmenite, rutile, zircon, sillimanite and leucoxene had been happening since 2000. He feared that even the prohibited mineral monazite could have been clandestinely sold by the mining companies by mixing it with processed minerals. He noted that the State Government had banned the mining activity in 2013 and appointed IAS officer Gangandeep Singh Bedi to study illegal mining. “Though, on paper, there was a ban, it was found that illegal mining, processing, transport and sale was going on unhindered during the so-called ban period between September 2013 and November 2016...It was only after orders were passed by this court in November 2016 that the authorities swung into action to enforce the ban.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/37024-tonnes-of-monazite-can-be-extracted-from-beach-sand-stored-by-private-miners/article37483319.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police shift body and ensure decent funeral||Police lent a shoulder, quite literally, to ensure decent burial for an elderly man who died in his flooded house. The deceased was identified as Mohammed Hassan, 72, a resident of 22nd Street, Shastri Nagar, Pulianthope. He died on Thursday evening. Flooding was heavy at the time, due to heavy rains in the forenoon. Not knowing how to deal with the situation, his grieving wife called her relatives. Only a few relatives managed to reach the house, walking in waist-deep water. They were in a dilemma as to how to carry the body to burial ground. C. Velu, inspector at Pulianthope police station, said, “One of their relatives called us. We went there on a boat but we were unable to reach the house, since it was on a narrow lane. Our men walked to the house in water. It was dark as there was no power. Using cellphone light, we made a bier from some cloth and carried the body on our shoulders, walking in the water for a kilometre. The boat took us out, and we shifted the body to an ambulance. With the help of a non-governmental organisation, we took it to the Villivakkam burial ground for a decent burial.” Body found The body of a 60-year-old man was retrieved from Buckingam Canal at Vasuki Nagar in Pulianthope police station limits on Saturday. The dead man was identified as Karuppiah, 60, of P.V. Colony, Vyasarpadi. Police said the deceased could have fallen into the canal on Friday. A missing person case was registered in Vyasarpadi police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-ensure-decent-burial-for-elderly-man/article37483330.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Officer who worked with Modi appointed flood mitigation panel head||Retired IAS officer V. Thiruppugazh, who served in Gujarat under the then Chief Minister Narendra Modi and also in the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) under the Prime Minister, has been appointed by the DMK government to lead an advisory panel on mitigation and management of flood risk in the city. During his career, the 1991 batch IAS officer had served in a key post in the Gujarat State Disaster Management Authority and later had been Additional Secretary (Policy and Plan) in the NDMA of which the Prime Minister is the ex-officio chairperson. Incidentally, Mr. Thiruppugazh, while in the NDMA, led a team to visit Chennai and Kancheepuram in June 2017. His team’s findings were part of the report published by the NDMA titled ‘Tamil Nadu Floods - Lessons Learnt & Best Practices.’ Chief Secretary’s sibling The IAS officer in the Gujarat cadre was considered close to the Prime Minister, as he served as Mr. Modi’s Secretary when he was the Gujarat Chief Minister. Mr. Thiruppugazh also happens to be the sibling of Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu. Another sibling had translated Mr. Modi’s book Exam Warriors in Tamil titled Paritchaikku Bhayamen in 2018. A G.O. issued on October 22 regarding the formation of the committee noted that Chennai was prone to natural disasters and cyclones. Chennai’s terrain was flat with most of the area at an average elevation of 2 m above Mean Sea Level and certain areas were even below the sea level. Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur — the districts around Chennai had over 2,500 tanks and all the waters were discharged through Adyar, Cooum, Kovalam and Kosasthalaiyar rivers, it pointed out and contended: “The combined hydrological effect of all these factors makes it difficult to manage inundation and de-watering during monsoon.” The Governor had in his address to the Assembly announced that a Chennai Metro Flood Management Committee, comprising experts in environment, urban planning and disaster management would be established to devise flood control methods and design storm water drains to reduce the detrimental impact of floods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officer-who-worked-with-modi-appointed-flood-mitigation-panel-head/article37483321.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai businessman arrested by EDF||The Entrustment Document Fraud (EDF) Wing of Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Saturday arrested a businessman for allegedly cheating an investor of Rs. 5.9 crore on the pretext of investing in export of quartz from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. The police said the accused R. Panneerselvam, 38, of Kaladipet, Thiruvottiyur, owned Everstone Minerals and was into quarrying business. In 2019, he approached Mohammed Arshad, 51, of Nungambakkam, claiming that he had orders for Rs. 16 crore to export quartz stones. He asked Arshad to invest in his business, promising big profits in a year. Arshad gave Rs. 5.9 crore in instalments to him. Forged documents Even after a year, Panneerselvam failed to return the amount. Hence, Mr. Arshad lodged a complaint during the grievance redress camp held by the Police Commissioner last year. The EDF officers checked the documents, such as shipment copy and sales contract, and found that they were forged. Panneerselvam has been remanded in judicial custody.  The accused had asked Arshad to invest in his business, promising big profits in a year. Arshad gave Rs. 5.9 crore in instalments to him. Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/businessman-arrested-on-cheating-charge/article37483333.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Normal suburban train service to resume from November 15||The Southern Railway is set to resume normal suburban train operations from November 15 and all travel restrictions will be removed. Meanwhile, the long-distance trains originating from stations under the Southern Railway, have been converted to normal long-distance trains from Saturday. With regard to suburban trains, people would be allowed to travel without any time restrictions in all the four sections, including Chennai Central-Arakkonam and Gummidipoondi/Sullurpeta and Chennai Beach-Chengalpattu via Tambaram and Velachery. The commuters can purchase single, return and season tickets. All the curbs on UTS mobile app for purchasing tickets during peak hours will also be removed. Regarding the long-distance trains, the Southern Railway was operating 95% of the trains in two classes as special mails and holiday specials with new train numbers. Special run ends In a circular issued, the Railway Board has directed the Southern Railway to revert to the normal train services with regular fares and to be operated as per time table issued for 2021. More than 290 mails/express trains are operated within and outside the State. The mail special trains are operated with the old fare with the holiday specials being charged with ‘Tatkal’ rates, a senior official said. Changes have been made for charging normal fares for holiday special trains for the trains operated by Southern Railway and South Western Railway from Saturday itself in the Chennai database centre. The Southern Railway, however, has asked passengers to continue to follow all COVID-19 safety norms of wearing face masks, hand hygiene and maintaining social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/normal-suburban-train-services-from-tomorrow/article37483309.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaiko insulting police force by targeting me, says Annamalai||BJP State president K. Annamalai on Saturday said MDMK general secretary Vaiko had insulted the whole police force by saying that Annamalai was only a police officer and not qualified to comment on the Mullaiperiyar dam issue. “By thinking that he is insulting me, he has insulted the police force. Is he commenting now on the issue because of the pressure given by farmers at the protest held by the BJP four days ago or to just support the DMK government,” the BJP leader asked. Murugan gives aid During the day, Union Minister of State L. Murugan and Tamil Nadu BJP in-charge C.T. Ravi separately visited various flood-affected areas in Chennai and distributed flood relief. Mr. Murugan said the Prime Minister Narendra Modi had assured the State government of all its support. He said the DMK was in power between 1996 and 2001 and 2006- 2011 but did not do any long-term planning. “Instead of blaming the other government, the Chief Minister should take proactive steps,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaiko-insulting-police-force-by-targeting-me-says-annamalai/article37483301.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for burglary at scientist’s house||Two persons, including a woman, were arrested on charges of committing burglary at the house of a retired scientist in Gandhi Nagar in Adyar police station limits on Saturday. The police said Thirunavakarasu, the complainant, had gone out of station on October 30. On returning next day, he found the lock of the door broken. The steel cupboard in the house had been ransacked and the jewellery was missing. After preliminary investigation, the police arrested Ravi Babu, 47, of Thiruvanmiyur and S. Sakkubai, 50, of Kotturpuram. Over 61 sovereigns of gold jewellery was recovered from them. The police said Sakkubai was a domestic help in the house. The woman, with the help of Ravi Babu, allegedly committed the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-burglary-at-scientists-house/article37483332.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Electrical Inspectorate issues advisory||The Electrical Inspectorate has issued advisory on safe practices for avoiding electrical accidents during the northeast monsoon. In a press release, the Chief Electrical Inspector has advised the residents to avoid using electrical appliances when there was lighting or thunder, switch off the main in case of any electrical short-circuit, avoid overloading of electrical points and use only electrical cables and switches with ISI mark. Licensed contractors Those building new houses should use the services of only licensed electrical contractors and install residential current breaker with over-current in the main supply point. They must also replace worn out wires, and damaged switches if any. The residents should provide and maintain earth electrodes to prevent any short-circuit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/electrical-inspectorate-issues-advisory/article37483334.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS distributes relief material||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Saturday visited a few rain-affected areas in and distributed relief material. He visited Mylapore, Velachery, and Sholinganallur. The former AIADMK legislators M.K. Ashok, K.P. Kandhan, former MP J. Jayavardhan, former MLAs R. Nataraj, Kovai Selvaraj, A. Subburathinam and V.N.P. Venkatraman were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-distributes-relief-material/article37483302.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police remove four truckloads of plastics, trash from Marina||The police personnel removed plastic waste and other garbage from Marina beach. Around 48 police personnel from Triplicane range, led by Deputy Commissioner Pakalavan and Assistant Commissioner M.S. Bhaskar, began the work on Saturday morning. Nearly four lorries of plastic waste and other garbage were removed by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-remove-four-truckloads-of-plastics-trash-from-marina/article37483300.ece
14 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special help desks opened at four railway stations||Salem Division of Southern Railway has announced special help desks at four railway stations to provide relevant information about train timings to passengers. According to a release, the help desks shall be reached at 0422-2303167 for Coimbatore Railway Station, 0427-2447650 for Salem Railway Station, 0421-2200568 for Tiruppur Railway Station and 0424-2284864 for Erode Railway Station. A railway official said that the helplines were introduced to help the passengers receive information about cancellation, diversion or revision of train timings, particularly during the current North-East Monsoon where multiple trains get cancelled, face revision of timings and diversion of routes every day. Trains diverted Following the derailment of seven coaches of the Kannur-Yeswantpur Express train in Dharmapuri district on Friday, the Southern Railway announced in a press release issued here that the South Western Railway has notified diversion of four trains, including a Coimbatore-bound train via Banaswadi, Baiyyappanahalli, Bangarapet , Jolarpettai and Salem Junctions. Train No. 01013 Lokmanya Tilak – Coimbatore Special, Train No. 07393 Yesvantpur-Puducherry Special, Train No. 06236 Mysuru –Tuticorin Special and Train No. 01022 Tirunelveli –Dadar Special were diverted, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-help-desks-opened-at-four-railway-stations/article37483355.ece
14 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Water technology centre inaugurated||Ekki Pumps and KPR Institutions on Friday launched Ekki - KPR International Water Technology Centre, set up at a total cost of Rs. 50 lakh, at the KPR Institute here. A press release from Ekki said the centre, inaugurated by German Consul General Karin Stoll, is a centre of excellence for pumps and water-related technologies. It will bring together research, teaching, consultancy and entrepreneurship in pumps and water technologies. The new Centre will harness the combined expertise of over 45 researchers and academicians from KPR and about 40 engineers from Ekki. The new centre will initially work on skill training, knowledge transfer and entrepreneurship in the water industry, the release said. According to Ms. Stoll, strengthening links between business and academia will improve training in engineering considerably. This will contribute not only to better employability but also to higher quality. K. P. Ramaswamy, chairman of KPR Group, said the Centre will provide opportunities for students and academicians at KPR Institutions. Collaboration with academia is a crucial component for growth of industries. Kanishka Arumugam, Co-CEO of Ekki, said the company is investing in its future by employing and developing skilled people. Ekki’s water technology centres will work with academic institutions and global water technology companies to build a new generation of water industry leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-technology-centre-inaugurated/article37483363.ece
14 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Awareness camp for transgenders conducted||The City Police in collaboration with the Department of Social Welfare organised a special awareness camp for transgenders on the various opportunities available to them here on Saturday. The Anti-Human Trafficking Unit (AHPU) of the city police along with the District Child Protection Unit, Labour Department and Childline organised the event at the Police Community Hall in Uppilipalayam. AHPU sources said that around 51 transgenders participated in the camp. Police personnel explained the various schemes of the State and Central governments available for the third gender, along with methods for self-development, rehabilitation and to avail employment. The participants from various parts of the city including Kavundampalayam, Sungam and Ramanathapuram expressed grievances regarding their livelihood during the special camp, the sources said. In future, more such special camps for transgenders will be organised in Coimbatore, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-camp-for-transgenders-conducted/article37483352.ece
14 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Interactive webpage on diabetes launched||AGs Healthcare under the directorship of Adityan Guhan launched an interactive and dedicated webpage on diabetes on the eve of the World Diabetes day. The webpagewww.covaidiabetes.comwas launched by A. Nirmala, Dean of Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The webpage has a voice over link for all the questions (starting from what is diabetes till the final complications) and myths in common man’s minds. The webpage has an exclusive SOS button which when pressed during emergencies such as hypoglycaemiathe call will be directed to the institute, thereby enabling us to go to their location and give proper care/ guidance, a release said. “The webpage has a diabetic risk calculator where we calculate the risk for individuals with a standard formula, which includes age, ethnicity etc. This is an activity to reach millions of young individuals who have no idea about diabetes but are the most vulnerable population due to rapid urbanisation and lack of physical activity,” says Dr. Guhan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/interactive-webpage-on-diabetes-launched/article37483361.ece
14 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mobile medical camp vehicles flagged off||Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji on Saturday flagged off 56 mobile medical camp vehicles to prevent spread of diseases during the monsoon at Sulur in Coimbatore district. He flagged off the vehicles from the Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Sulur in the presence of District Collector G.S. Sameeran, Deputy Director of Health Services P. Aruna and former Minister Pongalur N. Palanisamy. According to a press release, the vehicles will reach out to the public and test for diseases common during monsoon such as dengue and chikungunya. The 56 vehicles comprise 12 vehicles for medical teams, 27 for school children welfare medical teams and 17 vehicles for ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme. Each vehicle will have one doctor, one nurse and one hospital worker, the release said. In Tiruppur, Ministers M.P. Saminathan and N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj flagged off 56 mobile fever camp vehicles at the District Collectorate. The vehicles will be used to conduct 56 fever camps in the mornings and 56 camps in the evenings, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-medical-camp-vehicles-flagged-off/article37483357.ece
14 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||High raw material prices hit MSMEs in automobile sector||Jayakumar, who runs an MSME unit at the SIDCO Industrial Estate here, used to take up machining for foundries that supply to the automobile sector. The last two months have seen a slump in orders and was temporarily shut ahead of Deepavali. “I do not know when the auto sector will revive. Hence, rather than keeping the unit idle, we are trying to do orders for other sectors as we need to repay loans and meet other fixed costs,” he said. Almost 50% of the MSME units at the Kurichi SIDCO Industrial Estate here supply to the automobile sector and they are all hit by a sharp drop in production. “We do orders for foundries who in turn supply to a major commercial vehicle manufacturer. Our supplies are lying as stocks with the vehicle manufacturer and they have not revived production. Acute shortage of semiconductors and steep hike in raw material prices have hit the automobile sector,” he says. A foundry owner here said the workers used to get 12 hours work a day. Now, there is no overtime and they work only for eight hours. The ancillary units also suffer when production reduces in foundries. M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, said about 30% of MSMEs in Coimbatore cater to the automobile sector. High prices of raw materials and shortage in availability of semiconductors has hit the vehicle manufacturers and the ancillary units and the MSMEs feel the impact. “Nearly 40% of production is down in October and November. Several units declare holiday on Saturday and Sunday, do not give overtime to workers, and there are no jobs for contract workers,” he says. Vikram Mohan, Managing Director of Pricol, which is an automotive component and solutions provider, said semiconductor shortage is so acute that if an order is placed now, the automobile sector customer gets supply after 18 months. Further, the prices have also increased manifold. With huge demand for semiconductors from sectors such as mobile phones, computers, and consumer durables, the automobile sector is hit by shortage, he explains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-raw-material-prices-hit-msmes-in-automobile-sector/article37483348.ece
14 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Sree Annapoorna group forays into fine dining||Popular Coimbatore-based restaurant chain Sree Annapoorna is foraying into fine dine restaurant and business hotel segments with the launch of Kove Fine Dine and Ikon by Annapoorna at RS Puram. Jegan S. Damodaraswamy, Executive Director of Sree Annapoorna, told The Hindu the group, which has renovated its RS Puram hotel, will launch on Monday 52-room Ikon By Annapoorna and 120-seater fine dine speciality restaurant Kove. The 50,000 sq ft property has three facilities. Daily customers will be served the regular menu at the refurbished Sree Annapoorna restaurant. The Kove is a multi-cuisine vegetarian restaurant that will soon have a chef’s table too for guests who make reservations in advance. The rooms at Ikon by Annapoorna are in two segments - executive and suite. The Ikon also has a bar and three halls to host functions and business meetings, he said. Paying tribute to the engineering and textile sectors in the district, the interiors of the three facilities are embellished with copper platings and different textures and prints of fabrics, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sree-annapoorna-group-forays-into-fine-dining/article37483346.ece
14 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephant attack victim treated||Doctors at Kovai Medical Center and Hospital (KMCH) recently treated a 27-year-old man who was gored by an elephant’s tusk near Palani in Dindigul district. A team led by Sathesh Kumar, General and Laparoscopic Surgeon at KMCH, diagnosed that the wound in the patient’s left chest had torn his diaphragm and caused his intestines to be sucked into his chest, leading to compression of his left lung and heart. Shortness of breath This had led to shortness of breath and a dip in his blood pressure and blood oxygen levels. The doctors performed surgery to rectify the damages and he was provided with breathing support for a few days, following which he recovered completely and was recently discharged, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-attack-victim-treated/article37483345.ece
14 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Parents urged to ensure safety of children||Parents should ensure the protection of children, T.V. Vijayakumar, project director of National Child Labour Project, said at an awareness meeting held in Pollachi on child protection and child labour. The United Nations has listed 37 rights in different categories for children. Parents should not only make children aware of their rights but should also teach them to not get close with strangers. Parents should spend more time with children and discuss their areas of interest. Children should be careful when they travel to school or back from school and should know how to seek help if there is a necessity. The government has several schemes to rehabilitate and support children who do not have parents or those who are forced to get into work. Complaints regarding child labour can be registered onwww.pencil.gov.inor 1098 or 0422-2305445, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parents-urged-to-ensure-safety-of-children/article37483344.ece
14 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephant attack victim treated||Doctors at the Kovai Medical Center and Hospital (KMCH) recently treated a 27-year-old man who was gored by an elephant’s tusk near Palani in Dindigul district. A team led by Sathesh Kumar, General and Laparoscopic Surgeon at KMCH, diagnosed that the wound in the patient’s left chest had torn his diaphragm and caused his intestines to be sucked into his chest, leading to compression of his left lung and heart. This had led to shortness of breath and a dip in his blood pressure and blood oxygen levels. The doctors performed surgery to rectify the damages and he was provided with breathing support for a few days, following which he recovered completely, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-attack-victim-treated/article37483441.ece
14 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Resumption of train services sought||Members of various associations for train passengers on petitioned the Passenger Services Committee (PSC), a statutory body under the Ministry of Railways, which had visited the Coimbatore Railway Station on Friday. The petition submitted by the Pollachi Train Passengers Welfare Association demanded the resumption of Coimbatore-Rameswaram daily overnight express, Coimbatore-Madurai daily intercity express and Coimbatore-Thoothukudi daily fast passenger that were operated in the metre gauge period. The petition also urged the Railway Board to transfer the Pollachi-Kinathukadavu railway section from Palakkad division to Salem or Madurai division. Other demands included operation of a new train from Pollachi to Chennai via Kinathukadavu, Coimbatore, Erode, Salem and Katpadi Junctions, restoration of Kovilpalayam and Chettipalayam railway stations and improving the basic amenities at the Pollachi Railway Station. Meanwhile, members of the Welfare Association of Rail Passengers and Kinathukadavu Rail Passengers Welfare Association demanded in their petitions that a train from Mettupalayam or Coimbatore must be operated to Chennai Egmore or Tambaram Junction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resumption-of-train-services-sought/article37483350.ece
14 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 134 new COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district reported 134 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 2,48,177 cases. The Health Department reported two new deaths, taking the district's death toll to 2,435. The district had 1,158 active cases and 109 patients were reported to have recovered on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 51 fresh cases, which took the tally to 96,209 cases. The overall toll remained as 985 as no new deaths were reported. The district had 650 active cases and 64 patients recovered on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-134-new-covid-19-cases/article37483358.ece
14 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Hosiery products to cost more||Manufacturers of hosiery items in Tiruppur will increase the product cost by 15 % to 20 % from November 15 because of the steep hike in raw material prices. South India Hosiery Manufacturers’ Association president AC Easwaran said in a release that the hosiery industry suffered setbacks during the two waves of COVID-19. It is just recovering. However, yarn prices were up by Rs. 50 a kg in the recent days and costs of other inputs have also jumped. This has affected hosiery manufacturers and the units doing related works. Hence, there is no option but to increase the prices of the end products, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hosiery-products-to-cost-more/article37483349.ece
14 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||PAT office bearers||Arun Kumar, Chief Executive (Plantations) of Parry Agro Industries, has been re-elected chairman of Planters Association of Tamil Nadu (PAT) for 2021-2022. A press release said T.J. Varghese Vaidyan, senior general manager of Matheson Bosanquet Enterprises, was re-elected vice-chairman of the association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pat-office-bearers/article37483347.ece
14 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for graft||Officials from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption arrested a deputy tahsildar, a village administrative officer and a middleman on charges of demanding bribe of Rs. 20,000 from a farmer near Gobichettipalayam. The officials said that Rathinasamy, a farmer from Koodakkarai village near Gobichettipalyam, had approached Nambiyur deputy tahsildar M. Azhagesan for land genuineness certificate. Azhagesan had reportedly asked the village administrative officer S. Ramji to collect Rs. 20,000 from the farmer for the certificate. Ramji in turn directed Muthukumar, a tout, to recieve the money from Rathinasamy.  Meanwhile, Rathinasamy lodged a complaint with the DVAC. The DVAC sleuths laid a trap and nabbed Ramji and Muthukumar. DVAC officials conducted a raid on the premises of the deputy tahsildar and seized Rs. 5.33 lakh of unaccounted money and arrested him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-graft/article37483437.ece
14 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Special camps for revision of electoral rolls||District Collector H. Krishnanunni on Saturday inspected a polling booth at the Sandhapettai Panchayat Union Primary School near Ammapettai where a special camp was held for revision of voters’ list. Mr.Krishnanunni said in a release that special summary revision camps would be held on November 14, 27 and 28 in the district. The camps were held at 2,222 polling booths in the district on Saturday and it would continue on Sunday as well. Public can also visit tahsildhar offices and respective polling centres for addition, deletion, correction and address change in voters’ list till November 31. Voters can also apply through the websiteswww.nvsp.inandwww.eci.gov.in, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camps-for-revision-of-electoral-rolls/article37483432.ece
14 November 2021||Erode/Salem,TAMIL NADU||Mega vaccination drive at 447 centres in Erode||The eighth mega vaccination drive would be held on Sunday in districts. In Erode, the drive would be held at 447 centres. 61,600 doses of vaccines District Collector H. Krishnanunni said in a release that 61,600 doses of vaccines would be administered through the camp. A total of 1,788 workers would be involved in the special vaccination drive in the district. About 100 vehicles would be utilised for the camp. In Salem, the district administration is targeting to administer 1 lakh doses. The camp would be set up at 1,392 places in the district and 18,500 workers would be involved in the vaccine drive, a release said. The district has stock of 1.64 lakh of Covishield and 1.38 lakh doses of Covaxin, a release said. Namakkal In Namakkal, 740 teams would be deployed for the mega vaccination drive, including 74 mobile teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mega-vaccination-drive-at-447-centres-in-erode/article37483438.ece
14 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||A promise kept: MMC gets revamped lift||When Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan visited the Madurai Medical College (MMC) six months ago to receive his certificate from the Returning Officer for the Madurai Central Assembly Constituency after emerging victorious, Krishnammal, a differently abled woman came near him and said, “Sir, now that you have won the election, will you please get the lift repaired as most of the time it is not working...?” After a pause, he said, “Give me some time. I will get it done.” The woman was pleasantly surprised when Mr. Thiaga Rajan had taken it forward with the PWD engineers, who inspected the premises and started the work about two months ago. On Saturday, accompanied by Minister P. Moorthy, Collector S. Aneesh Shekar, PWD engineers and Dean Rathnavel, Mr Thiaga Rajan visited the MMC campus and dedicated the revamped lift. Even as the officials looked at the Ministers to cut the ribbon, Mr. Thiaga Rajan invited Ms. Krishnammal, who stood by the side of the Ministers. As the lift was installed 53 years ago, installing a standardised lift could not be done. After spending about Rs. 18 lakh, and using the latest electrical and electronics devices, it has been put to use in the ground plus two floors building. The MMC, which was inaugurated in 1957 by then Chief Minister K. Kamaraj, got a lift in 1967. The old lift, for which many spares, were either not available in the market or the mechanism was outdated, it remained ‘out of order’ most of times. Mr. Thiaga Rajan said the State government is known for keeping its promises and “I just did that.” As they left the venue, Ms. Krishnammal thanked them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mmc-gets-revamped-lift/article37483605.ece
14 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court orders release of Panama cargo ship||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered the release of MV Navios Venus, a cargo ship registered in Panama, that was involved in a collision with a mechanised fishing boat off the coast near Colachel in Kanniyakumari district. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan took into account the fact that an agreement was reached between the two parties. The parties mutually agreed for the payment of Rs. 70 lakh as compensation. The collision took place on October 22 at 3 p.m. about 20 nautical miles off the coast. The petitioner P. Rajamani, the owner of the mechanised fishing boat, sought compensation. Due to the impact of the collision, the mechanised fishing boat was severely damaged and a few fishermen sustained injuries, he said. He sought the detention of the ship. He said that if the ship was permitted to sail beyond the territorial waters of India, the fishermen injured in the collision and the petitioner would be left without remedy. The court had ordered the detention of the ship which was lying in the Mumbai Port. With the two parties reaching an agreement over the compensation, the court ordered the release. The parties were asked to execute a letter of undertaking. The court disposed of the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-orders-release-of-cargo-ship/article37483425.ece
14 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Call to create more awareness of legal aid services among people||Emphasising the need to create more awareness among the public of the legal aid services, Madras High Court Judge K. Murali Shankar said that the awareness would help people in the grievance redressal and also enable more disposal of cases. Mr. Murali Shankar was speaking at the Mega Legal Services Camp held on Saturday at the Sri Aurobindo Mira School. The Legal Services Authorities were constituted to provide legal aid to the needy people. The people should be made aware of the legal aid services, he said. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar said that awareness was less among the common man. People were suffering because they were not aware of the remedy. The success of the legal aid services was through creating more awareness among the common man, he said. There were various schemes and services for the benefit of the people. The petitioners who approach government departments for grievance redressal should be treated with proper care by the officials concerned, he said. Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha suggested the use of the internet for creating awareness and also for grievance redressal. Chief Judicial Magistrate D. Jeyakumari Jemi Rathna said that the event aimed at helping the people understand the legal aid services. Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran, Corporation Commissioner K.P. Karthikeyan and C. Chandran of the Aurobindo Mira School spoke about the importance of the legal aid camp. Principal District Judge P. Vadamalai welcomed the gathering and Secretary of the District Legal Services Authority V. Deepa proposed a vote of thanks. Over 1,500 petitions received from the public and forwarded to various government departments for grievance redressal were settled. Over 30 stalls were installed at the venue to create awareness among the public. Similar mega legal services camps were organised by District Legal Services Authorities in the southern districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-to-create-more-awareness-of-legal-aid-services-among-people/article37483611.ece
14 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water released for 58-canal system||Releasing the water from Vaigai dam for the 58-canal system, Ministers P. Moorthy and Palanivel Thiaga Rajan hoped it would benefit the farmers from Madurai and Dindigul districts. The farmers in Usilampatti in Madurai district were happy about the release as the water would enable them to cultivate close to 2,000 hectares of land in the area. Apart from 33 tanks getting water from the dam through the 58-canal system here, the water course helps recharge the ground water level to a great extent. The PWD engineers said that for irrigation purposes 150 cusecs of water would be released in the 58-canal system, when the storage level in the Vaigai dam crossed 67 feet (max level is 71 ft and as on date, it was 69.5 ft). The State had issued an order to release water and apart from Madurai, farmers in Dindigul too would benefit to an extent of 373 hectares from the release, they added. When Chief Minister M. K. Stalin visited Pappapatti on October 2 to participate in the special gram sabha meeting, the farmers made a representation to release water in the 58-canal system, Mr Moorthy recalled and said that the CM had kept his words. He also recalled that after about 14 years, for the first time, water for irrigation from the Mullaperiyar dam was released on June 1. The DMK government, he said, would support the farmers and he appealed to them to use the water judiciously. Madurai Collector Aneesh Shekhar, Theni Collector K. V. Muralidharan and Dindigul Collector S. Visakan and other senior officers from the PWD and other departments, representatives from the farmers’ associations and others participated in the ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-in-58-canal-system/article37483420.ece
14 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court tells life convict to surrender||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has directed life convict P. Veera Bhaarathi to surrender before the Superintendent of Prison at Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai. He was out on parole to argue the case to consider his request for premature release. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran took note of the fact that Veera Bhaarathi was granted parole from time to time to contest his case as party-in-person. The parole was extended from 2017. In 2019, he was granted parole to appear before the Supreme Court. Later, the parole order was extended till further orders. The petitioner and the State submitted the arguments before the High Court along with citations. The arguments had been completed. Taking into account that the purpose for which the petitioner had been granted parole was served, the court directed him to surrender. In 1999, he was convicted by a trial court in Virudhunagar district for rape and murder of a 16-year-old girl. The sessions court convicted the first accused in the case Veera Bhaarathi, an engineer, and two other accused. The accused were awarded death sentence. In 2000, the Madras High Court commuted the death sentence to life imprisonment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-directs-life-convict-to-surrender/article37483421.ece
14 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Public, motorists block Tirumangalam toll plaza||Vehicular movement on the arterial four-way lane connecting Madurai and Virudhunagar was hit after many local residents from Tirumangalam, taxi and autorickshaw drivers, lorry operators and others blocked the toll fee plaza on Saturday. Demanding the authorities to ensure a court directive that the local vehicle users (Tirumangalam Town) were allowed to pass the toll fee plaza without payment, the agitators claimed that the plaza operators, however, insisted on collection of money from all vehicle users passing the point. It may be recalled that the plaza was inaugurated 12 years ago. Many drivers operating on Tirumangalam-Usilampatti stretch to T. Kallupatti and Rajapalayam side said that they used the four-way lane for about a kilometre and still paid the fee every time. The residents from Tirumangalam alleged that some of the toll staff were rude and threatened with dire consequences if they failed to pay the toll fee. Though the elected representatives from the AIADMK, DMK and other parties had promised to shift the toll fee plaza by about four km as it would relieve the residents of Tirumangalam, it had not been done till date, they claimed. The mofussil bus operators in the region also demanded a permanent solution to this problem. Even after a meeting was held in the presence of the Collector and the police about a fortnight ago, the toll operators resumed to collect fee from the local users. Hence, they resorted to a road blockade. As the news spread, the police and revenue authorities led by ADSP Mani, RDO Anitha held talks with the agitators. The authorities said the issue would be resolved within about 10 days. So, the agitators dispersed. Traffic was hit for about two hours and vehicles piled up on both the sides for over three km, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-and-vehicle-users-block-tirumangalam-toll-plaza/article37483418.ece
14 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Training programme||The Bank of India, Madurai zone, recently conducted a two-day free training programme for the farmer producers company and organisation on credit linkages under the bank’s CSR activity. The event was organised by the Virutcham Academy. The bank’s Executive Director M. Karthikeyan, General Manager (Rural) Nitin Deshpande and Zonal Manager K.N. Ramani emphasised the benefits of credit linkages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/training-programme/article37483606.ece
14 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 139.35 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 1,797 cusecs and a discharge of 556 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 69.29 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 1,495 cusecs and a discharge of 1,269 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,284 mcft. Rainfall recorded in various places during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday was (in mm): Thaniyamangalam 15.3, Melur 8, Thekkadi 4.4, Chittampatti 4.2, Maruthanadhi 3.6, Periyar 3.2, Uthamapalayam 2.2, Idayapatti 2 and Shanmuganadhi 1.4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37483422.ece
14 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Double murder||A case of double murder was reported at Othakadai near here on Saturday night. Police said that they had identified one victim as Chellapandi of Madhichiyam. A senior officer, who visited the scene of crime, said that the gang comprising at least three persons had committed the crime. The CCTV footage from the nearby locations were being checked. The identity of the second victim was also not known so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/double-murder/article37483603.ece
14 November 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Kanniyakumari district reels under heavy downpour||Newly developed areas in Kanniyakumari district have been severely affected by heavy rain. Water entered places such as Ganesh Nagar, Nangai Nagar, Nanjil Nagar and Azad Nagar, in and around Nagercoil town. These settlements were constructed on wetlands, particularly paddy fields. Most of the new settlements were built on the banks of canals, rivers and other waterbodies. “The government should take a policy decision not to allow constructions on paddy fields. Neighbouring Kerala has already enacted a law and we need a similar legislation. The Collector’s notification is not enough,” said former Minister N. Suresh Rajan, who visited the affected areas. He said huge commercial buildings in Oluginachery, on the banks of Palayar, and along the highways, had prevented the flow of water. “Housing constructions behind these commercial buildings have added to the problems. I could visit the areas in the morning. But by evening, they had been cut off from other areas because of heavy flow of water,” Mr. Rajan said. People from the affected areas have been shifted to safe places. Nagercoil MLA M.R. Gandhi said paving of roads on waterways, while constructing new houses, was among the reasons for flooding. He said unlike elsewhere, Kanniyakumari was witnessing construction of independent houses, and roads laid in these settlements were also very narrow. “Failure on the part of the government to desilt waterbodies and remove encroachments has also contributed to flooding. We have somehow managed to fix a breach in Vempanoor irrigation pond. If the bund breaks, the entire village will be submerged,” he said.  The government should take a policy decision not to allow constructions on paddy fields. The Kerala government has already enacted a law and we need a similar legislation N. Suresh Rajan Former Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanniyakumari-district-reels-under-heavy-downpour/article37483415.ece
14 November 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Potential linked credit plan for Namakkal released||District Collector Shreya P.Singh on Friday released the potential linked credit plan for the district. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has estimated the potential linked credit plan at Rs. 7,820.24 crore for the financial year 2022-23. According to a release, the projected estimates for the year 2022-23 is 7.46 % higher than that of the potential linked credit plan projections for 2021-22. Ms.Singh advised the banks to allocate more targets towards medium and long-term credits in agriculture, considering the potential to promote farm mechanisation, micro irrigation systems and animal husbandry sector in the district. According to a release, credit potential for agriculture, including agriculture infrastructure and allied activities, is estimated at Rs. 4329.73 crore and for MSME sector Rs. 1122.96 crore. The credit potential for export credit, education, housing, renewable energy involving bank credit is estimated at Rs. 91.00 crore, Rs. 95.11 crore, Rs. 609.51 crore, and Rs. 55.54 crore respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/potential-linked-credit-plan-for-namakkal-released/article37483440.ece
14 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Air quality in U.T. worsened on Deepavali day, says report||The air quality check conducted by the Puducherry Pollution Control Committee on Deepavali day revealed that the level of particulate matter PM (10) and PM (2.5) increased significantly during the celebrations on November 4. The ambient air quality monitored by PPCC at Nainarmandapam, Mudaliarpet and Anna Nagar in the town found PM (10) level to be on the higher side by 158% and PM (2.5) by 149%. The readings were compared with the day before Deepavali, the committee said in a release. The town level average calculated for PM10 and PM2.5 were 165 ug/m3 and 122 ug/m3 respectively. The data received from Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring station located at Jawahar Nagar revealed that the concentration of PM10 and PM 2.5 were 156 ug/m3 and 145 ug/m3 respectively. However, the concentration of SO2 and NO2 were within the prescribed standards. In Karaikal, the concentration of particular matter decreased by 7.5% on Deepavali compared to the previous day, the release added. The ambient noise level measured at Muthialpet and Mudaliarpet here and at Kovilpathu in Karaikal showed an increase in the noise level. The noise level increased by 18.3% in Muthialpet and 25.5% in Mudaliarpet. In Karaikal, the increase was by 28.7 %, the release said. The PPCC attributed increase in noise level to bursting of crackers, heavy movement of vehicles and other anthropogenic activities (increasing concentration of atmospheric pollutants), the release added. “The outcome of the report reveals that concentration of pollutants was found to be on the higher side. The air quality found in Puducherry was found to be very poor and in Karaikal it was satisfactory,” the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-quality-in-ut-worsened-on-deepavali-day-says-report/article37483701.ece
14 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry chosen as a centre for UPSC defence examination||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has selected Puducherry as one of the centres for the Combined Defence Services Examination, the National Defence Academy and the Naval Academy, to be held on Sunday. The examinations will be held at Vivekananda Higher Secondary School at Lawspet Main Road and Vallalar Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Lawspet. A total of 412 candidates would take these examinations. The administration has made elaborate arrangements, including the operation of special buses from New Bus Stand, on the day of the examination, an official release said.  The administration has made elaborate arrangements, including the operation of special buses from the New Bus Stand||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-chosen-as-a-centre-for-defence-exams/article37483339.ece
14 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rainfall predicted for Puducherry, says Collector||The India Meteorological Department has predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places in Puducherry for the next five days, Collector Purva Garg said on Saturday. Ms. Garg, in a release, said IMD has issued a warning on a cyclonic circulation lying over north interior Tamil Nadu and added that heavy rainfall is predicted for Puducherry in the coming five days. The district administration was still in the process of bailing out water from Sankaradass Nagar, which became The area got flooded during the rain. Clearing drains Drains at Thengaithittu and Velrampet are being cleared. De-silting of drains on Mahatma Gandhi road is still on, she added. So far, 82,083 food packets have been distributed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-predicted-for-puducherry/article37483340.ece
14 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 32 new COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory on Saturday registered 32 new COVID-19 cases from screening 2,506 persons. Of the total new cases detected, 19 are from Puducherry region, 9 in Karaikal, 2 each in Mahe and Yanam. The active cases now stood at 275, including 180 under home isolation. No death related to COVID-19 was reported for the third consecutive day in the Union Territory, data released the by the Health Department said. The test positivity rate has now come down to 1.28% and case fatality stands at 1.45%. The overall tally is 1,863 deaths. A total of 1,284,01 persons were infected and 1,262,63 patients got treated and discharged, data revealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/union-territory-records-32-new-covid-19-cases/article37483699.ece
14 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Mobile medical camps launched in Salem||District Collector S. Karmegham launched mobile medical camps set up to examine and treat people during the northeast monsoon in the district here on Saturday. The vehicles were flagged off from Mahatma Gandhi stadium in the presence of Salem MP S.R. Parthibhan, PMK MLAs R.Arul, S. Sadhasivam, Valli Sathyamoorthy, Dean of Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, R.Gemini, Deputy Director of Health Services and other senior officials here. According to officials, 83 vehicles have been utilised for the camps. Officials said that they are targeting 249 medical camps during the monsoon in the district and each team would conduct three camps a day. Necessary disinfection measures against dengue would also be carried out as part of the camp. The mobile teams have been provided with sufficient stock of medicines for various diseases. The teams would also collect swab samples from persons with symptoms of COVID-19 disease and would also administer COVID-19 vaccines, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-medical-camps-launched-in-salem/article37483431.ece
14 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Work under way to blast boulder that fell on Yercaud ghat road||State Highways Department officials, on Saturday, began works to blast a huge boulder that fell on the Yercaud ghat road during the late hours of Friday. The boulder fell near the 60ft bridge on the Yercaud ghat road. Since the road was wider at the incident site, traffic movement was not affected. The officials said that the boulder could approximately weigh 800 tonnes and since it cannot be removed using machines, steps have been taken for controlled blasting with the help of experts. Traffic movement was temporarily suspended on the ghat road during blasting. Only light vehicles and heavy vehicles transporting essential goods were permitted to ply on the ghat road, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-under-way-to-blast-boulder-that-fell-on-yercaud-ghat-road/article37483434.ece
14 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Mettur dam full||The water level at Mettur dam attained 119.7 ft against a total scale of 120 ft by 8 p.m. on Saturday. The surplus water from the dam is expected to be released during the early hours of Sunday, officials from the Public Works Department said. According to the officials, at 8 a.m., the water level at the dam was 119 ft against a total scale of 120 ft and the dam had a storage of 91,883 mcft of water. The dam received an inflow of 12,396 cusecs and the discharge into River Cauvery was 12,000 cusecs. About 150 cusecs was released through East-West canal. The outflow from the dam to River Cauvery was reduced from 12,000 cusecs to 100 cusecs by 10 a.m. and the water level slightly increased to 119.06 ft by noon. The inflow to the dam also increased to 16,020 cusecs. By 4 p.m., the water level at the dam increased to 119.4 ft and the inflow increased to 22,000 cusecs. The stored capacity of water in the dam increased to 92,518 mcft. Due to incessant rains, the water level increased to 119.7 ft by 8 p.m. The water level at the dam is expected to attain 120 ft by 11 p.m. on Saturday and the surplus water would be released into River Cauvery.  PWD officials issued flood warning message and have alerted the Collectors of 11 districts. People living on the banks of River Cauvery and in low-lying areas were advised to shift to safe places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-dam-filled-up-due-to-incessant-rain/article37483338.ece
14 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 76 fresh COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Saturday reported 76 fresh COVID-19 cases. As per bulletin, the district has 799 active cases. Salem reported 43 new cases, of which 28 cases were indigenous and 13 were reported in the Corporation limits. One person died of COVID-19 in Salem. Namakkal reported 37 new cases, all indigenous. Coimbatore district reported 134 new cases on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 2,48,177 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-76-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37483435.ece
14 November 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Sathaya Vizha celebrated||Garlanding the statue of Emperor Raja Raja Cholan, special abishekams and rituals on the Big Temple premises marked the 1036th Sathaya Vizha celebrations held at Thanjavur on Friday. Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver and other dignitaries garlanded the statue of the Emperor installed at the Cholan Park near the Big Temple complex as part of the commemoration of the birth anniversary of the Chola Emperor. Distribution of clothes to temple staff, recitation of Tamil hymns and special anointment of the presiding deities were organised at the temple by the Sathaya Vizha committee. Later in the evening, the decorated idol of Raja Raja Cholan was taken in a procession within the temple precincts. The Sathaya Vizha celebrations, normally held over two days, has been restricted to a day for the second consecutive year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sathaya-vizha-celebrated/article37483408.ece
14 November 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi fisherman rescued from mid-sea||Fisheries Minister Anitha R. Radhakrishnan visited a fisherman at a private hospital on Saturday where he is recovering after a fibre boat in which he was fishing reportedly capsized two days ago. Fisheries Department officials said that fishermen Martin (50) and Pilendran (60) of Kombuthurai near Kayalpattinam in Thoothukudi district had ventured into the sea for fishing two days ago. As they were fishing, the fibre boat was suddenly caught in a heavy wind and it capsized. The two fishermen were spotted by another group of fishermen, who were fishing nearby. Fortunately, they rescued Martin but could not trace Pilendran. They rushed Martin to the shore and admitted him to a private hospital in Tiruchendur. Meanwhile, the Coastal Security Group police and others were informed about the missing fisherman. On the advice of Chief Minister M. K. Stalin, the Minister visited the family members of Pilendran and briefed them about the steps being taken to search for the missing fisherman. He handed over Rs. 1 lakh to the family members. The Minister also gave Rs. 50,000 to Martin, who was recovering in the hospital. Collector K. Senthil Raj, A.D. (Fisheries) Vijayaraghavan were present. In another case, Abdul Majid (42), a fisherman from Kadaladi in Ramanathapuram district, who was living in Tharuvaikulam in Thoothukudi district, was found dead on Saturday. Police said that preliminary inquiries revealed that along with six others, Abdul Majid had ventured into the sea two days ago in a boat owned by Ponnarasan. However, it is alleged that Majid slipped into the sea and could not be traced. Following a complaint, the police conducted a search operation. On Saturday, a body was found near the shores. The police have sent the body for post-mortem and based on the report, further investigation would be conducted, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-visits-fisherman/article37483331.ece
14 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Work on to remove sand shoal at mouth of canals||The Public Works Department (PWD) has begun clearing a big sand shoal at the mouth of the Kudamuritti and Kodingal canals to ease flow of flood discharges into the Cauvery. The move comes in the wake of the recent heavy discharges into both the canals due to the heavy rain resulting in inundation of several low-lying areas in the city earlier this week and as a precautionary measure against possible heavier rainfall during the North East monsoon. While heavy surplus discharges from tanks and water courses in Viralimalai and Keeranur areas brought heavy flow into the Koraiyar, widespread rains in catchment areas upstream in Tiruchi district resulted in heavy flow in Kodingal canal. The Kudamuritti carries the surplus flow in Koraiyar and Uyyakondan canals to the Cauvery river from the Puthur aqueduct in the city. Nearly 5,000 cusecs of water from the Kudamuritti and about 2,000 cusecs in the Kodingal canal flowed into the Cauvery river during the peak of surplus discharge early this week. Both the canals flow into the Cauvery near the Karur highway in the city. Silt accumulation over the years near the infall point into the Cauvery had resulted in the formation of a big sand shoal. The River Conservation Division of the PWD has started work on clearing it by digging channels across the shoals. Through the shoal A couple of excavators have been pressed into service to carry out the exercise. “We are cutting a few channels for a length of about 500 metres so that the water will cut through the sand shoal, thereby widening the mouth of the canals. This will ease the flow of water into the Cauvery river, if there were to be more heavy rainfall during the monsoon season,” a PWD official said. Sources indicated that the department has also planned to clear trees and bushes on the Kudamuritti once the water flow recedes in the canal. A proposal has already been forwarded to the government and sanction of funds were awaited. PWD officials said that the water flow in the Koraiyar has come down and the water that had headed up into the low-lying colonies has almost receded. PWD sources said that there has been no issues with respect to water courses under their maintenance. Almost all the 187 system tanks under the RC Division in the region had water to at least 50% of their capacities and 15 of them have filled up. In a few tanks, the PWD was maintaining the storage at 80% as a safety measure, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-to-remove-sand-shoal-at-mouth-of-kudamuritti-and-kodingal-canals/article37483410.ece
14 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dengue preventive measures go up across Tiruchi district||Dengue cases in the district have risen and the district administration has increased preventive measures in an attempt to check its incidence. While the increasing trend in dengue cases was identified in October itself, according to sources in the Health Department, at least 10 cases were reported every day from November 1 to 10. While the number of cases reported has fallen below five over the last two days, authorities worry that it may be due to fear and hesitancy. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior official said that the cases were sporadic and not concentrated to specific clusters. While cases were high in Srirangam, BHEL Township and a few areas earlier, the cases reported these days are scattered. Ground-level staff across the district have been instructed to monitor residences in a cycle of seven days, where a house is checked once per cycle and collect samples from water sources. The larvae take time to grow and regular monitoring can help identify it before it grows into an adult mosquito, they said. Collector S. Sivarasu on Saturday inaugurated special fever camps across the district to keep a check on fever and water-borne diseases. A total of 210 such camps have been set up in the city and rural limits, including 126 mobile camps. The Collector has instructed officials to monitor fever and diarrhoea, and ensure that the public consume filtered boiled water. Regular monitoring of water pipelines in case of leakage or damage was also needed. A total of 1,161 workers have been appointed to conduct disease prevention activities across the district. They have been equipped with anti-mosquito fogging machines and have been instructed to cover affected areas twice a day. The public and the local bodies are requested to dispose of garbage, especially degradable items, quickly. Disinfection of surroundings can be done using bleaching powder. The Collector has urged the public to avoid drinking cold water, wash hands regularly and do not travel unnecessarily. All government hospitals are open round-the-clock and are well-equipped with necessary medication to treat patients, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dengue-prevention-measures-up/article37483404.ece
14 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||School teachers discount scope for zero-counselling transfers||Teachers in government schools do not see the possibility for conduct of transfers through zero-counselling procedure at this juncture of the academic year. There are only a few months left for completion of the academic year, and the teachers at primary and upper primary level have just begun in-person classes. Transfers at this juncture is bound to unsettle teachers and could cause negative impact on the learning process of students, many reason out. The School Education Department had carried out transfers of District Educational Officers and Block Resource Teachers based on zero-counselling procedure in recent months. The procedure is likely to be extended for transfer of Block Educational Officers, it is learnt. Teachers’ associations had pleaded against zero-counselling method for transfers reasoning that theirs was not an administrative job, and that the practice of transferring them out of a school after a certain period of time must not be adopted. Representatives of teachers’ associations had impressed upon the ministry that educational advancement of students has a direct bearing on the presence of same teachers for a long duration. The experience, awareness of students’ level of grasp, and familiarity with the local environment are factors that have an impact on effectiveness of teaching-learning process, a headmaster said. Also, senior teachers on the verge of retirement will have to face both mental and physical stress in the event of relocation, a senior teacher said, making a case for the usual procedure of transfer counselling to enable only willing teachers to exercise their options for relocation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-teachers-discount-scope-for-zero-counselling-transfers/article37483744.ece
14 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Realtors brace up for lull in business||Realtors in some extension areas of the city and suburbs where water-logging has been reported due to the recent spells of rain are bracing up for a lull in business. Finding new buyers of housing plots in some of the localities on either sides of Vayalur Road and in a few areas along the Dindigul highway is likely to be a tough proposition for at least the next few months, according to a builder. Though not on a scale witnessed during the 2005-floods, water-logging in low-lying areas is more pronounced this time. Inundation of agricultural fields that had become residential localities becomes inevitable when there is heavy rainfall or heavy discharge from neighbouring Pudukottai district. Some of these localities, being at a lower gradient from that of irrigation canals, get inundated when there is overflow from the waterbodies, says Rajan, a builder, There has been rapid urbanisation of the city periphery over the last decade, to the extent of the corporation subsuming neighbouring panchayats on a periodic basis. WFH, a boon ‘The real estate business in Tiruchi had, interestingly, picked up well during the pandemic period, owing to the advent of work-from-home (WFH) culture. Flat promoters have been doing good business owing to the inclination of IT professionals to relocate from metros such as Chennai and Bengaluru and to have their own home-cum-work place in the smaller cities like Tiruchi, according to I. Shajahan, president of CREDAI (Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Associations of India), Tiruchi. The intense activity in registration offices lately is, in fact, the barometer for the robustness of real estate sector, Mr. Shajahan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/realtors-brace-up-for-lull-in-business/article37483427.ece
14 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Civic body undertakes measures to drain water||Water has started receding from low-lying areas on Vayalur Road and in Woraiyur which were inundated due to heavy discharge in the Koraiyar and Kudamuritti earlier this week. The Tiruchi corporation has carved out pathways for the water in accordance with its natural flow patterns. Earthmovers owned by the civic body, with the help of additional equipment, were pressed into service since Friday, officials said. The residue Residents of these areas had complained that while the water began to recede, slush, stench and uneven pathways were left behind. Speaking to The Hindu , residents of Wins Anbu Avenue in Woraiyur said that they had taken matters into their own hands prior to the intervention of the civic body. “We had begun looking for empty plots and drainage channels. Fear of contracting infections was a big concern,” K. Prasad, a resident, said. The localities in Woraiyur did not have a proper road leading to their places of residence and had flattened it out all on their own. Now, they do not have the wherewithal to do it again, they say. “The main road is well-paved. The streets are all gravel and sand that we paid for. For my street alone, we used 30 loads of sand, now we cannot afford it,” a former advocate who resides in Linga Nagar said. The district administration must draw up a clear plan to avoid such incidents from occurring again, he said. A senior corporation official said that the low-lying areas were inundated as there was a sudden increase in the flow of water in the Koraiyar and Kudamuritti. The civic body is drawing up plans for more concrete measures such as constructing a retaining wall and well-planned drainage system. The official said that the existing drainage channels serve the purpose, but in such emergencies, a clear way for the water to drain out is required. Once the temporary measures are completed, they would discuss and plan it, he added.  We have proposed to construct a retaining wall and well-planned drainage system Corporation official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-undertakes-measures-to-drain-water/article37483742.ece
14 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases dip in central districts||The central region has reported 110 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, a dip compared to recent days. Three patients succumbed to the viral infection - one each from Ariyalur, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi districts. Tiruchi district continues to report an increase in cases, in stark contrast to the other districts in the delta region. Forty-one patients have reported positive in the district. The other eight districts in the central region reported less than 25 cases. In Thanjavur, 25 patients tested positive. Karur reported 16 fresh cases, and Tiruvarur, 14. Nagapattinam, meanwhile, registered seven fresh cases and Pudukottai district, five. Meanwhile, Ariyalur district reported two COVID-19 cases, and Mayiladuthurai and Perambalur districts reported no fresh cases on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-dip-in-central-districts/article37483406.ece
14 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam on Saturday stood at 119.40 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 22,000 cusecs and the discharge 4,935 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article37483411.ece
14 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Hearing impaired students’ day out at tiger reserve||Twenty-one students of Florence Swainson Higher Secondary School for the Deaf, situated opposite the Palayamkottai Central Prison, had the lifetime experience as they visited the Kalakkad – Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve on Friday to commemorate the birth anniversary of ‘Birdman of India’, Dr. Salim Ali. Collector V. Vishnu inaugurated the visit. ATREE’s (Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment) Agasthyamalai Community Conservation Centre (ACCC), Manimutharu joined hands with the district administration in this one-day conservation education program titled ‘Wild Tamirabharani Walk (WTW)’ connecting students with ‘mother nature’. This trip engaged, explored and, educated the students about the environmental importance of river Tamirabharani and her associated landscapes such as hill streams, wet evergreen forest swamps, riparian forests, rivers, irrigation tanks, paddy fields, temple ponds, natural springs in sand-dunes, mangrove forests or estuaries. The participants got benefited through outdoor experiences, classroom lectures, play-based hands-on, art and craft through scientific enquiry. The students were engaged in exploring the riparian wilderness of river Servalar in the 5 kms Mundanthurai to Servalar trek path admiring the greeneries, occasional gaze of gaur, footprints of bears, the aroma of grasses, tadpoles, butterflies and many little wonders. They were introduced wildlife gadgets like GPS, camera trap, anemometer, bat detector, range finder etc. The students also during the trip visited Papanasam dam, Sorimuthu Ayyanar Temple and Papanasam Tribal Government Boarding School. “This event helped the students appreciate the significance of Tamirabharani and her tributaries Servalar and Karayar, heritage lands and other associated habitats and also gained first-hand experience on various ecological phenomena like pollination, decomposition, epiphytes, predation, water-cycle, etc.,” said M. Mathivanan, Senior Research Associate, ATREE. “This is the first time our students visited a pristine jungle and they admired the wildness of the KMTR. These kinds of programmes should be organised frequently for differently-abled children,” said Johnson, principal of Florence Swainson Higher Secondary School for the Deaf. Nature educator of ATREE Maria Antony, researcher Thalavaipandi and volunteer Ramanarayanan trained the students in the field. The ‘Wild Tamirabharani Walk’ is one of the programmes under the ‘Nellai Neervalam’ (Tirunelveli Water Resources) initiative and this will be organized every month for the school students, who will be taken to various biodiversity rich places in Tamirabharani river basin, said Mr. Vishnu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hearing-impaired-students-day-out-at-tiger-reserve/article37483748.ece
14 November 2021||TIRUVARUR/cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt.’s proactive steps averted major crisis despite heavy rain’||Blaming the 10-year rule of the AIADMK for the flooding in Chennai, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday said the proactive and well-planned precautionary steps taken by his government had effectively saved Chennai from a major crisis. “The deluge in 2015 claimed 174 lives in Chennai and 1,24,000 people were evacuated. But we have effectively prevented loss of human lives now. Unlike the erstwhile AIADMK government, we kept a close watch on the Chembarambakkam and Poondi lakes to avoid mismanagement in regulating overflowing water,” Mr. Stalin said. Addressing the media after visiting the rain-hit delta districts including Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai and Tiruvarur, he said the people of Chennai knew all too well that the sudden discharge of water from Chembarambakkam had caused unprecedented flooding and hardship. The DMK government had acted very cautiously and taken up flood prevention activities well in advance. The watercourses and drainage canals in Chennai and its suburbs were desilted, and this had averted a major crisis, he said. Mr. Stalin said the State recorded very heavy rain on November 6, 7 and 11, which had caused inundation in various places. The government machinery was working overtime to drain the water and restore normalcy. To a question, the Chief Minister said a Ministerial team deputed by him had been working to figure out the damage caused to crops and property due to the downpour in the delta districts. Crop damage According to information collected up to Friday, crops, including paddy raised on 68,650 hectares, had been inundated. Despite heavy rainfall, the desilting of 4,000-km-long inlet and outlet channels had reduced rain-related damage in the delta districts. The Chief Minister said he had instructed the officials to conduct a detailed enumeration of the crop damage. Based on the assessment, the government would announce compensation to the affected farmers. A permanent solution would be found to prevent flood-related problems in the delta districts, he added. He said a Central team would soon visit the rain-hit areas in the State. He noted that he had taken up with the Centre the issue of extending the last date for paying the premium for crop insurance. On the AIADMK’s criticism that the State Government had failed to store water up to 142 feet in the Mullaperiyar dam and protect the interest of the farmers, Mr. Stalin said the AIADMK was spreading misinformation with a motive to defame the government. Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan had already clarified the issue, he said. The Chief Minister added that the government was closely monitoring the situation in Kanniyakumari, which has been receiving heavy rain. He has deputed Ministers to take stock of the situation. Earlier, the Chief Minister inspected rain-affected areas in Cuddalore district and distributed relief material and house site pattas to residents. Mr. Stalin began his tour of the affected areas in delta districts by visiting localities in Kurunjipadi block, where he also interacted with residents. He also inspected affected areas in Maruthi Nagar at Arangamangalam panchayat. He distributed rice, blankets and essential commodities to residents and house site pattas to 18 families. Mr. Stalin also inspected paddy crops damaged due to waterlogging in Adoor Agaram and distributed relief material to residents there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govts-proactive-steps-averted-major-crisis-despite-heavy-rain/article37483323.ece
14 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Leopard rescued from well in Kotagiri||A five-year-old leopard was rescued after it fell inside an open well in Kotagiri on Saturday morning. The leopard is believed to have fallen into the well, located in a residential area, on late Friday night or early Saturday morning. Local residents, who noticed that the animal had fallen inside, intimated the fire and rescue service personnel and Forest Department. A team of Forest Department staff, led by District Forest Officer of Nilgiris Division Bhosale Sachin Thukkaram, reached the spot soon , and began undertaking efforts to rescue the leopard. However, the disorientated and weakened animal, repeatedly escaped from a raft that was lowered into the well for it to climb onto. The Forest Department and the fire and rescue service staff worked through the day, and finally managed to get the animal to clamber onto the raft, which was carefully raised into a waiting cage. The Forest Department officials said the animal will be monitored before it is released back into the wild. Shekar Kumar Niraj, Chief Wildlife Warden of Tamil Nadu, said, a “well-equipped, rapid response team will be stationed in each vulnerable district.” Mr. Niraj added that instructions have been passed onto the District Forest Officer for running campaigns to sensitise residents to cover their open wells to prevent animals from falling inside. Last year, the district administration instructed the Forest Department to track down all open wells in the district after a leopard died inside a well, dug by the local panchayat in Kattabettu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/leopard-rescued-from-well-in-kotagiri/article37483318.ece
14 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Cattle in Vellore, nearby districts face rain-related ailments||The government veterinary dispensaries in Vellore, Ranipet, Tirupattur and Tiruvannamalai districts are getting busier since the rain stopped a few days ago, as cattle owners queue up to treat their animals for monsoon-related ailments. These animals, mostly milch cows and goats, are owned mainly by marginal farmers who supplement their income with cattle rearing. The animals have been facing common viral infections, including mastitis, syphilis, simple indigestion and diarrhea for more than a week. Most of these infections are related to the monsoon that animals get exposed to when they do not have proper shelters. Around 50 cattle have died in these districts due to incidents like lightning, drowning and wall collapse since October 1. "Simple methods like using lime and sodium bicarbonate will keep cattle sheds clean from flies and ticks. Free repellents are also given by government dispensaries for herders to prevent mosquitoes in sheds," an official said. Water release Vaccination of the cattle, which has not been done since early 2020 due to the pandemic, began in these districts, a week ago. Vaccination should be done twice a year to prevent anthrax and foot and mouth disease. Currently, 363 government veterinary centres, including 170 dispensaries, are operating here. Meanwhile, with the discharge of 13,399 cusecs and 4,756 cusecs from Palar and Ponnai anaicut on Saturday, Deepa Satyan, Superintendent of Police, Ranipet, has deployed 326 police personnel along the river banks in the district. Also, helpdesks, with helpline numbers (04172-271100 and 9884098100), have been set up for rain-related complaints. On Saturday, Vellore Collector, P. Kumaravel Pandian, inaugurated 25 mobile medical camp vehicles in the district, mainly for remote villages and tribal hamlets. Each mobile vehicle has five medical staff, including a doctor and nurse, to treat rain-related sickness and provide COVID-19 vaccination. Tiruvannamalai Collector B. Murugesh also flagged off 30 such mobile medical vehicles on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cattle-in-vellore-nearby-districts-face-rain-related-ailments/article37483761.ece
14 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports seven fresh COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,019 with seven new cases reported on November 13. With a total of 48,733 having been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 152. The district's toll is 1134. In Ranipet district, two cases were reported positive and the total number of cases stood at 43,500. In Tirupattur district, one fresh case was reported on Saturday and the total number stood at 29,353. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was six, which took the total number of cases to 55,089. Of this, 54,316 have been discharged. The number of active cases stands at 105.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-seven-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37483759.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rain, r ain; no drain||When Chennai was preparing for a rainy, lazy Sunday last week, many residents woke up to relentless downpour in the early hours. Within a few hours, several parts of the city had sunk under water. For a week now, as a depression off the Bay of Bengal pounded the city, Chennai is still picking up the pieces. Some parts remain submerged. Even localities in the core areas remain waterlogged, with the ground floor of several houses still under sheets of water. Some subways and roads are still closed. Power supply that was cut to avoid casualties due to the wind and stagnation was being restored in most parts. But some areas are yet to be plugged back into the grid. In some parts, residents suffered without power for five days, they said. There has been no respite from waterlogging for many parts of north and south Chennai, including Pulianthope, Pattalam, Jawahar Nagar, Mylapore, Saligramam and Velachery, that are traditionally prone to inundation. T. Nagar, which underwent area-based development under the National Smart Cities Mission, and its neighbourhoods are one of the worst-affected localities. On Friday, S.V. Ramakrishnan, a resident of North Crescent Road, T. Nagar, had called helpline 1913, requesting the Greater Chennai Corporation to bring tractors fitted with heavy duty pumps to drain water. “Both the sewer network and the storm-water drain are blocked. Water is knee-deep in houses,” he said. For many residents like V.S. Jayaraman of Motilal Street, T. Nagar, it was a return to the 2015 floods as water has not receded even after five days. “Many people have vacated apartments as there is no power supply or drinking water. An overwhelmed drainage system has led to the stubborn problem. Speed-humps laid on the street as part of the National Smart Cities Mission blocked the rainwater from draining,” he said. Even according to official estimates, more than 1.5 lakh residents in T. Nagar alone have been affected by the localised floods. The depression that crossed the coast close to Chennai on Thursday had brought more water into the Adyar, slowing down the draining of the floodwater carried by the Mambalam canal into the river. It is this canal that carries water from T. Nagar and Valluvar Kottam to the Adyar. Residents of various areas, particularly T. Nagar, blamed the lack of drains or a poor storm-water drain network for the inundation, and also the shoddy work carried out as part of the Rs. 105-crore Smart Cities Mission. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin alleged corruption in the Smart Cities project and called for a probe into the work carried out by the previous government. He said action would be taken against the contractors. Pumping of water into drains leading to the canal, too, was a tough task. T. Nagar MLA J. Karunanidhi said pumping of water was taken up at 40 locations on Friday. Water was pumped near the railway track towards the drains leading to the Mambalam canal. But the water did not drain as quickly as expected. Dumping of waste, including construction debris, in the drains in the area — a hub of commercial activity — was also cited as a reason for inundation. Omani Palani, a conservancy worker, said, “The water was four feet near the Mambalam canal on Vijayaraghava Road on Thursday. A huge quantity of waste clogging the culverts was removed then.” In T. Nagar, there are just three culverts near Mambalam to drain water from the western part of the rail line to the eastern part. These culverts are inadequate to drain water, especially the volumes that are likely during intense spells, or during a depression or cyclone. As the culverts were clogged beneath the bridges, the Corporation demolished the retaining walls of such bridges along roads, like Vijayaraghava Road, to facilitate flow of water. Local efforts Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said many initiatives were taken at the local level to mitigate flooding in areas like T. Nagar. “For example, we found that the bund had caved in at a number of places along the Mambalam canal during midnight and we cleared it to ensure flow of water. Wherever solutions were required, local-level decisions were taken. We have used over 100 horsepower motors for the first time. These motors are used only for draining out water during dam construction. We have started using 620 motors, over and above our capacity. We identified vulnerable places and put the motors there before the November 10 rain,” said Mr. Bedi. Corporation officials are planning to redesign the mouth of the Mambalam canal near the Adyar. Urban planners feel that the new work along the canal under the National Smart Cities Mission should be redesigned by increasing the width to 20 metres, according to the old maps prepared by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority. The extremely heavy rain of 21.5 cm recorded on a single day till the morning of November 7 and the depression near Chennai on Thursday were mainly blamed for the waterlogging in the city. However, weather experts and bloggers noted it was not one single rainfall episode that had led to flooding. Not record rainfall Senior meteorologist Y.E.A. Raj said that while the rainfall was very intense, it was not by any means a “record rainfall”. “We had a torrential downpour on November 25, 1976, when it rained 45 cm. The Adyar then was in spate though the floodgates of Chembarambakkam were not opened. But what happened last week was more localised floods because of unabated urbanisation without planning or adequate infrastructure.” According to weather blogger K. Srikanth, consistent rainfall over many months this year has increased the soil moisture, resulting in higher surface run-offs. “We have recorded rain, except in March this year. Weather stations in the city, be it Nungambakkam, Meenambakkam or the DGP office, have received rain of at least 2.5 mm on every other day since the onset of the northeast monsoon on October 26. As most waterbodies are filling up, groundwater recharge would be good. This could be a reason for water not receding in the city,” he said. The India Meteorological Department drew flak for its radar under repair, said to be the reason for the absence of severe rain alert. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said the radar network was in working condition and the Chennai radar was used with limitations because of its age. “Radars are part of an integrated observation system monitored for weather forecasts. The intense rain on November 7 can be compared to a cloudburst, which is usually 10 cm of rain received in one hour. The intensity of Sunday’s rain was 6 cm in one hour. Forecasting such a sudden phenomenon is challenging,” he said. Environmental experts, however, noted that the real issue was a change in mindset as Chennai was more of a drought-prone city than one vulnerable to floods. Krishna Mohan, chief resilience officer, Chennai Resilience Centre, said, “We must advocate a redesigned storm-water drain network that also recharges aquifers. We now have an opportunity to address issues of rampant urbanisation in the Third Master Plan. All stakeholders must be involved in ensuring land use laws are adhered to. Residents must think before buying property in marshland or lake bed.” The storm-water drain network needs to be studied holistically for its bottlenecks. Balaji Narasimhan, professor, Department of Civil Engineering, IIT-Madras, who is spearheading the ‘Report a Flood’ data collection initiative, said the city’s storm drainage was not equipped to handle such volume. The drainage network must be checked during execution for its gradient and invert level. Sewage and solid waste management also needs to be addressed to tackle localised floods. Such initiatives may be resource-intensive and need better public participation. Given the city’s flat topography, he also suggested pumping as an engineering solution. He said the government must consider stopping further land development near waterways and declare them wetlands. For example, the government may buy land at places like Mudichur and have dedicated floodplains. These could be preserved to buffer the floods.  We must advocate a redesigned storm-water drain network that also recharges aquifers. We now have an opportunity to address issues of rampant urbanisation in the Third Master Plan Krishna Mohan Chief resilience officer, Chennai Resilience Centre||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-r-ain-no-drain/article37483312.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Residential zone plans rejected||The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) has recently rejected four proposals that involved conversion of waterbodies into residential zones. It plans to map water catchment areas and water flow patterns in its Third Master Plan. The proposals for sites spread over 2.64 acres and 3,500 sq.ft. at Moondramkattalai, Sriperumbudur and Nemilicherry, Pallavaram, respectively were rejected as the sites lay in waterbodies. Similarly, a six-acre site at Nandambakkam and a 1.3 acre site at Thiruvanmiyur were rejected for conversion as they were part of the Adyar or on the seaward side. CMDA Member-Secretary Anshul Mishra said, “We will ensure that such proposals are not permitted. A detailed policy will be drafted and hydrological studies will also be incorporated in the plans.” Though the weather bulletin on November 6 had forecast moderate rain, heavy at times in Chennai, the Meteorological Department noted that its warning predicted heavy thunderstorms in its three-hour bulletins from 9 p.m. on November 6 and updated the State Government agencies. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said, “Forecast of extremely heavy rain at short intervals arising out of mesoscale phenomenon of smaller weather systems with spatial scale of only few km has limitations in the current meteorological technology.” Meanwhile, the Water Resources Department has managed to avoid flash floods in the Adyar with better planning this time. “Normally, we wait for the flow into the reservoir to make a decision. We discharge the same volume as the inflow. But, this time, we analysed IMD predictions, the flood forecast of the Central Water Commission and TNUIFSL’s real-time flood forecast warning system,” a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residential-zone-plans-rejected/article37483314.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu is firm that Mullaperiyar dam is safe||It said that the height of the storage level at 142 ft. was endorsed by the Supreme Court in a judgment back in 2014. The safety aspects are being constantly monitored by the supervisory committee set up seven years ago. Decommissioning of the dam would be in violation of a series of judgments of the Supreme Court, Mr. Naphade argued on Saturday. Senior advocate Jaideep Gupta, for Kerala, sought time to respond to Tamil Nadu’s affidavit. The court scheduled the next hearing on November 22. Advocate V.K. Biju, appearing for the Idukki-based Periyar Protection Movement, submitted that Tamil Nadu has not produced documents about ‘deep’ seepage issues in the dam structure. Mr. Biju said the Tamil Nadu side cannot dismiss the apprehensions of 50 lakh people in Kerala about the safety of the dam by calling it a social media campaign. “Please call for the records, if any, on the seepage,” Mr. Biju urged the court. The Bench asked Mr. Naphade to keep the records available for the next hearing. “They keep filing petition after petition... They want to keep the pot boiling. All the documents had been placed before the supervisory committee...That is what the committee was set up for,” Mr. Naphade said. The senior lawyer said Tamil Nadu is as anxious as anybody else and keeps a close watch on the health of the dam. “The dam serves us too,” Mr. Naphade said. Tamil Nadu, in its affidavit, accused Kerala of “persisting with its obstructionist attitude in depriving Tamil Nadu from carrying out the various activities related to the dam”. Seismic instruments Responding to Kerala’s demand to reconsider the rule curve as the dam is situated in a seismic zone, Tamil Nadu said a comprehensive instrumentation plan was filed with the CWC in March. It said the seismic instruments would be installed soon by the National Geophysical Research Institute, Hyderabad. “It is relevant to mention that the dam was checked for seismic forces that would possibly occur in the zone where the dam is situated and found to be safe by the Central Water Power and Research Station [CWPRS], Pune,” Tamil Nadu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-is-firm-that-mullaperiyar-dam-is-safe/article37483326.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Water aplenty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-aplenty/article37483365.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Kasthrui Sreenivasan Trust: Art Expo, Art Gallery premises, Avanashi Road, 10 a.m.    GEM Hospitals : Inauguration of Paediatric Liver and Kidney Transplant Centre, Ministers Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi and Senthil Balaji , Chairman of GEM Hospital Dr.C. Palanivelu take part, GEM Hospital auditorium, 11 a.m.  Coimbatore Maligai Viyabarigal Sangham: 65th annual general body meeting, 10 a.m.  Tamil Nadu Progressive Writers Association: Literary meet, Thomas Club, 10.30 a.m.  New Century Book House: 36th National Book Expo, Nehru Stadium, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37483359.ece
14 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sri Krishna charged for only a fraction of crimes he has ‘owned up’||Claims made by ‘hacker’ Sri Krishna of his exploits, including stealing of over 5,000 bitcoins that have not been recovered so far, have triggered intense speculations of a cover-up. But the Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Bengaluru city police has charged him for only hacking 10 poker websites and three bitcoin exchanges. Thechargesheets filed are silent on many claims made by him. TheCriminal Investigation Department (CID) has chargesheeted him forhacking into the government e-procurement portal and stealing Rs. 11 crore. Sri Krishna, in his statement recorded in police custody, claimed to have been part of the 2016 Bitfinex hack from which he made 2,000 bitcoins. He also said he stole another 3,000 bitcoins from BTC-e.com exchange, making a profit of $3 million to $3.5 million. But they are not in the chargesheet. “The voluntary statement of an accused in police custody has no evidentiary value, unless corroborated with evidence. We recovered a Macbook from Sri Krishna; he doesn’t even use a phone. He had used the equipment of his co-accused as well, all of which were submitted for cyber forensic analysis. We have charged him only for crimes that we found digital footprints of,” a senior police official said. An estimate by the police peg the profits Sri Krishna claimed to have made through hacking as of the date of the crime at Rs. 72.9 crore, of which he has now been charged only for crimes worth Rs. 13.7 crore (Rs. 2.7 crore by the CCB and Rs. 11 crore by the CID). “Despite our best efforts, we are unable to ascertain the facts of several of the claims he has made. They may either be tall claims with no factual basis, or he may have carried out these crimes using other devices that we have not been able to lay our hands on,” a senior official said. Sources in the Enforcement Directorate (ED), who are also probing the case and have questioned Sri Krishna, said they have also not been able to recover either evidence of more crimes he claims to have committed or any bitcoins from him. However, questions have now been raised on the investigation into the case and the inability of the probe to detect crimes that the accused himself has claimed to have been involved in. Congress MLA and former Information Technology Minister Priyank Kharge alleged the investigation seemed more aimed at “covering up the truth than uncovering it”.  Suo motu case The case against Sri Krishna pertaining to cybercrimes was taken up suo motu based on the revelations of the investigation into a narcotics case in which the hacker was arrested on November 18, 2020. The FIR was registered on November 27, 2020, based on a complaint by CCB Anti Narcotics Wing inspector Shridhara K. Pujara, in which he mentioned that it has been found that Sri Krishna had hacked several poker websites and a bitcoin exchange. CCB wrote to Group Cyber ID Technology Pvt. Ltd., a private cyber detection centre, on December 11, 2020, seeking a forensic analysis of the mirror images of all electronic devices recovered from the accused. The letter, a copy of which is available with The Hindu , asks the firm “whether pokerdangal, spartanpoker, pokersaint, unocoin, GGpoker, and e-governance websites have been hacked”. These are the sites mentioned in the FIR. In the letter, the CCB also asked whether apart from those sites, “any other websites were hacked”, but doesn’t explicitly mention claims by the hacker that he stole over 5,000 bitcoins. Based on the forensic report, Sri Krishna was charged for hacking 10 poker websites and three bitcoin exchanges. “On what basis was the private firm selected? Why weren’t government forensic labs involved?,” questioned Mr. Kharge. Senior police officials said that Group Cyber ID Technology has been working with law enforcement agencies and has been roped in by even Central agencies such as ED, CBI, NCB, and NIA and by the city police in several key cases earlier as well.The chargesheet is also silent on Sri Krishna’s claims of Facebook and Skype chats to buy drugs, trades in cryptocurrency and private keys to the currency in his cloud account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sri-krishna-charged-for-only-a-fraction-of-crimes-he-has-owned-up/article37483290.ece
14 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘4,219 ward committee meets held in a year’||In the one year, between August 1, 2020, and September 4, 2021 — which included the months where Bengaluru weathered the onslaught of a second wave of the pandemic — 4,219 ward committee meetings were held across the city. Of the total 198 wards, 170 held meetings during this period. These were some of the findings of a Ward Committee Meeting Survey conducted by Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy, the details of which were released at a workshop on Saturday. “Over 4,000 meetings in one year is a record of sorts given Bengaluru’s two-decade-long struggle to institute ward committees,” Srinivas Alavilli, head, Civic Participation, Janaagraha, told The Hindu . However, a bulk of the meetings were held by a section of neighbourhoods, with as many as 65 wards held less than seven meetings throughout the year. On the other hand, 54 wards exhibited 75% and above conformity to the revised mandate by conducting at least 21 or more meetings out of 27 during the survey period, stated the report. Eleven wards (6%) did not meet even once during the year, while 33 wards (17%) performed exceptionally well and held two meetings per month. Every ward committee is supposed to meet twice in a month on the first and third Saturdays. A total of 72 wards (36%) held one meeting a month. One of the goals of the survey is to understand whether Bengaluru’s wards are adhering to the mandate of conducting regular meetings and if they have progressed beyond grievance redressal systems. “Thousands of meetings have been conducted and continue to happen. Many nodal officers are doing excellent jobs. We noticed that wards with active citizen groups have WCs that are functioning well,” said Mr. Alavilli. The survey found that while many wards consistently held regular meetings, they did not upload the proceedings on the BBMP website. For instance, Vasanthnagar, Kumaraswamy Layout and Dayananda Nagar conducted over 25 meetings but failed to upload a single proceeding online. Only two wards, Hombegowda and Gottigere conducted all the meetings and were consistent in uploading proceedings, found the survey. Nodal officer of Gottigere ward, Ramamani, stressed on the importance of a successful partnership between citizens as well as residents’ welfare associations and officials. However, for every success story, there were examples of how ward committees are failing to meet their potential, and the uphill task of getting a problem addressed. Neerja Shetty, a resident of Koramangala, said the initial enthusiasm of the meetings faded over time, while Lalitha Mohan from Radhakrishna ward said their meetings had not progressed beyond personal grievances. “Talk on budget allocation does not happen. Only those with personal problems attend … we are only firefighting,” said Ms. Mohan. Civic officials stressed on the importance of citizen participation and the need to hold agencies accountable. “Democracy will flourish only when citizens participate. We may not do everything at one shot but once the problem is recorded, it will surely be addressed. Of the 100 problems, at least 15 will be solved,” said Thulasi Maddineni, BBMP Special Commissioner (Finance).     Our ward has not excelled beyond personal grievances. Several people are not aware of ward committee meetings. We need to work on these aspects and then,there will be scope for improvement -- Lalitha MohanRadhakrishna Ward||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4219-ward-committee-meets-held-in-a-year/article37483261.ece
14 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Selective logging of trees in Western Ghats impacts epiphyte community||Forest canopies, dubbed as the last biological frontier, house vascular epiphytes, which form a rich assemblage of plants within the forest canopy. Described as plants that grow on other plants and are devoid of any connection to the soil, epiphytes are said to sustain diverse taxa apart from fulfilling critical ecological functions. Vascular epiphytes are particularly sensitive to perturbations of microclimate and microhabitat within the canopy, especially from changes such as logging. Selective logging of trees in the Western Ghats profoundly impacts the epiphyte community and the effects continue to persist even 40 years after logging activities were stopped, finds a new study published recently in the journal Frontiers for Forests and Global Change. Though epiphytes are well studied in parts of Central and South America and parts of Europe, in India, this was the first assessment made, said lead author K.S. Seshadri, a DST-INSPIRE Faculty Fellow at the Centre for Ecological Sciences, Indian Institute of Science. Diversity of species “We found over 2,000 individuals of 20 epiphyte species growing on 177 of the 200 trees sampled. We compared the diversity of epiphyte species and abundance between an area where trees were selectively logged 40 years ago and another area that was unlogged. We found an increase in abundance and diversity in the logged forest compared to unlogged,” he said. When the researchers compared the sharing of host trees among epiphytes, a greater number of them were growing on the same tree in selectively logged compared to unlogged. “This suggests an overcrowding effect, either because of suitable conditions such as light availability or lack of substrates due to logging,” he explained, adding that one of the reasons so few studies exist is because they are difficult to be observed from the ground. The other authors of the study, ‘Persistent Effects of Historical Selective Logging on a Vascular Epiphyte Assemblage in the Forest Canopy of the Western Ghats, India’ are R. Ganesan and Soubadra M. Devy from the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment. Researchers used a ‘Single-Rope Technique’ to gain access to the canopy and study epiphyte ecology in the remote forests of the Kalakad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Seshadri said they had to climb trees to study the epiphytes because they would not be visible from the ground. According to the study, vascular epiphytes are diverse, comprising over 31,100 species distributed globally and accounting for nearly 10% of all extant plants. According to Dr. Seshadri, epiphytic plants are structurally dependent on the host tree.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/selective-logging-of-trees-in-western-ghats-impacts-epiphyte-community/article37483277.ece
14 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Midterm exam to be held for the first time for II PU students||The Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE) will conduct midterm examination for II pre-university (PU) students for the 2021-2022 academic year. The examination will be held in PU colleges across the State from November 29 to December 10. The DPUE said that the examination would be conducted in two sessions — one in the morning and the second in the afternoon. The aim was to gauge the learning levels of students, said officials. “Last year, we did not conduct II PU examinations and found it difficult to assess students based on their first year pre-university and SSLC marks. So we have decided to conduct midterm examination this year so that we at least have some basis to evaluate students in case of any unforeseen events,” an official said. All students would receive a common paper and the exam would be held at the college level. However, evaluations would be centralised. Another DPUE official said the exercise would also help lecturers identify learning gaps. “They can use the next few months to address this,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/midterm-exam-for-ii-pu-students-from-nov-29/article37483266.ece
14 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Krishi Mela attracts three lakh visitors on day three||The number of visitors to the ongoing Krishi Mela being organised by the University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru on its GKVK campus nearly doubled with over three lakh people visiting it on Saturday. Besides, 12.96 lakh persons watched the event through digital platform as the event is being held both in physical and digital formats. The four-day mela had seen an attendance of over 60,000 people on day one on Thursday and 1.7 lakh on the second day. The footfall would have been much higher if there was no slush due to rains, said the organisers. They are also expecting a large number of visitors on Sunday, the last day of the event. Also 703 farmers obtained the facility to hold consultations with subject experts on various issues related to agriculture and allied subjects on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/krishi-mela-attracts-three-lakh-visitors-on-day-three-of-event/article37483265.ece
14 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Operation cover-up by Modi Govt. in Rafale deal exposed’||AICC spokesperson Pawan Khera on Saturday accused the Narendra Modi-led government of conducting an operation to “cover-up” corruption in the Rafale fighter jet deal and asked why it did not initiate investigation into the role of a middleman despite recovering incriminating documents from him. Addressing presspersons here, he alleged that the BJP Government had sacrificed national security, jeopardised the interests of the Indian Air Force and caused loss worth thousands of crores of rupees to the state exchequer. French investigative journal Mediapart in fresh revelations in a report has exposed how middleman Sushen Gupta got hold of confidential documents belonging to the Indian Negotiating Team in 2015 from the Ministry of Defence, he said. The documents detailed the stance of Indian negotiators during the final lap of negotiation and in particular how they calculated the price of the aircraft. This gave clear advantage to Dassault Aviation (Rafale), Mr. Khera claimed, citing the Mediapart report. Each revelation in the “murky affair in the last five years, every single allegation and each piece of the puzzle leads right up to the topmost leadership of the country, the Prime Minister’s doorstep,” he said. Mr. Khera alleged that the latest revelations in “operation cover-up” reveal the “dubious nexus” between the Modi-led government and Central Bureau of Investigation-Enforcement Directorate to bury the corruption in the Rafale deal. The Congress leader asked whether it was not correct that the ED recovered “secret Defence Ministry documents” from the middlemen in a raid conducted on March 26, 2019.  Each revelation in the murky affair in the last five years, every single allegation and each piece of the puzzle leads right up to the topmost leadership of the country. Pawan Khera,AICC spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/operation-cover-up-by-modi-govt-in-rafale-deal-exposed/article37483286.ece
14 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||170 Indian star tortoises found abandoned at bus stand||Staff of a travel agency that operates private buses rescued 170 Indian star tortoises that they found in two bags at K.R. Market bus stand. The men who were weighing parcels bound for Chennai on a National Travels bus spotted the bags unattended. The contents in the bag were moving. When they opened one, they discovered that it was filled with small tortoises. The second bag was also filled with the threatened species. The police suspect that the person who brought the bags to the bus stand was planning to take them to another city, possibly Chennai, but developed cold feet when he saw staff weighing passenger’s bags before loading them in the luggage cabin. The police handed over the tortoises to Bannerghatta Rescue Center. Volunteers at the rescue centre said that it looked like an organised racket opearting between Chennai and Bengaluru. Last year, the authorities had recovered 426 Indian Star Tortoises from an inter-State gang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/170-indian-star-tortoises-found-abandoned-at-bus-stand/article37483270.ece
14 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hacked Bitfinex coins’ move linked to ‘SriKi’?||Political circles in Karnataka are abuzz with claims that several police officials and politicians, including two top Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionaries, are beneficiaries of the bitcoins hacked by Sri Krishna or ‘SriKi’ as he is known, allegedly diverted to their accounts for a cover-up. However, even the Opposition Congress has not explicitly made this allegation on record. Movement of large caches of hacked, stolen, and blacklisted bitcoins from the 2016 Bitfinex hack — one of the largest bitcoin heists in the world — when Sri Krishna, who claimed to be part of the Bitfinex hackers’ group, was in custody is being speculated as an indication of this “scam”. However, there is no evidence beyond Sri Krishna’s own claims, for his links to Bitfinex hack. 14 transactions flagged On November 30, 2020, Whale Alert, a blockchain tracker and analytics service, flagged 14 transactions where 5,045.48 bitcoins from the Bitfinex hack were moved to unknown wallets. Sri Krishna was in the custody of the Central Crime Branch of Bengaluru police on that day. On April 14, 2021 when Sri Krishna was in judicial custody, Whale Alert flagged 69 transactions where 10,057.47 bitcoins were moved to unknown wallets. This has been the biggest tranche of transactions of Bitfenix coins since the hack. The total worth of the bitcoins moved in these two tranches is said to be nearly Rs. 5,000 crore. “Whether some of the transferred bitcoins were from Sri Krishna should be a matter of an independent investigation,” said Randeep Singh Surjewala, AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka, at a press conference in New Delhi on Saturday. Sri Krishna in his voluntary statement in police custody, which has no evidentiary value in a court of law, claims he was part of the group that hacked Bitfinex in 2016 when 1,19,756 bitcoins were hacked and stolen. In his statement, Sri Krishna claims “the exchange was hacked twice” and in fact he was “the first person to do so” and the “second hack was led by two Israeli hackers working for the army”. He further said he transferred 2,000 bitcoins into his personal account, but “blew it up on luxurious lifestyle”. He also said the cost of bitcoins at the time of the hack was around $100-$200 which was split in two ways with his friend Andy from the U.K. In another instance in his statement, he said, in November 2018, he “downloaded the acknowledgement for the BTC transaction of 510 BTC” which was from a “Bitfinex exchange from the hacking group I was part of and later those funds were transferred to the Netherlands to my friend’s account”. No digital footprints However, the forensic analysis of the electronic gadgets recovered from Sri Krishna found no digital footprints linking him to the Bitfinex hack, the police claim. The chargesheet filed against him, which charges him for hacking 10 poker websites and three other bitcoin exchanges, doesn’t charge him for the alleged Bitfinex hack. The police even speculated that Sri Krishna may have been making tall claims of his hacking exploits in his statements seeking notoriety, as they claim “despite best efforts” they haven’t been able to find evidence to substantiate most of his claims. “Even by his statement, he has spent the bitcoins he stole from Bitfinex,” an official pointed out. Meanwhile, political circles are abuzz with reports of investigative agencies of the United States of America tracking the Bitfinex hack alerting their Indian counterparts of the November 2020 and April 2021 tranches of transactions being linked to the country. However, there has been no confirmation on this. The city police ruled out these as “speculations” and said they had alerted the Interpol through the Central Bureau of Investigation on April 28, 2021, and are yet to receive any response. The city police, meanwhile, dismissed links to the Bitfinex hack and the reported recent transactions of the hacked coins. “The claim made on Whale Alert that stolen bitcoins were transferred is completely unsubstantiated. And there is nothing to suggest it had originated from Bengaluru,” the statement said. The police further said representatives of Bitfinex company had neither shared any details of the alleged hack nor sought any information so far.  (This is the first of a two-part series on bitcoin scam)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hacked-bitfinex-coins-move-linked-to-sriki/article37483279.ece
14 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Allegations based on ‘incomplete, distorted’ facts: Police||Amid allegations of a “cover-up” of bitcoin scam, the city police issued a strong rebuttal on Saturday. Asserting that the investigation was conducted in a fair and transparent manner, they said allegations were being made based on “incomplete/distorted facts”. Meeting with CM The press statement came hours after AICC general secretary Randeep Surjewala held a press conference in New Delhi making allegations of a “cover-up”. City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant and Joint Commissioner (Crime) Sandeep Patil met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday evening and hours later issued a four-page clarification, narrating the facts of the case from November 2020. Responding to allegations of bitcoins in ‘hacker’ Sri Krishna’s wallet vanishing, the statement explained how the wallet was not his at all in the first place and hence no bitcoin was recovered or had vanished. The statement said Sri Krishna made several claims in his voluntary statement about high volume hacking of websites, without any specific details. “Careful examination of digital evidence by cyber experts revealed a majority of them were unsubstantiated,” the statement said. Despite alerting the Interpol and the case gaining wide publicity neither any foreign agency nor any of the companies the accused claimed to have hacked had approached the city police, the statement said. The police also claimed that they were in regular touch with the Enforcement Directorate and other central agencies through the probe and had also referred the case to them. On drugs Responding to questions raised by Priyank Kharge whether the accused was administered anxiety drugs in custody, the police said a medical report of the accused was negative for drugs. The police also said a petition disputing the time of arrest was dismissed by the High Court of Karnataka imposing costs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/allegations-based-on-incomplete-distorted-facts-police/article37483281.ece
14 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. covering up ‘India’s biggest bitcoin scam’, says Congress||AICC spokespersons Randeep Singh Surjewala and Gourav Vallabh on Saturday alleged that “India’s biggest bitcoin scam” had been unearthed in Karnataka and instead of conducting a fair investigation, the BJP Government appeared to be preoccupied with “operation bitcoin scam cover-up”. In a press statement, they asked the State Government, “Were the stolen bitcoins transferred from the wallet of alleged hacker Sri Krishna? How many bitcoins and of what value? How does the Bengaluru police then suggest that the 31 and 186 bitcoins, allegedly transferred to police wallet, were lost or were found to be fake transactions?” They sought to know the role and responsibility of Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who was the Home Minister when the arrest was made in bitcoin scam, and others in the State Government. Congress leaders also asked why the CBI’s Interpol wing was not informed “despite such gigantic offences with clear international ramifications”. “Why did the Government wait for over five months, up to April 24, 2021, to write to Interpol and that also after the release of Sri Krishna on April 17, 2021?” they asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-covering-up-indias-biggest-bitcoin-scam-says-congress/article37483284.ece
14 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC mulls over shifting some of its buses to CNG||To bring down its expenditure on diesel, Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is contemplating shifting some of its fleet to Compressed Natural Gas (CNG). Currently, its diesel consumption constitutes close to 55% of its operational cost. KSRTC Managing Director Shivyogi C. Kalasad said that many companies have come forward to retrofit AC buses with CNG. The cost to convert one bus ranges from Rs. 8 lakh to Rs. 9 lakh. “After the pandemic, diesel prices have increased by 30-35%. To minimise expenditure on fuel, we are contemplating shifting some of the buses in the fleet to CNG or using biodiesel. A few years ago, there were proposals to use CNG, but at the time there was not much difference in the price of diesel and CNG. We will make a decision after examining the viability.” At present, KSRTC consumes fuel at Rs. 81 per litre; its daily consumption of diesel is 500KL. In 2016, KSRTC had made attempts to use biodiesel. Around 26 AC buses were 100% biodiesel compatible while 1,500 used 20% blended biodiesel. However, within a few months, due to supply shortage, KSRTC was forced to discontinue biodiesel. Under FAME-2, it will induct 50 eclectic buses that will operate on inter-city routes. BSVI bus Meanwhile, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation has maintained that it has no plans to shift to CNG. On Saturday, the BMTC received the BSVI bus, and is set to induct a total of 565 buses by February 2022. Officials claimed it is the first corporation in the country to induct BSVI buses. MD of the BMTC Anbukumar V. said the corporation has already taken steps to induct e-buses and BSVI buses. The necessity of shifting to CNG buses does not arise at this stage. “Under the central scheme, BMTC is introducing the E-buses. BSVI buses are fuel efficient and meet better emission standards. The cost involved in retro-fitting existing vehicles is an expensive affair. We do not have any plans to shift to CNG,” he said. GAIL Gas Limited recently launched a CNG promotional scheme in Bengaluru. Sources in the company said that 14,000 CNG vehicles are registered in the State, of which 9,000 ply on Bengaluru’s roads. In the city, CNG is available at Rs. 53 per kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-plans-to-shift-some-of-its-buses-to-cng/article37483263.ece
14 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. dept. gets award for effective communication||The Rural Drinking Water and Sanitation Department, Government of Karnataka, has been bestowed with the Best Communication in Sanitation Award for 2021 in digital communication category by Indian Sanitation Coalition (ISC) - Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI). Dr. Prakash Kumar H.S., Commissioner, Rural Drinking Water and Sanitation Department (RDWSD), received the award via videoconferencing on November 10 on behalf of the department. He said the award will motivate them to work harder in creating awareness through various channels. Raising awareness The RDWSD runs a variety of water and sanitation programmes to raise awareness among people in rural areas. Various initiatives and information about the department are accessible to the public via social media. The RDWSD is working towards providing information to people about its projects through a variety of dynamic activities such as cleanliness news, impact stories, and theme videos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-dept-gets-award-for-effective-communication/article37483257.ece
14 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||245 new COVID-19 cases in State||Karnataka on Saturday reported 245 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of positive cases to 29,91,614. The maximum number of cases (154) were reported in Bengaluru Urban district. Three people, all from Bengaluru Urban, succumbed to the virus on Saturday. With this, the death toll rose to 38,143. As many as 251 people were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 29,45,415. There are 8,027 active patients across Karnataka. The positivity rate for the day was 0.24%, while the case fatality rate was 1.22%. Around 1,01,119 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/245-new-covid-19-cases-in-state/article37483271.ece
14 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SIT seizes fake stamp papers, 5 detained||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed to probe the prevalence of fake stamp papers raided four premises in the city on Saturday and recovered a huge cache of fake stamp papers. Five people were detained. Tip-off S. D. Sharanappa, DCP (East), who heads the SIT that was formed after similar fake stamp paper rings were busted in Ulsoor Gate and HAL Police Station limits, said they received a tip-off about a ring supplying old dated fake stamp papers to forge sale deeds. The team conducted surveillance for over one month and raided four premises in Byatarayanapura and Vivek Nagar on Saturday. “The papers we have recovered are forged stamp papers from an earlier era before the introduction of e-stamps. These are reportedly used to create fake old dated sale deeds in the real estate sector of the city. The gang, we suspect, was also indulging in creating fake e-stamps through franking. It is under investigation,” Mr. Sharanappa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sit-seizes-fake-stamp-papers-5-detained/article37483275.ece
14 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Investor confidence in city startups on the rise’||The international investor community has an increased interest in startups in India in general and those in Bengaluru in particular, said C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Minister for Information Technology, Biotechnology, Higher Education, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship. Private equity and venture capital firms, other investors and family investors were keen on participating in not just ‘A’ series of funds, but also in ‘B’, ‘C’ and ‘D’ and other series of funding too in Bengaluru firms, said the Minister on Saturday. “I am impressed to see the growing confidence of global investors in our startups. They are willing to invest in advanced series of funding and expand their participation,” he said, speaking to The Hindu . The State, at Dubai Expo 2020, had received excellent responses from most top global investors including PE and VC firms, other investors and family-run investors, he said. “Money is flowing towards diverse segments including technology, innovation, hospitality and wellness. Many global investors we interacted with at Dubai Expo want to open their offices in our city,” he added. The Abu Dhabi Investment Authority (ADIA), a sovereign wealth fund, has plans to set up an office in Bengaluru in some time, the Minister said. “Indian firms are able to mobilise what American firms are not able to get and Bengaluru is capturing 50% of it. Also, existing players from the Middle East including Lulu, Aster DM Healthcare and others want to scale up their India presence,” he added. ‘Beyond Bengaluru’ Mr. Narayan said the State Government was in touch with GSSs (Global Capability Centres) of all MNCs and many have evinced interest to expand their operations beyond Bengaluru, in response to the Government’s recent call. “We have already seen some 10 companies expanding to smaller cities in the State, also IBM recently. We have several large companies in the pipeline currently and they would be announcing their Beyond-Bengaluru decisions,” he added. The Centre of Excellence, the government set-up for cyber security in Mysuru, big data and analytics and artificial intelligence firms in Hubballi and fintech in Mangaluru would offer supportive infrastructure for firms that are wanting to go beyond Bengaluru, he said. Honing tech talent According to Mr. Narayan, the State Government is collaborating with industry, institutions and apex bodies like Nasscom to improve quality of talent and deep-tech capabilities. As part of this, a 30-week paid internship would be offered to STEM and non-STEM graduates. A special curriculum has been developed which would include IoT, cyber security, data analytics and artificial intelligence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/investor-confidence-in-city-startups-on-the-rise/article37483259.ece
14 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Back to school 2.0: It’s not the same||After months of inactivity, campuses are abuzz with children and school buses can be seen trundling on roads. While students are thrilled to return to their classrooms this academic year, many have yet to come to terms with the new reality of School 2.0 post COVID-19. They can no longer share their lunch boxes, kick a football on the field or take part in dance or any other extracurricular activity. While school managements are extra cautious in following COVID-19 standard operating procedures, students are getting accustomed to attending classes in a different environment. Manavv R. Taneja, a Class XII student from Delhi Public School Bengaluru East said it was a surreal experience switching from offline to online and back to offline classes. “A week of physical classes is equal to almost two months of online lessons. This time around when I returned to school, I did not take it for granted. I had seen a documentary during the lockdown of how kids were forced to work and were unable to go to school. I realised that I have the luxury of attending classes. I came back to school and showed immense gratitude to my teachers from whom I learn so much,” he said. One of the changes in his school is the class strength; it has reduced from 35 students to 19. Avani Bipin Kumar, a Class XII student at The Amaatra Academy said safety protocols have altered the traditional experience of school. “We cannot sit next to our friends or share food from our lunch boxes with each other,” she said. She however says that she is glad to be back in school even though it is only for two to three times a week. “In online classes, there was no flow of energy. The enthusiasm to come to class physically is infectious,” she quips. However, some students miss attending classes from the comfort of their homes. Shreekar R. Gowda, a Class IV student from Blossoms School said he started attending school this month. “ I miss sitting on the sofa and attending class from home,” he said, wistfully. Charan C., who studies in Class VI (6) at Cauvery Vidyaniketan said while he is thrilled to be back at school, he wants “Coronavirus to go away fully”. “Only then can I do projects and play sports with my friends,” he said, adding that he misses his computer lab classes immensely as he no longer has access to his mother’s phone as online classes have stopped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/back-to-school-20-its-not-the-same/article37483273.ece
14 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Centre did not help working class during pandemic’||S. Varalakshmi, State leader of the CPI(M), has alleged that the Union Government failed to come to the rescue of the working class during the COVID-19 pandemic. The party which came to power with the people’s votes, stood by the capitalists, she said, in her address after inaugurating the party’s district convention in Hassan on Saturday. The Centre imposed a lockdown over the pandemic without any preparation. The workers who earned their livelihood through hard labour were driven to the streets. Many people walked long distances to reach their homes. The government did not provide them with basic needs. “The government did not pay them money sufficient to face the situation. However, the people in power took care of their friends among capitalists”, she opined. Along with the pandemic, the public had been facing the onslaught of price rises. Instead of taking measures to bring down the price of essential commodities, the government increased the price of fuel. The government had collected huge money through taxes on fuels, she said. K.N. Umesh, another State leader of the party, criticised the State and Centre for their self-praise in tackling the pandemic. “Many people died without oxygen in hospitals. The government announced that it will provide vaccine free for all after the court’s intervention,” he said. CPI(M) district secretary Dharmesh, party leaders V. Sukumar, M.G. Pruthvi and others were present. Earlier, hundreds of workers took out a march in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-did-not-help-working-class-during-pandemic/article37483625.ece
14 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Circular to VCs raises debate on the question of autonomy||Many professors in universities and those in autonomous colleges are worried about losing autonomy over the curriculum they prescribe for their students, thanks to repeated reminders from the Karnataka State Higher Education Council to keep the syllabi “more or less same in all universities”. Interestingly, a recently sent circular also asked universities to ensure that “controversial contents” are avoided. Though the New National Education Policy (NEP) maintains that the universities will continue to have their say in finalising the syllabus, the council is asking them to keep it the same in tune with other universities. Complaints received B. Thimme Gowda, vice-chairman of the council, has sent reminders to vice-chancellors to ensure that the boards of studies of core subjects adhere to the framework offered by the council. “We are receiving complaints that in some universities and autonomous colleges, general guidelines have not been adhered to. The Minister has asked us to ensure the curriculum contents are not diluted,” said Prof. Gowda in a communique to vice-chancellors recently. The council has stressed that any changes in the curriculum might affect the credit transfer among universities. These instructions have not gone down well with many professors, who are on boards of studies. “The idea of different universities and autonomous colleges is to offer freedom for the teaching faculty and the boards of studies to design courses and frame curriculum of their own. If all universities should have a uniform curriculum, where is the need for universities and autonomous colleges? The idea of a uniform curriculum kills the very existence of universities,” pointed out a senior professor of a university. “The performances of universities are assessed regularly on the basis of courses offered and the syllabus framed. If every university has the same content and texts, how would that contribute to the uniqueness of the university? Ultimately, all universities will be like high schools or PU colleges, which function under one examination board with common syllabus,” said another professor. A professor, who has a postgraduation degree from a U.S. university, said that the credit transfer among universities would not be a problem if the curriculum was different. “I got credit transferred decades ago, without much difficulty. Moreover, the number of students who might seek credit transfer would be negligible,” he opined. Another professor said that as per the NEP, the Higher Education Council had no role in finalising the syllabus. Responding to this, Prof Gowda told The Hindu that the circular was issued to remind the boards of studies of a few universities to keep their syllabus updated and relevant. He also said that universities were asked to avoid controversial content as he felt that “independence of one person should not hurt the sentiments of other people”. C.N. Ashwathanarayan, Higher Education Minister, defended the council’s direction as he felt that universities had to follow a minimum standards so that the quality of education is not affected.  (With additional inputs    by Tanu Kulkarni    in Bengaluru)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/circular-to-vcs-raises-debate-on-the-question-of-autonomy/article37483268.ece
14 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Bitcoin issue will boomerang on Cong.’||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said the bitcoin issue, being raised by Congress, would boomerang on that party. He told presspersons in Shivamogga on Saturday the first case against Sriki came up in 2018 when Siddaramaiah was the Chief Minister. Children of several Congress leaders knew him. “But, then, the police did not interrogate him. Had they taken proper action then, many crimes could have been averted,” he said. The Minister said the police had arrested him and also filed a chargesheet against him. “We have informed the Interpol and ED as well on this case. The police have maintained transparency on this issue. But, the Congress did not do anything when it was in power,” he said. Earlier in the day Mr. Jnanendra played the Good Samaritan by helping two accident victims on Tirthahalli-Shivamogga Road reach the hospital. While he was on the way to Shivamogga, the Minister stopped his vehicle after noticing two bikers lying on the roadside, following an accident. He offered the victims water and instructed his staff to take them to McGann Hospital in his escort vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bitcoin-issue-will-boomerang-on-cong/article37483627.ece
14 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Awards presented||Khadri Shamanna Awards, for journalists, were presented to U.B. Rajalakshmi, editor, Taranga, a weekly, and R.P. Venkateshamurthy, editor, Janatha Madhyama, at a programme in Hassan on Saturday. H.R. Shreesha, secretary, Khadri Shamanna Memorial Trust, said the trust honours a journalist each year in memory of Khadri Shamanna, a journalist and social activist. “We don’t invite applications. We select a journalist based on contribution to journalism. We could not present the award in 2020 due to COVID-19. Hence, we are presenting awards of 2020 and 2021 together,” he said. A discussion on the Emergency of 1975 was held. Journalists H.R. Shreesha, M.K. Bhaskar Rao, K.P. Vasudevan and retired police officer J.B. Rangaswamy spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/awards-presented/article37483623.ece
14 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Milk bank to be set up in Dharwad||After milk banks in Bengaluru, Mangaluru, and Belagavi, another milk bank is now being set up in Dharwad and an MoU in this regard has been signed between SDM Hospital, Dharwad, and Rotary Club of Seven Hills, Dharwad. Vice-Chancellor of Shri DharmasthalaManjunatheshwara (SDM) University Niranjan Kumar and the president of Rotary Club of Seven Hills signed the MoU and exchanged the documents in Dharwad on Saturday. This will be the fourth milk bank in Karnataka and will help in cases of shortage of mothers’ milk. The functioning of the milk bank will be similar to that of blood banks. Dr. Kumar said that the objective behind the joint venture was to cater to the needs of babies delivered at the SDM hospital and also to those infants at the district hospital in Dharwad and other peripheral hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/milk-bank-to-be-set-up-in-dharwad/article37483448.ece
14 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||No change of guard in Karnataka: Horatti||Chairman of the Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti has said that reports of a change in guard in Karnataka are nothing but rumours and Basavaraj Bommai will continue as the Chief Minister. Speaking to presspersons in Dharwad on Saturday, Mr. Horatti also said that politicians from north Karnataka occupied prime positions during the times of crisis and Mr. Bommai too had occupied the post during tough times and he was performing exceptionally well. However, Mr. Horatti said that Mr. Bommai was going through challenging times but was performing well. He also said that such rumours were often heard in politics. And since Mr. Bommai became the Chief Minister only recently, there was no question of the BJP high command asking him to step down, he said. Discussion in House On the bitcoin scam, he said the investigation was under way and all those responsible would be brought to book by the investigating agencies. He also said that the issue should be discussed on the floor of the House with the Opposition parties facilitating the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-change-of-guard-in-state-horatti/article37483288.ece
14 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Cong. slams BJP’s efforts to capture power||Criticising the BJP’s attempts to capture power in the Kalaburagi Mahanagara Palike by hook or by crook, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesperson Sharan Prakash Patil said that the ruling party was trying to include a few MLCs in the list of voters to get a simple majority. According to Mr. Patil, seven MLCs – Laxman Savadi, Bharati Shetty, Saibanna Talwar, Lehar Singh, Pratap Naik, Raghunath Malkapure, and Muniratna – have been included in the voters’ list of Kalaburagi city. Though these MLCs were not residents of Kalaburagi city, they had applied online to include their names in the voters’ list by showing that they were residents of the city when the elections for the civic body were conducted in September. “The houses of BJP activists in the city are being shown as residences of the MLCs taken on rent. After getting clear indications that the Congress-JD(S) coalition would capture power in the corporation, the BJP has unscrupulously resorted to unethical means to capture the power in the civic body. Its bid for a backdoor entry is not just unethical but illegal as well. We, the Congress, cannot sit and watch the murder of democracy and we have already lodged a complaint with the Election Officer and we will also move court if the need arises,” Mr. Patil said at a press conference in the local party office here on Saturday. Critising Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, the former Minister alleged that the CM called the top brass of the bureaucracy in the city, including Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna and Corporation Commissioner Snehal Sudhakar Lokhande, and pressured them to include the MLCs in the voters’ list. “If the names of the MLCs are included in the voters’ list by bending to pressure from political leaders, the Congress will have to take the matter to court. We will not rest till all the officers responsible for the wrongdoing are punished.” The elections held to the 55-member civic body in September threw up a hung house. The Congress emerged as the single-largest party with 27 seats, followed by BJP with 23, and the JD(S) got four seats. With one MLA and one Rajya Sabha member, the Congress had 29 members on the floor. The BJP will also match the Congress tally with three MLCs, two MLAs, and a Lok Sabha member. Even if the BJP gets the support of the independent member. who, contested as an independent candidate after being denied a BJP ticket, it could touch the magic figure of 32. The JD(S) had, thus, emerged, as a key player as the support of its four members was required for assuming power in the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-slams-bjps-efforts-to-capture-power/article37483450.ece
14 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘We will stop sending waste to Mangaluru in six months’||Wet and dry waste processing has started in Ullal and in another six months no waste will be sent to Mangaluru for processing and disposal at Pachchanady, said Ullal City Municipal Commissioner Rayappa here on Saturday. Speaking at a workshop on ‘Making Mangaluru an Environmentally Just City: Sustainable and Just Solid Waste Management Strategies’, Mr. Rayappa said the Ullal City Municipal Council has started processing both dry and wet waste, generated by about 65,000 people in the municipality limits. The dry waste in the municipality area is being recycled. The manure produced by the processing of wet waste is being used by farmers in and around Ullal, he said. Mr. Rayappa said it took about six months to make people understand the need to segregate dry and wet waste while handing it to municipal staff during the house-to-house collection. “We had to stop collecting non-segregated waste for a few days,” he said, and added that NGOs and elected representatives used to convince people to segregate waste. The municipal council procured 36 concrete bins from Kannur that enabled processing of 2 tonnes of wet waste per day by using coconut husk and dry leaves. In a month, the council got good manure from it which is now sold as ‘Ullal’ organic manure. People from Ullal and Mangaluru are regularly purchasing it for their fields and kitchen gardens. Among the many who have started processing wet waste at the source, include nine schools and colleges. A private firm was processing chicken waste and feed of animals. Waste management is being decentralised and waste processing units are being opened in each ward. Council personnel took steps to clear eight black spots, where waste was being dumped, and took steps to beautify it. The Ullal beach, Mr. Rayappa said, has become a plastic-free beach. “If anybody is found selling plastic, action will be taken to keep their trade licence under suspension,” he said. Member-secretary of Dakshina Kannada District Legal Services Authority Prithviraj Vernekar spoke about the way the district authority initiated steps for the State authority to file public interest litigation against pollution of the Phalguni. The seminar was jointly organised by the Mangaluru City Corporation, Bengaluru-based Environment Support Group, and Break Free from Plastic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-will-stop-sending-waste-to-mangaluru-in-six-months/article37483620.ece
14 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Pilikula zoo gets Large Egrets, Grey Pelicans||Large Egrets and Grey Pelicans are new attractions at the Pilikula Biological Park. According to director of the park H. Jayaprakash Bhandary, Pilikula has received six Large Egrets and two Grey Pelicans from the Hyderabad zoo under an animal exchange programme. In addition, four Mouse Deer have also been brought from Hyderabad. All the new arrivals are on display. In exchange, four Dholes, four Reticulated Pythons, and four Whitaker’s Boas have been sent to the Hyderabad zoo, he said in a release on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pilikula-zoo-gets-large-egrets-grey-pelicans/article37483631.ece
14 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Act sternly against those spreading hate’||Calling upon State Government to ensure that there is no parallel administration, the People’s Union for Civil Liberties-Karnataka has said that the State Government should take stern action against members of all Hindutva organisations that are engaged in communal violence. The PUCL-K has said this in the fact-finding report, titled ‘Communal Policing To Hate Crimes: The Attack On Ambedkar’s Dream of Fraternity’ on the incidents of moral policing, hate speeches, and other communal incidents reported in Mangaluru and other parts of Dakshina Kannada between January and September this year. This report, released here on Saturday, has been done in association with the All-India Lawyers’ Association for Justice (AILAJ), the All-India People’s Forum (AIPF), and Gaurilankeshnews.com. The organisations asked the State Government to issue directions to the police that a First Information Report (FIR) should be immediately registered in all cases of hate crime and communal policing. If necessary, the FIR must be registered on basis of a suo motu complaint by the police. All these cases should be investigated in an expeditious manner. They said the Government should take effective measures to dispel the climate of fear that has gripped many residents of the district. Those who have committed or are threatening to commit criminal and illegal acts of hate crimes or communal policing should be asked to execute a rigorous bond of good behaviour and stern action should be taken against those who violate the bond. The police should be trained and sensitised to safeguard Constitutional governance in the State, and more so the concerns of hate crimes and communal policing. The Deputy Commissioner should initiate confidence building measures through regular interactions with members of the minority community and set aside specific days to listen and redress grievances. The civil society should organise programmes that promote inter community interactions and thereby promote fraternal relations among various communities, they said. The report was released by Abdussalam Puthige, editor of Vartha Bharati Kannada daily here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/act-sternly-against-those-spreading-hate/article37483619.ece
14 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Nagabana defiled; Bajrang Dal calls for bandh||Following the defilement of a nagabana in the Kodical area of the city on Saturday, the Bajrang Dal has called for a bandh in that area on Monday if the police fail to arrest those responsible. The incident came to light during the visit of Bhaskar Shetty, a member of a family in Kodical that performs puja at the nagabana every day. Mr. Shetty’s brother Mohan Shetty told The Hindu that his brother saw an idol of the snake god thrown outside the sanctum sanctorum. “A person had entered the sanctorum and had thrown the idol outside,” he said. He rushed to the nagabana and then informed the police. As the police came to the spot, a large number of residents and activists of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Bajrang Dal assembled there. Stating this as a deliberate act to hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus, the activists resorted to a snap protest. Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharath Shetty and Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar also visited the spot. “This is a deliberate act to hurt our sentiments. The persons responsible for the earlier defilement of the nagabana in Kavoor (last month) have still not been found,” said VHP Mangaluru divisional secretary Sharan Pumpwell to Mr. Kumar and sought an early arrest of the accused in the two incidents. While supporting the demand of activists, Mr. Bharat Shetty asked police to increase vigilance at places of worship.Mr. Kumar said the city police had taken the two acts seriously. “We need the support of people for providing information about the suspects.” Not agreeing with activists fixing a deadline to arrest the accused, Mr. Kumar said sincere efforts are being made. “They can be arrested quickly too, but I cannot specifically give the date. We are working from all angles. Have faith in us,” he said and added that the police too were conscious of significance of nagabanas in the area. The Urwa police called the canine squad and also fingerprint experts. The police also had a look at the images of the CCTVs in the locality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nagabana-defiled-bajrang-dal-calls-for-bandh/article37483622.ece
14 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Abolish GST on cancer treating drugs, Govt. urged||A senior Congress leader from Udupi on Friday urged the Chief Minister to provide adequate treatment facilities to cancer patients, including abolition of GST on drugs, hassle-free process for members of ESI and other schemes and the like. In an open letter, Janardhan Bhandarkar said he was undergoing treatment for leukaemia at Kasturba Hospital, Manipal since three months and was on the path of recovery. During the process of his treatment, he understood that cancer has not remained a rare disease, but has become widespread across the state and country. “I was bewildered with the number of people approaching hospitals for cancer treatment while undergoing care at the Kasrurba Hospital,” Mr. Bhandarkar said in his letter. As such, the Government should constitute expert committees at the State and district levels; or if such committees exist, should revive them. These committees should liaison with hospitals treating cancer and arrange speedy treatment for those with cancer treatment and arrange free treatment for economically weaker people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abolish-gst-on-cancer-treating-drugs-govt-urged/article37483616.ece
14 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: 18 new cases recorded in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 12 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. With 14 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 131. The test positivity rate was put at 0.24%. Fines collected A fine totalling Rs. 1,07,62,970 has so far been collected in 88,700 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported six new cases of which five are from Udupi taluk and one from outside the district. Five patients are under home isolation and one under designated government care facility. With four patients discharged, there are 40 active cases in the district. Vaccinations With 4,503 people vaccinated on Saturday, the total number of people covered in Dakshina Kannada reached 24,40,985. Of these, 15,37,471 have received their first dose and 9,03,514 their second. In Udupi, 2,007 people were vaccinated taking the total number to 14,97,496 of which 9,22,182 have received the first dose and 5,75,314 the second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-18-new-cases-recorded-in-dk-udupi/article37483633.ece
14 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Vaccination against COVID-19 will be administered at KSVK Higher Primary School at Moodabettu in Udupi on November 14 from 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. The first and second doses of Covishield will be given, an official release said.    Department of Endocrinology, Kasturba Hospital, Manipal will organise a cyclothon to observe World Diabetes Day – 2021 at Manipal on November 14 at 6.30 a.m. The Pro-Chancellor of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) H S Ballal will flag off it at Sharada Madhav Pai OPD Block.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37483617.ece
14 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Minister inspects damaged road atop Chamundi Hills||Minister for Public Works C.C. Patil on Saturday said a new technology recommended by experts from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, is likely to be used for restoring the damaged portions of road atop Chamundi Hills here. “My department has given its consent to use of the newly-developed technology for constructing the retaining walls wherever the road leading to the Nandi statue has caved in and the work will be executed as per the experts’ advice,” the Minister said. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the road stretch, Mr. Patil said, “I cannot give much of the details of the work and cost in view of the model code of conduct.” He, however, said his department had sought the opinion of experts after the hill road caved in. They have given their report citing reasons on why the road caved in and the kind of work to be taken up for restoring the road, the Minister added. The Minister said in a press release here that the road was also damaged in 2019 rains and the repair was done building RCC retaining wall. The road first caved in at a different location on October 20 this year following heavy rains. It again caved in on November 2 and 4 at two other locations. No retaining wall was built when the road was first constructed. “Due to soil inundation, the water table rose, causing collapse of the stone revetment supporting the road. As a safety measure, the traffic on the road has been restricted until the road is fully repaired,” the Minister said, after the inspection. “I have told the officials to take up the work as advised by the experts.” The Minister also visited areas affected by the rain near K.R. Mill, off Mysuru-Bengaluru National Highway, where a bridge on the PWD road has been damaged, disrupting vehicle movement to some villages. The estimate for the work on repairing the damaged roads atop the hills and the damaged bridge on the district main road that connects the Bengaluru-Mysuru Highway with the K.R. Mill area will be prepared. Also, there are reports of damage to roads and bridges at several places in Mysuru district in the wake of recent heavy rains. Mr. Patil was accompanied by Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, MLAs S.A Ramdas and Nagendra, MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev and senior officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-inspects-damaged-road-atop-chamundi-hills/article37483664.ece
14 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) tries to woo G.T. Deve Gowda||Stepping up its efforts to retain former Minister and Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency MLA G.T. Deve Gowda in the party fold, the JD(S) on Saturday said the party candidate for the elections to the Legislative Council from Mysuru-Chamarajanagar local authorities’ constituency could be from his family. After Sandesh Nagaraj, who had won the seat as the JD(S) candidate in the previous elections, made it clear that he would quit the party, former Minister and JD(S) MLA representing K.R. Nagar S.R. Mahesh told reporters on Saturday that there were four aspirants for the party’s nomination from the constituency. “But, there may be a surprise choice. It may be from the household of Mr G.T. Deve Gowda”, he said. Asked to clarify if the candidate could be Mr. Gowda’s wife Lalitha, who had earlier served as a member of Mysuru Zilla Panchayat, or his son Harish Gowda, President of Mysuru and Chamarajanagar district central co-operative bank, Mr. Mahesh said the decision will be taken by Mr. Gowda himself. Mr. Mahesh said the party will face the Legislative Council elections in the region under the leadership of Mr. G.T. Deve Gowda. “He is our party MLA. He also has a vote. We will go to the polls under his leadership”. When it was pointed out that Mr. Gowda had evinced interest in joining the Congress, he said the Chamundeshwari MLA’s son had recently welcomed the JD (S) youth wing president Nikhil Kumaraswamy in Mysuru and had accompanied him to Chamundeshwari temple along with the son of Pandavapura MLA Puttaraju and the son of Periyapatna MLA M. Mahadev. Mr. Mahesh said there is no doubt about JD(S) retaining the seat as the party had a lot of supporters among the gram panchayat members. When asked if Mr. Sandesh Nagaraj’s announcement to quit the JD(S) was a setback to the party, Mr. Mahesh said the party will take any setback or advantage in its stride. He said Mr. Nagaraj was not in touch with the party for a long time. Spurns offer However, Mr. G.T. Deve Gowda has spurned the offer from the JD(S) and firmly ruled out the possibility of his family members contesting the Legislative Council polls. When reporters referred the offer made by Mr. Mahesh, he said the JD(S) had abandoned him long ago. He claimed that Mr. Mahesh had taken charge of Chamundeshwari Assembly constituency and had even named the party’s president for the constituency without involving him. Similarly, he said he was not kept informed when former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy visited Belavadi and Ramanahalli in his constituency recently. On his plans to join the Congress, Mr. Gowda said the Congress leaders had discussed politics with him, but no final decision had been taken in the regard. Mr. Gowda, who recently shared the dais with former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah at two functions in Chamundeshwari constituency, had evinced interest in joining the Congress and revealed that he had discussed the matter with Mr. Siddaramaiah and KPCC President D.K .Shivakumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-tries-to-woo-gt-deve-gowda/article37483660.ece
14 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Planning for sustainable development of Mysuru||Stakeholders from the government and the private sector pitched in on Saturday with their views and recommendations on sustaining the growth and development of Mysuru with a long-term vision spanning the next few decades. The focus is on equitable and sustainable growth of the city in terms of infrastructure, investment etc., and the exercise was part of a programme organised by the Mysuru chapter of National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO) and Mysuru Urban Development Authority to create awareness on Sustainable Cities Integrated Approach Pilot (SCIAP) programme. Mysuru is one of the 5 cities selected under the programme which aims to integrate sustainability strategies into urban planning and management of cities to create a favourable environment for investments in transformative projects, infrastructure and service delivery The organisers said the project is funded by GEF-6 through UNIDO and is being piloted in Bhopal, Guntur, Jaipur, and Vijayawada apart from Mysuru. The project entails many components including sustainable urban planning and management, investment projects and technology demonstration, low emission and environmentally sound technologies which contribute to reduction in the greenhouse gas emission, partnerships and knowledge management platform, monitoring and evaluation. MUDA Chairman H.V.Rajeev told The Hindu the city’s horizontal expansion was unsustainable and pointed out that even the current development outside the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) limits had resulted in haphazard growth beyond the Outer Ring Road. There were islands of planned development amidst a sea of chaotic growth on the periphery of the city. Mr.Rajeev said the existing green cover and planned development within the ORR and the MCC limits was made possible by the vision of the maharajas and such a vision should guide the future growth of Mysuru as well. D.B. Natesh, Commissioner, MUDA, said there are various parameters in which Mysuru has scope for improvement including the use of non-motorised vehicles by encouraging cycling and laying more dedicated cycle tracks. There was a perception that the ongoing 10-lane highway connecting Mysuru and Bengaluru would boost the city’s growth and any planning should envisage the growth pattern and dovetail it in the vision statement or document. The stakeholders also opined that any future planning for the city should factor in the development thrust to be provided by the airport which was set for expansion and the Mysuru Airport Director Manjunath provided statistics to highlight the passenger traffic till October. Representatives of UN Habitat, NAREDCO, builders and developers were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/planning-for-sustainable-development-of-mysuru/article37483663.ece
14 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Super commercial tax, borewell cess should go’||A day after the Federation of Organisations and Associations of Mysuru vociferously opposed the banner campaign launched by the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) to recover property tax dues from commercial establishments, former Minister and JD(S) MLA S.R. Mahesh threatened to launch a demonstration in front of the MCC building if the “super commercial” tax and borewell cess is not withdrawn in a week’s time. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Mr. Mahesh described the “super commercial” tax imposed on commercial buildings such as hotels, marriage choultries and cinema theatres as “illegal”. Far higher than commercial tax, it was imposed nowhere in the State except Mysuru. It had been imposed a couple of years ago and the commercial building owners had moved the court against it. Under the Karnataka Municipalities Act 1964, there was provision for the urban local bodies to collect only commercial building tax, residential building tax and vacant plot tax. “Super commercial tax is illegal”, he said. The commercial building owners, who had moved the court against it, had not paid their tax for this reason, he said before adding that the commercial building owners were ready to pay the tax and cooperate with the MCC if the tax is fixed as per the rules and provisions of law. Citing the example of his own marriage choultry, Mr. Mahesh said the commercial tax would come to around Rs. 4 lakh if fixed as per the provisions of the Act. “But, under super commercial tax structure, I will have to pay Rs. 8.75 lakh per year”, he lamented. Similarly, he said the MCC recently decided to impose borewell cess on commercial users including hotels, darshinis, lodges, marriage halls, shopping malls and supermarkets, ranging from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 25,000 per month, depending on the size of their business. Mr. Mahesh questioned the MCC’s wisdom in imposing such a cess when the business were reeling under the impact of COVID-19. Even though there is no restriction on consumption of drinking water, enough Cauvery water is not supplied to the commercial enterprises in Mysuru, forcing them to sink borewells. “You collect tax, but you can’t supply enough water. If you collect tax even for that purpose, what will be the fate of the people”, Mr. Mahesh questioned. He wondered how the MCC, which he said was now ruled by the BJP, which had a Mayor, and Congress, which had a Deputy Mayor, could impose such hefty tax on commercial enterprises struggling to cope with the impact of COVID-19. He said the matter had been raised with Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar and MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy. “They have convened a meeting on Tuesday to resolve the matter”, he said before adding that the JD(S), led by its corporators, will stage demonstration in front of MCC if the super commercial tax and borewell cess is not withdrawn in a week’s time. He said cleaners and other employees working in these establishments and their families, which are dependent on the business from these commercial enterprises, will also join the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/super-commercial-tax-borewell-cess-should-go/article37483661.ece
14 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Cong. seeks probe by SC judge into bitcoin scam||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesperson M. Lakshmana on Saturday urged the State Government and the Centre to order a probe by a judge of the Supreme Court into the multi-crore bitcoin scam. Addressing a press conference in Mysuru, Mr. Lakshmana said an FIR should be filed suo motu based on the statement given by Sri Krishna, the alleged hacker, who is believed to behind the multi-crore transactions allegedly involving several prominent politicians from the State. Claiming that the money had been illegally transferred from several State Government and Central Government accounts fraudulently, Mr. Lakshmana urged the BJP to provide the details of the accounts and the amount of looted money. Though the BJP is claiming that no party leader is involved in the scam, the KPCC spokesperson asked the party leaders to reveal the names of the accused persons even if they did not belong to their party. “If the Congress leaders are involved, you should name them and book them”, he said. Mr. Lakshmana also asked the State Government to let the public know the whereabouts of Sri Krishna. The general public has a right to know the details of the scam. The Government, which is claiming that the matter has been entrusted to the central agencies, should also give details of the date on which the case was handed over to either the Enforcement Directorate (ED) as the Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai claims or the CBI as the Home Minister Araga Jnanendra informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-seeks-probe-by-sc-judge-into-bitcoin-scam/article37483658.ece
14 November 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Three, including infant, killed in road accident near Yadgir||Three persons, including a two-and-a-half-month-old baby, were killed and six others injured in a road accident near Mudnal tanda in Yadgir taluk early on Saturday. The police have identified the deceased were identified as Laxman, 26, Jayaram, 45, and Krishna. The injured have been shifted to the Kalaburagi and the Yadgir district hospitals and their condition is said to be stable. The victims were travelling in an autorickshaw to Kanchagarahalli tanda, when their vehicle collided with a Maharashtra-registered lorry. A case was registered in Yadgir traffic police station and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-including-infant-killed-in-road-accident-near-yadgir/article37483449.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Udupi  Udupi District Legal Services Authority and Udupi District Administration: J. N. Subrahmanya, Principal District and Sessions Judge inaugurates Children’s Day, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao presides, Vidyodaya Public School, Vadiraja Road, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article37483632.ece
14 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Flood threat looms over Upper Kuttanad||Heavy rains that lashed the region over the past couple of days and an increase in flow of floodwaters from the eastern side have inundated several low-lying areas in Alappuzha district. The district administration on Saturday opened two relief camps at Venmony and Cheriyanad in Chengannur taluk and shifted 25 people from nine families there. Officials said more relief camps would be opened in the taluk as floodwaters had entered several houses. AC Road waterlogged The administration also opened 50 gruel centres in Kuttanad taluk. Heavy downpour coupled with a rise in water level in rivers have raised the spectre of floods at Thalavady, Neerattupuram, Edathua, Thakazhi, Muttar, Chennithala, Mannar, and Pallipad among other places in Upper Kuttanad. Parts of the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) Road and several rural roads in Upper Kuttanad and Kuttanad have been waterlogged. The water level in major rivers in the region, including the Pampa, Manimala and Achencoil, has increased significantly. Waterlogging has also been reported from parts of Alappuzha town. With the more rain forecast in the coming days, the district administration has made arrangements to meet with any emergency. Officials said that people would be shifted to safer places if needed. The inclement weather has stalled harvesting and procurement of paddy (second crop) in Kuttanad. Farmers said combined harvesters were getting stuck on the field due to waterlogging and there was no choice but to abandon the crop altogether. Farmers had cultivated paddy in 8,600 hectares in the second crop season in the district. The crop in only around 2,000 hectares has been harvested so far. A double whammy Farmers in the region have already been facing difficulty in harvesting the crop due to a severe shortage of combine harvesters and the latest bout of rain and waterlogging has meant a double whammy for them. In October, paddy in 538.6 hectares was destroyed in floods.  The administration has opened 50 gruel centres in Kuttanad taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flood-threat-looms-over-upper-kuttanad/article37483587.ece
14 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Vandalising of hotel: four booked||The police have booked one Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] and three Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) men on charges of attacking and causing damage to a hotel at Kareelakulangara near Kayamkulam. CPI(M) local committee member Sunilkumar, DYFI members Premjith, Ashwin, and Vishnu were booked by the Kareelakulangara police based on a complaint filed by the owner of the hotel. They have not yet been arrested. The police also registered case against four others who could be identified. Loss of Rs. 3 lakh According to the police, the incident happened on Thursday night. The loss was estimated at Rs. 3 lakh. The owner of the hotel is a CPI (M) sympathiser and the incident happened ahead of the party local committee conference on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vandalising-of-hotel-four-booked/article37483588.ece
14 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Snake carcass found in rice bag in Wayanad||The decomposed carcass of a snake was found in a bag of rice supplied to a tribal family at Muthirery near Thalappuzha in Wayanad district. The four-member family of Baby of Karimath Paniya tribal settlement at Muthirery found the carcass inside the rice bag supplied by Fair Price Shop No. 79 at Thidangary. Mr. Baby and his wife received 50 kg of free rice on October 28 from the shop under a Government scheme during the pandemic. They took it home in two gunny bags and consumed nearly 38 kg of rice. When they opened the second bag, a foul smell emanated. Still, they consumed it for a few more days. Later, they removed the rice from the bag and found the carcass inside it. The shop owner said he had only transferred the rice procured from the Food Corporation of India (FCI) warehouse to the two gunny bags brought by Mr. Baby. Meanwhile, Mananthavady taluk supply officer P.D. Narayanankutty said he had reported the matter to the District Supply Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/snake-carcass-found-in-rice-bag-in-wayanad/article37483526.ece
14 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Sandalwood seized||A team of Forest officials led by Meppadi Range Forest Officer D. Harilal seized 150 kg of sandalwood and arrested three persons at Chundale in the district on Friday night. The arrested are Farshad, 28, Pookunnathu House at Chundale, Muhammed Akbar, 30, of Kunnummel House, and Aboobecker, 30, of Moykkal House at Pullara in Malappuram district. The officials also seized the car that was used to transport the logs and implements used for cutting trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sandalwood-seized/article37483527.ece
14 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Four held on ragging charge||The Taliparamba police arrested four students of Sir Syed College and registered cases against eight others for brutally assaulting and ragging a junior. The police acted on a complaint from principal Ismail Olayikkara on Friday. The arrested are Mohammed Nidhal, Mohammed Ashique, Mohammed Zeehan, and Risnan Rafique. The victim, a native of Kannur, sustained injuries and was admitted to the Kannur Government Hospital. Mr. Olayikkara said Mohammed Nidhal had been suspended after preliminary inquiry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-held-on-ragging-charge/article37483524.ece
14 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Much of children’s park in shoddy state||With many of the rides yet to be readied and a portion of the Ernakulam Children’s Park remaining weed-infested, the opening of the facility to visitors from Sunday, Children’s Day, has invited much flak. The park is managed by the District Council for Child Welfare (DCCW), while the Kerala Tourism provided Rs. 4 crore to renovate it. Kerala Electrical and Allied Engineering Co. Ltd (KEL) was entrusted with the renovation work. Among those who are critical of the inordinate delay in completing the renovation work is T.J. Vinod, Ernakulam MLA. He has shot off letters to Minister for Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas and Minister for Health and Child Welfare Veena George, citing how the “renovated” park was officially inaugurated in February, in the run-up to the Assembly polls and how stakeholders failed to complete the renovation work, well after nine months. “Bumper cars, computer arcade game, pedal boat, kids’ train, and roller skating arena have not been readied so far. Even worse, the CCTV network, sprinkler system to irrigate plants, and lights are not yet functional. The agencies concerned went back on their word that the park would be fully renovated by April,” he said. Official sources said the facility would be officially reopened on December 5, by which time a few more toys would be readied and much of the pending work completed. Work remains incomplete because the DCCW and many other stakeholders are on different pages. Tourism sources said a recreation pond and musical fountain on the premises had been readied by the District Tourism Promotion Council. The fountain ought to be renovated with the help of sponsors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/much-of-childrens-park-in-shoddy-state/article37483533.ece
14 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Poll scene hots up in Gandhi Nagar||With major political parties identifying their candidates, the bypoll scene in the Gandhi Nagar division of the Kochi Corporation is hotting up. The division will go for polls on December 7 along with a few other local bodies in the State. The State Election Commission had announced the poll dates the other day. It was the death of CPI(M) councillor K.K. Sivan that warranted the bypoll in the division, which was once considered a stronghold of the LDF. The Congress has entered the fray much ahead of its rivals in the division by fielding P.D. Martin, who had tasted defeat at the hands of Sivan last time. Mr. Martin had earlier served as chairperson of the welfare standing committee of the Kochi Corporation when the civic body was governed by the Congress. Though LDF candidates had earlier won in the division with respectable margins, the last election witnessed Mr. Sivan scrape through with a margin of just 115 votes. It was the presence of rebels and Independent candidates and some non-political formations, believe the UDF sources, that let the Congress candidate down. Bindu Sivan, wife of the deceased councillor, is the party candidate in the division. She had earlier served as president of the Thiruvankulam village panchayat. The Left Front, which had earlier decided to field former councillor Sojan Antony in the division had to withdraw him, as he developed some ailments. Ill-health prevented Mr. Antony from actively campaigning in the constituency. Hence, the front was forced to reconsider its decision to field him. P.G. Manojkumar, the Ernakulam Assembly constituency president of the BJP, is the NDA candidate in the division. The last date for filing nominations is November 19. Though the poll outcome may not have a bearing on the civic administration, the win in the division is politically significant for all the three key contestants. The ruling LDF has the backing of 36 councillors, including four Independent candidates, in the 74-member council. The UDF enjoys the support of 32 councillors, including the backing of M.H.M. Ashraf, the CPI(M) councillor, who parted ways with the organisation. The strength of the BJP has been reduced to four following the death of Mini R. Menon, who represented Ernakulam South.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poll-scene-hots-up-in-gandhi-nagar/article37483541.ece
14 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Potentials and pitfalls of cryptocurrency in focus||When the Kannur police launched an investigation months ago, they were under the impression that they were chasing a Ponzi scheme racket. But when the accused were arrested earlier this week, by which time they had allegedly swindled in excess of Rs. 100 crore, it emerged that they had even invoked the facade of cryptocurrency after a point. “The Ponzi scheme in the name of a Bengaluru-based company had gone bust and then they started selling investors the idea of paying back in a cryptocurrency, Morris Coin, despite not having any authorisation to do so. We are increasingly hearing about frauds invoking cryptocurrency,” says P.P. Sadanandan, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Kannur. Investment potential Cryptocurrency is fast becoming that enigma, the investment potential about which almost all have heard while very few have any clue about how to reap its benefits. And that grey area seems to be opening up potential for fraudsters to tap into. To put it simply, cryptocurrency is a computer-generated and stored currency, with a highly volatile virtual value, operated using blockchain technology. There are numerous cryptocurrencies investors can purchase, trade, and encash directly using dedicated mobile applications. No regulator However, not having the physical backing of a regulator in India like in the case of conventional currency seems to be holding up conventional investors leaving the space largely to ambitious ones not averse to taking risks. “Even though not regulated in Indian market, cryptocurrency has got huge investment potential. Its market cap has went up over the past few years bringing in huge profits. So, if regulated, this can be a huge investment portfolio for the common man,” says Nandakishore Harikumar, a cybersecurity expert who runs a start-up in that domain. He, however, says frauds using cryptocurrency as a facade is also rising in proportionate to its rising profile as an investment instrument. In many cases, it even descends to the level of multi-level marketing where fraudsters collect investments from unsuspecting people in the name of cryptocurrency and then simply vanish. Then there are the informed investors who jump in convinced of its potential and do their own bidding. “I started dabbling in stocks and then turned to cryptocurrency after learning about it from my friends who had made a windfall,” says Abish Puthusserry, a software engineer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/potentials-and-pitfalls-of-cryptocurrency-in-focus/article37483558.ece
14 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Green Parliament to plan ways to fight climate crisis||Nearly 100 students from schools and colleges will come together to form a Green Parliament on Sunday to debate about the ecological crises facing humanity and do their bit to create awareness and fight them. It is being constituted in the wake of the UN Climate Change Conference (COP 26) and will be held at Biramika Agro Village, Elavoor, between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. Moozhikkulam Sala Nature School, Climate Revolutionary India, Nattarivu Padanakalari, and the National Service Scheme units from various educational institutions will jointly convene the session. “The Green Parliament will discuss ecological threats like global warming and climate change and ways to cut down carbon emission and achieving carbon-neutral life,” said T.R. Premkumar, director, Moozhikkulam Sala. The Parliament will follow the protocol of its namesake. A student will represent and make a presentation on Bhutan, which has attained net zero-emission. Besides, a ‘ministry of happiness’ will also be formed adopting the Bhutan model. “A permanent Parliament standing committee on ecology will be constituted to draw up an action plan for achieving the various ecological goals. The plan will be discussed in the Parliament, which will meet once in three months,” said Mr. Premkumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-parliament-to-plan-ways-to-fight-climate-crisis/article37483535.ece
14 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Theories of road rage emerge over accident||The tragic road accident that killed three persons, including two promising models on the spot, got engulfed in mystery after CCTV footage emerged of the ill-fated car being followed by another speeding car before the former rammed a tree on the national highway at Chakkaraparambu here. Even as theories of road rage causing the accident are being bandied around, the police would not yet confirm that for want of conclusive evidence. The accident took place in the early hours of November 1, and the hatchback was simply reduced to rubble. “We have not yet received the camera footage for the stretch between Kundannoor and Palarivattom, which we expect to get hold of immediately. Though we have traced the driver of the second car, we are yet to record his statement, only after which we would be able to connect the dots and say whether it was in anyway connected to the accident,” said Aishwarya Dongre, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order and Traffic), Kochi City. The available footage, however, had shown that the car was speeding in excess of 100 km per hour at many points. The police are also yet to recover crucial footage from the hotel in Fort Kochi where the two models had reportedly attended a party late into the night. It was while returning from the hotel that the car met with the accident. It was driven by Abdul Rahman, the lone survivor, who was later found to be under the influence of alcohol. He was subsequently arrested for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The footage from the hotel, including that of the party, has not been submitted by the hotel authorities despite repeated demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/theories-of-road-rage-emerge-over-accident/article37483537.ece
14 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||907 fresh COVID cases in Ernakulam||As many as 907 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district on Saturday. A total of 884 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 20 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 7.4%. The regions where positive cases were higher than 30 included Chendamangalam (35), Thrikkakara (33), and Chittattukara (32). As many as 8,449 persons are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/907-fresh-covid-cases-in-ernakulam/article37483542.ece
14 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||One arrested on theft charge||The Alangad police on Saturday arrested a man on the charge of theft. Sajad Thoppilparambil, 33, of Vedimara was allegedly part of a group of burglars who broke into an apartment in Aluva in the early hours of October 22. Not satisfied with stealing valuables, including a motorcycle, valued at over Rs. 2 lakh, the gang, according to the police, even forced the apartment owner to transfer Rs. 3,000 to a UPI account using a mobile wallet before fleeing. Two at large Two more remain to be caught in connection with the case. A team comprising Inspector K. Unnikrishnan, Sub Inspectors Kaviraj, K.S. Joshi, Assistant Sub Inspector K.R. Subash, and senior civil police officers Biju, Saneesh, and Jaleesh made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-arrested-on-theft-charge/article37483534.ece
14 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Young diabetics undergoing amputations||The age of diabetic patients undergoing major foot and leg amputations has been consistently decreasing over the past one decade, according to doctors of Amrita Hospital here. Citing patient data since 2012, they said the average age of diabetic patients who underwent major amputations at the hospital was 67.4 years in 2012. This dropped to 62.6 years in 2016 and 59.7 years in 2019. Out of the total diabetic patients who underwent major amputations at the hospital, the percentage of those below 50 years of age was only 7.9 in 2012. This shot up to 15.1% in 2016, and 24.3% in 2019, said a press release. Dr. Harish Kumar, head, department of endocrinology, said there had been a three-fold increase in the number of major amputations in diabetic patients below the age of 50 years over the last decade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/young-diabetics-undergoing-amputations/article37483543.ece
14 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Held on charge of molestation||The police on Saturday arrested a man on the charge of molesting a woman passenger aboard a bus. The arrested is Muhammed Saeed, 20, of Edathala. The incident took place aboard an Ernakulam-Munnar KSRTC bus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/held-on-charge-of-molestation/article37483544.ece
14 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Police book Joju on charge of COVID protocol violation||The Maradu police have charged a case against actor Joju George for violating the COVID-19 protocol, on a petition filed by a Youth Congress activist. Youth Congress State secretary P.Y. Shajahan had filed a petition with the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Kochi City, accusing the actor of moving around without mask and interacting with people without maintaining physical distancing at the busy Vyttila Junction, the scene of the protest staged by the District Congress Committee against fuel price hike on November 1. The petition was forwarded to the Maradu police. “We have filed a case against the actor under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance entailing a fine. The actor who is out of town has agreed to pay the fine once he returns,” police sources said. The petitioner was among the eight Congress activists who were arrested under the Kerala Prevention of Damage to Private Property and Payment of Compensation Act for allegedly smashing the windscreen of the actor’s car after he crossed swords with the protestors. The Congress has demanded a more serious case against the actor based on a petition filed by the Mahila Congress, accusing him of misbehaving with its members during the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-book-joju-on-charge-of-covid-protocol-violation/article37483545.ece
14 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Erratic weather stumps Kerala fishers||In olden days, Thulapathu (tenth day of the month of Thulam) on the fishing calendar used to indicate a period of prosperity, but not any more. While squally weather has left fishing fleets idling, traditional fishers are worried over the erratic patterns that make indigenous knowledge irrelevant. They point out a steady rise in weather warnings and loss of fishing days during the last few years, making 2021 the hardest year to survive. “In 2019, we stayed off the waters for 59 days due to adverse weather conditions and rough sea warnings. In 2020, it was 60 and now we have crossed 70 days in November 2021. The number of fishing units has come down and at present loss of fishing days and low catch have left the coastal community in distress. The relief measures offered by the Government are not adequate to tide over the crisis,” says Jackson Pollayil, president, Kerala Swatantra Matsyathozhilali Federation. Though fishers are familiar with weather playing spoilsport, unexpected patterns are increasing the difficulty and risk in carrying out fishing activity. “Traditional fishers are largely dependent on indigenous wisdom passed down orally from older generations. We know the currents well and are able to identify storms strong enough to capsize boats. We know the winds of different seasons and when rain gains momentum. But, of late, all our calculations have gone wrong,” says Xavier, a fisher from Kollam. The fishers are equally worried over the dip in catch, especially pelagic species. “During the six-month season we usually see an abundance of pelagic fish such as mackerel, anchovy, and sardine. But this time only mackerel was available on a regular basis. Sardine catch was limited and fishers from some districts totally missed the shoals,” he adds. Mr. Jackson says though they had approached the Government demanding a package to survive in the famine-like situation, no action had been taken. He adds that getting fair price for the catch has become a task after COVID-19. “While they are supporting exporters by offering subsidies, we are forced to sell our catch at minimal rates. Demand has increased, but we are receiving no proportionate profit,” he says. In December, the traditional sector is expected to enter the annual dry spell that will continue till summer. “As temperature rises, the catch will become scarce. With high fuel prices and low catch, we won’t be able to venture into the sea,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/erratic-weather-stumps-kerala-fishers/article37483547.ece
14 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Mudslides disrupt traffic at Aryankavu||The district administration on Saturday shifted a total of 19 persons from four families to a relief camp functioning at Government LP School, Punalur. Three houses from Pathanapuram taluk were partially damaged in torrential rains. Widespread crop loss has been reported from many regions while a house in Punalur taluk suffered partial damage. Coastal belt in the district witnessed strong waves and many roads were flooded in the morning. Aryankavu, Achencoil, and Kulathupuzha regions are among the worst-hit parts as mudslides continued to disrupt vehicular traffic. Though Kollam city received moderate to heavy downpour during day’s first half, intensity of rain came down by late evening. Two-day holiday Kollam Collector has declared Monday and Tuesday holidays for the schools in Aryankavu, Achencoil, and Kulathupuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mudslides-disrupt-traffic-at-aryankavu/article37483590.ece
14 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Children’s Day celebrations||District Child Welfare Committee will organise Children’s Day celebrations on November 14 at Kadappakada Sports Club. Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development J. Chinchu Rani will deliver Children’s Day message on the occasion and Mayor Prasanna Earnest will distribute the prizes for the winners of various competitions. M.Mukesh, MLA, will release the Children’s Day stamp. M. Naushad, MLA, committee vice chairman V. Shine Dev, secretary K. Balan and Youth Commission Chairperson Chintha Jerome will attend the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/childrens-day-celebrations/article37483589.ece
14 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||SI killed in accident in Kottayam||A Sub-Inspector (grade) attached to the Ramapuram police station was killed when his two-wheeler collided with a car head-on at Magnumpadi along the Kodungoor- Pallikkathodu road on Saturday. The deceased was Rejikumar, a native of Nedumkunnam. The accident occurred around 1.50 p.m. when Rejikumar’s two-wheeler skidded off the road and crashed into the car. According to the police, Rejikumar was thrown off the vehicle in the impact of the collision and died on the spot. He leaves behind his wife Sini and children Vishnu and Malu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/si-killed-in-accident-in-kottayam/article37483593.ece
14 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Sabarimala season, a cause for worry||With just a couple of days left for the Sabarimala pilgrimage season to begin, the rain-battered regions of Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts are on their toes with no respite from the sporadic spells of intense showers. Water level in all major rivers across the region, including the Meenachil, Manimala, and Pampa remained high, although below the danger marks. The rain also ensured copious inflow to the dams in Pathanamthitta with water storage in the Kakki reservoir reaching 94.68%. Catchment areas of both the Kakki and Pampa dam under the Sabarigiri reservoirs witnessed mild to intermittent showers on Saturday. Most roads in the eastern high ranges that form part of the Sabarimala circuit have sustained serious damage during the rains this season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-season-a-cause-for-worry/article37483592.ece
14 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Subhiksha hotels for pilgrims||In view of the annual pilgrimage season at Sabarimala, the State Government will open Subhiksha hotels in Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts in two weeks. A decision in this regard was announced by Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil at a meeting held to review the preparations for the pilgrimage here on Saturday. To begin with, the first set of two restaurants will be opened at Perunad and Pandalam. “The prices of food items have been fixed at a uniform rate as per the Essential Commodities Act in consultation with hotel owners. The price list of food items should be displayed in all hotels and shops in different languages,” he said. Squads deployed Squads have been deployed to check the quality and quantity of all items and inspections will be carried out in places including petrol pumps. Control rooms will be opened at the taluk and district offices of the Food and Civil Supplies Department for redressal of grievances. The Food Safety Department will set up food testing labs at the Sannidhanam and Pampa while its mobile units will function at Pampa, Erumely and Nilackal. The Food, Public Distribution, Legal Metrology and Food Safety Departments will deploy inspection squads at Nilackal, Erumely, Pampa, the Sannidhanam and other stations. Meanwhile, Pathanamathitta Collector Divya S. Iyer on Saturday visited the Pandalam palace and Valiya Koyikkal Dharma Sastha temple and held discussions with office-bearers of the palace trust. She also visited the ghats frequented by pilgrims and directed authorities to expedite the arrangements there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/subhiksha-hotels-for-pilgrims/article37483550.ece
14 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Flesh trade: short-stay facilities, salons under police scanner||With cases of flesh trade on the rise, the police is keeping an eye on the mushrooming of short-stay facilities, massage parlours and unisex salons in Kozhikode city. The police plan to expose such unregistered business ventures that are being used as a cover for illegal activities. Police officials from various city stations said their efforts were to reduce incidents of sex trafficking and ensure the safety of women who were being exploited by unidentified gangs for money. “In a recent incident, a unisex beauty parlour near Kuthiravattam was found to be the hideout of a sex racket. It was the intervention of the police that rescued the exploited women,” said a sub inspector in the city. He said the police gave top priority to the rescue of victims by safeguarding their identity apart from arresting all those who sexually assaulted them. Officers from the Kozhikode Medical College police station said they rescued two women during a raid on Friday at a rented facility at Kottuli. One of them was a native of Kolkata, who was forced into the sex trade by various inter-state rackets. Five persons, including a woman who led the operations, were arrested following the flash inspection, they said. A few months ago, a gang of five persons was netted by the Medical College police from Paroppadi. Three of them were women who were allegedly forced into the flesh trade by a Kerala-based gang. According to police sources, efforts were also on, with the help of the Kozhikode Corporation, to verify the licence of all suspected firms in the city and the details of people working there. The owners of rented facilities would be asked to ensure proper supervision of leased properties to avoid their possible misuse, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/flesh-trade-short-stay-facilities-salons-under-police-scanner/article37483522.ece
14 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Beypore set to host water fest||Preparations are in full swing for the first International Water Festival at Beypore. The Tourism Department is leaving no stone unturned to ensure the success of the festival to be held in December. Active efforts to make Beypore a top tourism destination of the district began after P.A. Mohamed Riyas took charge as Minister for Tourism. Mr. Riyas represents Beypore in the Assembly. The festival, scheduled to be held from December 26 to 31, will be a celebration of water and the lifestyle associated with it. Besides clubs and organisations associated with water sports, local residents, especially the fishing community, will have a major role to play in the festival, which will be held at the Beypore Marina, where the River Chaliyar meets the Arabian Sea. Organisers said the festival would also be an amalgamation of arts, crafts, food, and all that represents Kozhikode. “We will have a flea market, cultural events, food festival, and craft exhibitions during the six days,” said C.N. Anitha Kumar, Deputy Director of Tourism and general convenor of the festival. The event will have competitions in sea surfing, canoeing, kayaking, country boat race, tug of war on boats, and boat decoration. Besides, water polo, parasailing, water skiing, timber rafting, and water log racing are planned. The Indian Navy is likely to be part of the event. The event will be organised in partnership with private water sport companies who have been invited to join hands with the district administration. The schedule will be finalised in a week, Ms. Anitha Kumari said. The State Government has approved a plan to develop Beypore into a responsible tourism destination. The project is expected to provide direct and indirect employment to over 1,000 people in four years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/beypore-set-to-host-water-fest/article37483519.ece
14 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police officer suspended for raising fake sexual assault charge||District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) A.V. George has placed under suspension a woman sub inspector who allegedly levelled a false sexual assault charge against a relative of her landlord following an altercation over payment of rent dues. The action was taken against Sub Inspector K. Sugunavalli based on an internal investigation. According to police sources, the officer resorted to the tactic to silence her house owner who demanded clearance of rent dues amounting to Rs. 1.43 lakh. She was also reportedly enraged by the house owner approaching the District Police Chief seeking justice, they added. It was found that there was no incident of sexual assault as claimed by the officer. Her statement that the house owner’s relative had snatched her gold ornaments was also found to be false. Though the local police tried to verify the authenticity of her complaint, she did not cooperate with them, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cop-suspended-for-raising-fake-charge/article37483523.ece
14 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||CBIC chief reviews performance||Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) Chairman M. Ajit Kumar reviewed the performance of the Kozhikode Central Goods and Service Tax (CGST) Commissionerate on Friday. He interacted with officers and planted a sapling on the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbic-chief-reviews-performance/article37483517.ece
14 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Reporter, photographer attacked||A news photographer and a visual media journalist were roughed up by a group of Congress workers in Kozhikode on Saturday. The incident took place when the journalists came to a private hotel in the city to cover a party meeting attended by senior leaders. Photographer Sajan V. Nambiar and reporter Megha Madhavan, who reportedly sustained injuries in the incident, said they were manhandled by the unidentified workers. The participants of the meeting were allegedly supporters of the Congress (I) group. The District Congress Committee leaders said they would take stringent action against the party workers involved in the incident. Following a protest by journalists, the police reached the spot to investigate the incident and record the statement of witnesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reporter-photographer-attacked/article37483521.ece
14 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Toddler dies, food poisoning suspected||A two-and-a-half-year-old boy from Pannikkottur near Narikkuni in Kozhikode district died on Saturday morning in a suspected case of food poisoning. He was identified as Mohammed Yamin, son of Chengalamkandi Akbar. Eleven other children, including his sister, have been admitted to the Institute for Maternal and Child Health (IMCH) of the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, after they felt uneasiness. Wedding event The children had eaten food served during a wedding event in Unnikulam grama panchayat on Wednesday. Yamin started vomiting and complained of loose motion on Friday. He was initially admitted to a private hospital at Elettil Vattoli. It is learnt that he died on the way to another private hospitalin Kozhikode city. Five adults too had developed uneasiness after eating the food. IMCH sources said the condition of all the other children were stable. Bakery sealed Panchayat health staff have begun inspecting the source of infection. A bakery in Kakkur grama panchayat, from where some snacks for the wedding were ordered, has been sealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/toddler-dies-food-poisoning-suspected/article37483520.ece
14 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||CU no longer sole varsity of Lakshadweep||Calicut University’s status as the sole institute of higher learning in Lakshadweep for the past 16 years has officially ended with the administration there asking its Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj to take steps to migrate students to the undergraduate and postgraduate courses being offered by Pondicherry University. A letter from Vishal Sah, Director (Education), Union Territory of Lakshadweep, says “no further memorandum of understanding will be executed with the University of Calicut for running CUCs [Calicut University Centres] on the islands”. The university has been asked to provide records of the existing students who are pursuing their undergraduate and postgraduate courses, including B.Ed courses. Information on course curriculum and syllabus, database of exams, course-wise regulations, fee structure, and exam fee, has also been sought. The university is supposed to settle its financial commitments by March next year. The letter is dated November 6. The Department of Education, Lakshadweep, meanwhile, called for applications for admissions to degree and diploma courses for the 2021-22 academic year at the Government College for Higher Education, Kadmat Island. The centres of Calicut University were set up on Kadmat, Kavaratti, and Andrott islands in 2005. The sudden move to migrate students has caught the Calicut University authorities off guard as Mr. Jayaraj was planning to visit the islands and had sought an appointment for an online meeting with the island administration. The loss of Lakshadweep may also cost the university financially. It was in August this year that the Calicut University Syndicate decided to stop some of the postgraduate courses and B.A. (Arabic), reportedly based on a request from the Lakshadweep Administration. It was claimed that the authorities there were not happy with the quality of the courses and the low intake. This was objected to by students’ organisations and a section of academics. Soon after, the island administration gave approval to the Pondicherry University to start a community college there. It was pointed out that the post of dean of the university centres on the islands had been vacant for a year. The university authorities, however, were planning to appoint a full-time dean there who is also a resident of Lakshadweep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-university-no-longer-lakshadweeps-sole-varsity/article37483528.ece
14 November 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||LDF Govt. vindictive towards Muslims: IUML||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has alleged that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) Government is behaving vindictively towards the Muslim community ever since it came to power in the State. “We suspect that a special cell is functioning at the AKG Centre with the objective of harassing the Muslim community,” IUML State general secretary P.M.A. Salam told the media here on Saturday. He said it was still not clear why the Government was displaying an antagonistic stand. “Before coming back to power, they had promised to drop all cases in connection with the agitation against the Citizenship Amendment Act. But they changed their stand after assuming power,” he said. The IUML leader said the LDF was following an anti-Muslim stand even after coming back to power by garnering the community’s votes. Mr. Salam accused the LDF of double standards in matters concerning the Waqf Board and Devaswom Board. When Waqf Board appointments were left to the Public Service Commission (PSC), Devaswom Board appointments were made through a recruitment board. “This shows the CPI(M)’s double standard,” he said. He demanded that the government make clear why a special recruitment agency was not being made for the Waqf Board. “The Waqf Board appointments are also likely to be handled like the way the LDF treated the minority scholarships.” He challenged the Government argument that the Waqf Board would give appointments to only Muslims. “How can an agency like the PSC consider only Muslims while functioning in a secular environment? If someone goes to court challenging it, all communities will have to be considered.” Mr. Salam said the IUML would move legally against the Government decision to leave Waqf Board appointments to the PSC. A meeting of Muslim organisations would be convened before initiating the legal proceedings. Mr. Salam questioned the wisdom of the Government in hurrying with the Waqf Board Appointment Bill. “We saw the Government’s shameless play in the Mullaperiyar tree felling issue. When there are other issues of utmost urgency, the Government is showing an undue haste in the Waqf Board matter. They are trying to shame the Sangh Parivar in their anti-Muslim stand,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-govt-vindictive-towards-muslims-iuml/article37483548.ece
14 November 2021||Mysuru,KERALA||Website on preserving Kodava culture launched||A new website featuring the unique culture of Kodavas, documenting the customs and traditions of the community, has been launched. The website www.kodavas.in has been put together by journalist and author P.T. Bopanna. “My main intention is to document the customs and traditions of Kodavas, a microscopic minority community, which is slowly losing its moorings in Kodagu. Most of the younger Kodavas, who have been brought up in cities like Bengaluru and Mysuru, are unaware of the essence of Kodava culture. I felt a website was the best medium to increase awareness of the culture and help preserve it”, Mr. Bopanna said in a statement. Mr. Bopanna, who has also pieced together five websites including his first www.coorgtourism way back in 2005, said the new website will “come in handy for someone wanting to know about the rituals involved in ceremonies connected with birth, wedding, death etc”. In order to ensure that the content in the website was authentic, Mr. Bopanna said he took the help of Boverianda Chinnappa and Nanjamma Chinnappa, who had researched and written about Kodava culture. “Much of the content in the website has been taken from the book Pattole Palame, compiled in 1924 by Nadikerianda Chinnappa, where the Kodava language folksongs, proverbs and riddles are transcribed in Kannada script and Kodava customs and traditions are described in Kannada language. The Pattole Palame was translated into English by Boverianda Chinnappa and Nanjamma. I have also borrowed content from their book ‘Ainmanes of Kodagu’”, Mr. Bopanna said. The topics covered in the website including the origin of Kodavas, their customs, related to birth, wedding, death and their festivals, the religion of Kodavas, Kodava language, Jamma land tenure, their passion for the game of hockey, guns in Kodava culture, their ‘ainmanes’ etc. Mr .Bopanna said the website also contains video clips related to some of the topics on Kodava culture. The site has been designed by Bhakti Saraswat-Devaiah, he added in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/website-on-preserving-kodava-culture-launched/article37483549.ece
14 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Kalpathy fete under tight curbs||The annual chariot festival of Kalpathy will take place from Sunday under stringent restrictions. Entry into Kalpathy for people from outside has been banned. Apart from the residents, government officials and the media will be allowed into the heritage village of Kalpathy until Tuesday. The police have put up barricades at all entry points to Kalpathy. The ways to Kalpathy from Chathapuram, Mini Chathapuram, Sekharipuram Junction, Manthakkara Ganapathi Kovil Junction, and Govindarajapuram Junction, will be closed. Permission to pull The district administration has warned the residents against walking along the roads when the chariots are being pulled. District Collector Mrunmai Joshi said only those whose names had been given by the organisers would be allowed to pull the chariots. The people of Kalpathy have been jubilant over the permission they secured from the government for the chariot procession. Although the district administration has imposed several restrictions on the basis of a government order limiting the crowds to 200, the Kalpathy residents consider the permission to take out the chariots as a triumph of their faith over the concerns of COVID-19 pandemic. Only the Kalpathy residents who took two doses of vaccine against COVID-19 will be allowed to pull the chariots. The organisers have issued identity cards and vehicle passes to 200 residents who will pull the chariots. The district administration on Saturday reiterated its warning against violation of COVID-19 protocol. The chariots of New Kalpathy Manthakkara Ganapathi Temple, Old Kalpathy Laxminarayana Perumal Temple, and Chathapuram Prasanna Mahaganapathi Temple have been spruced up and decorated for the festival. However, the giant chariot of Sree Visalakshi Sametha Sree Viswanathaswamy Temple is unlikely to be taken out as it requires a larger number of people to pull it. Conclusion on Tuesday The chariots will roll along the narrow lanes of the heritage village from Sunday. The chariot movement will continue on Monday and will conclude on Tuesday. Requesting cooperation from the people, Ms. Mrunmai Joshi asked the residents not to get out of their houses and to watch the chariot procession from their homes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kalpathy-fete-under-tight-curbs/article37483689.ece
14 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||On Children’s Day, a charter of demands||As the country celebrates Children’s Day on Sunday, children in Kadampanadu, a village on the outskirts of Pathanamthitta district, will come together to express their opinion on what their local government should prioritise. Children will assemble in all the 17 wards in the panchayat and bring out a charter of recommendations. Each group will elect representatives to a children’s council at the local-body level, which will hold its first meeting on November 20, World Children’s Day. Later, a council will be constituted for the panchayat’s women residents, ideally to coincide the International Women’s Day in March next year. These initiatives are part of a year-long plan by the local body to make its women and children participate in public decision-making processes. Priyanka Prathap, panchayat president, said the programme, titled Nirbhayam Nervazhi and launched on November 1, envisaged formation of a committee of experts in each ward, which would work in tandem with the vigilance committees formed by the Kudumbashree to facilitate entrepreneurship and better living conditions. The office-bearers “These parallel councils will have a president and a vice president, besides chairpersons for various standing committees, which will meet every month at the panchayat office. Based on their recommendations for civic actions, the panchayat will set its agenda for legislation and execute projects,” said the 23-year-old Ms. Prathap. While women will be encouraged to take up entrepreneurship, children will be offered lessons in career guidance and self-defence. “They can approach us to share their problems, which will be addressed on a priority basis. The Kudumbashree, which runs 242 neighbourhood groups, too has a role to play,” she added.  In a village in Pathanamthitta, women and children to have parallel councils||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-childrens-day-a-charter-of-demands/article37483591.ece
14 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Roads, houses damaged as heavy rain pounds capital district||Heavy rain pounded the district throughout Saturday triggering mudslips and waterlogging and causing damage to houses, roads and other structures. While no casualties were reported, the district administration evacuated 571 people to 33 relief camps by Saturday evening. Quarrying and sand-mining have been banned till further notice as the district is on orange alert for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall on Sunday. Night-time travel to the hilly areas and travel to tourists spots, including those along the coast, have been prohibited. Discharge from dams Discharge from the three dams - Neyyar, Peppara and Aruvikkara - had been increased on Saturday following heavy rainfall in the catchment areas. The shutters of these dams are likely to be raised further. People residing on the banks have been advised to remain alert. The hilly areas of the district had been receiving heavy rainfall since Friday night. Localised mudslips were reported from various parts of the district. Three houses were damaged in a mudslip at Vazhamuttom, near Thiruvallam. No one was hurt in the incident. Minister for General Education and V. S. Sivankutty and District Collector Navjot Khosa visited the spot. Bridge damaged The Aruvippuram-Irumbil road and a small bridge over the Maruthathoor stream in Neyyatinkara sustained damage in the steady rainfall. A small portion of the bridge, including its sidewall had caved in. Night-time traffic along the bridge has been banned. Following waterlogging in the coast, the ‘pozhi’ (sandbars) at Poonthura and Veli were breached. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty and Minister for Transport Antony Raju, who held an emergency review meeting to discuss the situation, said the situation was under control in the district at present. However, all government departments have been asked to remain vigilant. The armed forces are also on standby for tackling any emergency that may arise, the Ministers said. Mr. Raju said all departments have been directed to open control rooms. “Revenue and Local Self Government officials have been directed to restore access to places that have been cut off by waterlogging. The Fire and Rescue Services has been asked to take steps to remove fallen branches and uprooted trees,” Mr. Sivankutty said. With rainfall showing no signs of abating, the alert level in the district had been upgraded from orange to red at Saturday noon. The India Meteorological Department has put the district on orange alert on Sunday for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall. Fishers who are out in the Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea regions have been directed to make for land by Monday as a low-pressure area over the region is set to intensify.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/roads-houses-damaged-as-heavy-rain-pounds-capital-district/article37483732.ece
14 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State struggles to gain back its NCD control programme||Two years of COVID-19, when the State’s health system has been oriented solely towards fighting the pandemic, has nearly broken the back of many public health initiatives that Kerala had been vigorously pursuing. Now, the health system is struggling to wrest back the edge it had been gaining over non communicable diseases (NCD). As per the latest estimate in a Statewide prevalence study (unpublished data, Indian Council of Medical Research study), 24% of the adult population has diabetes and 40%, hypertension, one of the highest NCD prevalence rates in the country. Integrated approach In March 2018, Kerala had integrated its NCD control programme with the India Hypertension Control Initiative (IHCI), a national initiative in management of diabetes and hypertension, in Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur, Kannur and Wayanad (scaled up to cover nine districts in February this year). The thrust was on enabling those with diabetes or hypertension have better control over their blood sugar/pressure levels so that they do not develop serious complications. Everyone over 18 years coming to sub-centres or public health centres (PHCs) were being screened, registered and put on protocol-based management. Disease control rates With baseline disease control rates remaining poor in the State – 13% for hypertension, 16% for diabetes – the programme intended to raise the control rate to at least 50% . “The programme was thus following up 3.5 lakh patients. In the first year itself, we could improve the control rates to 40%. But then after COVID, this slipped to 36%. Our programmes were affected. Primarily, screening for NCDs, new case detection and follow-up suffered heavily as patients stopped visiting hospitals. After nearly two years, we are hopeful again of gaining lost ground because patients are beginning to come back and control rates are inching up again,” a senior health official told The Hindu  Medicines delivered Despite the setbacks, catastrophic fallouts may have been reduced because the system could ensure that all NCD patients in the register were brought their drugs at home every month. Apart from the Rs. 32 crore being spent on NCD drugs annually, additional drugs were purchased at Rs. 5-10 crore for making home delivery. “We are yet to see any indications of worsening complications due to NCDs, probably because of drug compliance and because risk factors like consumption of junk food, alcohol, smoking and stress were reduced during COVID. But the fallout of sedentary life during the pandemic period, we are yet to see,” he added. The State is now preparing to screen all above 30 years and follow them up through a registry. The system will now go into the community to pick up those with NCDs.  Everyone over 18 years coming to sub-centres or PHCs are being screened||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-struggles-to-gain-back-its-ncd-control-programme/article37483595.ece
14 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Population-based registry of non-communicable diseases||The Health Department is organising a major campaign to create awareness on non-communicable diseases (NCDs) and to prepare a population-based registry of NCDs through community-level screening. All persons above 30 years in the State will be screened for NCDs and the data collated and managed through a mobile application developed by e-Health Kerala. Accredited Social Health Workers will visit homes for data collection and screening. This will help the State have an accurate estimate of the population prevalence of various NCDs, allow the health system follow up each person at the grassroots, and help every individual control their disease better. The campaign will create awareness on all NCDs, including diabetes, hypertension, COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ), and its risk factors as well as breast/oral/cervical cancers, which are amenable to early detection through screening. The idea is to encourage people to make lifestyle modifications through the proper understanding of risk factor reduction so that they do not develop complications later. The Health Department is already implementing various initiatives under its NCD programme, for the comprehensive management of various lifestyle diseases. Between 2018-2021, the State has screened 1.48 crore persons and has detected over 2.2 lakh cases of diabetes and over 3.36 lakh cases of hypertension. Free treatment All persons, approximately 3.5 lakh persons with diabetes/ hypertension or both, who are registered in public health facilities are being offered free treatment by the State, including necessary drugs and insulin. The training programme for health workers prior to the launch of the campaign will be inaugurated by Health Minister Veena George on Tuesday.  Aim is to encourage people to make lifestyle changes through proper understanding of risk factor reduction||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/population-based-registry-of-non-communicable-diseases/article37483556.ece
14 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Call for global cooperation in tackling cybercrime||A wide gamut of law enforcers including the chief of cybersecurity in UAE, an anti-child trafficking specialist with Interpol and a senior officer of Uttar Pradesh police have called for increased global cooperation in reining in cybercrime including ransomware and child exploitation. Mohamed Hamad Al-Kuwaiti, the head of cybersecurity of the UAE government, who delivered a keynote address at the 14th c0c0n conclave on Saturday, said cybersecurity is no longer a one-nation or one-organisation issue, but a global one that required greater collaboration in law enforcement. He called for imbibing the strategy of cyberattackers who have learnt to embrace new technologies and work together to target specific entities. UAE which has been undergoing massive digital transformation, Dr. Al-Kuwaiti said, has witnessed an increase in cyber threats of over 250% across all sectors. Ransomware attacks have severely hit many sectors. Failure to nab offenders Cecilia Wallin, a former criminal intelligence officer with Interpol who was the team leader for the Asian region of its Crimes against Children unit, elaborated how the images of child sexual abuse survivors circulate for several years across continents without law enforcement agencies managing to nab the offenders. Triveni Singh, SP, Cybercrime, Uttar Pradesh police, who spoke of the emerging trends in cybercrime, lamented the absence of an international cooperation framework that has often led to investigations meeting dead-ends. Uttar Pradesh, which has recorded over 70,000 cybercrime in the last two years, has been witnessing a spate of ransomware attacks that has targeted corporates and high-profile individuals. The use of AI-enabled cybercrime that generate synthetic data is also on the rise, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-global-cooperation-in-tackling-cybercrime/article37483723.ece
14 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State should churn out unicorns: Union Minister||Union Minister of State for Electronics and IT and Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Rajeev Chandrasekhar on Saturday assured all support to the start-up ecosystem in Kerala. During an interaction with start-ups, technology partners and other officials on the Technopark campus here, he said India was churning out unicorns (a start-up company valued at $1 billion) at a very high rate and noted that Kerala was yet to foster such a firm. The Minister inaugurated a cyber security research and development Lab and Security Operations Centre at the CDAC centre and launched two products developed by CDAC Thiruvananthapuram, namely a Digital Forensic Kiosk and an underwater drone. To aid law enforcement The Digital Forensic Kiosk (DFK) was developed to aid law enforcement agencies in preview and imaging of electronic devices like mobile phones, laptops, storage devices like hard disks and memory cards at airports, malls and railway stations where a large number of suspect devices are to be screened. The remotely operated underwater drones are tethered underwater and carry multiple payloads like cameras, manipulators, lights and various sensors for surveillance, navigation and inspection and can aid national security. The Minister urged R&D organizations like CDAC to focus on the development of indigenous cutting edge products. CDAC Executive Director Mahesh E presided over the event. Mr. Chandrasekhar also visited the National Skill Training Institute for Women, Kazhakuttam and interacted with students and officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-should-churn-out-unicorns-union-minister/article37483734.ece
14 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Depressive disorders high among PhD students: study||A survey conducted among PhD students in two public universities in Kerala has reported that close to 70% of the students suffer from mild to severe depressive disorders. While 41.7% suffered from mild depression, 17.9% had moderate, 6.7% moderately severe, and 2.1% severe depressive disorders. Students belonging to economically weaker sections, those having limited knowledge of local language and those earning less than Rs. 20,000/month were more likely to report moderate to severe depressive disorders. The study, which surveyed 240 PhD students using a self-administered patient health questionnaire, followed by in-depth interviews, also reported that financial hardships, disagreement between student and supervisor, lack of student support services, and concerns about an uncertain job market and future were the key factors affecting the mental health of students and inhibiting their academic performance. “Prevalence and underlying factors of depressive disorders among PhD students: a mixed-method study in the Indian context”, a study by, LT, L., Hense, S., Kodali, P.B.B. and Thankappan, K.R. (2021), Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, Central University of Kerala, appears in the Journal of Applied Research in Higher Education . The quantitative data were collected and analysed from 240 PhD students. Half of the students recruited were from science stream and the other half from the non-science streams pursuing full-time PhD. The prevalence of depressive disorders among university students is estimated to be six times more than the general population. In the case of PhD students, extended working hours, academic stress, lack of supervisory support, financial insecurities and uncertainties over future are commonly reported factors causing depressive disorders. Some of the challenges narrated by the students during interviews were primarily related to laboratory, library, administrative support, communication, student support services, and use of technology on campus. These challenges compromised their quality of research work, inhibited learning opportunities, and left them feeling demotivated and dejected. ‘Unpleasant’ The interviews observed the “unpleasant” state of supervisor-student relationship, with “disagreement often leading to mistrust and conflict”. One of the grievances against supervisors was that they did not devote adequate time in guiding the students or in understanding their difficulties. Financial challenges emerged as one of the key concerns, potentially inhibiting students’ academic performance and their mental health. Research scholars faced many financial hardships as the scholarship amount paid by the university was insufficient to meet the daily expenses. Even this paltry amount was often much delayed, affecting even daily sustenance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/depressive-disorders-high-among-phd-students-study/article37483735.ece
14 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Experts call for GST revamp, solution to State’s concerns||The Goods and Service Tax (GST), introduced in 2017, requires a comprehensive revamp, experts attending a two-day international seminar organised by the Gulati Institute of Finance and Taxation (GIFT) on ‘India’s Experience with GST’ have opined. The tax system has adversely impacted the revenues and economic independence of States, they said. The speakers at the seminar, which concluded here on Saturday, also expressed concern regarding fiscal federalism against the backdrop of GST implementation. The need for a revamp of the tax rates and a constructive resolution to the States’ demand for an extension of the GST compensation period beyond June 2022 were highlighted at the seminar which saw participation by Indian and foreign delegates. The seminar concluded that the country can move ahead with GST only by addressing the concerns raised by all the stakeholders. Better implementation Addressing the valedictory session, Chief Secretary V. P. Joy said the GST system needs improvement at the implementation level, which also calls for cooperation between the Centre and the States. Although simplicity was maintained at the start, the system is now turning complex, creating problems for trade and commerce sectors. Economist M.A. Oommen underscored the need for a restructuring of the country’s tax structure. State Planning Board member K. Ravi Varman said unified systems such as GST were essential for the co-existence of corporate-political leaderships. But they weaken the States and can take centralisation of powers to an alarming level, he said. The coming five years will prove crucial for GST as the compensation period ends in 2022, former Planning Board member K.N. Harilal said. This could worsen the States’ fiscal crisis, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experts-call-for-gst-revamp-solution-to-states-concerns/article37483737.ece
14 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Staff redeployed to look into LIFE applications||The Local Self-Government Department (LSGD) has redeployed some of its staff to scrutinise a large number of applications for houses under the State Government’s LIFE project. As many as 9,20,260 applications were received when the Government opened windows for new applications in August last year and early in March this year. The direct application method for the LIFE project began for the first time in August last year. In the previous phases, the beneficiaries were chosen based on a survey conducted by the Kudumbashree. The scrutiny of the applications began on November 1, with a deadline for completion on February 28 next year. However, several local body heads conveyed to the department the lack of enough staff to scrutinise the applications and upload them in the software. Following this, the LSGD has issued an order deploying the assistant secretary, village extension officers, Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) supervisors, and agricultural assistant, in addition to the existing staff for scrutiny of LIFE applications in grama pachayats. In the municipalities, the services of the rest of the municipal staff, ICDS supervisors, and agricultural assistant, can be used for the purpose. The assistant secretaries will oversee the activities in the grama panchayats, while the project officers will do the same in the municipalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-staff-deployed-to-look-into-life-applications/article37483596.ece
14 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||6,468 more test positive in State||Kerala reported 6,468 new cases of COVID-19 when 71,906 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative case burden now stands at 50,55,224 cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 fatality now stands at 35,685 with the State adding 174 deaths to the official list of deaths on Saturday. These include 23 deaths which occurred in the past few days and 151 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. The State’s active case pool declined further to 68,630 patients on Saturday, with 6,468 reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. According to the Health Department, only 6.7% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals . 345 hospitalised On Saturday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals was 345. Hospitalisations have been going down steadily and at present 5,342 persons are being treated in hospitals . Ernakulam reported the highest number of 907 new cases, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 850, Thrissur 772, Kozhikode 748, Kollam 591, Kottayam 515, Kannur 431, Idukki 325, Palakkad 313, Alappuzha 250, Malappuram 250, Wayanad 192, Pathanamthitta 189, and Kasaragod 135.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6468-more-test-positive-in-state/article37483554.ece
14 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two trains cancelled, 10 partially||Two trains were fully cancelled and 10 other trains partially following incessant rain and landslips in the Neyyattinkara- Parassala section and the Eraniel-Kuzhithurai section on Saturday morning. Waterlogging has been reported in the Nagercoil Junction-Kanyakumari section. Traffic restoration work is progressing. According to a press release from the Thiruvananthapuram railway division, the daily passenger from Nagercoil Junction to Kottayam (16366) was cancelled for Saturday, while 16127 Chennai Egmore-Guruvayur Daily Express that left Chennai Egmore on Saturday will be partially cancelled between Nagercoil and Guruvayur. The train will be short terminated at Nagercoil Junction. Partially cancelled Among the partially cancelled trains, 16525 Kanyakumari–KSR Bengaluru Daily Island Express commenced services from Thiruvananthapuram Central. Train 16526 KSR Bengaluru-Kanyakumari Daily Island Express which left Bengaluru on Friday was short-terminated at Thiruvananthapuram Central. Train 16723 Chennai Egmore-Kollam Junction Ananthapuri Express which left Chennai Egmore on Friday was short-terminated at Nagercoil Junction. Train 16724 Kollam Junction-Chennai Egmore Ananthapuri Express scheduled to leave Kollam Junction on Saturday commenced service from Nagercoil Junction as the train was partially cancelled between Kollam Junction and Nagercoil Junction. Train 22627 Tiruchchirappalli Junction-Thiruvananthapuram Central Daily Intercity Express was short-terminated at Nagercoil Junction on Saturday. Train 22628 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Tiruchchirappalli Junction Daily Intercity Express scheduled to leave Thiruvananthapuram Central commenced service from Nagercoil Junction on Saturday. Train 16128 Guruvayur-Chennai Egmore Daily Express that left Guruvayur on Friday was short-terminated at Neyyattinkara. Train 16650 Nagercoil Junction-Mangaluru Central Daily Parasuram Express scheduled to leave Nagercoil on Saturday commenced service from Thiruvananthapuram Central due to partial cancellation between Nagercoil Junction and Thiruvananthapuram Central. Train 12666 Kanyakumari-Howrah Weekly Express, scheduled to leave Kanyakumari on Saturday, was partially cancelled between Kanyakumari and Nagercoil Junction. The train commenced service from Nagercoil Junction. Short-terminated Train 12633 Chennai Egmore-Kanyakumari Daily Express, which left Chennai Egmore on Friday, was short-terminated at Nagercoil Junction. Train No. 16729 Madurai Junction – Punalur Express which left Madurai Junction on Saturday will be partially cancelled between Tirunelveli Junction and Punalur. The train will be short terminated at Tirunelveli Junction.  Waterlogging has been reported in the Nagercoil Junction- Kanyakumari section||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-trains-cancelled-10-partially/article37483693.ece
14 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Investment-friendly approach needed’||Union Minister of State for Electronics and IT and Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Rajeev Chandrasekhar, said the perception that Chennai and Karnataka were better IT investment destinations than Kerala should change. Kerala should correct that opinion for transforming into a global IT destination. Mr. Chandrasekhar, who toured Technopark, said Kerala had spirited entrepreneurs who could bring the world to the State’s doorstep. He had seen many talents in the State. He was speaking at a press conference at the BJP headquarters here. The Central government aimed at a one trillion dollars digital economy for the country, he said. BJP president K. Surendran welcomed Mr. Chandrasekhar. State secretary P. Sudheer, vice president C. Sivankutty, State secretaries S. Suresh, J. R. Padmakumar and district president, Thiruvananthapuram, V. V. Rajesh were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/investment-friendly-approach-needed/article37483726.ece
14 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM visits Vietnamese Embassy||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was accorded a reception at the Vietnamese Embassy in New Delhi on Saturday. Pham Sanh Chau, Vietnamese Ambassador to India, received the delegation that also included senior CPI (M) leaders including party general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Polit Bureau member M.A. Baby, Rajya Sabha member John Brittas, and central committee member R. Arun Kumar. The visit comes a few days after a delegation led by the Ambassador had toured Kerala to study the State’s development model and explored opportunities for cooperation in various fields. Expressing gratitude for the reception, Mr. Pinarayi elaborated on the various endeavours being undertaken by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-visits-vietnamese-embassy/article37483727.ece
14 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||850 test positive||The district’s active COVID-19 caseload dipped further to 9,624 on Saturday when 1,017 recovered from the disease, even as 850 tested positive. The test positivity rate, however, remained largely steady at 11.5%. Cases were registered against 59 people in the district on Saturday for violating the pandemic restrictions. As many 27 people were arrested and 37 vehicles seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/850-test-positive/article37483728.ece
14 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Admission to blockchain programme||Kerala Blockchain Academy, functioning under Digital University Kerala (DUK), has invited applications for its certified blockchain associate programme. The 30-hour programme provides advanced learning of blockchain basics and its key components. According to a press note, the instructor-led programme will teach learners about blockchain, its evolution and history, working of blockchain transactions, blockchain consensus etc. Learners will also have a brief understanding of technologies like Bitcoin, Ethereum, Hyperledger and Corda. Further details can be had fromwww.admission.kba.ai. The university has invited applications for the positions of accounts office and assistant registrar/academic officer for appointments on deputation basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/admission-to-blockchain-programme/article37483724.ece
14 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Offline classes for Class IX, Plus One start tomorrow||Offline classes for Plus One and Class IX students will begin in the State on Monday. Circulars have been issued to Principals to make arrangements for the same. As all students who have taken Plus One admission are likely to reach schools on Monday, Principals have been asked to exempt Plus Two students from school that day. Students and parents should avoid crowding on the school premises, the circular said. Guidelines given On the first day, Plus One students should be divided into groups as per the guidelines and given instruction about the days they should attend school classes. In places where more Plus Two batches were allowed, new arrangements have to be made when Plus One students too reach the schools. Vocational higher secondary Plus One students too will reach schools on Monday. They will be informed about the batches on specified days, timetable, COVID-19 guidelines to be followed outside school, and so on.  Class IX students will also reach schools on Monday. In-person learning for students from Classes I to VIII and X and XII are already under way. Though physical classes for Class VIII were to begin on Monday, these had to be advanced owing to the National Achievement Survey in schools on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/offline-classes-for-class-ix-plus-one-start-tomorrow/article37483551.ece
14 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Lorry with LPG cylinders rams electric posts||A lorry laden with LPG cylinders rammed electric posts at Chengalur, near Puthukkad, on Saturday. A major mishap was averted, as there was no power at the time of accident. Nine electric posts were damaged in the accident. Gas cylinders The lorry that was carrying cylinders to a gas godown met with the accident after the driver lost control of the vehicle. Compound walls of nearby houses too were damaged in the accident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lorry-with-lpg-cylinders-rams-electric-posts/article37483691.ece
14 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||New DMO for Thrissur||Dr. N.K. Kuttappan will be new District Medical Officer of Thrissur. Present DMO K.J. Reena take will over as Additional Director (Training and Administration) , Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-dmo-for-thrissur/article37483690.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A film that turns a parody of itself||In an opening credits sequence reminiscent of old stage drama announcements, Kanakam Kamini Kalaham makes a clear declaration of its intent, that it does not take itself too seriously. It is always a delight when a filmmaker does that, letting the material take its course, freely flowing in all directions. But, it can be quite a train wreck when things go off course, as it happens in the latter half of this film, after what was an exciting set up initially. Ratheesh Balakrishnan Poduval, in his second film after the delightful Android Kunjappan , structures the narrative here around a piece of missing jewellery, just like in Thondimuthalum Driksakshiyum . But that's where the similarities between both films end. Pavithran (Nivin Pauly), a junior artiste who is running an acting school with two students, and his wife Haripriya (Grace Antony), a former actress in television serials, are having a hard time in their personal lives. They decide to take a trip to sort things out, but soon it would turn out to be a bad idea, for the hotel they are staying in is more dysfunctional than their family. The missing jewellery, a gold-plated one at that, becomes a symbol for a marriage that is falling apart and an outlet for the disappointments in the personal and professional lives of the couple and for the anger of the overworked and underpaid hotel employees. The hotel lobby, where the entire set of the ensemble cast comes together, is a scene of riotous humour. From the hotel manager constantly pestered by his girlfriend to a writer who is being lampooned by a drunk for the ‘errors’ in his fiction and a couple who are flustered by the ‘swans’ on their bed, nothing is going right inside the hotel. There are quite a few laugh-out-loud moments in these parts. But then, things start going downhill, with the same gags being repeated in different ways, giving one a sense of a filmmaker running out of ideas. Towards the end, even an attempt at sexual assault is treated in a humourous manner, signalling that the scriptwriter has completely lost it. Although there are several attempts to lampoon stereotypes, the script has an ugly stereotype of a character from a minority community, even though that character also gets some of the best comic scenes in the film. Though the filmmaker bravely sticks with the intent to make a full length comedy, with humour taken to absurd levels, the film only partly succeeds to be one. Though it strives to be a social satire, it fails to do what last year’s Paapam Cheyyathavar Kalleriyatte achieved in a similar fashion. All the unique set designs and the nods to films including Stanley Kubrick’s hotel-room horror The Shining , are wasted in a film that ends up being a parody of itself. The film is streaming in Disney Hotstar. S.R. Praveen||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-film-that-turns-a-parody-of-itself/article37483695.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Crucial half-century||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crucial-half-century/article37483599.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Finding the champion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/finding-the-champion/article37483697.ece
14 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ISKCON Charities to construct temple at Penukonda||The ISKCON Charities, Bengaluru, proposes to construct Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple on the hilltop of the Penukonda Fort area. The State Cabinet had given its approval on October 29. The main attraction of the temple will be the idol. The height of the idol is proposed to be 65 feet, according to the ISKCON Charities. The Forest Department / Environmental Department under the central government had given the forest clearance and handed over the temple land 4.88 hectares or 12 acres at Penukonda to the ISKCON Charities, Bengaluru. The State Government had also allotted another 19.75 acres of land at the bottom of the hill for the base camp project. The mega spiritual centre and a tourist base camp proposed to be developed at Penukonda are being designed to attract a footfall of more than 10,000 pilgrims every month, and the estimated cost of the project is Rs. 100 crore. The ISCKON Charities had drawn some sample drawings and shown the R&B Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana some time ago. A large main hall where the main idol would be established would form the key part and the complex can accommodate about 6,000 devotees at a time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/iskcon-charities-to-construct-temple-at-penukonda/article37483045.ece
14 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SFI demands reopening of SSBN school||The Student Federation of India(SFI) has demanded that the State government reopen Sri Sai Baba National School (Telugu medium) that was closed following a G.O. issued by the State government and handing over of the aided teachers to the government service. ‘Stir will continue’ At a press conference here on Saturday, SSBN students said that they would continue their agitation till the State government withdraws the G.O.s No.42, 35, 50 and 52 and gets the school reopened as it has promised. “The government had promised that it would not tolerate closure of any school, but the SSBN managing committee had closed the school and took back its decision only on the junior and degree college to retain them as grant-in-aid’ institutions,” the students said. SFI’s district secretary Suryachandra said that they had made the same demand to the SSBN managing committee also in a written letter and asked them to reopen the school. When contacted, SSBN college correspondent P.L.N. Reddy had said that they had not taken any decision on the school yet as all the students had taken transfer certificate and joined other government schools. “Now that the SSBN colleges have been retained in grant-in-aid status, all the vacant posts must be immediately filled by the State government so that there would be no hindrance to the academics in Intermediate colleges and degree colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sfi-demands-reopening-of-ssbn-school/article37483046.ece
14 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Another elephant creates havoc in Chittoor district||While an elephant is reported to be destroying crops and chasing farmers in the fields in a half a dozen villages under the Palamaner range since a fortnight, another lone tusker has been creating havoc in Madhavaram village of Tavanampalle mandal, 30 km from here. The lone tusker had reportedly trampled paddy and vegetable crops belonging to three farmers, besides pulling down the fencing around the fields on Friday night. Though some youth tried to drive away the animal by bursting crackers, they were forced to withdraw owing to the aggressive nature of the pachyderm. A team of forest watchers has been despatched to the troubled spot in the early hours of Saturday. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar said a herd of wild elephants from the Koundinya Sanctuary zone was spotted crossing the Terrakota building area at Cattle Farm near Palamaner, and its movement was caught in a CC camera. “Several herds of elephants are currently moving in the sanctuary area. We caution the public, particularly farmers, to be careful while moving in the open. They are advised to avoid night vigils in the fields and wearing white clothes,” he said. The DFO said that presently, a herd of 15 elephants was on prowl in Chittoor west range between Bangarupalem and Irala. He appealed to the farmers and villagers to immediately inform the forest personnel when they sight the pachyderms close to human habitations and fields.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/another-elephant-creates-havoc-in-chittoor-district/article37483049.ece
14 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pitch for SCS to A.P. at zonal council meeting’||CPI national secretary K. Narayana on Saturday criticised the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre for choosing to conduct the Southern Zonal Council (SZC) meeting in Tirupati, alleging that it was a part of the Centre’s agenda to weaken the southern States and tighten its hegemony over them. Addressing the media in Tirupati, Mr. Narayana, along with Kerala Minister for Revenue K. Rajan, said, “Though the meeting of the southern States has its venue in Tirupati, the agenda has been prepared in Hyderabad.” “The Chief Ministers of the southern states should question the Centre on getting their share of the GST, besides asserting their rights,” Mr. Narayana said. Pitch for SCS He asked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to pitch for the Special Category Status (SCS) as the State had not been given the special package promised earlier. Though Prime Minister Narendra Modi had laid the stone for the State’s capital, Amaravati, it had not been recognised by the Center, Mr. Narayana alleged. The CPI leaders said the party activists would stage a black-badge protest on Sunday against Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit to Tirupati. “The Left parties and the democratic and secular forces will continue to expose the conspiracies of the BJP,” said Mr. Rajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pitch-for-scs-to-ap-at-zonal-council-meet/article37483673.ece
14 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prepare crop loss estimates: Minister||Minister for Agriculture K. Kannababu on Saturday reviewed the situation arising out of heavy rains and floods in the State and directed the officials to prepare estimates of damages. The officials told the Minister that the flood damage was maximum in East and West Godavari and Kadapa districts. “The Chief Minister has directed the officials to stand by the side of the farmers who suffered heavy damage due to floods. Teams of agricultural scientists and officials should tour the flood-affected areas, and give suggestions to the farmers,” the Minister said. Special officers were appointed to inspect the damages, he said. The Minister said that members of the Agriculture Advisory Board should also inspect the villages. Seeds with 80% subsidy should be given to bengal gram farmers, he said. Special Commissioner Poonam Malakondaiah and Commissioner of Agriculture H. Arun Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prepare-crop-loss-estimates-minister/article37483765.ece
14 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Implement PRC by this month end’||Employees’ associations that met in Vijayawada on Saturday asked the State government to implement the Pay Revision Commission (PRC) recommendations by the end of the month. “If the government does not respond by that time, we will come up with an action plan on November 28,” AP JAC chairman Bandi Srinivasa Rao said. It was unfortunate that the government did not heed the requests of the associations on the issue, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/implement-prc-by-this-month-end/article37483679.ece
14 November 2021||Hassan,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tusker found dead in maize farm||A tusker, aged around 30, was found dead on a maize farm at Nandi Battalu village in Tanigebailu range of the Bhadra Wildlife Division in Chikkamagaluru district on Saturday. The animal is believed to have been electrocuted after coming into contact with an electric fence on the farm. The local people noticed the carcass and informed the Forest Department officials. The animal was found dead in the farm of one Paramesh. Veterinarians conducted the post-mortem. This is the fourth such case reported in the area in the recent past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tusker-found-dead-in-maize-farm/article37483011.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Defence establishment running parallel govt.’||Telangana Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao said on Saturday that it appeared as if the defence establishment ran a “parallel government” and a “parallel system” by setting up obstacles to development of road infrastructure in Hyderabad. “They feel they are not part of the State,” he said at a press conference while referring to instances of closure of roads and the inability of State government to develop roads running through cantonment areas. He cited the “frustrating experience” of driving through Paradise-Shamirpet and Patny-Kompally roads as they were narrow and choked with traffic. This was brought to the notice of Prime Minister and Defence Minister several times with a request to let the State government develop them. A check dam was also constructed across analain the cantonment of Langar Houz which threatened to submerge a tank nearby. Thenalawas the outlet for rainwater coming from Banjara Hills. Mr. Rao said tens of civic issues of Hyderabad are pending clearance with the Centre. The government would ferret them out and seek their redressal by launching protests. The government adopted a dignified approach with the Centre in the last seven-and-a-half years but it’s time to raise its head now, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/defence-establishment-running-parallel-system/article37482999.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Farmers caught amid BJP-TRS blame game’||Farmers of Telangana are stuck in the blame game played by the TRS government and the BJP-led Centre around cultivation of paddy and its subsequent procurement, observed YSRTP founder-president Y.S. Sharmila on Saturday. She asserted that growing paddy or whichever crop, once the minimum support price is announced, will remain the right of the farmer and it will be the binding responsibility of the governments to procure the produce. “However, abandoning farmers, KCR is escaping from that responsibility. What is he going to achieve protesting in his own governance here? He should have protested the day the Centre notified restrictions on paddy procurement from Telangana. He should have organised dharna and press meets in Delhi,” she said. Ms. Sharmila launched a 72-hour Rythu Vedana (Farmers’ Anguish) deeksha to protest against the State government’s approach to farmers, particularly over the repressive orders on paddy cultivation in the ensuing Rabi agriculture season and its procurement. She addressed farmers and activists at the Dharna Chowk near Indira Park and later in the day continued her deeksha at her Jubilee Hills residence. Taking potshots at KCR, while recalling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS)’ popular promise of ‘we will procure till the last kernel’, she wondered if the mammoth Kaleswaram Project was built for commissions and to advocate ‘say no to paddy’. As per deliberations between the TRS and the BJP governments on agreed quantity for procurement, and meeting other requirements, she demanded that KCR must procure paddy till the last grain. Ms. Sharmila, comparing Telangana with the neighbouring States which procure farmers’ produce at MSP plus bonus, also observed that CM KCR’s government was anti-farmer, “which extends a few thousands for investment, but has evaded at least Rs. 24, 000 through heads such as crop insurance, input subsidy and others.” “While Dr. YSR’s government was for–farmer that procured paddy at MSP+20% bonus, among various other policies, KCR is a cheater who also evaded loan waiver to 36 lakh farmers,” she remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-caught-amid-bjp-trs-blame-game/article37482996.ece
14 November 2021||IDUKKI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mullaperiyar level rises again||The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam rose for the second consecutive day on Saturday with Tamil Nadu drawing water at a lower level compared to the inflow into the dam. The water level was 139.55 ft at 3 p.m. The tunnel discharge was 566 cusecs while the inflow was 4,056 cusecs. Two days ago, Tamil Nadu was drawing water at the same level of inflow into the dam. However, heavy rainfall in Tamil Nadu resulted in opening of the shutters of the Vaigai dam, where water from the Mullaperiyar is stored. Consequently, it reduced the tunnel discharge. The maximum storage level of the Mullaperiyar dam is 142 ft and the upper rule curve level fixed by the Central Water Commission till November 20 is 141 ft. Idukki dam situation It was decided not to open the Cheruthoni dam of the Idukki reservoir on Saturday to regulate the water level following a lull in rainfall from Friday evening. The district administration had on Friday made initial preparations to open the shutters on Saturday evening or Sunday morning in case the rainfall continued. Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine said the rainfall had declined and there was no need to open the shutters in the present situation. The power generation at the Moolamattom power plant continued at the maximum level on Friday. Mr. Augustine said as per the rule curve for the Idukki dam, the red alert level was 2,399.03 ft and the upper rule curve 2,400.03 ft. “However, we will not wait for the water level to reach the upper rule curve level. When the water level reaches the red alert level, the shutters will be opened to regulate the water level,” he said. “The Dam Monitoring and Research Station is monitoring the rainfall and inflow into the dam. The shutters will be opened depending on current rainfall, level of inflow, and India Meteorological Department forecast,” he said. 94.71% of storage The present rule curve for the Idukki dam, which came into effect on Thursday, will continue till November 20. After November 20, the upper rule curve is 2,403 ft, which is the full reservoir level. The water level in the Idukki reservoir at 3 p.m. on Saturday was 2,392.50 ft, which was 94.71% of the total storage. The power generation on Friday was 17.334 million units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mullaperiyar-level-rises-again/article37483000.ece
14 November 2021||KALPETTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nomadic tribal group gets Aadhaar||Members of Kattupaniya, a nomadic tribal group that was rehabilitated from caves near the South Wayanad-Nilambur Forest Division in Kerala a few years ago, have enrolled for Aadhaar cards with the intervention of the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA). As many as 33 members of the vulnerable tribal group were rehabilitated from the Nilambur forest at Erattakkundu Colony near Attamala seven years ago. However, the details of 20 members have not been entered in government records yet. District Sub Judge K. Rajesh, who is also the Secretary of DLSA, Wayanad, visited the tribal hamlet a few weeks ago as part of the Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign of the National Legal Services Authority. During the visit, Mr. Rajesh was told that the tribal group had been deprived of Government incentives, including free ration during the pandemic. As many as 18 children who were born in the hamlet do not have birth certificates as their mothers were not admitted to hospitals for delivery. In the absence of birth certificates, Aadhaar cards could not be issued to them, Mr. Rajesh told The Hindu . Since members of Kattupaniya do not mingle with those outside their group, Aadhaar seeding could not be done for them. “Later, we decided to organise a camp in the hamlet to issue Aadhaar cards and other documents like ration cards and bank accounts with the support of the district administration, Tribal Development Department, Akshaya centre at Thinapuram, and officials of the Vellarimala branch of the Kerala Grameen Bank,” he said. Though Aadhaar seeding was done for 14 persons, six left to the nearby forest owing to the presence of outsiders. Bank accounts were opened for 14 persons. Though the Tribal Development Department had constructed three concrete houses for members of the group, they still live in make-shift huts attached to the houses, Integrated Tribal Development Project officer K.C. Cheriyan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nomadic-tribal-group-gets-aadhaar/article37483010.ece
14 November 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||ED begins probe against Monson||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has opened an inquiry against alleged conman and self-styled antiquities dealer Monson Mavunkal on the suspicion of violating the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The move comes after the Kerala High Court on November 11 impleaded the ED as a respondent in the case registered against the accused, as it felt that the investigation had to be conducted on a larger scale and the police required the assistance of other agencies. The Central agency will probe whether money laundering was involved under the guise of payments related to the sale of fake antiquities by the accused. Besides Monson, the ED is also probing the role of Aji Nettoor, his former driver, and make-up man Joshi in the alleged transactions. The agency has asked the special team of the State Crime Branch, which is probing the case, to share the information relevant to its investigation. To look into payments The ED will probe the alleged payments made to the conman by several persons without any agreement or documents to support the transactions. The Kerala High Court had observed that there could not be any cover-up in the investigation in the cases registered against Monson merely because some of the high-ranking police officers were allegedly involved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ed-begins-probe-against-monson/article37483012.ece
14 November 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sugali Preethi’s family given house site, land||The family members of the Dalit SSC student Sugali Preethi Bai, who was found dead in Cattamanchi Ramalinga Reddy High School hostel, on the outskirts of Kurnool, in August 2017, were handed over the possession certificate (patta) of 5 cents of the house site and 5 acres of agriculture land late on Friday night. District Collector P. Koteswar Rao handed over the documents fulfilling the promise made by the State government. The government had given a job in the Revenue Department to Raju Naik, father of the victim. While the house site has been allocated in Kallur village, the agricultural land was given in Dinne Devarapadu village. Srisailam Project Special Collector Tamim Ansaria and District Revenue Officer O. Pullaih were present. The family members thanked the State government for providing them with the land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sugali-preethis-family-given-house-site-land/article37483047.ece
14 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vice-President stresses need for inclusive society for differently-abled||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu has emphasised the need to build an inclusive society that is sensitive to the needs of differently-abled persons. “What differently-abled persons require is empathy from us, and not sympathy,” he said while interacting with trainees at the ‘Composite Regional Centre (CRC) for Skill Development and Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities’ here on Saturday. While appreciating performance of achievers in the Tokyo Paralympics, he said it was imperative to identify hidden talents and build confidence in them so that they could excel in their chosen fields. They did the country proud and remained a source of inspiration for millions of fellow countrymen by proving that with grit and determination one could overcome disabilities. The Vice President also called for creating disabled-friendly public infrastructure for barrier-free travel. Praising CRC for empowering ‘Divyangjans’ by skilling them, he urged private firms to provide more jobs to differently-abled persons. Distributing aids and appliances to the differently-abled persons, the Vice-President la/uded the CRC functioning under Hyderabad-based National Institute for the Empowerment of Persons with Intellectual Disabilities (NIEPID) for providing training to specially-abled persons in, among other areas, data entry operation, sewing machine operation, Office Assistant training and LED board making. Later, inaugurating the Kousalya Sadan-Rural Self-Empowerment Training Institute (RSETI) at Swarna Bharat Trust later Mr. Naidu said empowering women, economically and socially, was critical for the development of the nation. He also interacted with a group of tribal Chenchu tribal children from Yerragondapalem in Prakasam district on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vice-president-stresses-need-for-inclusive-society-for-differently-abled/article37483052.ece
14 November 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wet spell resumes in Prakasam||After a brief lull, South Coastal Andhra Pradesh experienced light to moderate showers as the northeast monsoon turned active on Saturday. A fresh weather system, developed in the Andaman sea, is likely to become a depression as it comes closer to the Andhra Pradesh coast, bringing more rains during next week, weather officials said. Motorcyclists had a tough time driving intermittent rains in Ongole left many colonies in a sheet of water. Several places in the coastal mandals of Prakasam district, including Chirala, Vetapalem, Gudlur and Ulavapadu witnessed sharp showers. There was no let up in rainfall in SPSR Nellore district as well. Kavali recorded a maximum rainfall of 62.4 mm followed by Kaligiri(52.8 mm), Naidupeta (46.8mm), A.S.Peta (46.2mm), Chejerla(42.6 mm), Atmakur(41.6 mm), Maripadu(40 mm), Nellore(21mm). The district had an average rainfall of 24.7 mm. At least 87,462 cusecs was let out from the Somasila reservoir in SPSR Nellore district as the storage went up to 71.67 tmcft as against the full capacity of 78 tmcft. The reservoir had an inflow of 84,906 cusecs following heavy rain in the catchment areas. Storage goes up in Kandaleru reservoir The discharge was maintained at 4,700 cusecs in Kandaleru reservoir, which had a flood cushion of 11.95 tmcft. The storage went up to 55.86 tmcft following an inflow of 4,700 cusecs. In Prakasam, Gudluru recorded a maximum rainfall of 77 mm followed by Kanduru(36.4 mm), V.V.Palem (70.2 mm), Ulavapadu (35.6 mm), Lingasamudram(39.2 mm), Pamur (38.4 mm) and Ponaluru(22.6 mm).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wet-spell-resumes-in-south-coastal-andhra/article37483054.ece
14 November 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tamil Nadu is firm that Mullaperiyar dam is safe||The Tamil Nadu Government on Saturday stood firm by its position in the Supreme Court that the 126-year-old Mullaperiyar dam is “hydrologically, structurally and seismically safe”. The State said there is a “social media campaign” triggered in Kerala against the dam. It said the steady flow of petitions to the apex court from Kerala, questioning the safety of the dam even calling for its decommissioning, is a bid to harass it. Appearing before a Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and C.T. Ravikumar, senior advocate Shekhar Naphade accused Kerala of trying “somehow to prevent Tamil Nadu to raise the level to 142 ft. at the dam on one pretext or the other by raising issues which have been fully addressed by experts from the Central Water Commission [CWC]”. Tamil Nadu, in an affidavit, said the safety has been supported by reports of the expert committee and the empowered committee after extensive study. It said the height of the storage level at 142 ft. was endorsed by the Supreme Court in 2014 in a judgment. The safety aspects are being constantly monitored by the supervisory committee set up seven years ago. Decommissioning of the dam would be in violation of a series of judgments of the Supreme Court, Mr. Naphade argued on Saturday. Senior advocate Jaideep Gupta, for Kerala, sought time to respond to Tamil Nadu’s affidavit. The court scheduled the next hearing on November 22. Advocate V.K. Biju, appearing for the Idukki-based Periyar Protection Movement, submitted that Tamil Nadu has not produced documents about ‘deep’ seepage issues in the dam structure. “Please call for the records, if any, on the seepage,” Mr. Biju urged the court. The Bench asked Mr. Naphade to keep the records available for the next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tamil-nadu-firm-that-mullaperiyar-dam-is-safe/article37483060.ece
14 November 2021||New Delhi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress wants SC-monitored investigation into Bitcoin scam||Alleging a massive cover-up in the multi-crore Bitcoin scam by the Bharatiya Janata Party government in Karnataka, the Congress on Saturday demanded a Supreme Court-monitored investigation into the issue with the setting up of a Special Investigation Team (SIT). “Bitcoin Scam is big. But Bitcoin Scam Cover-up is much bigger. Because it has to cover up someone’s fake big ego,” former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted. Congress general secretary for Karnataka, Randeep Surjewala, posed a set of six questions to the Prime Minister and asked what the role of Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai was in the scam. Mr. Bommai was the State’s Home Minister when the scam took place. “Instead of conducting a fair investigation, the BJP government of Karnataka appears to be preoccupied with ‘Operation Bitcoin Scam Coverup’,” Mr. Surjewala alleged. “This is not a money laundering crime alone, this is an international crime,” he added. Mr. Surjewala, along along with party colleague Gourav Vallabh, said that an alleged hacker, Sri Krishna, was arrested along with his associate Robin Khandelwal by the Karnataka Police on November 14, 2020 and was kept in police custody for over 100 days. Despite the hacker making a voluntary statement before the Metropolitan Magistrate, Bengaluru, in December 2020 about his involvement in hacking and stealing from various foreign companies/Bitcoin exchanges, international agencies were not informed until April 24, 2021, Mr. Surjewala said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-wants-sc-monitored-investigation-into-bitcoin-scam/article37483014.ece
14 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati farmers stage novel protest||Amaravati farmers staged a novel protest at Yerrajerla in Prakasam district on Saturday as the State government remained indifferent to their demand for retaining Amaravati as the one and only capital of Andhra Pradesh. A group of 157 farmers, whose court to temple march suffered a break for the day in view of the model code of conduct in connection with the local body elections in force, tied black ribbons to their eyes and raised ‘Save Amaravati’ slogans. Activists of the TDP backed their struggle as also the Jana Sena Party(JSP), BJP, Communist Party of India(CPI) and CPI(Marxist). “We will go ahead with our march to Tirupati overcoming all hurdles,” said Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti JAC convenor A. Siva Reddy as their stir entered the 697th day on Saturday. The march will be resumed on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-farmers-stage-novel-protest/article37483051.ece
14 November 2021||RAMACHANDRAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Paddy ryots will get compensation before end of kharif : Minister||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Saturday promised release of compensation before completion of the kharif 2021-22 season for the paddy damaged due to the heavy rain over the past two days in East Godavari district. By November 12, the paddy crop in more than 22,000 hectares has been damaged in 27 mandals in the district, according to the Agriculture Department. Accompanied by revenue and agriculture officials, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna inspected the paddy that was recently harvested and damaged on the field itself at Amuzooru, Kulla, Sundarapalli, and Tamarapalli villages. In early November, paddy harvesting commenced in Ramachandrapuram, Kajuluru, and Pamarru mandals. Responding to the appeals of the farmers, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said the lass was being enumerated by the officials concerned. “The Rythu Bharosa Kendras have been directed to ensure compensation to tenant farmers. It will be given before the end of kharif 2021-22,” he said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had already directed the agriculture and revenue authorities to extend support to the affected farmers, apart from enumerating the crop damage for compensation, the Minister added..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/paddy-ryots-will-get-compensation-before-end-of-kharif-minister/article37483704.ece
14 November 2021||Sangareddy,ANDHRA PRADESH||BME-BT building inaugurated at IIT-H||India should be an international hub for medical innovations, said Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director general Balram Bhargava, who is also the Secretary, Department of Health Research, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India. Mr Bhargava virtually inaugurated the building of Department of Bio-Medical Engineering and Biotechnology (BME-BT) at the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H), on Saturday. Constructed with a built-up area of 8,552 sqm (roughly 92,062 sqft), the building comprises 30 faculty offices, four classrooms, dry and wet teaching laboratories, 23 research laboratories, five computer research laboratories, conference rooms, and office spaces for carrying out administrative functions of the department. Congratulating IIT-H, he said: “More than 80% of medical devices are imported in India. This close to 100,000 sq.ft. state-of-the-art facility will act like a “karma bhumi” in the direction of making India self-reliant. With ICMR’s presence at IIT-H, many technologies, IPs, patents and startups will bring more frugal innovations.” Saito Mitsunori, chief representative of Japan International Cooperation Agency, IIT-H Board of Governors chairman B.V.R. Mohan Reddy and IIT-H director B.S. Murty were present. Mr Mitsunori said IIT-H has made significant contributions to India’s fight against COVID-19 and hoped the facility will boost the institute’s efforts to serve vulnerable humanity. “Technological advancement in this field will facilitate taking medical care to places where it could not reach so far,” said Mr Mohan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bme-bt-building-inaugurated-at-iit-h/article37483512.ece
14 November 2021||Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lend an ear to students, DEO urges parents and teachers||Srikakulam District Educational Officer M. Pagadalamma asked parents and teachers to listen to the grievances of students carefully so that they would not take extreme step on trivial issues. She said that suicidal tendencies among students was a major concern for the society. Spandana Eda International Foundation organised an awareness programme in Srikakulam on ‘Teachers- Students Relationship-Their role in National Development.’ Speaking on the occasion, she said that teachers would be able to make students understand that difficult situations were common in life and everyone would be able to face them without losing self-confidence. SEIF founder E.Samuel Reddy said that the foundation was establishing counselling centres in several parts of the State to provide solutions for problems being faced by youngsters. He said that a bad incident in his family made him establish the foundation to prevent youngsters from taking the extreme step.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lend-an-ear-to-students-deo-urges-parents-and-teachers/article37483706.ece
14 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala braces for heavy showers today||With heavy rainfall likely to lash the State till Monday, the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has directed district administrations to be on red alert readiness. This would be applicable to districts which were on yellow alert as well, the KSDMA said in a special bulletin on Saturday. District administrations have been asked to evacuate people residing in mudslip and flood-prone regions to safer locations. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned that Kerala and Mahe can expect isolated very heavy rainfall till Monday. Districts on orange alert An orange alert has been issued for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki and Kasaragod on Sunday. These districts can expect isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall. The remaining districts are on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall. Several central and northern districts are on yellow alert on Monday also. Localised flooding of roads, mudslips, waterlogging in low-lying areas, minor damage to roads and possible damage to vulnerable structures should be expected, the IMD said. Fishing has been banned till Sunday as strong winds are likely to prevail along the Kerala coast and over Lakshadweep, the Maldives and the southeast parts of the Arabian Sea. Influence of westerlies Rainfall has intensified over the State under the influence of westerlies. Strong surface winds persists over the southeast Arabian Sea, Kerala coast and the Lakshadweep- Maldives- Kanyakumari areas. This is likely to persist during the next two days, the IMD said. The KSDMA cited forecasts by various agencies including the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts which predicted very heavy rainfall till Monday in parts of the State. Meanwhile, a fresh low pressure area has formed over the south Andaman Sea, but its influence is not yet felt in Kerala. The low pressure system is likely to move west-northwestwards in the days ahead, concentrate into a depression and intensify further as it approaches the Andhra Pradesh coast around November 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-braces-for-heavy-showers-today/article37483004.ece
14 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Prioritise threat-hunting strategies for cyber attacks’||With enterprises worldwide gripped by cyberthreats, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairman K. Sivan has advocated prioritising threat-hunting strategies over passive damage control measures to thwart emerging advanced persistent attacks (ATPs) in the cyberworld. Delivering the keynote address at the concluding day of the 14th c0c0n - cybersecurity and hacking conference organised by Kerala Police on Saturday, Dr. Sivan said many critical infrastructure in the country had come under targeted cyberattacks during the last few years. The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-in), which functions under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, handled 11,58,208 cybersecurity incidents in 2020 alone. Of these, 25,969 cases were of website defacements. “It is generally felt most of these attacks are being carried out by state-sponsored hackers. We can no longer afford to believe that our security measures are perfect and impenetrable,” he pointed out. Insufficient Dr. Sivan, who is also Secretary of the Department of Space, said traditional reactive defence systems were insufficient in countering such ATPs that affected major government organisations, financial institutions, power, energy and telecom sectors; and strategic and public enterprises across the world. “The effective way to ensure IT infrastructure in protected against APTs is to search for signs of breaches and compromises within the network. It is vital to constantly look for attacks that get past security systems and catch intrusions in progress rather than intervening after attackers have completed their objectives to cause significant damage. Threat-hunting tactics employs known adversary behaviours to proactively examine the network and endpoints to identify new areas of breaches. Threat hunting should ideally become part of the IT security arsenal of each organisation. IT engineers must be imparted specific training on such techniques,” Dr. Sivan said. With increasing digitisation leading to the exponential growth of data, Dr. Sivan stressed on the need to propagate cyber awareness not just to employees, but also among students and the common populace. While a study conducted in 2018 had found nearly 2.5 exabytes of data created each day, 90% of the current data was generated during the last two years, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prioritise-threat-hunting-strategies-for-cyber-attacks/article37483002.ece
14 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD enters World Book of Records||Adding another feather to its cap, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD), the custodian of the sacred hill temple of Lord Venkateswara, was listed in the World Book of Records. The London-based organisation certified TTD for being the world’s largest institution, and Tirumala, the sacred hill abode of Lord Venkateswara, as one of the most visited religious centres in the world with spiritual and mythological significance. Indian wing president of World Book of Records Santosh Shukla and joint secretary Ullaji handed over the certificate to TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Saturday at his camp office in Tirumala. Dedicated efforts The TTD Chairman said that five major indicators vis-a-vis number of footfalls experienced at the hill shrine in addition to super numerical numbers relating to tonsures, manufacturing of laddus, serving food under Annadanam besides exceptional queue line system formed the crux in the awarding of certificate and ascribed the credit to the dedicated efforts of the entire employees fraternity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-enters-world-book-of-records/article37483055.ece
14 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amit Shah, Jagan pray at Tirumala||Union Home Minister Amit Shah, accompanied by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, on Saturday offered prayers at the temple of Lord Venkateswara. On their arrival at ‘Mahadwaram’, the TTD authorities extended a traditional reception and led them into sanctum sanctorum where they paid their obeisances to the presiding deity. Later, the temple authorities presented them ‘theertham’, laddu, memento and New Year diary and calendars.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amit-shah-jagan-pray-at-tirumala/article37483680.ece
14 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shah arrives in Tirupati for Southern Zonal Council meet||Union Home Minister Amit Shah arrived in Tirupati by a special flight from New Delhi on Saturday on a two-day official visit to Andhra Pradesh. He will chair the 29th Meet of the Southern Zonal Council here on Sunday. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who arrived from Gannavaram airport earlier, greeted Mr. Shah along with key Cabinet colleagues and functionaries of the government. Minister for Panchayat Raj and Mines P. Ramachandra Reddy, Home Minister M. Sucharita, and TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy were among those who welcomed Mr. Shah. After exchanging pleasantries, both Mr. Shah and Mr. Jagan left for Tirumala for darshan of Lord Venkateswara. Over 1,500 police personnel were drafted for the security arrangements on the eve of the Southern Council meeting. On Sunday morning, Mr. Shah will fly to Venkatachalam in SPSR Nellore district to take part in the programmes organised by the Swanabharati Trust, Akshara Vidyalaya Trust, and Muppavarapu Trust. He will inaugurate the 20th anniversary celebrations of the Swarnabharati Trust. The Union Home Minister will fly back to Tirupati to chair the Southern Zonal council meet at 3 p.m. He will later return to New Delhi. Arrangements The State government had made elaborate arrangements for the 29th Southern Zonal Council Meet, scheduled at Hotel Taj in Tirupati on Sunday, which will have the presence of a galaxy of dignitaries from the southern States and Union Territories. Mr. Jagan will deliver the welcome address, followed by the introductory addresses by the Administrator of the Lakshadweep, Lieutenant Governors of the Andaman and Nicobar, and Puducherry; and the Chief Ministers of Puducherry, Karnataka, Telangana, Kerala, and Andhra Pradesh. After the opening remarks of the Union Home Minister, the item-wise discussion on agenda would be held, with a presentation by the Secretary of the Inter-State Council Secretariat. After the concluding session, Mr. Jagan will host dinner for the dignitaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amit-shah-arrives-in-tirupati-for-southern-zonal-council-meet/article37482998.ece
14 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APERC okays DISCOMs’ plan to purchase 7,000 MW solar power||The Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission has approved the proposal of the Andhra Pradesh power distribution companies to procure 7,000 MW of solar power from Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI) in three tranches. The Commission permitted the DISCOMs to enter into a tripartite agreements subject to the determination of tariff by the Appropriate Commission as per the provisions of Electricity Act, 2003. The DISCOMs are likely to utilise the procured solar power to achieve the objective of providing nine hours day time free power supply to farmers without increasing the financial burden for the next 25 years. The Commission stated that the approval was subject to the conditions. The two conditions include ensuring that the transmission and distribution network was adequately strengthened to cater to the injection of the proposed power before the commencement of power supply and that the DISCOMs were entitled to claim from the State government wheeling and other charges, if any, in supplying the proposed power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aperc-okays-discoms-plan-to-purchase-7000-mw-solar-power/article37483764.ece
14 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBSE nod for affiliation of 1,092 schools in first phase||The State government has set the ball rolling to secure Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) affiliation to all schools in the State. As a first step towards realisation of its goal, the CBSE has agreed in-principle to extend recognition to 1,092 schools in the first phase, and Central syllabus will be implemented in the first batch of selected schools from the academic year 2022. Students of Class 9 who will be admitted in April 2022, will appear for the Central Board examinations in 2024. “The academic year 2024-25 will be a landmark year for the education sector in Andhra Pradesh as students will write the CBSE exams for the first time,” said Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh. He said work on this front had already commenced. “We have revised the curriculum and the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) has been tasked with constitution of a panel of experts,” he said, adding that the Chief Minister was keen that students of the State shift to the Central Board syllabus, which had higher standards and would enable them to compete at global level. “We want our students to write examinations that are recognised at the national level and we have already set the process in motion,” he said. The State has almost 6,000 high schools (Classes 6 to 10) with a nearly five lakh student strength writing their 10th Class Board exams. “We have instructed the officials of the School Education Department to maintain high standards while designing the syllabus of lower classes also to facilitate easy transition to the CBSE syllabus in the higher classes,” Mr. Suresh said. Principal Secretary, School Education, B. Rajasekhar and incharge of AP Residential Educational Institutions Society Col. V. Ramulu met CBSE Chairman Manoj Ahuja and Secretary Anurag Tripathi in Delhi a couple of weeks ago with the proposal. The Central Board officials spelt out the conditions for affiliation, and the State officials realised that about 1,000 schools in the State had the required infrastructure and would be eligible for affiliation. “To facilitate the affiliation, the Board officials extended the October 31 deadline by a month and also allowed payment of the affiliation fee in one go,” said Mr. Ramulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-gets-cbse-affiliation-for-1092-schools-in-first-phase/article37483006.ece
14 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gadchiroli encounter: high alert sounded in A.P.||The police sounded high alert in the Agency and border villages in Andhra Pradesh after the major encounter in Gadchiroli in Maharashtra on Saturday. About 26 Maoists were killed in an exchange of fire with the police in the incident. Security has been stepped up for public representatives, Maoist targets, bureaucrats and police stations located in extremist-affected areas. Combing has been intensified on the A.P.-Chhattisgarh, Andhra Odisha Borders (AOB) and AP-Telangana borders, a senior police officer said. Instructions had been given to the public representatives not to attend programmes in the habitations in the Agency areas, without giving prior intimation to the police and stay in safe places. Security had been stepped up at the police camps and vehicle checks were being conducted on the borders. Top police officials were discussing on continuing on the ongoing ‘Operation Parivarthana’, being taken up in AOB to destroy ganja plantations, following the Gahchiroli encounter, a police officer told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gadchiroli-encounter-high-alert-sounded-in-ap/article37483763.ece
14 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Plant trees and protect environment’||Environmental sustainability is necessary for survival of human race, said Krishna Collector J Niwas. Speaking after inaugurating a two-day bonsai exhibition-cum-workshop organised by members of Amaravati Bonsai Society on Saturday, the Collector said that survival of human race was linked to environmental protection. “If we do not protect the nature today, we may have to pay dearly in future,” he warned, adding that activities like growing bonsai plants would help control pollution to some extent. Mr. Niwas said the activity of tree plantation not only would make the world greener but also would enhance the happiness quotient. In a workshop organised on the sidelines, the visitors learned the art of planting bonsai at home and styling them. Society president T. Akhilandeswari Rani, secretary Venkatesh Y., Amrit Kumar, Y. Padmaja, P. Nagalakshmi and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plant-trees-and-protect-environment/article37483770.ece
14 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-servicemen demand welfare corporation, more job quota||Members of the Maji Sainikula Samkshema Samithi in the State on Saturday staged a ‘satyagraha’ at Dharna Chowk seeking immediate measures to address their long-pending demands. Their main demands included constitution of a separate corporation for the welfare of ex-servicemen, enhancement of reservation from 2% to 10% on a par with other States and sanction of white ration cards. They sought amendment to the AP Subordinate rules as per G.O. 57 issued in March 2001, dealing with the eligibility for securing jobs by ex-servicemen and constitution of a Rajya Sainik Board with efficient ex-servicemen as its representatives to review policies at regular intervals. “Considering our strength of 5 lakh, including our family members, we want an ex-serviceman to be nominated as an MLC,” said U. Raju, founder and president of the Samithi. General secretary K. Kumar said the members were vexed running from pillar to post to draw the attention of the authorities concerned to their problems. “We are forced to resort to this form of protest. If the government fails to heed our pleas, we will intensify the protest and stage an indefinite fast,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-servicemen-demand-welfare-corporation-more-job-quota/article37483767.ece
14 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pension adalat tomorrow||A pension adalat will be conducted on November 15 to redress pension-related grievances of retired employees of the Ayush department and Andhra Pradesh Residential Educational Institutions Society, at the office of the Commissioner, Ayush department, at Gollapudi in Vijayawada. A statement issued by the Department of Ayush on Saturday said all retired officials of these two departments could avail themselves of this opportunity to resolve their pension-related grievances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pension-adalat-tomorrow/article37483771.ece
14 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State to take TS power dues to Centre’s notice||The State government will apprise Union Home Minister Amit Shah of the dues from Telangana power utilities amounting to Rs. 6,015.22 crore during the 29th Southern Zonal Council (SZC) Meeting in Tirupati on Sunday. The government will request the Central government to ensure the arrangement of the dues from Telangana to AP-Genco.  Alternative option It will also request the Union government to alternatively direct Telangana to include the Rs. 6,015.22 crore under Tranche II loan of Atma Nirbhar Scheme being availed by DISCOMS in Telangana, according to sources. As of February 28, 2021, AP-Genco is due to receive the Rs. 6,000 crore against the 8890 MU of power supplied to Telangana after State bifurcation between June 2, 2014, and June 10, 2017, as per the A.P. Reorganisation Act. Telangana power distribution companies had agreed to pay the amount on different occasions, but failed to pay up. Of the total amount due, Rs. 3441.78 crore is the actual amount and Rs. 2,841.90 crore is a late payment surcharge. “These dues are the single largest hurdle for AP-Genco. Due to the non-receipt of this amount, AP-Genco obtained additional working capital loans of Rs. 5,625.08 crore from PFC and REC during June 2, 2014, to March 31, .2017,” the source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-to-take-ts-power-dues-to-centres-notice/article37483677.ece
14 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC reviews arrangements for civic polls||The State Election Commission on Saturday reviewed the poll-related arrangements for the remaining vacancies in gram panchayats, Mandal and Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituencies, Nagar Panchayats / Municipalities and Nellore Municipal Corporation. Polling for Gram Panchayats is scheduled for November 14, urban local bodies on November 15 and MPTCs and ZPTCs on November 16. At a review meeting with District Collectors, Superintendents / Commissioners of Police and election observers through teleconference, the Commission expressed satisfaction over the feedback received from the district officials. The officials said polling parties were leaving for their allotted stations along with polling material and adequate police personnel were deployed. Webcasting/videography was arranged at sensitive and hyper-sensitive polling stations and COVID-19 safety precautions were in place. SEC Nilam Sawhney said officials should ensure there were no large gatherings at the time of collecting polling material at the distribution centres and at the time of depositing the material at reception centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-reviews-arrangements-for-civic-polls/article37483682.ece
14 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State at the top in loans and revenue deficit’||The State has achieved the distinction of being at the top, both in acquiring loans and in revenue deficit in the first half of the financial year 2021-22, and Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy owes an explanation on this, TDP national spokesman K. Pattabhi Ram has said. Addressing the media on Saturday, Mr. Pattabhi Ram said the State’s revenue deficit stood at Rs. 33,140 crore despite the YSRCP government borrowing loans worth a whopping Rs. 39,933 crore in the first six months of this financial year. “This is proof of how the money acquired through loans and tax revenues is being diverted by the corrupt YSRCP, which has shunned welfare of the people,” Mr. Pattabhi Ram alleged. “No money has been spent on the crucial Polavaram project and other important Rayalaseema projects and development works,” he alleged. Referring to reports in the national media on how the State’s revenue deficit had increased by a whopping 662%, Mr. Pattabhi Ram said that the State government had projected a revenue deficit of Rs. 5,000 crore in the budget for 12 months, but the deficit had touched Rs. 33,140 crore in the first half itself. “The YSRCP is pushing Andhra Pradesh into a state of bankruptcy,” the TDP leader alleged. Pending bills Despite accruing huge revenue through taxes and loans, the government was unable to clear pending bills to suppliers of medical equipment, milk, eggs and meal, he said. The Association of Indian Medical Devices Industry (AIMED) had given a ‘Red Notice’ against the State government, which had turned defaulter by not paying for the products supplied, the TDP leader said. The A.P. Electricity Regulatory Commission had asked the government to release dues worth Rs. 25,000 crore to the Discoms, he added. The government had not paid bills worth Rs. 130 crore towards milk supplied to children and, as a result, Karnataka stopped milk supply, he said. The government also defaulted in paying Rs. 110 crore to suppliers of eggs to the anganwadis. “The contractors who had supplied food to the COVID-19 patients when the pandemic was at its peak are waiting for clearance of bills worth Rs. 30 crore. Employees are not receiving their salary in time. Where is the money going?” he questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-at-the-top-in-loans-and-revenue-deficit/article37483683.ece
14 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child rights week to be observed from today||Officials of various government departments and representatives of NGOs will celebrate child rights week from November 14, coinciding with Children’s Day. Staff of the Education Department, Labour, Women Development and Child Welfare, Juvenile Welfare, Police, National Child Labour Project and GRP in association with Childline, an NGO, will organise awareness programmes. Drawing competitions for students, and training for police personnel, railway, village and ward secretariat staffwould be held during the week, said Childline city coordinator A. Ramesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/child-rights-week-to-be-observed-from-today/article37483762.ece
14 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Diabetes can be cured in young patients’||Diabetes could be cured in young patients if they follow diet and other precautions prescribed by doctors, endocrinologist Rakesh Bobba has said. Dr. Rakesh, a consultant at Ramesh Hospitals, said that a series of awareness and health check-up programmes were planned in connection with World Diabetes Day on November 14. He said in a statement that ‘diabetes remission’ (permanent cure of diabetes) was possible in type-2 diabetes patients, i.e. in newly detected cases and young patients. If they practised regular physical exercise and maintained diet there was no need for worry. Stating that India ranked second in the world with 7.7 crore diabetic cases after China, Dr. Rakesh said the situation was alarming and it was estimated that the country would have 14 crore diabetics by 2040. The disease was mainly affecting the people in the 40-50 age group. It could be prevented by avoiding stress, smoking and alcohol, obesity and junk foods, the endocrinologist said. As part of the ongoing ‘Diabetes Awareness Month’ in November, health awareness programmes and medical camps were being organised, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/diabetes-can-be-cured-in-young-patients/article37483772.ece
14 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Use SZC meet to stop VSP privatisation’||The Jana Sena Party has urged Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to utilise the Southern Zonal Council (SZC) meeting as a platform to effectively present the case of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. In a statement on Saturday, JSP’s Political Affairs Committee chairman Nadendla Manohar said through Sunday’s meeting, the CM should convey to the Centre the sentiments of the people of Andhra Pradesh associated with the steel plant project and also talk about the 32 persons who had laid down their lives to realise the dream of a steel plant. Just how the Tamil Nadu government discussed the issue of privatisation of the Salem steel plant with all parties in the State, Mr. Jagan should do the same to save VSP, Mr. Manohar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/use-szc-meet-to-stop-vsp-privatisation/article37483674.ece
14 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APMSIDC rebuts AIMED’s charges on pending dues||The Andhra Pradesh Medical Services and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APMSIDC) has rebutted the allegation of the Association of Indian Medical Device Industry (AIMED) that it had held up payments to many member companies for the last four to five years. ‘Remove Red Notice’ APMSIDC Managing Director D. Muralidhar Reddy, in a letter to the AIMED coordinator, advised the association to “verify facts, remove the ‘Red Notice’ from its website, and issue a clarification, or face legal action for misrepresentation of facts.” Mr. Reddy’s letter, along with the payment status of bills to 133 companies, were posted on the government’s FactCheck portal on Saturday. “The issues raised by the AIMED regarding non-clearance of outstanding dues during the last four to five years are not tenable as major dues have been paid, and certain payments are pending only due to non-fulfilment of tender clauses,” Mr. Reddy said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apmsidc-rebuts-aimeds-charges-on-pending-dues/article37483676.ece
14 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor extends Children’s Day greetings||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has said that Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, the first Prime Minister of India, has laid a strong foundation for education in the country. On the occasion of the birth anniversary of Jawaharlal Nehru, Governor conveyed greetings to children and offered his blessings to the future citizens of the country. Children have to work hard, elevate into greater heights and protect their motherland, Mr. Harichandan in a message on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-extends-childrens-day-greetings/article37483672.ece
14 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Drop merger of aided institutions’||The Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan on Saturday demanded that the Government drop its plan on the merger of aided educational institutions. In a statement, the JSP chief pointed to the widespread protests by students and their parents in places like Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Anantapur and Kakinada and said the only way to allay their apprehensions was to revoke the four G.O.s pertaining to the aided education system. He demanded that the G.O.s 42, 50, 51 and 19 should be revoked as they were against the spirit of the Right to Education Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drop-merger-of-aided-institutions/article37483768.ece
14 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s lone COVID death in Krishna||The State reported one COVID-19 death and 156 infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The only death was reported in the Krishna district which is the only district with more than 1% COVID mortality rate. At 0.47%, the daily test positivity rate of the 32,987 samples tested in the past day was the lowest in the past 245 days. The daily test positivity rate during the past two weeks was less than 1% continuously for the first time since the beginning of the second wave in March. The average test positivity rate of the 4.71 lakh samples tested during the last 14 days was also below 1% at 0.78%. The overall positivity rate of 2.99 crore tests remains at 6.91%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-lone-covid-death-in-krishna/article37483675.ece
14 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kishan da’s arrest a big blow to Maoists||The arrest of Prashant Bose alias ‘Kishan da’, who carries a bounty of about Rs. 1 crore on his head, by the Jharkhand police late on Thursday night, is a big blow to the banned CPI (Maoist), especially when the movement is shrinking fast in many States, including in its stronghold States such as Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Bose, also known as Maneesh, Nirbhay and Kajal, and his wife Sheela Marandi were arrested at an undisclosed location near Saraikela. The top Maoist leader has been underground for over three decades. Bose, who hails from Kolkata, is not only a key member of the Maoist Central Committee and the Polit Bureau but is also the second in command after its general secretary Nambala Keshava Rao alias Basavraj. He was the founding-member of the Maoist Communist Centre of India (MCCI), which had merged with the Communist Party of India (Marxist – Leninist) People’s War (People’s War Group) of Kondapalli Seetharamaiah on September 21, 2004, to form the CPI (Maoist). Bose, along with Muppala Lakshmana Rao alias Ganapathi, the former general secretary of the party, is considered to be one of the main architects of the merger. The ‘masterstroke’ Senior police and Intelligence officials had then termed the merger a “masterstroke,” as the group not only expanded in terms of arms and manpower but also in terms of the area of command and reach. It had become one of the biggest extremist groups overnight in the South-East Asian region. The merger had strengthened the hold of Left Wing Extremism (LWE) in Central India, covering the States of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Jharkhand. Bose is currently the head of the Eastern Regional Bureau (ERB), which includes Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha, and is considered to be the brain behind the creation of the ‘Red Corridor’, as termed by the Maoist, from Nepal to Kerala. Sources say that Bose was arrested somewhere between Jamshedpur and Saraikela when he and his wife were on their way to the Saranda forest to attend a secret meeting. His wife is also a member of the Central Committee, and is the only woman in the highest decision-making body. While Bose is aged around 75, his wife is aged about 65, and sources say that both were “very sick and weak at the time of arrest.” According to a theory doing the rounds, Bose, his wife, and a few well- wishers in the party have negotiated the arrest due to his age and sickness. Sources say that Bose has been ill since 2016 and that he is being carried in ‘dolis’ by his bodyguards. “A surrender affects the morale of the party. There had been a similar theory when Seetharamaiah was arrested,” said a former Maoist leader. Who next? With the arrest of Bose, the focus is now on who will take his place. The names of Pramod Mishra and Misir Besra are being heard. Both belong to the MCCI and and are in Central Committee and the Polit Bureau. Pramod had been arrested in 2008 and released in 2017. He had gone missing two months after his release. It is learnt that he now heads the movement in Bihar and Jharkhand. Rift in party? There have been reports that the merged groups are at loggerheads for the last six to seven years. Prior to the merger, the MCCI had its presence in Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, while the CPI (M-L) People’s War maintained its domination in the combined State of Andhra Pradesh, and Odisha and Chhattisgarh. Maoists cadres and leaders who had surrendered in the last five to six years spoke about the rift between both the groups. Those from the MCCI feel that the leaders from the Telugu-speaking States were dominating the decision-making bodies. The surrendered Maoists also spoke about the differences concerning tribal and non-tribal leadership. The MCCI had always considered the PWG leaders and cadres as outsiders. However, sources in the party, while denying such rift, accuse the police of propagating such theories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kishan-das-arrest-a-blow-to-maoists/article37483008.ece
14 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Campaigning ends for civic bypoll||Election campaigning for the bypoll in two wards 31 and 61 of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) ended here on Saturday. Former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu, Visakhapatnam (East) MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu, former MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao and other leaders campaigned for TDP candidate Vanapalli Gayatri Phani Kumari in Ward no. 31. The party activists took out a rally from Ambedkar Statue to Yellamma Statue in the ward. Speaking during the campaign, Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu criticised that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has made Andhra Pradesh a debt-ridden State. He alleged that Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has been mortgaging properties in Visakhapatnam. He said that the State Government’s decision to merge aided educational institutions with the government has put the future of a large number of students at stake. Meanwhile Mr. Vijaya Sai said that the language being used by TDP leader Nara Lokesh was uncivilised and unbecoming of a political leader. He said that steps will be taken to resume food bazaar at the Central Park. He said that the State Government has been helping vendors in all ways. He said that during the campaigning, a number of people have come up with representations on various issues and they will be resolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/campaigning-ends-for-civic-bypoll/article37483776.ece
14 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low pressure area forms over south Andaman Sea||A low pressure area formed over south Andaman Sea and adjoining Thailand coast, under the influence of the cyclonic circulation over Thailand and adjoining south Andaman Sea, on Saturday morning. The associated cyclonic circulation extends up to 5.8 km above the mean sea level. It is likely to move west-north westwards and concentrate into a depression over north Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal by November 15. It is likely to continue to move west-northwestwards, intensify further and reach near Andhra Pradesh coast at around November 18, according to a bulletin issued by the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC) on Saturday evening. Strong winds, with speed reaching 55-65 km/hr, gusting to 70 km/hr, are likely along and off coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam from November 17. Fishermen, who are out at sea, are requested to return to the coast by November 17. Meanwhile, heavy rain is very likely to occur at one or two places over Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari districts and light to moderate rain is very likely at most places over coastal Andhra Pradesh till Sunday morning. The chief amount of rainfall(in cms) received during the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Saturday are: Palasa – 14, Ichchapuram and Mandasa – 13 each, Sompeta - 10 ( all in Srikakulam district), Bhimadole (West Godavari) – 7, Kavali (Nellore), Pusapatirega (Vizianagaram), Yanam and Tiruvuru (Krishna) – 6 cm each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-pressure-area-forms-over-south-andaman-sea/article37483713.ece
14 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP is only working for corporates, alleges CPI(M)||The BJP is not a people’s party and it is a political party working for the corporates and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has virtually become a representative of the corporate sector and has also converted Andhra Pradesh into Adani Pradesh, alleged CPI(M) State executive committee member M.V.S. Sarma. He was speaking at the annual GVMC-level ‘Mahasabha’ of the CPI (M) at Pedagantyada here on Saturday. Party city secretary B. Gangarao said that the State government was destroying the education sector by its ‘assault’ on aided colleges and schools. He alleged that both the Union and the State Governments have failed to tackle the COVID-19 crisis. The party’s State secretary P. Madhu said that on November 26, a nation-wide protest is being organised against demonetisation and the Farm Acts. He said that implementation of GST was a direct assault on the federal structure of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-is-only-working-for-corporates-alleges-cpim/article37483780.ece
14 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book expo begins today||As part of National Library Week, Andhra University officials will organise a book exhibition at Dr. V.S. Krishna Library for the public, students, research scholars and teachers from November 14 to 20. The timings for the book exhibition are from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. AU officials said that the rare books are categorised into arts, commerce, engineering, science and technology, botanical sciences, great rivers, abstracts, Constitution of India (original), palm leaves Andhra Mahabhagavatham written by Sri Bammera Pothana, Tribhasyaratnam (Vyakaranam), Vedas, etc,. religious, sports, books of Shakespeare, Telugu and Hindi literature. Some of these books were published during 1700s and 1800s. Expert lectures will be also organised every day from 10 a.m. to 12 noon during November 15 to 18 at AU Guest House, Platinum Jubilee, Hall -2, Andhra University, on various current topics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-expo-begins-today/article37483711.ece
14 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two-day meet begins||The two-day international conference on ‘Intelligent systems, smart and green technologies’ began here on Saturday. The conference is being organised by IEEE- Vizag Bay Section. It was inaugurated by Saifur Rahman, IEEE president-elect in the presence of S.N. Singh, past chairperson of IEEE. The keynote address was delivered by M.G.P.L. Narayana, chief scientist and former vice-president of TCS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-day-meet-begins/article37483778.ece
14 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CISF men restore lost diamond bracelet to air passenger||The CISF personnel traced and restored the diamond bracelet, worth around Rs. 2 lakh, to the passenger who lost it at the airport here on Saturday. Pilli Jyothi had gone to the airport along with her husband Krishnakant to catch the IndiGo flight at around 7.30 a.m. After entering the airport, Ms. Jyothi realised that the bracelet on her left hand was missing. The couple brought the issue to the notice of shift in-charge Inspector N.V. Ramana, who, along with head constables V.R. Bandana and K.C. Mallik, searched the route the passenger had taken to enter the terminal building, and found the bracelet lying on the ground between the alighting point and the departure gate. The CISF personnel handed over the bracelet to Mr. Ramana, who, in turn, gave it to the passenger. The couple thanked the CISF personnel for their prompt action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cisf-men-restore-lost-diamond-bracelet-to-air-passenger/article37483684.ece
14 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman dies in accident||A 22-year-old woman died in a road accident, while her husband suffered severe injuries near Vanthadapalli checkpost on Vanjangi Ghat Road under Paderu Police Station limits in Visakhapatnam Agency area on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Hemalatha (22), a resident of Seethampeta here. According to the police, the accident occurred when Hemalatha along with her husband Tarun was heading to Vanjangi hills for sightseeing on Saturday on a two-wheeler. The two-wheeler allegedly hit a car coming in the opposite direction. The police took the car driver into custody .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-dies-in-accident/article37483775.ece
14 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jilted lover’ sets himself, girl on fire in city||A 21-year-old youth named P. Harshavardhan allegedly set a 20-year-old girl, his classmate, on fire after pouring kerosene on her after calling her to a private lodge under the II Town police station limits here on Saturday night. After the attack, the accused also allegedly attempted to end his life by setting himself ablaze. The girl, a resident of Old Karasa area, was shifted to King George Hospital along with the boy. The duo are undergoing treatment. Police have reached the spot and are collecting details. It was learnt that the boy hails from Warangal in Telangana and has allegedly committed the crime after the girl refused his love proposal. Classmates Both reportedly came to know each other while studying in a college in Punjab. Deputy Commissioner of Police Law & Order I, S. Gouthami, and Two Town Station House Officer Venkat Rao are investigating the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jilted-lover-sets-himself-girl-on-fire-in-city/article37483777.ece
14 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||50-bed trust hospital to offer free treatment for the poor||Former Chief Vigilance Commissioner K.V. Chowdary has said that re-skilling of physically challenged persons was the need of the hour to make them self-reliant. He inaugurated Sri Gurudeva Charitable Trust’s 50-bed hospital at Mangalampalem of Kothavalasa mandal in the district on Saturday. He said that the construction of the hospital to provide treatment free of cost to poor patients and physically challenged persons was laudable and it would instil confidence among the downtrodden sections. “Many persons who lost limbs due to accidents, electric shocks and other reasons may not be able to continue their previous jobs. Providing artificial limbs may not ensure their livelihood. They need to be trained in the work area of their interest to enhance their confidence and help them employed,” said Mr. Chowdary. He suggested that industries and corporates allocate their CSR (corporate social responsibility) funds for re-skilling of such persons. Trust founder Raparthi Jagadish Babu said the trust could provide artificial limbs to nearly 40,000 people in the last two decades. The hospital was constructed to benefit poor patients from tribal areas and villages. It would ensure medical support to the physically challenged persons as they would not be able to travel to cities for treatment. Anil Neerukonda Hospital chairman K.V. Prasad and chief operating officer B.J. Bharath Reddy promised to extend their support to the hospital established. Around 15 doctors of Anil Neerukonda Hospital provided treatment for patients in a medical camp held on the occasion. Steel Exchange Private Limited chairman and managing director B. Suresh Babu, Konatala Education Trust chairman K. Raghubabu, Kumar Raja constructions managing director K. Kumar Raja and Grandhi Rajesh of Integral Trading and Logistics were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/50-bed-trust-hospital-to-offer-free-treatment-for-the-poor/article37483708.ece
14 November 2021||Vizianagaram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free legal aid is a boon for poor litigants: District Judge||Vizianagaram District Judge B. Sai Kalyana Chakravarthi on Saturday said that free legal aid was a great boon for litigants of poor families. He said that the District Legal Service Authority was helping them to get amicable solutions for their long-pending issues. As part of Azad Ki Amrit Utsav, an exhibition on legal services was organised on the court premises. He inaugurated the exhibition and spoke about the benefits of the Lok Adalats which would find quick solutions to cases with the mutual consent of litigants. He said that awareness on new Acts was need of the hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-legal-aid-is-a-boon-for-poor-litigants-district-judge/article37483710.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oozing innocence||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oozing-innocence/article37483687.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana irrigation projects to be in focus at today’s SZC meeting||As expected, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is not attending the meeting of the Southern Zonal Council convened by the Union government in Tirupati on Sunday. The State government will be represented by Minister for Home Mohd. Mahmood Ali and a delegation of officials led by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar in the meeting that will be presided by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The 29th meeting of the Southern Regional Council is being organised after a long gap as the meeting scheduled on March 4 had been deferred in view of the COVID-19 pandemic as also because of the unavailability of Mr. Amit Shah. According to the tentative agenda finalised for the meeting, issues relating to irrigation projects Palamuru Rangareddy Lift Irrigation System (PRLIS) and Nakkalagandi LIS, taken up by the State of Telangana from the foreshore of Srisailam reservoir, are expected to be among the major issues that will come up for discussion. The Karnataka government lodged a complaint against Telangana over its PRLIS and Nakkalagandi LIS being taken up for lifting water from the foreshores of Srisailam project. The Karnataka government is asserting that neither Andhra Pradesh nor Telangana (even assuming that the State of Telangana is entitled to use the remaining/surplus water) had any right to construct “permanent construction of large-scale projects” for using the remaining/ surplus water flowing in the Krishna. This was because the said remaining/surplus water is liable to be considered for allocation to the upper States — Karnataka and Maharashtra — under Clause-XVI of the Final Order of KWDT-II (dated November 29, 2013). Agenda note “The KRMB concluded reiterating the directions of Ministry of Jal Shakti (MoJS) to the State of Telangana not to go ahead with the new projects till the DPRs are submitted and appraised by the KRMB, CWC and sanctioned by Apex Council,” the agenda note said. This apart, the meeting is likely to discuss about the dues amounting to Rs. 6,015 crore to be paid by power utilities of Telangana to Andhra Pradesh towards the cost of power supplied by Andhra Pradesh after the State bifurcation. Among other issues in the agenda is the discussion about the speedy investigation of cases of sexual offence/rape against women and children — extent of adherence to time limits of two months for investigation and enquiry/trial as per ITSSO Portal. The 28th meeting of the Southern Zonal Council held at Bengaluru on September 18, 2018, in which out of 27 Agenda items, 22 were resolved. In addition to the 5 remaining agenda items, 43 new items were received for consideration by the SZC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-irrigation-projects-to-be-in-focus-at-todays-szc-meeting/article37483509.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Paediatric ICU at Niloufer gets a facelift||An upgraded 100-bed paediatric ICU facility at Niloufer Hospital was inaugurated on Saturday. This was the first public health event attended by Minister T. Harish Rao post taking charge of the health portfolio recently. On the occasion, Mr Rao urged healthcare workers to be more dedicated towards providing services and assured them support in all aspects. Niloufer Hospital, the biggest State-run paediatric tertiary care centre in Telangana, is packed to capacity during monsoon and winter as children with respiratory issues are admitted here. The bed capacity was increased from 1,000 to 1,400 in the recent past. Bed capacity  Mr Harish Rao said the number of beds in the hospital will be further increased to 1,800 and funds had been allotted for the purpose. Reiterating Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s direction to strengthen health services, the Minister said that Rs. 10,000 crore will be spent to provide corporate grade services to the poor at government hospitals. “We will provide any form of support that you need — timely salaries, equipment, help with repair and maintenance, administrative support, medicines and protection. This is my commitment to the staff,” said Mr Harish Rao. Corporate support Corporate firms which have donated funds to upgrade equipment in the ICU were commended. OpenText has contributed Rs. 1.1 crore towards the ICU upgrade. Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA), along with its NGO partner, has contributed Rs. 18 crore to carry out works at government hospitals. At the inauguration, Mr Harish Rao said Infosys is contributing Rs. 1.7 crore towards construction of a 25-bed ICU at the hospital. DEIC opened The Minister also inaugurated a District Early Intervention Centre (DEIC) on the hospital premises, the tenth such facility in the State. Children up to the age of 18 years with defects, deficiencies, or health complications will be examined here. If the need arises, they will be sent to a higher health facility for treatment or surgery. Officials from the Health department said the idea is to detect health complications in newborns and adolescents teenagers in the early stages to help in better outcomes of treatment. Doctors and medical officers examine the newborns for any birth defect and Accredited Social Health Activists, better known as ASHAs, follow up the cases when they check the health of new mothers. Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) teams check the children in schools, anganwadi centres, and other places. DEICs have 13 specialities under them. Parents can consult various doctors under one roof instead of running to multiple hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paediatric-icu-at-niloufer-gets-a-facelift/article37483491.ece
14 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four-year-old girl’s murder case cracked: mother, paramour held||Punjagutta police on Saturday solved the murder mystery of a four-year-old girl who was found dead at Dwarakapuri Colony on the morning of November 4. According to the police, victim Mehak’s mother Heena Begum (22) from New Hafeezpet and her paramour Shaik Mohammed Khadar alias Rizwan (25) from Dabeerpura, both alms seekers, used to frequently torture the little girl. She died of injuries in Bengaluru. “On November 3, while they were in Bengaluru, the duo thrashed the deceased severely by punching her on her abdomen and kicked her. Due to this assault, the child became unconscious,” Joint Commissioner of Police (West Zone) A.R. Srinivas said on Saturday. She opposed her mother’s relationship with Khadar and refused to seek alms. Then, both Begum and Khadar got scared and decided to come to Hyderabad and boarded a private bus. While returning to Hyderabad, they noticed that the girl’s body had become cold and concluded that she died. “To escape getting caught and to erase the evidence, they left the body near NIMS so that it is assumed that some poor patient has left it,” Mr. Srinivas said. “Accordingly, they left it on the footpath in front of Dwarakapuri Colony, and fled and then, went to Ajmer,” he said. Begum was married to one Ahmed and they had three children, including Mehak. Ahmed was a property offender, who is currently serving a jail term for an offence committed under the Miyapur police station limits. In the meantime, Begum got in touch with Khadar at a toddy compound at Shaikpet and shared her problems with him. “Khadar proposed to her and promised to take care of her children. The duo along with the girl and son Affan went to Mumbai, Delhi, Jaipur, and Manali and were eking their livelihood by begging. They were also making the children beg,” the officer said, adding that the victim was not happy with Khadar being close to her mother and was insisting to go back to her father. The girl was also refusing to beg with them for which she was subjected to severe physical torture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-year-old-girls-murder-case-cracked-mother-paramour-held/article37483468.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR to cover 630 km of network with ‘Kavach’ by March-end||The South Central Railway (SCR), which is extensively testing the first indigenous Train Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) in a few sections, is planning to enhance the total coverage to 630 km, with 320 km already operational and another 310 km in finishing stage of the 1,200-km target set by the Railway Board (RB), by end of March 2022. TCAS, also known as Automatic Train Protection (ATP) system or ‘Kavach’, is to help the Railways to achieve the goal of “zero accidents” as its implementation will bring train movement to a halt automatically when it notices another train on the same line within a prescribed distance. Trains will also stop on their own when the digital system notices any manual error like “jumping” of the red signal or any other malfunction, explained senior officials on Friday. The system includes a stationary equipment to gather signalling inputs and loco inputs and transmits to loco console, radio system for communication with locos and the station, master interface and GPS for time synchronisation, loco equipment to gather inputs from RFID reader and tags and from the station, speedometer, brake interface unit, in-cab display of signal aspect, alarms, alerts and SOS buttons, radio and antenna for communication with stations and other locos. RFID tags are provided every 1 km and at station yard for each track and signals for track identification, location of train and identification of train direction. The ‘On Board Display of Signal Aspect’ (OBDSA) is to help loco pilots check signals on board consoles even when the visibility is low. The practice now is for loco-pilots or assistant loco-pilots to crane their necks out of the window to look out for caution signs and signals, said the officials. Test runs were held between Lingampalli-Sanatnagar (14 km), Vikarabad-Lingampalli (161 km) and Vikarabad-Bidar (90 km) for a couple of years before giving the go-ahead for using them in select sections where passenger and freight trains are run. Railways’ Research Design and Standards Organisation (RDSO) has permitted three firms — HBL, Medha and Kernex — to make TCAS, they said. SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya explained the progress of TCAS when RB’s director general (Safety) Ravinder Gupta came calling a few days ago where the necessary improvements came up for discussion. An update on signal display, prevention of over-speeding, automatic whistling at level crossing gates, better radio communication, maintenance, standardisation of equipment between the three firms, integration of various display units and machine interfaces inside the loco-pilot cab were among those highlighted to fine-tune the system. TCAS is in operation from Manmad to Secunderabad and Parbhini to Wadi plus Vikarabad to Sanatnagar in 40 locomotives with about 100 loco-pilots trained and another 150 maintenance staff trained, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-to-cover-630-km-of-network-with-kavach-by-march-end/article37483480.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad more liveable than other cities: KTR||Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) Minister K.T. Rama Rao has said that Hyderabad is better than any other city in terms of living standards but, there is a need to develop it further. Addressing a press conference on Saturday, Mr. Rao said that Hyderabad was recognised by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs as a garbage-free city. Hyderabad bagged the Swachh Sarvekshan award and was also recognised as water plus city. President Ram Nath Kovind will give away awards in this connection at a function at Vignan Bhavan in New Delhi on November 20. Swachh Sarvekshan awards were also announced for Nizampet, Ibrahimpatnam, Sircilla, Ghatkesar, Kosigi, Husnabad, Siddipet and Secunderabad Cantonment. Karimnagar was among the top three towns in Safari Mitra Suraksha Challenge. An award will be presented to the town not only for upkeep of sanitation but welfare of sanitation workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-more-liveable-than-other-cities-ktr/article37483473.ece
14 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Stepwell in Qutb Shahi tombs complex restored||In the marvellous garden of a stucco work necropolis of the Qutb Shahi tombs, it is a deep stepwell of dressed granite. While curvy flowy lines and stucco decorations are the norm in the tombs complex, the stepwell is all about straight lines and minimalistic design. Recently restored to the way it appears in archival images from 19th century by the Department of Archaeology and Museums, the effort has been aided by the U.S. Ambassador’s Fund for Cultural Preservation. “It is probably one of the earliest structures here, along with the Idgah and might pre-date the necropolis. The other boalis [ stepwells] are built on rocky outcrops. This one is built into the earth with huge blocks of hand-dressed stone blocks and masonry,” says Ratish Nanda of the Aga Khan Trust for Culture, which is working in coordination with the Telangana government to restore the tombs complex. The Qutb Shahis ruled the Golconda kingdom between 1518 and 1687. The challenges Restoring a deep stepwell presents its own challenges. “Portions of the stone blocks had bulged out and required to be reset; this was dangerous due to the depth of the baoli . We also needed to channelise rainwater into it, requiring extensive restoration of earth levels all around out,” says Mr. Nanda. A photograph clicked during the restoration work shows the intimidating depth of the well and dealing with large blocks of dressed stones that needed to be moved around. Above the ground, large blocks of the stones were also displaced as the well was not in use for a long time. The well reaches to the depth of 20 metres or about 60 feet — the same height as a six-storey structure. The Idgah baoli is among the seven wells inside the Qutb Shahi tombs complex that are being restored as part of the conservation efforts at the site. Recently, speaking at a seminar, Special Chief Secretary Arvind Kumar had spelled out the Telangana State government’s plans for revival of all the stepwells in the city. “Hyderabad had 140-plus stepwells. Most of them have disappeared; we are rediscovering. We have repaired and restored 12 stepwells. Corporates are eager to be involved in the restoration. Once restored, they will be part of history and heritage of the city and we will ensure some meaningful activities take place in those areas,” said Mr. Kumar at the Maulana Azad National Urdu University here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stepwell-in-qutb-shahi-complex-restored/article37483465.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||We’re ready to buy raw rice as agreed upon, says Kishan||Union Minister for Tourism and Culture G. Kishan Reddy strongly rebuffed the allegations made against the Centre by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and other Ministers on procurement of paddy from farmers stating that there was no truth in it. He said the Chief Minister and his Ministers were on a vicious campaign against Centre and creating wrong impression among farmers for reasons best know to them. “We have never said that we will not procure rice from the state. We have already entered into an agreement with the State government to procure about 40 lakh metric tonnes of rice. Again the State government said about 90 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was being grown in the State and hence there was a need to increase it. Later they said that with ‘eye survey’ it seems the cultivation has increased to 108 lakh metric tonnes. In 2014-15, the Centre has procured Rs. 3,404 crore worth of rice from Telangana whereas it was increased to Rs. 26,641 crore in 2020-21. How can the Ministers allege that the Centre is against farmers in the State?” questioned Mr. Kishan Reddy while speaking to reporters here on Saturday. He said there was no clarity for the State government on in the area of paddy and it had unnecessarily roping in farmers in the issue. “Farmers will grow only paddy and it was the responsibility of the State government to procure, mill and hand it over to the Centre. I want to clarify that farmers will grow only paddy and are milling it as parboiled or raw rice will be with millers. The State Government should speak with millers and settle the issue. For the past three years we have been repeatedly saying that there was a large stock of boiled rice and we could procure no more. We will decide what to do with the stock piled up,” said Mr. Kishan Reddy adding that the entire expenditure to procure paddy would be borne by the Centre and even 8.5 per cent interest would also be paid to State. The Union Minister also wondered why the issue was raked up only after the results of Huzurabad by-election results and what was the issue when the Centre was ready to buy raw rice as agreed upon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-ready-to-buy-raw-rice-as-agreed-upon-says-kishan/article37483502.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HMR, Star Maa join hands for public safety campaign||L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad and Telugu general entertainment channel Star Maa on Saturday launched ‘Bigg Boss is Watching You’, a public safety campaign aimed at improving commuter safety and increasing ridership. As part of the 100-day campaign, all 57 metro stations and their premises such as entry-exit points, the station concourse and check-in areas will be covered. Custom jingle messages will also be played. The campaign will emphasise on safety measures for commuters, the rules, and promote metro as a safe as well as convenient mode of travel. Launching the campaign, Tollywood actor and host of Star Maa’s Bigg Boss Akkineni Nagarjuna said entertainment should have a purpose. He opined the campaign was representative of Bigg Boss show, which is both entertaining and also rewards human emotions. MD and CEO of L&TMRHL, K.V.B. Reddy said the campaign, while building a strong passenger connect, will amplify awareness against COVID-19 and safe travel practices among public. It would also encourage commuters for smart travel practices, such as swiping metro smart cards and quick response code tickets for contactless and convenient journey, he added. “Bigg Boss, a global format in daily entertainment sector and well-received by the Telugu audience, will have a wider reach about public safety,” another official observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hmr-star-maa-join-hands-for-public-safety-campaign/article37483484.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Activists raise concern as RTI queries go unanswered||Right to Information (RTI) activists have raised concern over their applications remaining unanswered. In several cases, information from State government departments is not forthcoming, forcing them to opt for first and second appeals. To make matters vexatious, due to the backlog, it is taking about a year for their petitions to be heard at the Telangana State Information Commission (TSIC). Inordinate delay Activists with YouRTI.in, a portal which assists individuals to file RTI requests apart from its own activists seeking information themselves, say that filing first and second appeals and waiting for petitions to be listed for hearing appears to have become the norm. “At the moment, three appeals are pending in the TSIC. Recently, we have had appeals dealt with which were filed in 2019 and 2018. Delays by government departments, irrespective of reasons, do not further the cause of RTI,” Kareem Ansari, an activist with YouRTI.in, said. Giving an example, Mr Ansari said an application to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation seeking information on births and deaths was sent on June 17. The request was forwarded to the Department of Public Health and Family Welfare. When no response came, the activist filed a first appeal on August 12 and received a response directing the joint director treat the application as ‘time bound’, and send a response within three days. “It has been more than a month and no information has come,” Mr Ansari said. According to official data, till December 2020, there were well over 10,000 pending cases with the commission. There are a few thousand cases pending now. S.Q. Masood, another RTI activist, also pointed out cases in which the respondents were failing to comply with the commission’s order. “In April this year, dealing with appeal number 1574/CIC/2019, the commission directed the Serilangampalli MRO to furnish information within a week. It has been more than six months. I have not got the information,” Mr Masood said. In a similar case, a second appeal was filed with the commission on August 2018 after the activist was not given statistical information on beneficiaries of the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. In an order dated January 21, the Commission directed the Public Information Officer at the Chief Minister’s office in-charge of CMRF to send information within seven days. Mr Masood said he is still waiting for the government to implement this order. “If it takes so long for it to reach the commission, and then departments ignore instructions, it defeats the very purpose of RTI, which appears to have been weakened here. The Chief Secretary should ensure regular training and sensitisation of PIOs with respect to the RTI Act. Departments should not needlessly invoke section 8 (1) of the Act which deals with exemptions on giving information,” he said.  At the moment, three appeals are pending in TSIC. Recently, we had appeals dealt with, which were filed in 2019 and 2018. Delays by government departments do not further the cause of RTI. Kareem Ansari, Activist If it takes so long for it to reach the commission, and then departments ignore instructions, it defeats the very purpose of RTI, which appears to have been weakened here. S.Q. Masood, Activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/activists-raise-concern-as-rti-queries-go-unanswered/article37483489.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS calls BJP leaders’ bluff||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has suggested the State leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) not indulge in petty politics causing confusion and loss to the farming community of Telangana even after the Centre acknowledged the fact that cultivation of paddy during the Kharif season was taken up in 62 lakh acres. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy, speaking to reporters here on Saturday, requested the Centre again to review its decision on the procurement of Rabi paddy/rice considering the fact that about 22 crore population still lacked food security and that producing raw rice in Telangana during Rabi was most uneconomical due to extreme temperatures and high broken rice percentage. Stating that no government in the country had come out unscathed after taking decisions against the farming community, Mr. Niranjan Reddy said North India was boiling with the farmers protests against the new farm laws but the sword was still dangling over the heads of farmers although the Supreme Court had kept the new laws in abeyance. He sought to know whether Centre could not spare some money when it was writing off Rs. lakhs of crores of debt of corporates. Explaining that the State Government had already undertaken creating awareness among farmers by encourage diversification of the cropping patterns, the minister said it had already secured permission from the Centre for oilpalm plantation in 8.15 lakh acres. He also mentioned that it was Telangana that was planning to divide cultivable lands into crop colonies and encouraging change in cropping patterns and had taken up crop booking for the last few years. He pointed out that the boiled rice produced in the Rabi season in Telangana could be exported even now but the BJP Government at the Centre had discontinued incentives for exports, discouraging both the farmers and exporters (millers). By keeping exports and imports of food and commercial crops in its hands the Centre was not even thinking about new ways to procure crops. The Minister thanked the farming community for participating in Friday’s protests in the State against Centre’s attitude on Rabi paddy/rice procurement and suggested the farmers to focus on growing blackgram, sunflower, sesamum, safflower and other crops which have demand in the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-calls-bjp-leaders-bluff/article37483497.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Surprise visits to govt. hospitals on the cards||Health Minister T. Harish Rao said he will take up surprise visits at government hospitals and district tours will be accompanied by checks at health facilities. Work performance of every healthcare staff — from ASHAs to hospital superintendents — will be reviewed. The Minister, who held a video conference with district collectors, and district medical and health officers on Saturday, said that postings and promotions will be based on work efficiency. Vaccination coverage, new medical college works, and other aspects were discussed at the meeting. He directed the collectors to complete construction of the eight medical colleges by December, increase bed capacity of the hospitals attached to the colleges and to construct hostels for medical students. 85% took first dose Of the 2.77 core people in the State who are eligible for COVID vaccination, 85% have taken the first dose. The target of 100% coverage was set at the meeting. District collectors were asked to fix targets for habitations, villages, and mandals. The immunisation coverage has to be reviewed every week. Around 18.66 lakh persons who are eligible for the second dose were urged to take the jab. Till November 12, a total of 2.35 crore persons had taken the first dose and 1.08 crore persons the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/surprise-visits-on-the-cards/article37483493.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘AIIMS building not handed over with all documents’||Union Minister for Tourism and Culture G. Kishan Reddy said that the building that was constructed at Bibinagar for All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) was not handed over to the authorities concerned with all relevant documents and hence the work was not progressing as expected. Giving a clarification on the allegations made against him by Finance and Health Minister T. Harish Rao that buildings were already handed over to the authorities and the Union Minister might have checked before coming openly, Mr. Kishan Reddy said that Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, wrote to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on October 9, 2021, stating that the building was not properly handed over to the institute till date along with necessary statutory approvals and mandatory documents related to the structure such as building permit, fire NOC and environment clearance from pollution control board (PCB). In the letter the Union Secretary also pointed out that HITES, Executive Agency for All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), has informed that state pollution control board (SPCB) of Telangana has declined permission to the project owing to the non-availability of prior environment clearance for the existing building. Medical colleges Releasing the letter, without mentioning the name of Mr. Harish Rao, the Union Minister said that he wanted to present facts to people instead of challenging anyone. Referring to medial colleges issue, Mr. Kishan Reddy pointed out that the Centre had written to all states expressing its intention to start medical colleges attached with existing hospitals and sought proposals in a specific format. “The centre has written letters to states including Telangana on 30th August 2019 seeking proposals in specific format. When there was no response, another letter was written on December 3rd by the then union health minister Harshavardhan in this regard asking to submit proposals with detailed project reports (DPRs),” said Mr. Kishan Reddy and wanted to know how many proposals were sent from the state. The Centre decided at recent Cabinet meeting to observe birth anniversary of Birsa Munda, November 15th as Janjatiya Gaurv Divas and a programme will be held at Madha Pradesh which would be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, informed the Union Minister stating that it was decided to honour those tribals who fought for the nation like Komuram Bheem and construct a museum at Hyderabad at an estimated cost of Rs. 8 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/key-documents-of-aiims-building-not-handed-over/article37483503.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Annual review conducted||SCR general manager Gajanan Mallya undertook annual inspection of Pagidipalli-Chityala-Nalgonda- Miryalaguda-Nadikude section of Guntur division, accompanied by DRM-Guntur division R. Mohan Raja, and other senior officials. Mr Mallya also reviewed passenger amenities at the stations and discussed plans for their improvement with the officials. Safety inspection of tracks, curves, major, minor bridges and level crossing gates in Nalgonda-Rayanagudem -Tipparthi- Kukkadam section, Miryalaguda Railway station and Nadikude Railway stations was also carried out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/annual-review-conducted/article37483481.ece
14 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Karimnagar Dairy outlets in Nizamabad||The Karimnagar Milk Producer Company Limited also known as Karimnagar Dairy entered Nizamabad district on Friday by opening five dairy parlours. Karimnagar Dairy chairman Ch Rajeshwara Rao along with MD P. Shankar Reddy, advisor V. Hanumantha Reddy, marketing manager Rajashekhar Reddy and others had formally inaugurated the dairy parlours at Namdevwada, Bada Bazaar, Vinaynagar, Autonagar and Goli Hanuman temple localities in Nizamabad town. These dairy parlours would ensure availability of all dairy products in Nizamabad town for customers. Tthe dairy chairman said that Karimnagar Dairy, the number one dairy in Telangana, was selling its milk and milk products in integrated Karimnagar district, Siddipet, Warangal, Mancherial, Adilabad and even in Hyderabad. They would spread throughout Nizamabad district in the days to come by opening more parlours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/karimnagar-dairy-outlets-now-in-nizamabad/article37483510.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress leaders summoned to Delhi||Senior Congress leaders were on Saturday summoned to New Delhi by the party high command to give an explanation on the demoralising defeat in Huzurabad Assembly by-election. Sources said the meeting in the presence of AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal witnessed sharp exchanges between the leaders. They pointed accusing finger at each other. Congress Legislature Party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka blamed some leaders for blocking the entry of BJP leader Eatala Rajender into the party. At this, Mr. Venugopal expressed anger that Mr. Vikramarka reversed his own stand having opposed Mr. Rajender’s entry initially. Telangana Congress Committee working president Ponnam Prabhakar was said to have accused former State president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy of shielding his cousin and party candidate in the 2018 Assembly elections P. Kaushik Reddy. It was Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy who paved the way for Mr. Kaushik Reddy’s entry into TRS, sources said. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy sought to know why a replacement for Mr. Kaushik Reddy was not found for the constituency for four months till his exit. Senior leader V. Hanumantha Rao wanted to know on whose recommendation the Congress candidate Balmuri Venkat Narsing Rao was given ticket though he did not make an application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-leaders-summoned-to-delhi/article37483504.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fast food chain to support 100 restaurants, eateries||Fast food chain KFC on Friday said it will impart expertise and entrepreneurial support to 100 restaurants, food joints and eateries in the city under its India Sahyog programme. To be offered in association with the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India and National Restaurant Association of India, the programme will support local restaurants to overcome challenges presented by a post-COVID scenario, it said. Formulated to assist the participating restaurants in recovering their businesses, the India Sahyog programme consists of training modules on enhancing sales and customer service, food safety, hygiene, improving profitability and sanitation. The participants would be given certification by FSSAI, NRAI and KFC India upon finishing the modules. India Sahyog is part of QSR brand’s global commitment to lend entrepreneurial support to small food business owners thus augmenting growth of the food industry in India. “We look forward to support local restaurants in Hyderabad to overcome challenges presented by a post-COVID scenario. Our intention is to take the programme to more cities to fulfil our pledge of supporting 500 restaurants nationally by 2022,” said KFC India managing director Samir Menon. IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan and other senior officials participated in the virtual event to launch the Hyderabad chapter of India Sahyog.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fast-food-chain-to-support-100-restaurants-eateries/article37483478.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four organs harvested from farmer||Four organs were harvested from a 36-year-old-farmer from Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district after he was declared brain-dead. Nalla Paramesh, a resident of Anjipur village in Mothkur mandal, met with an accident on November 3. His family rushed him to a corporate hospital here. After nine days of intensive treatment, he was declared brain-dead. Jeevandan coordinators counselled his family members, including his wife Ashwini, a homemaker, and explained to them the importance of organ donation. After taking his wife’s consent, kidneys, corneas, heart and liver were harvested from Paramesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-organs-harvested-from-farmer/article37483487.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana’s COVID tally up by 157 cases, one succumbs||Another 157 cases of COVID-19 were added to the State’s infection tally on Saturday as 36,147 samples were examined. Results of 1,391 persons were awaited. The total cases in Telangana now stands at 6,73,469. The new 157 infections included 56 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area, 19 from Karimnagar, 13 from Rangareddy, and 11 each from Medchal-Malkajgiri and Warangal Urban. Six districts did not record a single case on the day. One more COVID patient succumbed to the infection, taking the death toll to 3,973. Of the total cases, 3,741 were active as of Saturday evening. Error regretted Telangana recorded 172 COVID cases on Friday, taking the active caseload to 3,741 with highest number of cases reported from the capital region with 79 cases. It included 51 cases from GHMC, 17 from Rangareddy and 11 from Medchal-Malkajgiri. Of the 39,804 samples tested, 1,007 results were yet to come. One death was recorded, taking official death count to 3,972. Overall number of people infected since March 2020 is about 6.74 lakh and those recovered is around 6.66 lakh with 167 persons recovering and not as published in these columns on Saturday. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telanganas-covid-tally-up-by-157-cases/article37483494.ece
14 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||11 km covered in 12 minutes to transport live organs||Hyderabad traffic police, on Saturday, facilitated the transport of live organs by providing non-stop movement to an ambulance carrying them. At 10.09 a.m., they arranged a green channel for transportation of a heart and a pair of lungs from Yashoda Hospital, Malakpet, to KIMS at Secunderabad. The medical team carrying the live organs left Yashoda Hospital at 10.09 a.m. and reached KIMS at 10.21 a.m. The distance of 11 km between the two hospitals was covered in 12 minutes. So far this year, the traffic police has facilitated organ transport 30 times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/11-km-covered-in-12-minutes-to-transport-live-organs/article37483466.ece
14 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two held with 3 gm MDMA||Two persons were arrested by Madhapur police here on Friday with three grams of MDMA. The accused are Mohammed Been Hassan Kolani (50), a realtor from Kotla Alija, Charminar, and Kondle Rakesh (39), a cloud engineer from Erramanzil Colony. Police also seized Rs. 16,000, three mobile phones and a car. “Investigation revealed that they purchased drugs from known persons in Mumbai,” Madhapur in-charge DCP M. Venkateshwarlu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-held-with-3-gm-mdma/article37483470.ece
14 November 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Infra at bus stand improved||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) on Saturday improved the facilities at Ramayampet bus station after a surprise visit by chairman Bajireddy Goverdhan. Lighting and water supply at the bus station were improved with a quick turn-around-time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/infra-at-rtc-bus-stand-improved/article37483474.ece
14 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Educate farmers on crops in demand’||The State Government has asked the Agriculture and Horticulture Departments to educate farmers on cultivating crops having demand in the market by forming state-level teams for the purpose. The teams would be tasked to explain farmers about pulses, oilseeds, fruits and vegetables having good demand. At a review meeting held with District Agriculture Officers here on Saturday, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy, Secretary (Agriculture) M. Raghunandan Rao, Special Commissioner Hanmanthu and others, the Minister said diverting farmers away from paddy and towards alternative crops was not an impossible task provided the agriculture department officials resolved so. He asked the officials to encourage farmers taking up cultivation of safflower and castor which had good demand at international level. He wanted the officials to explain to farmers that Telangana soils do not require DAP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/educate-farmers-on-crops-in-demand/article37483498.ece
14 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Conference inauguration||A conference on ‘Comprehensive Lactation Management, Milk Banking and Breastfeeding’ was inaugurated by Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Bharati Pravin Pawar, on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/conference-inauguration/article37483486.ece
14 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||One held for making adulterated tea powder||The sleuths of Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (South Zone) along with Shahinayathgunj police, on Saturday, raided a tea powder manufacturing unit at Feelkhana, Begum Bazaar, for making adulterated tea powder and arrested a 54-year-old person. The accused, Vishnu Gopal Tiwari, is the proprietor of Srinath Agencies Tea Powder. Police seized 218 bags of tea powder (each bag weighing 35 kg), and two bags of adulterated tea powder (each bag weighing 20 kg).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-held-for-making-adulterated-tea-powder/article37483469.ece
14 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Gold||Customs officials at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport on Saturday caught an international passenger who was trying to smuggle in 671.9 grams of foreign-origin gold worth Rs. 34.18 lakh. The accused, who arrived by Air India flight number AI952, concealed the yellow metal inside the hand pressure juicer in his checked-in baggage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/gold/article37483471.ece
14 November 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||‘Legal awareness imperative for women’s rights’||Legal awareness is imperative to safeguard the rights of women and promote women’s empowerment, said M G Priyadarshini, Principal District and Sessions Judge, Karimnagar. Speaking at a legal awareness programme for women organised by the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) at Revenue Gardens here on Saturday, she emphasised the need for spreading awareness among women about their legal rights and entitlements under various women-related laws. Outlining the legal awareness initiatives of the DLSA, she said “Women should acquaint themselves with their legal rights, provisions of various women-related laws and free legal services being provided by the legal services institutions to the needy.” Legal awareness held the key to enable women achieve equality in all spheres of life as enshrined in the Constitution, she remarked. Teams comprising panel lawyers and para-legal volunteers visited 1,244 villages in the erstwhile composite Karimnagar district as part of the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA)’s ongoing pan-India outreach campaign to spread awareness about free legal aid and the new legal services schemes among all sections of society. The massive outreach campaign is being organised as part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” to mark the 75th anniversary of India’s independence. Additional Collector (Local Bodies) Garima Agarwal, the DLSA Secretary B Sujay, First Additional District Judge Bhavani Chandra, Additional DCP Srinivas, Karimnagar Bar Association president Raghunandan Rao and others were present. Call to authorities At Siddipet, High Court Judge and District Administrative Judge A. Abhishek Reddy called upon authorities to create awareness among the public on free legal services available to them. Participating in Legal Services Module Camp held at the district headquarters on Saturday, Justice Abhishek Reddy said that the aim of the programme was to crate awareness among the general public so that they get legal aid free of cost by approaching legal service authority. He suggested that the lawyers extend quality legal aid to those who approached them through the authority. The programme was held as part of Azadi ka Amrith Mahotsav. District Principal and Sessions Judge B. Papi Reddy, District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) Judge Ashalatha, Collector P Venkatarami Reddy and others participated in the programme. that was conducted at Siddipet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/legal-awareness-imperative-for-womens-rights/article37483506.ece
14 November 2021||SURYAPET:,TELANGANA||Couple mowed down by truck||Two persons, husband and wife, travelling in their motorcycle were mowed down by a truck leading to their instant death at Kodad town in the district on Saturday. The victims were identified as Nusrat Fathima, 35, a homemaker, and Sardar, 44, a truck driver, residents of the town. Kodad police inspector A. Narsimha Rao said the accident took place around 4 p.m., when the couple on their motorcycle was on the service road near the Mellacheruvu flyover, and when a truck that was changing lanes from highway to service road ran over them. The truck was at a high speed and, preliminarily, the cause of accident was rash and negligent driving, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/couple-mowed-down-by-truck/article37483500.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Flying high||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flying-high/article37483476.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Taken for a ride?||caption||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/taken-for-a-ride/article37483508.ece
14 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab sees lesser stubble fires, burnt area this year||With paddy harvesting almost at its fag end in Punjab, the State has witnessed just a tad lesser stubble fire incidents this kharif season and the ‘rice burnt area’ has also seen a significant drop in comparison to the last year so far. The data from Ludhiana-based Punjab Remote Sensing Centre shows the ‘rice burnt area’ — which according to officials provides the actual ground reality about farm fires — was close to 10 lakh hectares till November 10, 2021, as against 15 lakh hectares in 2020 in the corresponding period, down by around five lakh hectares. The Punjab Pollution Control Board data shows that till November 13, as many as 62,863 cases of farm fire occurrence have been reported. Last year, during the same period there were 75,442 such incidents. Sangrur district has seen the highest number of farm fire cases at 7,095, while Moga with 5,839 such cases stands on the second spot. Ferozepur recorded as many as 5,592 cases, according to the PPCB. Paddy has been grown over 29.68 lakh hectares of land in Punjab this year. “Burnt area under paddy in 2021 has been estimated to be 10.34 lakh hectare up till November 10, 2021, whereas the burnt area during 2020 till November 10 was close to 15.21 lakh hectare. At the same time the paddy area harvested in 2021 till November 10 is at 28.15 lakh hectares of the total paddy area as against the 27.71 lakh hectares during the same period in year 2020,” Krunesh Garg, member secretary of the PPCB, told The Hindu on Saturday. In Punjab, the total ‘rice burnt area’ in 2020 was 18 lakh hectares, while in 2019 it was 19 lakh hectares.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/punjab-sees-lesser-stubble-fires-burnt-area-this-year/article37483398.ece
14 November 2021||Ghaziabad,||Temple chief, AIMIM can impact U.P. polls||An undulating, dimly-lit road off the shining 14-lane NH-9 takes you to the sprawling Mahakali temple in Dasna town of Ghaziabad. Constantly under a thick security cover, it is a rare place of worship where one can enter only after showing one’s Aadhaar card to the constable on duty for the board on the temple reads ‘Muslims are not allowed to enter’. The place remains in the news because its chief Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati keeps making headlines with provocative statements against Muslims. There are videos available on the Internet where he purportedly speaks against Islam and the Prophet and talks of establishing a nation devoid of Islam. Contradictory views His followers allege his life is under threat, while his detractors claim that he is being used by the ruling party to polarise the upcoming Assembly election. Dasna falls under the Dhaulana Assembly constituency of Ghaziabad Lok Sabha seat. Of the four lakh voters, at least 60% are Muslims and Jatavs. Observers use this data to explain why Dhaulana is the only constituency in the area that has remained out of the BJP’s hold in 2012 and 2017. Local sources said the religion-caste arithmetic where the Muslims and the Jatavs keep a check on the Thakurs, the other dominant class, was one of the reasons Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath held a rally in the neighbouring Pilkhuwa town in September. In a television interview, Mr. Aditynath linked the alleged attack on a priest in the premises of the temple with the conversion racket. In May, the Delhi Police had nabbed an alleged Jaish operative plotting to assassinate the priest. After Mr. Saraswati made provocative statements against not only Muslims but also women BJP leaders, the Ghaziabad Police lodged three FIRs and initiated proceedings under the Goonda Act. Soon after, Mr. Saraswati was appointed the mahamandleshwar of the influential Juna Akhada, following which he described senior Ghaziabad officers as ‘worthless, inconsequential people’. When this correspondent visited the temple, he came across the son of a BJP MLA from one of the Assembly constituencies in Meerut at the premises. He had come to invite Mr. Saraswati for a personal function but took the opportunity to invite him to hold at least three meetings in the constituency describing the priest as “our Owaisi”. Notably, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chose to make its Ghaziabad office in Dasna where the wife of one of its State secretaries, Haji Arif Ali, is the chairman of the Town Area Committee. She is the only AIMIM chairman of a town in the State. The party also has 23 Zila Panchayat members. Party president Asaduddin Owaisi has visited Dasna twice in the last six months. Mr. Saraswati is not like other priests. In his office, if Ardhanarishwar is painted on the wall, a punching bag is also hanging from the roof. “I practice on it,” he said. Abuses are as integral to his vocabulary as is hate against the Muslims, and he seems eager that his vituperative thoughts make it to the media. Supports CM He has no love lost for the Central leadership of the BJP and the RSS, but offers unequivocal support to the CM. “He has brought down the Muslim mafia in the State,” he said. Asked if he was being used for political gains, he said he knew “when to use and when to get used”. On the RSS chief’s statement that the Hindus and the Muslims have the same DNA, he said, “it is like saying Krishna and Kans have the same DNA.” For Mr. Saraswati, Waseem Rizvi, whose controversial book on the Prophet he released recently, is a better representative of the Muslims. Hailing from the Shikarpur town of Bulandshahr, Mr. Saraswati said his original name was Deependra Narain Tyagi and claimed that he did a course in chemical technology from Moscow. “I used to have many Muslim friends and had a short stint with the Samajwadi Party. I visited many madrasas and realised that the true picture of Islam is very different from what my friends presented.” Hari Giri, the general secretary of the largest monastic order, told The Hindu , “If you don’t remain strong, you will be driven out. We have experienced it with the Kashmiri Pandits.” He claimed a number of priests were either killed or made to leave the temple in Dasna. “We back somebody who is educated, who can profess our religion, and who can die for religion,” he said. “The fact that the Baba (Saraswati) has not been arrested despite using provocative and derogatory language not only against Islam but also against Hindu women and government officials, shows he has the tacit support of Lucknow and has some value for the ruling party,” said Mr. Ali. Senior police officers admit, off the record, that Mr. Saraswati was a threat to law and order and that the communally sensitive area could become a hotspot in the upcoming Assembly elections. Describing Mr. Saraswati as a “loose cannon”, a professor of a local college, refusing to be named, said Mr. Saraswati reminded him of the early days of BSP chief Mayawati. when she used cusswords against the upper castes. “He is seeking a political space for himself but both local Muslims and Hindus are aware of his tactics so they keep distance. However, his speech and actions could have a rippling effect on other areas ,” he said. Zaheeruddin, a veteran social activist, recalled that Dasna was peaceful even during the post-Partition riots. “I feel both sides should be kept in check . Owaisi sahib gets away with a language for which an ordinary Muslim could be sent to jail by this dispensation. Similarly, Baba’s rant against Islam doesn’t go with the status that he has been granted,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/temple-chief-aimim-can-impact-up-polls/article37483574.ece
14 November 2021||Kolkata,||Longest partial lunar eclipse in 580 yrs. on Nov. 19||The longest partial lunar eclipse in 580 years will occur on November 19 and will be visible from parts of Northeast India, an astrophysicist said on Saturday. The rare phenomenon will be visible from a few areas in Arunachal Pradesh and Assam, Director of Research and Academic at MP Birla Planetarium Debiprosad Duari told PTI. The partial eclipse will start at 12.48 p.m. and end at 4.17 p.m., he said. The duration of the eclipse will be 3 hours 28 minutes and 24 seconds, making it the longest in 580 years, Mr. Duari said. “A few areas in Arunachal Pradesh and Assam will experience the last fleeting moments of the partial eclipse just after the moonrise, very close to the eastern horizon,” he added. Last eclipse The last time a partial lunar eclipse of such length occurred was on February 18, 1440, and the next time a similar phenomenon can be witnessed will be on February 8, 2669, he said. The maximum partial eclipse will be visible at 2.34 p.m. as 97% of the moon will be covered by the Earth’s shadow. The moon is likely to appear blood-red in colour, which happens when the red beams of the sunlight pass through the Earth’s atmosphere and get least deflected and fall on the moon. The partial lunar eclipse will be visible from North America, South America, eastern Asia, Australia and the Pacific region. The penumbral eclipse, which occurs when the sun, earth, and the moon are imperfectly aligned, will begin at 11.32 a.m. and end at 5.33 p.m., Mr. Duari said. Briefly visible The penumbral eclipse will be visible from U.P., Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha but it can be seen only briefly from these places, he said. The last lunar eclipse was on July 27, 2018. The next lunar eclipse will be on May 16, 2022, but it will not be visible from India, Mr. Duari said. The next lunar eclipse to be visible from India will be on November 8, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/longest-partial-lunar-eclipse-in-580-yrs-on-nov-19/article37483576.ece
14 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Dengue cases higher than official count’||The number of dengue cases reported in just seven big city hospitals is more than the Government’s official figure of 4,362 for the entire city, sources told The Hindu . This indicates that the actual number of cases, including those from other hospitals in the city, is much higher. Several doctors, on condition of anonymity, said the official figure is low and one doctor even said that it’s a “gross underestimate”. According to the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), which releases the official dengue data for the city, 4,362 cases, including those from outside Delhi, were reported this year till November 6. But the total number of cases reported at the seven city hospitals, which were selected randomly, till November 6 is over 4,600, said sources. Despite repeated attempts, the Press Relations Officer (PRO) of the SDMC did not offer a comment on the official figure being low. ‘No timely reporting’ When contacted, another official of the civic body said, “Many hospitals in the city have not done timely reporting of dengue cases to the authorities. It was only after the Delhi Government notified vector-borne diseases, under the Epidemic Diseases Act, that it became mandatory for hospitals to report the cases to the authorities. Had the hospitals done timely reporting of dengue cases, the municipal corporations could have stepped in and checked the situation in those areas.” An official at the Central Government-run Safdarjung Hospital said that “853 cases of dengue and 13 deaths were recorded from January 1 to November 1”. “Of these 853 cases, 518 were from Delhi and 335 from outside. Of the 13 deaths, three were from outside Delhi while one was a resident of the city,” the official said, adding that the details of the remaining nine deaths are not available. “About 1,300 confirmed cases of dengue have been reported at Lok Nayak Hospital this year. About 20% of them are from outside Delhi,” a Government source said. Some of these patients had got the dengue detection test done outside the hospital. At the Centre-run ESIC Hospital in Okhla, 38 and 318 cases of dengue were recorded in September and October respectively, a source said. More than 750 dengue cases were reported at the State-run Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital till November 6, an official said. Sources at three private hospitals said they reported at least 700, 400, and 240 dengue cases till November 6. “The official figure is a gross underestimate. But there is a lot of pressure on us from the MCD and we can’t do much as we need to go to them for many permissions,” a doctor at one of the three private hospitals said. Doctors at other hospitals, which did not share their data, also said the official figure is low considering the caseload they faced. “NS1 antigen test works to detect dengue only in the first four to five days of the infection. We were getting serious patients who were coming to us after five or six days. In a majority of these cases, the NS1 antigen test was coming out to be negative but the patients had all the signs of dengue such as falling platelets. These patients are not officially counted as dengue patients,” a doctor at Delhi government-run Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital said. At RML Hospital, an additional 23-bed dengue ward has remained full since its establishment on October 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dengue-cases-higher-than-official-count/article37483374.ece
14 November 2021||New Delhi,||Need to protect children from toxic air: CM||Protecting children from “breathing toxic air” was of paramount importance to the Delhi Government, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday after chairing an emergency meeting over the grave pollution situation in the Capital. In the meeting it was decided that physical classes will be shut at both Government and private schools for a week and education of children will continue online, Mr. Kejriwal’s office announced. All Government offices will be closed for one week in a bid to reduce vehicular traffic. Construction activity will be prohibited for three days between November 14 and 17 as weather forecasts are indicating a “fatal pollution situation” during the period. Mr. Kejriwal said the Delhi Government was drafting a proposal on whether a lockdown could be imposed in the city and it would be placed in front of the Supreme Court after consulting all the stakeholders, including the Centre and the agencies under it. “The pollution levels have significantly risen in Delhi in the past few days. The data at hand clearly state that air wasn’t as polluted prior to September 30 and was within the ‘satisfactory’ level even on bad days. Till September, the AQI was around 100, but since then it has been steeply rising,” Mr. Kejriwal was quoted as having said at the meeting. “This is happening primarily because farmers in our neighbouring States have been forced into a situation where they have to burn their stubble. However, the Delhi Government does not intend to waste crucial time in this situation by entering into a blame game,” he said at the meeting. The sole motive of the Delhi Government at this juncture, he said, is to “overcome the emergency-like situation and protect the people of Delhi, especially children”. ‘Most extreme step’ “A suggestion propped up during the (Supreme) Court hearing on whether Delhi can impose a complete lockdown to tackle the pollution situation... We are drafting a proposal on this and will place it in front of the court in the next hearing. This will be the most extreme step if at all it is taken, so all agencies concerned with the matter will be consulted at length first,” he said. The Opposition parties — BJP and Congress — took the opportunity to accuse the Delhi Government of having done nothing to prevent the situation from deteriorating to the level it had. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said every October the Delhi Government comes up with a “pollution control plan which mainly charges the Haryana and Punjab Governments for the situation due to stubble burning”. “It is because of laxity of the Kejriwal Government that Delhi has now become a gas chamber. It is all due to his lax attitude that Delhiites are now having throat problems, burning eyes and other serious problems,” he alleged. Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Ch. Anil Kumar also blamed the situation on the AAP Government’s “incompetence and inaction”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/need-to-protect-children-from-toxic-air-cm/article37483387.ece
14 November 2021||New Delhi,||No respite as AQI remains ‘severe’||Delhi’s air quality continued to be in the ‘severe’ category for the third consecutive day on Saturday and is likely to improve during the next two days, according to authorities. Several other cities in the NCR such as Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad, and Ghaziabad and towns in north India, including Bulandshahr, Bhiwadi, Jind, also faced ‘severe’ level of air pollution, as per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Air quality of the national capital has been ‘severe’ for seven out of nine days post-Deepavali. The other two days had ‘very poor’ level of air pollution. Stubble burning has been high for over a week and is one of the major causes for air pollution in the city, as per data of the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. On Saturday, the contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi was 31%, down from 35% on Friday. Also, effective fire counts in the region came down to 3,157 on Saturday from 4,056 a day earlier, as per SAFAR. “Local wind speed in Delhi has started picking up from evening and is expected to further increase in the next two days. Because of this, the air quality is expected to improve to the ‘very poor’ category in the next two days. But it won’t be a significant improvement,” said Gufran Beig, founder project director, SAFAR. He said that the air quality could turn “severe” again next week. “Local wind speed is likely to be extremely calm on November 16 and 17, and if fire counts continue in the range of 3,000 like now, then the air quality may turn severe again,” Mr. Beig said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-respite-as-aqi-remains-severe/article37483389.ece
14 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Residents of Delhi’s villages won’t allow new liquor shop in locality’||Residents of Delhi’s villages have openly opposed the new excise policy of the city Government and decided not to let any new liquor shops open in their localities, the BJP said on Saturday. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said residents of these villages had also decided to meet Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over the issue and demand rollback of the excise policy. Panchayat meeting “A panchayat meeting was organised by villagers at Nand Chowk in Badarpur village where they questioned why the Delhi Government is opening new liquor shops instead of providing drinking water to residents. Women also participated in large numbers. It was resolved that they would not allow liquor shops to open,” Mr. Bidhuri said. “The Government is not concerned that this will entangle the younger generation in the quagmire of drugs and put the safety of women in danger,” he said. Mr. Bidhuri said the women present in the panchayat also strongly opposed the policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/residents-of-delhis-villages-wont-allow-new-liquor-shop-in-locality/article37483388.ece
14 November 2021||New Delhi,||BJP has increased taxes by 17 times and forced traders to pay it: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Saturday said the BJP-governed municipal corporation has increased taxes by 17 times and forced traders to pay it. The party had reduced taxes close to elections, but it is not returning the money that the traders were forced to pay earlier, AAP claimed. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said, “We grew up listening that the BJP is the business community’s party. Today when the BJP is in power, it has done nothing but brought pure destruction to the traders’ community. Forget the Centre, if we look at the BJP-led MCD, in the last five years they have tortured the traders to the point of making them shed tears of blood.” Responding to the allegations, Delhi BJP Spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said being an MLA for seven years, Mr. Bharadwaj should know that if the rate of any government tax is reduced in the middle of the year, the excess tax paid is not refunded but adjusted in future. “The people of Delhi will never forgive AAP leaders for running negative campaigns and the party will face consequences in the 2022 civic elections,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-has-increased-taxes-by-17-times-and-forced-traders-to-pay-it-aap/article37483371.ece
14 November 2021||New Delhi,||EC appoints 3 electoral roll observers for special summary revision||Delhi’s Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Ranbir Singh on Saturday briefed the electoral roll observers for the ongoing special summary revision (SSR), 2022, of the draft electoral roll with January 1, 2022 as the qualifying date. The Election Commission of India has appointed three electoral roll observers for the 11 districts of Delhi to monitor the SSR activities in their respective areas and guide the District Electoral Officers. “During the special summary revision, the electoral roll observer is required to visit each district under his responsibility at least three times. The first visit will be during the receipt of claims and objections, the second during the disposal of claims and objections and the third visit during the finalisation of the electoral roll,” a press note stated. Madhup Vyas, Secretary-cum-Commissioner, Development, was allotted the west, south-west and south-east districts, while Dilraj Kaur, Principal Secretary, PWD, got New Delhi, east, north-east and Shahdara districts. The central, north and north-west districts of Delhi were assigned to Alice Vaz, Secretary, Higher and Technical Education. Voter awareness drive Mr. Singh also emphasised the ongoing voter awareness campaign and the special voter registration camps, which will be held across all polling stations on November 27 and 28. Claims and objections regarding the electoral rolls can be made till November 30. According to the draft roll released on November 1, the total number of electors in the city is 1,47,95,549. A total of 80,88,031 electors are male, 67,06,570 are female; the number of third gender electors stood at 948. The SSR for the draft roll released on November 1, 2021, was carried out across Delhi’s 70 Assembly constituencies. The largest Assembly constituency was Matiala with 4,28,340 electors and the smallest was Delhi Cantonment with 1,10,255.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ec-appoints-3-electoral-roll-observers-for-special-summary-revision/article37483376.ece
14 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Dog beaten to death with sticks; case registered||A street dog died after two unidentified men thrashed it with sticks in Shahdara’s Rohtash Nagar area. A video of the incident went viral on social media. The video showed one person approaching the dog with a stick in his hand. He then beat the dog with hte stick following which the dog started limping and tried to run away. Another person then attacked the dog with another stick and the animal fell unconscious. Another dog fled the spot, the video showed. CCTV footage of the incident showed it happened on Tuesday at 11.56 a.m. Probe under way Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said based on a complaint submitted by one Saurabh, a resident of East Rohtash Nagar, a case under Section 428 (mischief by killing or maiming animal of the value of ten rupees or upwards) of the Indian Penal Code and 11A of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 has been registered. Further investigation into the matter is under way, the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dog-beaten-to-death-with-sticks-case-registered/article37483377.ece
14 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for fleeing with employer’s Rs. 15 lakh||A 46-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly fleeing with Rs. 15 lakh of his employer, the police said on Saturday. DCP (North) Sagar Singh Kalsi said the accused has been identified as Vijay Kumar Mahto. The police received a complaint on November 8 from a Civil Lines resident, Kushagra Aggarwal, who said he had asked his two employees — Vijay and Gaurav — to withdraw Rs. 30 lakh from his bank’s home branch in Chandni Chowk for business purpose. The two withdrew the money and put Rs. 15 lakh each in two separate bags. When the two reached the employer’s house, Vijay asked Gaurav to wait outside the society as Mr. Aggarwal wasn’t picking up the call. “Vijay made an excuse to Gaurav and left the place only to decamp with the withdrawn cash of Rs. 15 lakh,” Mr. Kalsi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-arrested-for-fleeing-with-employers-rs-15-lakh/article37483383.ece
14 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police bust prostitution racket in city, 3 arrested||The Delhi Police Crime Branch has busted a prostitution racket in the Capital and arrested two women who are foreign nationals. DCP (Crime Branch) Monika Bhardwaj said a cab driver, identified as Puran Singh, 47, has also been arrested along with the two women. The police said they got a tip-off about a few foreigners overstaying in Delhi and indulging in prostitution. A trap was laid and a few women were asked to be sent to a place in Rohini. While one police officer was deputed as a decoy, another was a shadow customer. “Two girls came in a cab to the spot. They were both apprehended along with the cab driver,” Ms Bhardwaj said. During interrogation, the women aged 24 and 28 said they had come to India from Uzbekistan on tourist visa and were overstaying. Further investigation is under way, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-bust-prostitution-racket-in-city-3-arrested/article37483391.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Whiff of grilled tikkas in the air||I have been missing a familiar face in our neighbourhood shopping arcade. Before the pandemic hit our lives, he could be seen standing in front of a small makeshift tandoor, grilling chicken and fish tikkas for his loyal (and salivating) clientele. The heady aroma of grilled food was always alluring but I looked especially forward to it on fall evenings, when the body yearned for something warm. The gentleman has not reopened his shop yet but I hope he does it soon. The thought of those juicy tikkas picked up on November evenings from his little corner had me scouring the Internet for suitable kabab and tikka outlets in my part of the city. I clicked on a place called ‘Legacy of Awadh’ in Sector 7 (D 66), Noida, had a look at the menu, and decided that this was what I was looking for. Two dear friends were coming over for tea and I hoped to persuade them — with a platter of kababs — to stay back for dinner. I entered an order for mutton boti kababs (Rs. 290 a plate), mutton galouti kababs (Rs. 300 for six pieces), chicken malai tikka (Rs. 330), varki paratha (Rs. 40 per piece) and roomali roti (Rs. 20 each). The food was delivered through Swiggy in neat little boxes. We quite enjoyed the dinner, even though our tea — with a bacon quiche (baked by the guests), egg sandwiches, mutton chops and almond cake — was rather heavy. The sight of the galouti kababs and parathas was enticing, so we found ourselves happily tucking into the Awadhi fare.  Kababs and parathas   The kababs were delicious, with just a hint of the fragrance of nutmeg in it. It wasn’t as soft as galouti can be, but I liked it this way. A bit firm, itdidn’t crumble upon touch, and went deliciously well with the paratha, which was mildly sweet, as varki parathas are meant to be. These parathas are different from the usual layered parathas, for the dough is kneaded with milk, giving it a pleasant aftertaste. The chicken malai tikka got pass marks. It was creamy, but not memorable enough. I have had juicier tikkas in little corners of Old Delhi. The boti kabab was a surprise, it came blanketed in thick gravy, which again was delicious. I mopped up the gravy — rich, but not overly so — with a soft roomali roti. However, the next time I order from there, I am going to ask them to go easy on red chilli. It gave the gravy colour and contributed to the taste, no doubt, but left me tossing and turning all night. Legacy of Awadh has its pros and cons. I was happy with the pros, of course — the galouti with the paratha won a high grade — and I am sure they will be able to customise the chilli factor for their clients. Meanwhile, I wait for the return of my friendly neighbourhood tandoor — and the whiff of grilled tikkas in the air.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/whiff-of-grilled-tikkas-in-the-air/article37483382.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Red alert||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/red-alert/article37483373.ece
14 November 2021||Khartoum,||Five anti-coup protesters killed in Sudan||Sudanese security forces shot dead at least one protester on Saturday in a crackdown on anti-coup demonstrations, medics said, after the military tightened its grip by forming a new ruling council. The pro-democracy protests come nearly three weeks after top General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan ousted the government, detained the civilian leadership and declared a state of emergency. “One protester was killed in Omdurman by the bullets of the putschist military council,” the Central Committee for Sudanese Doctors said in a statement referring to security forces. Other demonstrators in Khartoum’s twin city were wounded by “live rounds”, it added. An AFP correspondent reported hearing the sound of gunfire as well at a protest in east Khartoum. Tear gas was also fired at many protests in Khartoum and neighbouring cities as security forces sought to disperse the demonstrations, witnesses and an AFP correspondent there said. “No, no to military rule”, “Civilian (rule) is the people’s choice”, and “Down with the entire council”, the protesters in southern Khartoum shouted. Thousands rallied nationwide, with protests taking place in the cities of Atbara, Wad Madani as well as in the central state of North Kordofan and in Port Sudan city and Kassala state, witnesses said. The military’s October 25 takeover drew widespread international condemnation, as did a deadly crackdown on street demonstrations by people demanding it restore the country’s democratic transition. Sovereign council Any hopes the demonstrators had that the military would back down were dashed on Thursday, when General Burhan named himself as the head of a new ruling Sovereign Council that excludes the country’s main civilian bloc, triggering more condemnation from the West. The protests occurred despite the heavy presence of military, police and paramilitary forces in Khartoum, where bridges connecting the capital to neighbouring cities were sealed off. The security forces also blocked roads in Khartoum leading to the army headquarters, the site of a 2019 mass sit-in that led to the ouster of autocratic President Omar al-Bashir. The United Nations has called on the security forces to refrain from violence, which since the coup has already left dead at least 16 people, according to an independent union of medics. “I once again call upon the security forces to exercise utmost restraint and respect the right to peaceful assembly and freedom of expression,” said UN Special Representative for Sudan Volker Perthes. Saturday’s demonstrations have largely been organised by informal groups known as “resistance committees”, which emerged during the 2019 anti-Bashir demonstrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/protester-killed-in-sudan-anti-coup-rallies/article37482932.ece
14 November 2021||Manila,||Duterte’s daughter to run for Philippines Vice-President||Philippines “First Daughter” Sara Duterte on Saturday entered the vice-presidential race for the 2022 elections, in a surprise move that could boost the chances of presidential hopeful Ferdinand Marcos Jr winning the country’s highest office. Outgoing President Rodrigo Duterte, who is constitutionally barred from seeking a second term, also flagged plans to contest the vice-presidency — triggering chaotic scenes at the Commission on Elections office handling last- minute changes to candidacies ahead of a November 15 cut-off. The elder Duterte “will file his certificate of candidacy for the vice-presidency on Monday, that’s what he said,” presidential communications chief Martin Andanar told local broadcaster ABS-CBN. But he added: “I would like to believe that that is the plan for now. We don’t know if this will be the same plan by tomorrow or by Monday.” Ms. Sara, 43, had been widely expected to seek the presidency in a bid to succeed her father, and potentially protect him from criminal charges in the Philippines and International Criminal Court investigators probing his deadly drug war. Her tilt for the country’s second-highest office was immediately endorsed by the party of Mr. Marcos Jr, the son and namesake of the former dictator, to be his running mate in the poll. “This is to confirm that Mayor Inday Sara Duterte through her representative, has filed her Certificate of Candidacy for Vice-President under Lakas-CMD (party),” her spokeswoman Christina Garcia Frasco said on Facebook, confirming the Commission on Elections’ announcement. For months, Ms. Sara had insisted she wanted to serve another term as Davao City Mayor in the family’s southern bailiwick — the position her father held before he was elected President in 2016 — despite leading in surveys of voter preferences for the next President. Speculation about her plans intensified this week after she suddenly withdrew from the mayoral contest. She also quit her regional party and joined Lakas-Christian Muslim Democrats, the national political party of her close ally and former President Gloria Arroyo.  In the Philippines, the President and the Vice-President are elected separately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/dutertes-daughter-to-run-for-philippines-vice-president/article37482926.ece
14 November 2021||Kandahar,||Justice delayed as Taliban build legal system||A small carpeted room serves as a makeshift jail for 12 “criminals” who are awaiting Taliban justice, caught in the legal system which the Islamists are building at the heart of their new Afghan regime. None of the prisoners being held on the ground floor of the Taliban headquarters in Panjwai district in southern Afghanistan have yet seen the local judge, who is busy in another area. Until he arrives, the Taliban fighters of the unit in Kandahar province — left to their own whims and understanding of the group’s interpretation of Islamic law — represent the entirety of the justice system. “They will keep me here until I can pay back the person I owe money to,” said Haj Baran, a 41-year-old businessman arrested three days earlier for an outstanding debt. After a nearly 20-year insurgency, the Taliban took power in Afghanistan in August by force. But they long ago placed their version of justice at the centre of their ideology, and have “made the courts a means of conquering power”, said Adam Bazco, a researcher who conducted a field investigation on the Taliban judicial system from 2010 to 2016. From 2004 on, in areas the Taliban controlled, “people were turning to them because of growing discontent with the interference of Western groups in their land disputes and a judicial system that appeared increasingly corrupt and nepotistic”, Mr. Bazco said. In the context of war, he explained, the severity of the Taliban punishments was welcomed by some. They were known for their harshness — but also their impartiality, speed and predictability. Three months after the Taliban seized power, however, they are still struggling to implement that system across the country.   In some cases since the takeover, the Taliban judges — wary of losing support — have tried to avoid being too harsh. Afghanistan’s masters say they are seeking international respectability. “If someone takes it upon himself to kill a person, even if it is one of our men, it is a crime and we will bring him before the courts and he will have to face the law,” government spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said after three guests were recently killed at a wedding by Taliban fighters over a dispute about music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/justice-delayed-as-taliban-build-legal-system/article37482930.ece
14 November 2021||Washington,||U.S. raps Eritrea’s military over conflict in Ethiopia||The United States on Friday slapped new sanctions on Eritrea over the deadly conflict in neighbouring Ethiopia, which it warned was at danger of “implosion” without a negotiated settlement. Ahead of a three-nation trip to Africa next week, Secretary of State Antony Blinken also threatened to impose sanctions against the Ethiopian Government and rebels unless they move forward on talks. Failure to reach a settlement “would lead to the implosion of Ethiopia and spill over into other countries in the region, and that would be disastrous for the Ethiopian people and also for countries in the region”, Mr. Blinken told reporters. “The other path is to halt all of the military actions that are currently underway, sit down to negotiate a real ceasefire to make sure that humanitarian assistance can get in to all of the regions where people are in need,” he said. The U.S. has condemned both the rebel Tigray People’s Liberation Front and Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, a one-time ally and Nobel Peace Prize winner, over a year of blood- shed that has left hundreds of thousands in famine-like conditions. But measures imposed on Friday over the conflict instead focused on Eritrea. “Eritrean forces have operated throughout Ethiopia during the conflict and have been responsible for massacres, looting and sexual assaults,” a Treasury Department statement said. The sanctions targeted the Eritrean Defense Force and President Isaias Afwerki’s political party, the People’s Front for Democracy and Justice, as well as other players in the authoritarian state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/amid-ethiopia-conflict-us-raps-eritreas-military/article37482933.ece
14 November 2021||Kabul,||Journalist killed in Kabul bomb blast||A well-known Afghan journalist was killed and at least four other people injured on Saturday when a suspected bomb destroyed a minibus near a Taliban checkpoint in Kabul, a media watchdog and officials said. The incident happened in Dasht-e Barchi, a Kabul suburb dominated by members of the mostly Shia Hazara community, who for years have been the target of violence by the Islamic State (IS) group. “Unfortunately we lost another reporter,” the Afghan Journalists Center tweeted hours after the blast, saying Hamid Seighani, who worked for the Ariana television network, had died in the blast. His wife, also a journalist, posted “I lost Hamid” on her Facebook page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/journalist-killed-in-kabul-bomb-blast/article37483216.ece
14 November 2021||Los Angeles,||Judge dissolves Britney Spears guardianship||A judge on Friday terminated the guardianship that has controlled pop star Britney Spears’ life for the past 13 years, handing back her freedom along with control of a multi-million- dollar estate. The ruling, greeted with raucous cheers by Spears’ fans outside the downtown courthouse, ends a conservatorship long overseen by her father, and which the “Toxic” singer has described as abusive. “Best day ever... praise the Lord... can I get an Amen,” wrote Spears on Instagram, using the hashtag “#FreedBritney.”  “Effective today... the conservatorship of the person and estate of Britney Jean Spears is hereby terminated. And that is the order of the court,” said judge Brenda Penny.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/judge-dissolves-britney-spears-guardianship/article37482928.ece
14 November 2021||Chennai,||Real estate sector seeing several positive signs: Sundaram Home||The real estate sector is witnessing several positive signs that bode well for the industry’s outlook, said Sundaram Home Finance (SHF) MD D. Lakshminarayanan. “Prices [of housing] have largely remained stable in the last 18 months,” he said. “There is enough inventory to buy. Builders are offering incentives and amenities. Interest rate is at its lowest. Some governments are also offering sops on Stamp Duty. All these are sending out a message to the buyer that on all counts, this is the best time to buy,” he pointed out. SHF had seen an across-the-board recovery since mid-June that had been ‘swift and strong’, Mr. Lakshminarayanan said. “For the four months ended October, we registered disbursements of Rs. 850 crore, the kind of growth numbers going back to the pre-pandemic levels. That is encouraging,” he said. “The recovery has been much more than what we had experienced at the end of the first wave of the pandemic last year,” he added. ‘Enduring demand’ Homebuying interest had lasted beyond what could be put down to pent-up demand after the second wave receded, he said. “Between June and July, when there was euphoria about home buying, we thought those that had put off their purchase plans in April and May because of the second wave were now coming back and that this was pent-up demand playing out. But the subsequent months have shown that there is real demand with the market rebounding with some vengeance. Every succeeding month since July has been up compared to the previous month. First off the block has been the salaried class — those who were looking to buy their first home.” Lead indicators for financiers signalling the quality of recovery were the pace of construction, the drop in unsold inventories and the number of new project unveilings in the recent past. “Labour remains available in good numbers,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/real-estate-sector-seeing-several-positive-signs-sundaram-home/article37482914.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Contours of consulting changed with COVID: IBM||In the context of Big Blue’s recent rebranding of its global professional services business, Global Business Services, as IBM Consulting, Kamal Singhani , Country Managing Partner, IBM Consulting, India/South Asia said the consulting industry was witnessing unprecedented demand as clients were increasingly looking for a trusted partner to help them navigate to the future. Edited excerpts:  What is the rationale behind the recent rebranding of Global Business Services as IBM Consulting? Business transformation is accelerating for organisations in every industry as they seek to emerge stronger from recent disruptions. They are now pursuing digital across every aspect of their operations and embedding technologies like hybrid cloud, AI, security, etc., to be leaders and become future ready. IBM Consulting is a response to this unique market opportunity and it further strengthens our positioning as a strategic business partner for clients. The move also represents a renewed investment in business consulting, as a front door to the partnership with IBM, in all capacities. IBM Consulting offers increased clarity and visibility for clients, drives adoption of AI and helps them modernise and manage their applications in a hybrid cloud environment. IBM has always been in the consulting business... what has changed now with the rebranding? In IBM Consulting, we are unique as we collaborate with clients on holistic, interconnected solutions. We lead projects through the lens of empathy and openness. In other words, we multiply business results by accelerating together. With deep expertise in many industries, we offer strategy, experience, technology, and operations services to many global companies. Also, we believe in the power of technology, responsibly used to help people, partners and the planet. What does this change mean for India, a critical geography for IBM, in terms of market opportunities? India plays a significant role in IBM’s growth and talent strategy. We work directly with several Indian brands such as Parle, State Bank of India, Amul, IOCL and others, to apply hybrid cloud and AI technology to help them achieve digital transformation. What organisational rejig and people redeployments are expected in India as part of this change? We’re simplifying our brand architecture — strategy, experience, technology, and operations — to make our range of capabilities easier for clients to navigate. As part of this, we now have IBM Strategy Consulting, IBM Experience Consulting, IBM Technology Consulting and IBM Operations Consulting. What are the company’s people scale-up plans with this new positioning? With the unveiling of the new brand, we have expanded hiring at double-digits across our global delivery network, including 55,000 fully cloud-trained consultants. Some 70% of these professionals have deep industry expertise. We are adding delivery resources across regions and practices, including people with technical skills in Red Hat. We are looking to attract the best and the brightest talent. How will this repositioning help IBM to increase its share of the consulting pie? With IBM Consulting, we are looking to redefine consulting with multiple approaches such as IBM Garage, a unique method that acts as an end-to-end model for digital transformation for clients, and Dynamic Delivery that accelerates outcomes with modern methods and tools. IBM Consulting’s growth will also come from being part of IBM, and leveraging the differentiators including the scientific advantage our clients gain from having access to IBM Research and IBM technologies (hybrid cloud platform and AI software). Have the contours of consulting got redefined over the years with its scope changing dramatically? Consulting is a unique profession; it is shaped by clients and their evolving needs. The contours of consulting have changed drastically with COVID. Business leaders now need to transform processes and systems across their organisations with outcomes delivered along the entire lifecycle of a project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/contours-of-consulting-changed-with-covid-ibm/article37482910.ece
14 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||NALCO Q2 net surges 7-fold to Rs. 748 cr. on strong metal sales||The National Aluminium Company Ltd. (NALCO) reported a more than sevenfold jump in second-quarter net profit at Rs. 748 crore, from Rs. 107 crore a year earlier. “This is one of the strongest performances in a decade, with net profit soaring to Rs. 1,095 crore at the half-yearly stage,” the company said in a statement. Profit in the first half of the last fiscal year was Rs. 124 crore. Total income from operations rose 51% to Rs. 3,592 crore in the three months ended September, from Rs. 2,375 crore in the second quarter of 2020-21. “I compliment the employees... for coming back strongly in the aftermath of the COVID pandemic, to deliver strong growth in profits and production,’’ said CMD Sridhar Patra. NALCO logged higher production in the second quarter on all fronts — bauxite, alumina hydrate and aluminium cast metal. “During the second quarter, the company achieved bauxite production of 18.88 lakh tonnes, alumina hydrate production of 5.30 lakh tonnes and metal production of 1.14 lakh tonnes, compared to 17.04 lakh tonnes, 4.87 lakh tonnes and 1.06 lakh tonnes, respectively,” the company said. The state-owned firm also clocked strong growth in metal sales. Aluminium sales rose to 1.26 lakh metric tonnes (MT), from 0.91 lakh MT in “the preceding quarter,” it added. “The total alumina sales during the second quarter registered strong growth of 11% with achievement of 3.18 lakh MT,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nalco-q2-net-surges-7-fold-to-rs-748-cr-on-strong-metal-sales/article37482908.ece
14 November 2021||COIMBATORE,||Cotton output pegged at 362 lakh bales this year||Cotton production during the current season (October 2021 to September 2022) is projected to reach 362.18 lakh bales, according to the provisional estimates of the Committee on Cotton Production and Consumption. The committee decided at its meeting on Saturday that with opening stock of 73.20 lakh bales and import of 10.50 lakh bales, the total availability this season was likely to be 445.88 lakh bales as against 485.66 bales the previous season. The demand from textile mills, including small-scale units, is estimated at 322 lakh bales, and exports pegged at 45 lakh bales. Exports in the 2020-2021 season were almost 73 lakh bales.  Observing that the cotton position was expected to be comfortable this season, Southern India Mills’ Association Chairman Ravi Sam suggested that textile mills should wait for bulk arrivals to pick up and not rush into purchases now. On Saturday, a candy of the Shankar-6 variety of cotton was priced at Rs. 66,200.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cotton-output-pegged-at-362-lakh-bales-this-year/article37482912.ece
14 November 2021||New Delhi,||Puravankara’s sales bookings rose 20% in Q2||Realty firm Puravankara Ltd.’s sales bookings grew by 20% to Rs. 597 crore during the second quarter of the fiscal on higher volumes and price realisation. Sales realisation rose by 11% to Rs. 6,556 per sq.ft., from Rs. 5,898 per sq.ft. In volume terms, sales bookings increased by 8% to 0.91 million sq.ft. during the July-September quarter, from 0.84 million sq.ft. in the year-earlier period. During the first six months of the current fiscal, sales bookings rose 2% to Rs. 910 crore, from Rs. 893 crore in the corresponding half-yearly period of the previous year. Sales volume dipped to 1.33 million square feet, from 1.53 million square feet, but price realisation increased 17% to Rs. 6,845, from Rs. 5,839 per sq.ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/puravankaras-sales-bookings-rose-20-in-q2/article37482915.ece
14 November 2021||London,||Kane on fire for England||Harry Kane scored a first half hat-trick as England romped towards the 2022 World Cup with a 5-0 thrashing of Albania, but Italy still has work to do to reach Qatar after a 1-1 draw with Switzerland. England still needs a point to mathematically qualify when it visits San Marino on Monday, but boasts a three-point lead and six-goal advantage on goal difference over Poland, which sealed at least a playoff place with a 4-1 win over 10-man Andorra. The Three Lions can look ahead to Qatar with confidence as they bounced back to form at Wembley in style with all the goals coming before half-time. Harry Maguire put a difficult start to the season at club level behind him as the Manchester United captain opened the floodgates with a thumping header from Reece James’ free-kick. Kane headed home Jordan Henderson’s cross from close range before turning provider for Henderson to calmly slot home his first international goal on home soil.  England was rampant in the first 45 minutes as Kane thrashed home his second from a narrow angle before completing his fourth international hat-trick in spectacular fashion with a scissor kick from Phil Foden’s corner. Narrow advantage European champion Italy maintained a narrow advantage over Switzerland at the top of Group C, but missed a glorious late chance to virtually secure qualification when Jorginho blazed a penalty over the bar. The Chelsea midfielder has now missed six spot-kicks for club and country since the start of last season. The visitors got off to a flying start in Rome when Silvan Widmer’s thunderous strike flew into the top corner. The Azzurri levelled nine minutes before half-time thanks to a well-worked set-piece that was headed in by Giovanni Di Lorenzo. Italy holds a two-goal advantage over the Swiss on goal difference heading into Sunday’s final games.   The results: Group C: Northern Ireland 1 (Satkus 18-og) bt Lithuania 0; Italy 1 (Di Lorenzo 36) drew with Switzerland 1 (Widmer 11).   Group F: Moldova 0 lost to Scotland 2 (Patterson 38, Adams 65); Denmark 3 (Skov Olsen 18, Bruun Larsen 63, Maehle 90+3) bt Faroe Islands 1 (Olsen 89); Austria 4 (Arnautovic 51-pen, Schaub 62, 72, Sabitzer 84) bt Israel 2 (Bitton 33, Peretz 59).   Group I: Andorra 1 (Vales 45) lost to Poland 4 (Lewandowski 5, 73, Jozwiak 11, Milik 45+2); Hungary 4 (Szoboszlai 6, 83, Gazdag 22, Vecsei 88) bt San Marino 0; England 5 (Maguire 9, Kane 18, 33, 45+2 Henderson 28) bt Albania 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kane-on-fire-for-england/article37482919.ece
14 November 2021||DUBAI,||Trans-Tasman gladiators set to joust for instant cricket’s biggest prize||Not many would have predicted 28 days and 44 matches ago that the trans-Tasman rivalry would set the Ring of Fire alight one final time in the bid to crown a new T20 World champion. New Zealand has forged such a strong campaign that you would think it is the favourite in Sunday’s title clash. But Australia has earned a reputation, over the years, of knowing how to win the big moments. When it enters the knockout phase of a competition, you take it seriously. At the Dubai International Cricket Stadium, teams chasing have won more than those forced to bat first. Earlier in the tournament, dew played a major role. However, as the weather has changed, there is less and less dew, but somehow the trend has remained intact. The two semifinals are cases in point. Despite pursuing stiff targets, New Zealand and Australia got home with an over to spare against quality bowling attacks. It can be argued that England did not have sufficient specialist death-bowling options and that Shaheen Shah Afridi, while lethal with the swinging white ball, is a bit of a novice at the death, but this ignores the quality of batting that got the teams across the line. Daryl Mitchell, being used as an opener in this tournament, looked like he could not get the ball away, or into the gaps, early in his innings, but he backed himself, took the game deep and then powered his team to victory with a great flourish. For Australia, Matthew Wade was the most unlikely hero. Aaron Finch was nailed in front before he could have a say, and David Warner, who was the powerhouse of the innings, went — without nicking the ball — before he could seal the deal. Wade, considered a specialist who could make the most of the PowerPlay overs, was now in an unfamiliar role, attempting to be a finisher. And when he was called upon to deliver, he stood tall. For New Zealand, the strength has to be the variety and efficacy of its bowling line-up. Trent Boult bowls left-arm seam with early swing, Tim Southee is the cutter expert, Adam Milne brings pace and fire, Mitchell Santner bowls un-hittable slow left-arm and Ish Sodhi’s leg-breaks are genuine wicket-taking options. On top of that, James Neesham can bowl a hard length, banging the ball into the pitch, giving Kane Williamson the luxury of using his bowlers however he chooses. Australia appears to be a top-heavy batting line-up, with Finch and Warner being the building blocks. Glenn Maxwell is yet to play the kind of innings that has become his signature. Adam Zampa has given Finch control, but Mitchell Starc has not yet produced one of those bursts he’s known for. Australia has reached the final despite not playing its best cricket. If the moving parts click into place and come together in the final, it may just be too good for New Zealand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/trans-tasman-gladiators-set-to-joust-for-instant-crickets-biggest-prize/article37483029.ece
14 November 2021||NANDINI NAGAR (UP),||Pritam the unlikely hero||Railways’ wrestler Pritam emerged as an unexpected hero as he claimed his maiden gold medal in the competitive 74kg freestyle weight category at the National wrestling championships here on Saturday. Pritam, a 25-year-old from Rohtak, defeated World junior championships bronze medallist Yash Tushir 11-0 in the summit clash to win by technical superiority. Yash had defeated veteran World championships bronze medallist Narsingh Yadav, who earlier edged past experienced former Asian champion Amit Dhankar, in the semifinals. “My preparation was good. I am delighted to win my first gold medal after a bronze (in 74kg) and a silver (in 79kg). I won all my bouts on technical superiority. That gives me a lot of confidence,” said Pritam. Gourav Baliyan, another World junior bronze medallist, beat Asian silver medallist Jitender Kinha, who made a comeback after a knee surgery, 5-3 to take the 79kg crown. Services bagged the freestyle team championship.  The medallists: Freestyle: Men: 57kg: Gold: Aman (Har), Silver: Abhishek (Del), Bronze: Harvinder Singh (SSCB), Abba Saheb (RSPB).   65kg: Gold: Rohit (SSCB), Silver: Sharvan (SSCB), Bronze: Pradeep (RSPB), Manoj Kumar (UP).   74kg: Gold: Pritam (RSPB), Silver: Yash Tushir (Del), Bronze: Preet Singh (Chd), Narsingh Yadav (Mah).   79kg: Gold: Gourav Baliyan (RSPB), Silver: Jitender Kinha (RSPB), Bronze: Pradeep (SSCB), Vinod Kumar (SSCB).   92kg: Gold: Vicky (SSCB), Silver: Monu (Del), Bronze: Jony (HP), Pruthviraj Patil (SSCB).   125kg: Gold: Shivraj (Mah), Silver: Mohit (Har), Bronze: Satinder (SSCB), Dinesh (Har) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pritam-the-unlikely-hero/article37483253.ece
14 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Neeraj Chopra leads star cast at National Sports Awards presentation||Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra led the star cast at the National Sports Awards presentation ceremony but para-athletes stole the show at the Durbar Hall of Rashtrapati Bhawan on Saturday. Neeraj was among the 12 recipients of the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award from the President Ram Nath Kovind The award carries a medallion, a certificate and Rs. 25 lakh. Each time the name of a para-athlete was announced, the large gathering that included Sports Minister Anurag Thakur, cheered loudly. Khel Ratna recipient Krishna Nagar, gold medallist in para badminton in the Tokyo Paralympics this year, could not attend the function. He rushed back home on Friday night on receiving the news of the passing away of his mother. The loudest cheers were reserved for Sajjan Singh (wrestling) and Davinder Singh Garcha, a member of the 1980 Olympic hockey gold winning team, when their names were announced to receive the Dhyan Chand award. Each year, the ceremony honours the winners the Khel Ratna, Arjuna Award, Dronacharya Award, Dhyan Chand Award, Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar and the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Trophy receive the honour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neeraj-chopra-leads-star-cast-at-national-sports-awards-presentation/article37483021.ece
14 November 2021||Dubai,||We came here with a clear plan to win the tournament: Finch||Aaron Finch, Australia’s captain, hoped his team could set the record straight and win its first ICC Men’s Twenty20 World Cup. “It’s one that’s eluded us in the past, and the fact that we are here in the final gives us the best opportunity to rectify that. I think it will be a great game against New Zealand,” he said on Saturday. “They are a great side and they have been in all the finals over the last six years.” Finch recalled how his team had bounced back in the tournament after a crushing defeat against England. “The spirit among the team is a big positive. Obviously we came here, a lot of people had written us off from the start and that's been really impressive the way we have gone about our business,” said Finch. Prepared really well “Everyone has prepared really well. Everyone has had a really defining match or match-defining performance at some point. The guys are really up and about for tomorrow.” Finch insisted that his team came to the United Arab Emirates expecting to do well. “It hasn’t defied expectation. We came here with a really clear plan to win the tournament, and we still feel as though we have got the squad to do that.” Finch also revealed that he, and his team, were aware of the history between the two teams. “Both teams have got a great history in cricket — well, not just cricket, but as neighbours, so to speak, Down Under. It's a great relationship. We play quite a bit against New Zealand now and we always have great battles regardless of the format,” said Finch. “It’s bloody exciting to be playing against New Zealand. They are a great team and led superbly by Kane Williamson. So it’s just one of those things that both teams seem to have found their way into each other's path along the way in some tournaments.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-came-here-with-a-clear-plan-to-win-the-tournament-finch/article37483025.ece
14 November 2021||Dubai,||WTC-T20 World Cup double would be ‘some achievement’, says captain Williamson||New Zealand captain Kane Williamson was excited to be pitted against neighbour Australia in Sunday’s ICC Men’s T20 World Cup final. “When you play each other [frequently], both teams get a reasonable look at one another. “So probably not too many advantages to either side except that we do play each other and have done so recently on a number of occasions and had some really good contests,” Williamson said on Saturday. “It’s great that obviously we are playing our neighbour on the other side of the world in a World Cup final. A really exciting prospect for both teams.” Having been crowned the World Test champion in June, New Zealand is on the verge of achieving an ICC double. “It would be some achievement. But where it stands at the moment is there is a game of cricket to play, and for us, it’s focusing on that and focusing on our cricket and looking to go out there and implement those things that are important to us,” Williamson said. “That is very much where we are at the moment. But these sorts of events are always, you know, [the] focus I suppose on the calendar, and there is a really exciting opportunity to be here now. Looking forward to the match tomorrow.” Big loss Despite admitting Devon Conway’s absence, with the wicketkeeper-batter hurting his hand after being dismissed in the semifinal, will be a “big loss”, Williamson hoped the reworked combination — with Tim Seifert set to replace Conway — would deliver in the final. “The loss of Devon is a big one. He has been a big part of all formats for us, and a disappointing and really freak thing to happen,” Williamson said. Focus on the task “But for us, it’s keeping our focus on the task, and all the players really excited with the opportunity tomorrow to go out and try to improve and adjust to a different opposition and a different venue.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/icc-double-would-be-some-achievement-says-captain-williamson/article37483028.ece
14 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Ex-sports journalist Partha Rudra no more||Veteran sports journalist and a well-known member of the sports fraternity, Partha Rudra passed away on Saturday after losing a battle with cancer. Mr. Rudra was 58 and is survived by his wife and daughter. Mr. Rudra worked with several media houses including Sangbad Pratidin, Aajkaal, Star Ananda and Kolkata TV and covered different national and international events in both cricket and football. He changed his career path later on to become the personal assistant of former India captain and current BCCI president, Sourav Ganguly. Despite that he continued to keep close contact with sports journalism in many ways. He was a member of the Calcutta Sports Journalists’ Club and was a regular participant in the Sports Journalists’ Federation of India-organised J.K. Bose cricket tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ex-sports-journalist-partha-rudra-no-more/article37483566.ece
14 November 2021||Pune:,||Key To The Mint in great heart||The 3-year-old gelding Key To The Mint, who is in great heart, should win the Villoo C. Poonawalla Million, the main attraction of Sunday’s (Nov. 14) races here. Rails will be announced one hour before the start of the first race.  POLISHED CHROME PLATE (DIV. II) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30 — 1.00 p.m.: 1. Fortune Cookie (3) Neeraj 59, 2. Airmax (7) Zeeshan 56, 3. Flower Power (6) Aniket 56, 4. Kardashian (5) P. Vinod 55.5, 5. Lambretta (4) Bhawani 55.5, 6. Powerful Star (9) Nazil 54.5, 7. Suited Aces (1) Shelar 54.5, 8. Arabian Storm (8) Dashrath 51.5 and 9. Shadows (2) Kaviraj 51.  1. FORTUNE COOKIE, 2. LAMBRETTA, 3. ARABIAN STORM   COWAS NAZIR TROPHY (DIV. II) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 1.30: 1. El Capitan (5) Kaviraj 59.5, 2. Sovereign Master (6) T.S. Jodha 54.5, 3. Waverunner (2) V. Bunde 54.5, 4. Untitled (9) Shelar 54, 5. Abishola (7) Parmar 52, 6. Fete Accompli (4) Nazil 52, 7. Historic (8) Zeeshan 51, 8. La Peregrina (3) Dashrath 50.5 and 9. Anoushka (1) P. Vinod 49.  1. EL CAPITAN, 2. SOVEREIGN MASTER, 3. LA PEREGRINA   Dr. P.K. SARDESHMUKH MAHARAJ TROPHY (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only — 2.00: 1. Arbitrage (2) Shahrukh 56, 2. Braxton (1) T.S. Jodha 56, 3. Hawk Of The Wind (5) Yash Narredu 56, 4. Indian Patriot (4) P. Dhebe 56, 5. Dear Lady (6) Neeraj 54.5 and 6. O Hasini (3) C. Umesh 54.5.  1. DEAR LADY, 2. HAWK OF THE WIND   MOOSA M. HOOSEIN TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66 — 2.30: 1. Enigma (4) Kirtish 59.5, 2. Cellini (6) T.S. Jodha 56, 3. Rambler (5) Yash Narredu 53.5, 4. Red Merlot (2) Dashrath 53, 5. Red Carnation (1) Aniket 52 and 6. World Is One (3) Kaviraj 49.  1. ENIGMA, 2. RAMBLER   D.N. ZODGE PLATE (1,800m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only — 3.00: 1. El Patron (7) Neeraj 56, 2. Lord Byron (4) P.S. Chouhan 56, 3. Remy Red (6) J. Chinoy 56, 4. Sky Storm (1) Parmar 56, 5. Zarak (8) Dashrath 56, 6. Aah Bella (2) Sandesh 54.5, 7. Expedition (3) Yash Narredu 54.5 and 8. Hela (5) Bhawani 54.5.  1. LORD BYRON, 2. AAH BELLA,   3. EL PATRON   COWAS NAZIR TROPHY (DIV. I) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 3.30: 1. Endeavour (1) Kirtish 61.5, 2. Fuhrer (7) Kaviraj 61, 3. Enlightened (2) P. Shinde 60.5, 4. Wild Fire (5) Aniket 60, 5. Falconette (9) P. Vinod 59, 6. Perfect Perfecto (4) A. Prakash 57, 7. Periwinkle (3) Nazil 56.5, 8. Slam Dunk (8) Zeeshan 55.5 and 9. Touch Of Faith (6) Parmar 52.5.  1. ENDEAVOUR, 2. FUHRER,   3. ENLIGHTENED   VILLOO C. POONAWALLA MILLION (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only — 4.00: 1. Fast Rain (7) Parmar 56, 2. Fidato (1) Dashrath 56, 3. Key To The Mint (3) Neeraj 56, 4. Presidential (8) P.S. Chouhan 56, 5. Pure (2) Sandesh 56, 6. Emerald (5) Kaviraj 54.5, 7. Full Of Grace (6) P. Dhebe 54.5 and 8. Mystical Rose (4) Yash Narredu 54.5.  1. KEY TO THE MINT, 2. MYSTICAL ROSE, 3. PRESIDENTIAL   ISMAIL KHAN PLATE (1,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46 — 4.30: 1. Vincenzo (5) Sandesh 59.5, 2. Rubik Star (9) Bhawani 58.5, 3. Fassbinder (8) Akshay 58, 4. Ciplad (3) Yash Narredu 54, 5. Northern Lights (7) Chouhan 54, 6. Percivale (2) A. Prakash 54, 7. Gusty Girl (4) Ayyar 53.5, 8. Silent Knight (10) Shelar 52.5, 9. Hawk Eye (6) Nazil 51.5, 10. Princess Of Naples (11) Zeeshan 51.5 and 11. Shes The Queen (1) Kaviraj 51.  1. NORTHERN LIGHTS, 2. CIPLAD, 3. VINCENZO   POLISHED CHROME PLATE (DIV.I) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30 — 5.00: 1. Well Speaking (8) Nazil 60.5, 2. Anointed (9) P. Shinde 60, 3. Trinket (6) P. Vinod 60, 4. Cognosco (7) Ayyar 59, 5. Hellbent (4) Parmar 59, 6. Camille (1) V. Bunde 58, 7. Little More (2) Dashrath 57, 8. Accenture (3) Kirtish 56 and 9. Dawnstar (5) Kaviraj 53.5.  1. HELLBENT, 2. WELL SPEAKING, 3. TRINKET  Day’s Best: ENDEAVOUR  Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6. (ii) 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9. Treble: (i) 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 6, 7 & 8. (iii) 7, 8 & 9. Tanala: All races. Super Jackpot : 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 & 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/key-to-the-mint-in-great-heart/article37483636.ece
14 November 2021||Pune:,||North Star clinches Mysore Race Club Trophy||Trainer P. Shroff’s North Star ridden by P.S. Chouhan won the Mysore Race Club Trophy, the feature event of Saturday’s (Nov. 13) races here. The winner is owned by Mr. Mehernosh H. Deboo & Mrs. Auzita M. Deboo.  1. K RAGHUNATH PLATE (1,600m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: EXOTIQUE (Neeraj) 1, Sandman (V. Bunde) 2, Seasons Greetings (Chouhan) 3 and Wayin (Sandesh) 4. 1, 4 and Hd. 1m 38.45s. Rs. 43 (w), 15 and 63 (p). SHP: 85, FP: 530, Q: 394, Tanala: 546 and 117. Favourite: Wayin. Owner: Mr. K.H. Vaccha. Trainer: P. Shroff.  2. MYSORE RACE CLUB TROPHY (2,000m), Cl. I, rated 80 and upward: NORTH STAR (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Caprisca (Yash Narredu) 2 and Truly Epic (Sandesh) 3. 3-1/2 and Lnk. 2m 7.46s. Rs. 14 (w), SHP: 28, FP: 114. Favourite: North Star. Owners: Mr. Mehernosh H. Deboo & Mrs. Auzita M. Deboo. Trainer: P. Shroff.  3. A J WADIA PLATE (DIV. II) (1,400m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: CHEZZA (Peter) 1, Timeless Deeds (T.S. Jodha) 2, Honourable Eyes (Dashrath) 3 and Whispering Queen (Neeraj) 4. Lnk, 1-1/4 and 2. 1m 26.80s Rs. 23 (w), 14, 16 and 17 (p). SHP: 35, FP: 124, Q: 78, Tanala: 189 and 124. Favourite: Chezza. Owners: M/s. Shailesh R. Mehta & Adi Fredoon Madan. Trainer: Faisal A. Abbas.  4. FLOODS OF FORTUNE PLATE (2,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: FLAMING LAMBORGINI (Sandesh) 1, Scotland (Kaviraj) 2, Revolution (P.S. Chouhan) 3 and Royal Castle (Dashrath) 4. 2-3/4, Nk and 4-3/4. 2m 34.51s. Rs. 15 (w), 17 and 68 (p). SHP: 254, FP: 342, Q: 709, Tanala: 826 and 193. Favourite: Flaming Lamborgini. Owners: M/s. Hemant S. Dharnidharka & Dinesh G. Virwani. Trainer: Imtiaz Sait.  5. THANDA PLATE (DIV. II) (1,400m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: EMPOWER (T.S. Jodha) 1, Love Warrior (P.S. Chouhan) 2, Time (Neeraj) 3 and Leto (Sandesh) 4. 3/4, Nk and 3-1/4. 1m 26.16s. Rs. 13 (w), 14, 16 and 11 (p). SHP: 50, FP: 145, Q: 43, Tanala: 324 and 220. Favourite: Empower. Owners: Mrs. Bakhtawar B. Chenoy, Ms. Zinia Lawyer & Ms. Nazzak B. Chenoy. Trainer: Nazzak B. Chenoy.  6. KUMAR R DALAL TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. IV, 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 46: PRIDE’S ANGEL (Sandesh) 1, Dilbar (V. Bunde) 2, Sandalphon (Bhawani) 3 and Goshawk (Parmar) 4. Not run: Beemer. 3-1/4, 1-1/4 and 3/4. 1m 8.95s. Rs. 23 (w), 19, 19 and 56 (p). SHP: 55, FP: 237, Q: 172, Tanala: 2,032 and 1,742. Favourite: Pride’s Angel. Owners: Mr. Sudendu Shah, Mrs. Preeti C. Shah, M/s. K.M. Shah & Tanmay V. Mathurawala. Trainer: Imtiaz Sait.  7. THANDA PLATE (DIV. I) (1,400m) (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: RAFFAELLO (Parmar) 1, Indian Crown (Nazil) 2, My Treasure (Yash Narredu) 3 and Agostini Carracci (Sandesh) 4. 4-1/2, 3/4 and Snk. 1m 25.40s. Rs. 95 (w), 20, 199 and 11 (p). SHP: 519, FP: 15, 395, Q: 2,890, Tanala: 4,128. Favourite: Lord And Master. Owners: Mr. Mukul Sonawala, Mr. D.R. Thacker rep. DT Racing & Breeders LLP & Mr. Girish S. Mehta. Trainer: Dallas Todywalla.  8. A J WADIA PLATE (DIV. I) (1,400m), Cl. V, 5-y-o & over, rated 4 to 30: THE FLUTIST (T.S. Jodha) 1, Sandra’s Secret (Peter) 2, On Va Danser (Dashrath) 3 and Black Cherry (Bhawani) 4. Not run: Supreme Being. Nose, Sh and 3-1/4. 1m 26.73s. Rs. 47 (w), 14, 17 and 14 (p). SHP: 42, FP: 172, Q: 174, Tanala: 369 and 158. Favourite: On Va Danser. Owner: Mr. Ramesh Chandra Mehta. Trainer: Himmat Singh. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 4,667 (8 tkts.), 30%: 372 (43 tks.). Treble: (i) 54 (61 tkts.), (ii) 1,124 (3 tkts.). Super Jackpot: 70%: 8,568 (1 tkt), 30%: 367 (10 tkts).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/north-star-clinches-mysore-race-club-trophy/article37483637.ece
14 November 2021||Chennai,||Senior BCCI panel scorer Madhu passes away||C. Madhusudhan, senior BCCI panel scorer and member of the TNCA scorers’ sub-committee, passed away here on Saturday. He was 56 and is survived by wife and a son. Madhu, as he was fondly known, also represented the Tamil Nadu Senior Colts team and was highly respected by the players, was very helpful and a source of information for journalists as well. Exemplary service “The TNCA recalls his exemplary service rendered to the association and the game of cricket. “The TNCA sends its deepest condolence to the family members of the departed soul,” said TNCA secretary R.S. Ramaswamy in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/senior-bcci-panel-scorer-madhusudhan-passes-away/article37483292.ece
14 November 2021||Dubai,||Jayawardene, Pollock, Brittin to be inducted into ICC Hall of Fame||Sri Lankan great Mahela Jayawardene, former South Africa all-rounder Shaun Pollock and ex England batter Janette Brittin will be inducted into the ICC Hall of Fame before the T20 World Cup final gets underway here on Sunday. The three cricketers will be formally inducted by fellow ICC Hall of Famer, Sir Clive Lloyd, before the much-anticipated final between New Zealand and Australia starts at the Dubai International Stadium. The ICC Hall of Fame recognises the achievements of the legends of the game from cricket’s long and illustrious history. 106 players have been inducted since its launch in 2009, with Brittin, Jayawardene and Pollock as the latest inductees. Brittin, who died in 2017, was a mainstay of the England Test team for 19 years and paved the way for women’s cricket between 1979 and 1998. Sri Lankan great Jayawardene retired as one of Sri Lanka’s greatest ever players, a key member of the team that won the T20 World Cup in 2014 and reached four other major ICC finals. Pollock was one of the finest bowling all-rounders the game has ever seen and was the first player to achieve the 3,000 run and 300 wicket double in both Test and ODI cricket. Reacting to the news of Brittin’s induction, her friend Angela Bainbridge, said: “I would like to extend my thanks to the ICC for the incredible honour they have bestowed on Jan by inaugurating her into the Hall of Fame. “I along with Jan’s parents Maggie and Kevin are incredibly proud of her and her achievements and this award recognises both the player and the person that she was. “You could not wish to meet a more humble or talented player and she always gave 100% whether she played for club, county, or country. It is sad that Jan is not able to collect this trophy herself, but her memory will live on.” Jayawardene follows Kumar Sangkkara and Muttiah Muralitharan into the Hall of Fame. “It’s a very special honour to follow in the footsteps of legends Sanga and Murali from Sri Lanka and so many other great cricketers of the past. “I am very grateful for the recognition and would like to enjoy and share the moment with all those that have helped me on my journey, including my family, friends, coaches, team-mates and, most importantly, Sri Lanka cricket fans who passionately supported and inspired me during my career,” he said. Amazing honour  Pollock added: “It’s an amazing honour to be included in the Hall of Fame alongside the very illustrious company that has already been inducted. “It’s a real cherry on the top or maybe even a book end of what has been a thoroughly enjoyable cricketing experience.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jayawardene-pollock-brittin-to-be-inducted-into-hall-of-fame/article37483250.ece
14 November 2021||Guadalajara (Mexico),||Anett Kontaveit secures a spot in the round of four||Anett Kontaveit stretched her winning streak to 12 matches by beating Karolina Pliskova 6-4 6-0 to secure a spot in the semifinals at the WTA Finals. The 25-year-old Estonian now has won 28 of her last 30 matches, including her title run at Ostrava. Prior to that, she had a 19-13 record for the year. “I’ve really been enjoying being on court, just having a good time. I think that’s been the main thing why I’ve been doing so well. I do feel like I can take on everyone,” Kontaveit said on Friday. Soaring Kontaveit, who soared from No. 30 in the rankings into the top 10 since she started working with Dimitry Tursunov at the Cincinnati Masters, clinched a spot in the tournament’s final four. “I think each win towards the end of the year just gave me more confidence,” Kontaveit said. “I’ve been taking some good advice from my new coach as well. I think he’s brought some good, new energy to the team.” In the late match on Friday, Garbine Muguruza rallied to beat Barbora Krejcikova 2-6, 6-3, 6-4, to remain in contention for the title. To qualify for the semifinals for the second time in her career, the Spaniard (1-1) needs a win on Sunday against Kontaveit (2-0) and a victory over Pliskova (1-1). Quick first set The second-seeded Krejcikova broke Muguruza’s serve in the fifth and seventh games to take the first set in just 36 minutes. But Muguruza bounced back and broke Krejcikova in the fourth game to take a 3-1 lead and added a break in the eighth. Muguruza, who is a local favourite after winning titles in Monterrey in 2018 and 2019, had a break in the third game of the third set and held on for the win.  The results (round-robin): Anett Kontaveit bt Karolina Pliskova 6-4, 6-0; Garbine Muguruza bt Barbora Krejcikova 2-6, 6-3, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anett-kontaveit-secures-a-spot-in-the-round-of-four/article37482917.ece
14 November 2021||Montevideo,||Argentina inches closer to punching its ticket to Qatar||Angel Di Maria’s goal on Friday put Argentina on the verge of qualifying for next year’s World Cup in Qatar as Lionel Messi was on the bench for the 1-0 win away to Uruguay. Messi was only called upon by coach Lionel Scaloni to play the final quarter of an hour as he made his comeback from knee and hamstring issues that saw him miss Paris Saint-Germain’s last two matches. Di Maria’s sublime early finish at the Campeon del Siglo stadium in Montevideo was the difference between the sides in a match dominated by Uruguay. Key encounter The result means Argentina — which is unbeaten in 26 matches — will qualify for the World Cup finals if it beats Brazil on Tuesday and any one of Colombia, Chile or Uruguay fails to win. “This team has great courage and when you don’t play well, you still have to win,” said Argentina goalkeeper Emiliano Martinez. “Winning today was a huge step. We deserve it because we work very hard.” The defeat left Uruguay in a World Cup play-off spot, behind Colombia and Chile in the final two automatic qualification position on goal difference.  The result: Uruguay 0 lost to Argentina 1 (Di Maria 7) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/argentina-inches-closer-to-punching-its-ticket-to-qatar/article37482920.ece
14 November 2021||Lausanne,||US high jumper Erik Kynard to finally get 2012 Olympic gold||American high jumper Erik Kynard will finally get his gold medal from the 2012 London Olympics after the IOC approved reallocating some results from those games because of doping cases. Kynard’s leap of 2.33 meters placed second in London behind Ivan Ukhov, who was proven years later to have taken part in the Russian state-backed steroid doping program. Ukhov was banned for four years in 2019 at the Court of Arbitration for Sport. He went back to the same court last year for an appeal hearing but failed to overturn the ruling. The International Olympic Committee executive board on Friday signed off on reallocating the medals and final results for five events from the London Olympics, including men’s and women’s high jump. With Kynard upgraded to men’s gold, the three bronze medallists in 2012 will each now get silver medals: Derek Drouin of Canada, Robbie Grabarz of Britain and Mutaz Essa Barshim of Qatar. Barshim also tied for gold at the Tokyo Olympics in August. The IOC also reallocated the bronze medal in women’s high jump from a Russian athlete. Svetlana Shkolina was disqualified for doping and Spain’s Ruth Beitia will get the bronze.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/us-high-jumper-erik-kynard-to-finally-get-2012-olympic-gold/article37483635.ece
14 November 2021||Melbourne,||I am nowhere close to finishing in my eyes: Lyon||Nowhere close to retiring, experienced Australian spinner Nathan Lyon says one of his long-term goals is to play a “massive role” in a Test series win in India. “One of the big goals is I’d really like to be part of an Australian team that can win a Test series in India,” Lyon was quoted as saying by Sydney Morning Herald . Big focus “I think I can play a massive role in that as well. That’s definitely one of my big goals. I think that’s one of the big goals team-wise. That is a big focus.” The Ashes at home, beginning next month, could be Lyon’s last against England but the spinner says he is still hungry and doesn’t see any reason why he can’t go on to play one more in 2025. “To be honest, I don’t see a reason why not,” he said. “I’ve always said this from day one: if I wake up one morning and don’t have the drive to get better, that’s when I need to walk away from the game,” said Lyon, who is one shy of his 400th Test wicket. “But I’m waking up hungrier than ever now. I feel like I have a lot to give and I’m looking forward to it. I’m nowhere close to finishing in my eyes.”  If I wake up one morning and don’t have the drive to get better, that’s when I need to walk away from the game Lyon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-am-nowhere-close-to-finishing-in-my-eyes-lyon/article37483452.ece
14 November 2021||Hyderabad:,||Ashwa Bravo should score in feature event||Trainer M. Srinivas Reddy’s Ashwa Bravo, who is in fine fettle, should score over his rivals in the H.P. Mistry Memorial Cup, the chief event of Sunday’s (Nov. 14) races.  DEMOCRACY PLATE (DIV.I) (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 2.15: 1. Angel Tesoro (8) A.A. Vikrant 61, 2. Once More (10) R.S. Jodha 61, 3. Shaquille (5) Gaurav Singh 61, 4. Star Racer (1) R. Ajinkya 59, 5. Tomorrows Dreams (3) C.S. Jodha 58.5, 6. Aerial Combat (11) Akshay Kumar 57.5, 7. Lifetime (4) Khurshad Alam 56.5, 8. Alluri’s Pride (2) Aneel 54, 9. Sugar An Spice (6) G. Naresh 53.5, 10. Art In Motion (9) N.B. Kuldeep 52.5 and 11. Sacred Lamp (7) B. Nikhil 52.  1. ONCE MORE, 2. AERIAL COMBAT, 3. ANGEL TESORO   CH. V. LAKSHMI PRASAD RAO ‘SIRDESAI’ SIRCILLA MEMORIAL CUP (1,600m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II) — 2.45: 1. City Of Wisdom (2) Kiran Naidu 60, 2. Mirana (3) Gaurav Singh 60, 3. Kesariya Balam (8) Ashad Asbar 57, 4. Mark My Word (1) Nakhat Singh 57, 5. Knotty Dancer (---), 6. Summer Night (5) C.S. Jodha 56.5, 7. Lamha (9) Akshay Kumar 56, 8. Painted Apache (4) Ajeeth Kumar 56, 9. Crazy Horse (6) A.A. Vikrant 55.5, 10. Ashwa Raudee (7) Ajit Singh 55 and 11. Lockhart (10) P. Gaddam 53.  1. SUMMER NIGHT, 2. MIRANA, 3. LAMHA   DEMOCRACY PLATE (DIV.II) (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 3.15: 1. Flying Jet (8) Santosh Raj 61, 2. Mind Reader (1) R.S. Jodha 60, 3. Intense Approach (4) C.S. Jodha 59, 4. Bloom Buddy (5) Rohit Kumar 58.5, 5. City Of Blossom (9) Kiran Naidu 58.5, 6. Curcumin (7) R. Ajinkya 56.5, 7. Dunkirk (3) Surya Prakash 54.5, 8. Aibak (11) Aneel 53.5, 9. Gusty Note (6) Akshay Kumar 53.5, 10. California Beauty (2) G. Naresh 52 and 11. Sea Wolf (10) B. Nikhil 50.  1. INTENSE APPROACH, 2. FLYING JET, 3. MIND READER   SOVIET STAR PLATE (1,100m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II) — 3.45: 1. Xfinity (1) Akshay Kumar 60, 2. Menilly (5) C.S. Jodha 58.5, 3. Incredulous (7) A.A. Vikrant 57.5, 4. Full Volume (10) S.S. Tanwar 56, 5. Trump Star (8) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 6. Four One Four (9) Afroz Khan 54, 7. Amyra (2) Nikhil Naidu 53.5, 8. Beauty On Parade (3) G. Naresh 53.5, 9. Mystery (12) Ajeeth Kumar 53.5, 10. Blissful (6) Nakhat Singh 52, 11. Different (11) Md. Ismail 52 and 12. N R I Magic (4) B. Nikhil 51.5.  1. XFINITY, 2. MENILLY, 3. AMYRA   H.P. MISTRY MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), rated 80 and above (Cat. I) — 4.15: 1. Kildare (7) C.S. Jodha 63, 2. Corfe Castle (6) Nikhil Naidu 62.5, 3. Victory Parade (8) A.A. Vikrant 59.5, 4. Smashing Blue (5) Akshay Kumar 53.5, 5. Ashwa Bravo (3) Ashad Asbar 52.5, 6. Premier Action (4) Afroz Khan 52, 7. Galloping Gangster (2) Santosh Raj 51.5 and 8. Havelock Cruise (1) G. Naresh 51.5.  1. ASHWA BRAVO, 2. CORFE CASTLE, 3. KILDARE   RECOMMENDER PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 4.45: 1. Cheltenham (7) Nikhil Naidu 60, 2. Moringa (5) Nakhat Singh 58.5, 3. Zamazenta (11) Kuldeep 58.5, 4. Rhythm Selection (9) Ajeeth Kumar 58, 5. Top Diamond (13) Akshay Kumar 58, 6. Wallop And Gallop (10) Deepak Singh 57.5, 7. Campania (1) Surya Prakash 57, 8. Linewiler (14) R. Ajinkya 56.5, 9. Dream Station (3) Gaurav Singh 55.5, 10. Blickfang (2) Afroz Khan 55, 11. Count Of Savoy (4) C.S. Jodha 54.5, 12. Top In Class (12) A.A. Vikrant 54.5, 13. Mireya (6) G. Naresh 53.5 and 14. Philanthropist (8) N.B. Kuldeep 53.  1. TOP DIAMOND, 2. COUNT OF SAVOY, 3. MORINGA  Day’s Best: TOP DIAMOND  Jackpot: 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6. Mini Jackpot: 3, 4, 5 & 6. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3. (ii) 4, 5 & 6. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashwa-bravo-should-score-in-feature-event/article37483251.ece
14 November 2021||INDORE,||Manish takes on Sekulic in final||Second seed Manish Sureshkumar beat former national champion Dalwinder Singh 6-2, 6-3 to make the final of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the Indore Tennis Club on Saturday. In the final, Manish will play Philip Sekulic of Australia, who stopped the fine run of 19-year-old Dev Javia with a 6-2, 6-2 victory in the semifinals. In the doubles final, second seeds Anirudh Chandrasekar and Nitin Kumar Sinha beat the top seeds Niki Poonacha and Vishnu Vardhan 6-4, -4. It was the fourth doubles title in the professional circuit for the 23-year-old Anirudh, and maiden title in his second final for the 22-year-old Nitin.  The results: Semifinals: Philip Sekulic (Aus) bt Dev Javia 6-2, 6-2; Manish Sureshkumar bt Dalwinder Singh 6-2, 6-3.   Doubles: Final: Anirudh Chandrasekar & Nitin Kumar Sinha bt Niki Poonacha & Vishnu Vardhan 6-4, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manish-takes-on-sekulic-in-final/article37483368.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Bowring Institute triumphs||Bowring Institute defeated KSCA 2-0 in the final to emerge as the M. Chenniappan memorial inter-club billiards tournament champion here.  The result (final): Bowring Institute bt KSCA 2-0 (Arjun bt Kamlesh 100-34; M. Vikram bt Nihaal 100-28) .      Bengaluru FC Academy whipped The Sports School 8-0 in the KSFA Youth premier football league here.      Smashing Squashers edged out Team Sanky 4-3 in the final of the Sunvik-BSL squash tournament here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bowring-institute-triumphs/article37483249.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||State swimmers feted||Telangana Swimming Association felicitated the medallists from the State, who won 27 medals in all, in the recent sub-junior and junior Nationals held in Bangalore. Mr. A. Venkateshwar Reddy, SATS chairman, Mr. M. Rama Krishna, general secretary of TSA, felicitated them.  The medallists: Boys: Group I: B. Sai Nihar - bronze - 200m backstroke.   Group II: M. Suhas Preetham - gold - 200m backstroke, silver - 100m freestyle, bronze - 50m backstroke, 100m backstroke.   Group III: M. Yashaswi Nune - gold - 100m backstroke; silver - 50m backstroke and 400m freestyle; bronze - 200m IM.   T.S. Tejas Kumar - silver - 200m freestyle.   Girls: Group I: Vritti Agarwal - gold - 800m freestyle, 1500m freestyle, silver - 400m freestyle.   Group II: Sri Nitya Sagi - silver - 200m individual medley, bronze - 50m backstroke, 100m backstroke, 200m backstroke.   Group IV: Annika Deborah Paripoornam - gold - 50m backstroke, 100m backstroke, bronze - 200m IM.   Group II: G. Rajasri Laasya, G. Sahasra, A. Mokshitha, Sri Nitya Sagi - bronze - 4x100m freestyle relay.   Sri Nitya Sagi, M. Ruthvika, A. Mokshitha, G. Rajasri Laasya - bronze - 4x200m freestyle relay.   Senior men: B. Sai Nihar - bronze - 400m IM.   Senior women: Vritti - bronze - 800m freestyle, 1500m freestyle .    Team Mysa scored a 4.5-1.5 win over T-Golf Foundation in the final of the inaugural National amateur golf league championship at Boulder Hills Golf & Country Club here.   The result: Final: Team Mysa bt T-Golf Foundaton 4.5-1.5 .    Md. Reyan of Bihar emerged winner in the fourth Hyderabad All India FIDE-rating chess tournament (below ELO1600) with 8.5 points from nine rounds at the Joy International School here on Saturday. Three players —Hriday Panchal (Delhi), Viswanath Kannam (Telangana) and Haridev (Tamil Nadu) — tied for second place with eight points each but in the tie-break rule, Hriday was placed second and Viswanath third.  Final placings: 1. Md. Reyan, 2. Hriday Panchal, 3. Viswanath Kannam, 4. Haridev, 5. K. Adarsh, 6. Arvind Iyer, 7. Chandra Prakash, 8. Dhiraj Patil, 9. Ayush Shirodkar, 10. Narayan Iyengar.   Important results: Final round: Md. Reyan (8.5) drew with Arvind Iyer (7.5); Hriday Panchal (8) bt Muthuraman (7); B. Gowtham (7) lost to Viswanath Kannam (8); Pavan Karthikeya Varma (7) lost to Haridev (8); Advait Ratnakar (6.5) lost to Dhiraj Patil (7.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/state-swimmers-feted/article37483456.ece
14 November 2021||CHENNAI:,||Online quiz for school students||Goal Quiz Sports will conduct an online sports quiz — Quizza — for school students from Class VI to XII. The total prize money is Rs. 50,000. There is no entry fee and registration is also not needed. Participants have to answer preliminary questions through Google Forms by joining Goal Quiz Sports’ live YouTube session from 11 a.m. on November 21. Sathya Jyothi Films is the title sponsor for the quiz. For details, contact 9840927442.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/online-quiz-for-school-students/article37483294.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 08:18 IST,||Sudoku — November 14, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-14-2021/article37484008.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Khadi and the Indian||Fashion is civil, yet disobedient. This is the tagline of actor Kamal Haasan’s new label, KH House of Khaddar, which launches on Monday. “Sir [Kamal] came up with this line in 30 seconds, while he was getting ready for the shoot of the label’s fashion film that will go live on the day of the launch,” says costume designer Amritha Ram, who has joined Kamal’s latest venture as the designer. The label, as the name suggests, works purely with khadi. Amritha has been associated with the iconic actor for four years now, creating looks for his promotions of Vishwaroopam 2 , Bigg Boss Tamil and his upcoming film, Indian 2 . While shooting for the last season of Bigg Boss , she was stuck in Hyderabad and decided to take a quick tour to see what the weavers in the nearby areas were working on. In Chittoor, she came across a fabric in white that she instantly fell in love with. She then dyed it ombre and showed it to Kamal who liked it too. When informed that the fabric was khadi, he suggested creating a few more outfits out of it. The actor has had a long association with khadi as his father, a lawyer, wore only this fabric to court. The first collection will launch in Chicago (where Kamal will also be launching a new fragrance: KH Memoir). Titled Nunool , meaning the good thread, it is also a message to turn towards a sustainable ecosystem. The fall-winter collection features skirts, short dresses, trenches and trousers for women; and crop jackets, double breasted jackets, short and long trenches for men. “It’s a complete fall palate with hues such as root beer brown, salmon pink, teal blue, mustard, charcoal grey,” says Amritha, adding that they wanted a western take on this quintessentially Indian fabric, which they achieved with the cuts and patterns. “We are not doing any Indian designs or cuts for the first three collections,” she says. Sometimes synonymous with clothes that are boring, KH House of Khaddar aims to dispense such myths associated with khadi. “It is a versatile fabric and can be tweaked in any way. It can keep you warm in winter and cool in summer,” says Amritha. The team at KH House of Khaddar is pleased that their venture will benefit weavers. Currently working with a few clusters in Chittoor, Kanchipuram, and Tirupur, Amritha is researching for independent clusters to work with in the near future. “The first vision is to have weavers under our roof and create different variations in the weave in the next six to eight months,” she says. While Amritha has a free hand in the creative process, Kamal gives his inputs. “He likes to keep the design simple so the threads can speak for themselves. Nothing over the top,” she says.  The collections will be available at www.khhk.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/khadi-and-the-indian/article37483568.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Life lessons from a cricket match||There are two sides to Zai Whitaker — a conservationist who has been a key part of Madras Crocodile Bank since its founding days, and a teacher who has been privy to the minds, hearts and motivations of middle schoolers in small-town India for nearly two decades. It is the former, far more than the latter, whose experiences and perspectives have so far made their way into umpteen children’s stories penned by a third Zai: Zai the author. The protagonists of her books have been varied, from a family of mongooses to a little boy from a tribe in the Andamans. But till date, “practically nothing I have written has been non-environmental,” she says. That changes with her latest book, Clean Bowled . Published by the children’s education NGO, Eklavya, it revolves around an emotionally high-stakes cricket match in small town India. The story is a timely reminder of just how much cricket means to many in this country — from the old man who keeps Sachin Tendulkar’s photo on the same shelf as gods and goddesses, to the young boy who never attends practice without a much-loved, much-tattered cricketer snapshot of “Gary ji ” [former West Indies player Gary Sobers] in his back pocket. What makes the short book more charming, are the unapologetic idiosyncrasies: children in these towns are self-assured enough to not particularly care about their English, even in an English medium school. Teachers are called “medum” instead of “madam” (we’ve all been there) and, as Zai Whitaker writes in the book, “ Even the cricketers and cricket fans who didn’t know a word of English could shout ‘Howzat!’ in their favourite cricketer’s accent... in pukka Australian, British, Sachin and Windies accents. ” A self-professed test cricket fan, the author states, “I see sports in general as a way to learn things like sportsmanship, and as a great corridor for teaching children values. It is an effective way to learn — first the balance between humility and self-confidence, and second the importance of honesty — apart from plain old-school teacher talk.” The towns she writes about, Thapoli and Vakoli, are made geographically distinct by the mentions of Marathi speakers and benevolent Gujarati industrialists who run underwear empires — unsurprising, since the author spent much of her school summer holidays in Kihim, a beach to the north of Alibag, near Mumbai. But there are also plenty of character quirks that have been drawn from the good folks of Kodaikanal, where Zai spent 18 years teaching middle school. Her next book, however, harks back to her experiences with India’s environment and its caretakers. The yet to be published novel, about a family of the Irula tribe, has been 15 years in the making. “I could finally get this amount of writing down during the lockdown,” says Zai. It is a culmination of all she could glean from having worked with the tribe over the years. As a key part of Madras Crocodile Bank’s conservation and research efforts, this tribe will certainly be worth a read. Clean Bowled can be ordered from www.eklavya.in/books.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/life-lessons-from-a-cricket-match/article37483570.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The colour of hope||When children paint for children, unforgettable bonds can be forged. In an art project, initiated by Chennai-based teacher Kamala Ravikumar for Children’s Day, students are creating paintings for the paediatric ward of the Adyar Cancer Institute. “During the initial months of the pandemic, children were getting used to adapting to online classes and increased screen time. But once they settled down, parents began to approach me to conduct art classes online,” says Kamala who has been teaching art to children as well as adults since 2004. She adds, “I had to train myself to teach online... it was a challenge. I then taught my students colour mixing and other techniques through video calls.” The idea of donating paintings to the paediatric ward at the Adyar Cancer Institute was supported by her students, who are from across the country. Thirteen of her students came forward enthusiastically to give one of their works for the cause. Eleven paintings, done on paper with poster colours (tempera style), were contributed by students from seven to 15 years of age and two more crayon paintings were contributed by younger kids. “The children were given the freedom to decide what they wanted to paint. They mailed it to me,” says Kamala, adding that framing costs were contributed by three Inner Wheel Clubs of Adyar, Chennai Fort St. George and Harmony. Spreading cheer “I hope these paintings will bring cheer, and alleviate some of the pain that the children in the cancer ward go through,” she states, adding that the project has “sensitised the young artists on the need to provide such cheer.”  The paintings will be handed over to the Adyar Cancer Institute’s paediatric ward on November 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-colour-of-hope/article37483569.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Toy story 2.0||K. Thilagarajan spent two days with an old coconut tree climber at Sholavandan learning to make a “bug that buzzes”. The 50-year-old school teacher from Madurai in Tamil Nadu is a populariser of toys made from palm and coconut leaves. He travels across the State sharing with children the joys of making fans, fish, birds, rattles, flowers, animals… “The idea is to make children work with delicate material,” he says. “Once they create something on their own, they will be inclined to give it away to someone else,” Thilagarajan adds. “They will tend to listen, tell stories through the toys, and eventually, take over from me.” The philosophy behind his toys is to engage little hands with something organic that also stimulates the mind. “They learn science through these toys,” he explains. A bend here or a twist there can alter the entire design; a tiny fold can make an insect sing and a fan fly. Thilagarajan is a happy man when he sits surrounded by children, each engrossed in a toy of their own, forgetting his presence. It takes a toy of great value to draw a child completely into its world. The rainbow stacker does just that. Popularised by social media over the past few years, it consists of a set of wooden arches of various colours. It is open-ended — there are countless ways with which a child can use it. Woodbee Toys makes the stackers in beech wood with non-toxic colours. The company has a factory near Vellore and sells through its Instagram page woodbeetoys_official. “We started in November 2020 and have 45 toys with 15 more in the making,” says K. Suganya, who handles the company’s marketing. Woodbee Toys’ philosophy borrows from Waldorf’s principle: their toys are simple and encourage free play. Toy designer K. Kokila, who is Suganya’s mother-in-law, has also come up with her own ideas: their trilinks and math rods, for instance. Learning life through play “Run, or I will shoot!” calls out a little girl, charging out of a room with a toy gun; two boys are engaged in a dramatic plastic sword fight: scenes quite harmless in a typical household, one would think. But when did guns, knives, and swords find their way into children’s toys? Should violence be part of children’s lives, wonders Subid, a civil engineer who is trained in Product Design at IIT Delhi. His ahimsa toys, based on Gandhi’s principle of non-violence, speak of play in a gentle way so as to not stir even a leaf. Ahimsa toys are similar to toy innovator Arvind Gupta’s toys from trash. But while Arvind’s toys teach science through everyday objects, ahimsa toys are all about “freedom, self-reliance, and sharing”. “Children do not need toys,” feels Subid, who has written Ahimsa Toys (Thannaram publications), a book with step-by-step instructions to make the toys. “All they need is freedom to play,” he says. “For them, every activity is play, and through that, they learn life.” Subid feels children can play endlessly without any object to keep them engaged, only if adults do not interfere. Ahimsa toys show that the greatest of joys can come from the simplest of things. “My focus is not science experiments,” says Subid. “Children are fed up with science,” he adds. The focus, is rather on ‘unlearning’. “My philosophy is that children come from heaven; we only have to observe them to learn from them,” he says. To Arvind, the best toy is that which can be used over and over again. “Take Lego, for instance,” he says. “It is a great toy, but sadly, is not accessible to many children.” His toys from trash teach children not just science, but show them the immense possibilities ordinary materials hold. “An old CD, with a marble stuck in between, makes for the greatest top,” says Arvind. “It keeps spinning for two minutes.” Newspapers too are fun to play with. “A dozen types of caps can be made with them,” says Arvind. “Look at your own garbage bin and not at what the Chinese or Germans or Americans are making,” he adds. The market is filled with loud and flashy plastic toys that create a racket, states Arvind, speaking of “expensive products that come in boxes more expensive than the toy itself”. He adds, “When children are happy, there will be peace in the world... And for children to be happy, we need to make toys affordable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/toy-story-20/article37483567.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The still, silent heart||There is a gentle quality to Abdulrazak Gurnah’s prose; it makes no linguistic leaps or pirouettes but simply sits down, draws a deep breath, and slowly unfurls the tale. Gradually you realise that even as Gurnah foregrounds ordinary people and their stories of struggle and love and fear, what you are actually hearing is the low hum of the continent. Africa looms over the book, overshadowing the individual players, thrusting its troubled history into your consciousness, creating a disquiet that lingers long after. The Nobel Prize winning Gurnah’s latest work, Afterlives, set in an unidentified town in Tanzania on the eastern coastline, is not so much novel as narrative history, of the time when Germany occupied large tracts of east Africa before the beginning of World War I. This under-reported history of Deutsch-Ostafrika (German East Africa) has been Gurnah’s material across novels, recording bloodshed and displacement, the ever-shifting boundaries of power, nation, and home, and within that the still, silent heart of ordinary human lives. Experience of otherness It’s a post-colonial African novel but it’s also a chronicle of colonialism’s brutal past, one among many such that Europeans are yet to acknowledge and confront. Equally, Gurnah invests the African experience with an intuition that goes back further, like Chinua Achebe, to something pristine, to something akin to a consciousness of being rooted in the land where life began. Yet, unlike in Achebe, the effect here is subdued, leached of passion, as if Gurnah is holding back, keeping his voice impersonal, almost an outsider’s. Does this come from having fled Zanzibar for the U.K. as a young man? Is this the “compassionate penetration of the effects of colonialism” that the Nobel committee cites? At any rate, his experience of otherness is distilled into the multiple ethnicities he captures, a chronicling of intermingled lives that puts the lie to the fashion of examining origins and religions to award labels of ‘belonging’. In his chosen arena of the rough-edged portside and shanty town, flotsam from India, Arabia and Persia, China, England and Germany comes ashore; mariners, merchants and soldiers meet. As he traces the sweep of ‘big’ history through the ‘little’ histories of Khalifa, Afiya, Hamza and Ilyas, the four lives interweaving with each other and with the larger picture in which they are microscopic pixels, they become bridges between the ruthless German army on the one hand and the ordinary African recruited into battle against his own on the other. Between the colossal colonial programme of loot and the little local merchants who feed off its wake. Between German savagery — “they cut off the head of the Wahehe leader Mkwawa and sent it to Germany as a trophy” — and the mindless viciousness of the schutztruppe askari, a band of African mercenaries with German officers. Encompassing multitudes The politics of dispossession is never overtly stated. Sometimes there’s the gentlest satire: “The German civilians were treated with the courtesies befitting citizens of an enlightened combatant nation… The local Africans, who were neither citizens nor members of a nation nor enlightened… were ignored or robbed.” Sometimes it’s something the German Oberleutnant says when he thinks Hamza is unconscious: “We lied and killed for this empire and we called it our Zivilisierungmission.” Sometimes it just hangs unsaid in the interstices. The neutral tone reinforces the sense of reading history, as much as when the book wanders into the fine details of even minor characters. For instance, we are not just introduced to Khalifa’s father Qassim, a poor Gujarati Muslim, but we learn about his tax-collector father, his scholarship in a Bombay school, how he sailed across the Arabian Sea to the African coast for a book-keeping job, how he married an African woman and begat Khalifa. Qassim’s little memoir becomes a window into the immense history of cross-continental migration that has been playing out since prehistory. Equally, the author is interested in the minutiae of his characters’ lives — what they eat, the insides of their homes, their prayer routine, the tiny group of musicians whose rehearsals you can hear from an open doorway, the kohl-eyed shekhiya summoned to talk to the ‘visitor’ who has entered Hamza’s son’s body — detailed with the eye of an anthropologist. From quotidian lives to Europe slicing and dicing Africa “by mandate of the League of Nations”, the book strides, encompassing multitudes in the telling. And it’s perhaps the shifting perspective that universalises Gurnah’s writing. The stories of Khalifa, Afiya, Hamza and Ilyas don’t come from the margins but from within the core of a colonised nation that is yet seemingly at peace, celebrating an unfussy survival that defies the festering barbarisms of the colonial project. One note plays out like a leitmotif, embodying the white man’s condescension. Hamza’s German benefactors gift him two books by philosopher-poets Friedrich Schiller and Heinrich Heine. But there is recurring incredulity and disbelief about Hamza’s capacity to fathom such lofty reflections. The implied scorn is left unchallenged. Instead, Hamza’s quiet insight, his actions, the everyday generosities of his life are offered up like a contrapuntal strand to the central philosophy of arrogance and greed that drove the great colonial enterprise.  Afterlives Abdulrazak Gurnah Bloomsbury Publishing   Rs. 699    Africa looms over the book, overshadowing the individual players, thrusting its troubled history into your consciousness, creating a disquiet that lingers long after||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-still-silent-heart/article37483181.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The crisis in education||As we celebrate another Children’s Day in a pandemic year, it is worth reflecting on how we regard children and how we have treated them. The pandemic has been especially difficult on our youngest citizens. Existing disparities have deepened. A section of children has been pushed out of the path of formal education, into forced labour or child marriage. Children from poor families have missed school meals. Children with disabilities have faced greater challenges. As far as the return to schools, conversations are so preoccupied with the metaphor of “catching up” that they forget that education was never supposed to be a race. Even where children have returned to schools, the well-meaning idiom of “learning loss” has treated them as passive vessels to receive information from textbooks and teachers, rather than as individuals who have agency and are co-creators of their own understanding of the world. Source of conflict While the pandemic has made visible the disparities in how children are treated, these inequalities are not new. They have existed for a long time. “As a social institution, education is supposed to make economic and cultural conflicts bearable. At the same time, it also serves as a source of conflict,” writes Krishna Kumar in his deeply thoughtful collection of essays about school education, Smaller Citizens . As educational theorist and former Director of the National Council of Education Research and Training, Kumar has seen this paradox play out in the landscape of teaching and learning over many decades. Over the years since the Right To Education Act of 2009, the legislation has been interpreted narrowly as a way only to ensure universality through access. However, its potential to reform elementary education and make it more equitable has met with resistance. More fundamentally, its vision of creating space for the child’s agency, and enabling teachers to recognise and respect that agency, remains to be fulfilled. Kumar cites incidents from across the country to cast a light on how the education system treats children. A child is beaten to death by his teachers. A headmistress refuses admission to two girl students because they are child brides. Four adolescent girls jump into a well in Panapakkam, Tamil Nadu. They had been scolded by a teacher for poor academic performance and told to call their parents. These are not isolated instances, but represent deep failures within the system. Kumar takes a long look at the deep disparities that exist in education: gender, caste, class, the urban-rural gap. “On a visit to a village school, one cannot miss the tragic implications of the teacher’s lowly status and poor-quality training.”  On gender, he points out that girls’ education is not just a simple matter of access; those who care about it must understand the nature and quality of girls’ educational experience. “In the case of girls, school-related anxieties are compounded by older, entrenched anxieties associated with gendering.” Kumar invokes feminist anthropologist Leela Dube’s use of the term ‘inescapability’ to depict a major dimension of a girl’s preparation for the kind of life that is destined for her. Using the metaphor of metal casting, he describes girlhood in terms of the lost wax method: “the malleability of wax that has been intricately crafted by expert hands to leave the exact marks of a chosen design on the clay that will serve, after it is fired, as a mould for metal casting. The term ‘girlhood’ refers to the culturally crafted mould used for imprinting the mind of the female child from the earliest stage of life.” Teachers like messengers On the treatment of the teacher by the education system, Kumar is caustic. “For well over a century, India has treated its teachers like messengers who need not know or understand the message themselves.” Kumar evokes the philosophical approach of Devi Prasad, the Gandhian art educator and pacifist, whose art teaching in schools led to his conceptualising the nature and logic of children’s art as an activity whose ultimate aim is freedom. Prasad reflects on his own experience as a teacher to understand how children’s art can be a way to creative imagination and free expression. In Devi Prasad’s vision of children’s schooling, art education “offers a sense of dignity and a historic role to the teacher of the young.” Peace at school According to Kumar, peace is something that “has to be experienced by children in their everyday life at school, at the hands of a teacher who is aware of the scale and types of injustice that any child can sense in the air, irrespective of the social location. Schools and colleges socialise the young to ignore the world or fear it, rather than approach it with the passion to understand it and engage with it. That is the job that the system of education is not performing at present.” Education has always had two seemingly contradictory responsibilities: one, to help children learn to think independently and critically; the other, to teach children to adjust to rules and function as members of a society. How well an education system can navigate this terrain has profound implications for how society functions. Unfortunately, short-term thinking tends to focus on measurable outcomes — compliance on tasks and test performance — without caring about long-term effects on children, their imagination and independent thinking. “In its true sense, education requires distant time horizons. Only instrumentalist goals can be realised quickly,” remarks Kumar. This profoundly insightful collection of essays is a must for those who care about children.  The reviewer is in the IAS. The views are personal.  Smaller Citizens: Writings on the Making of Indian Citizens Krishna Kumar Orient Blackswan  Rs. 395||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-crisis-in-education/article37483197.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Tongue of pearls||The 18 decades of the Great Mughals (1526-1707) produced some first-rate literature. Many fine books came from the rulers themselves, steeped in a tradition of high culture that required them to be literate. The Baburnama , the first memoir/ autobiography of the subcontinent, is as readable today and as modestly written as Julius Caesar’s books. The Tuzuk of Jahangir is filled with bombast, vanity and anger, but it is so honest and has so much detail, particularly on the side of his interests as a naturalist, that it is a work of the highest order. And then there are the works that are smaller but sparkling, like little jewels. One such is the life of Humayun by his sister, Babur’s daughter and Akbar’s aunt, Gulbadan Begum. Written in Persian, as opposed to the Chagatai Turk that Babur wrote in, it is clear and direct, and as thorough a portrayal of Babur and Humayun as what they produced themselves. Courtly manners The work we are looking at this time is from a lesser noble, a traveller from Samarqand called Mutribi al-Asamm, who spent time in Jahangir’s court. It is available in translation as Conversations with Emperor Jahangir . The Mughals loved having people over from their ancestral lands, which they would never see again, and lavished them with gifts and honours. Mutribi came to India (Jahangir was based in Lahore) roughly 400 years ago in 1627, when he was 70 and the emperor 58, only a few months away from his death. Mutribi’s writing reveals a lot about the flowery manner of the court. He visits Jahangir a month after arriving in India and the emperor asks why he has waited this long. Mutribi refers to himself in the text as the “incompetent narrator” and Jahangir as possessing “a tongue of pearls”. At that first meeting, Jahangir gives him a thousand rupees and Noor Jahan (“may her chastity be preserved”) another five hundred, possibly the equivalent of crores in our time. At their next meeting, Jahangir inquires about the hue of the black stone from which his ancestor Timur’s sepulchre is made in Samarqand. The emperor produces stones which Mutribi compares unfavourably to the original (“it is so bright you can see your face in it”). Lord bountiful The transactional manner of the exchanges is apparent from another meeting in which Jahangir asks Mutribi which of the Iraqi thoroughbred horses on display he would like to be given. Mutribi says, “whichever is more expensive,” possibly to make the emperor feel that he is being generous rather than his supplicant greedy. Again, when Jahangir offers him a choice of saddle — velvet or broadcloth — the answer is velvet, because it is more expensive. Jahangir says velvet gets wet easily, to which Mutribi says that the monsoon is far off. The two meet 24 times in two months before Mutribi returns. Towards the end, the following conversation is held: “The pleasantness of Samarqand was being discussed. The Emperor asked me, ‘Is Samarqand spelled with a ‘q’ or with a ‘k’?’ ‘Either way is correct,’ I replied. ‘In Tabari’s history and several other books it is referred to as Samarkand, but in popular usage it has become known as Samarqand. Some say that the name comes from Samar and Qamar, two slaves of Alexander the Great who built the city which was then named for them. Their graves are situated in the main market square of Samarqand.”’ Then Jahangir inquires about an ancestral tomb, asking how much it requires to be maintained. ‘“If you want to do it properly, 10,000 rupees,’ I [Mutribi] said, ‘otherwise 5,000 rupees just to keep it going.’ ‘If 10,000 rupees will maintain it,’ he said, ‘then we have decided that in accordance with your information we will send 10,000 rupees, in order that that blessed station be maintained.’ I said, ‘O God, as long as the Sun and the Moon shall be, may Jahangir son of Akbar remain King.’”  The Mughals loved having people over from their ancestral lands, which they would never see again, and lavished them with gifts and honours||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/tongue-of-pearls/article37483175.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 First published in the U.S. on November 14, 1851, this classic adventure novel by an American writer is an example of the American Renaissance. The author drew from his experience as a sailor on whaling ships, and it includes songs, poems, soliloquies and asides. Narrated by a sailor called Ishmael who is interested in zoology, especially of a particular animal their ship is chasing, what is the title of the novel which is the name of the animal? 2 First published on November 14, 1883, this book was originally titled The Sea Cook: A Story for Boys , and became popular after it was serialised in a children’s magazine. The book had a huge impact on popular culture when it came to depictions of piracy. The elements of deserted tropical islands, sailors with one leg, pirates with parrots and the phrase ‘X marks the spot’ can be traced back to this novel. By what famous title do we now know this novel? 3 On November 14, 1889, Nellie Bly who was a pioneer of investigative journalism began a journey as part of a project for the newspaper, the New York World . She took a sturdy overcoat, some toiletry essentials, few clothes, £200 and some American currency in a bag. She arrived back in New Jersey on January 25, 1890. During her journey, she used steamships, railroads, visited a leper colony in China and met Jules Verne in France. Having taken 72 days to achieve her goal, she wrote a book about her travels as a reference to a work by the gentleman she met in France. What is the title of her book? 4 Born on November 14, 1891, Frederick Banting was awarded the Nobel Prize in 1923 at the age of 32, the youngest in physiology/ medicine, a record which still stands. Banting and his partner Charles Best were successful in isolating a certain protein from the pancreas of dogs and in the process discovered the main anabolic hormone in the body. In 1922, Banting was able to set up a medical practice and give injections of the hormone to treat a particular disease which till today is a huge problem. What hormone did Banting co-discover? 5 Born on November 14, 1904, Harold Larwood, was considered the greatest fast bowler of his time. He was feared for his top speed and unerring accuracy in bowling. His skill led to his team, England, using a certain controversial bowling technique to tackle the legendary Don Bradman. It involved Larwood aiming to hit the body of the batsman, who in trying to deflect the dangerous ball being bowled nicks the ball to a fielder. What was this tactic called? 6 On November 14, 1908, a certain scientist presented what he termed as ‘the quantum theory of light’. He proposed that light exists as tiny packets, or quantum particles, which he called photons, and these also have the ability to show wave-like properties. This revolutionised the world of physics and forms the basis of inventions such as lasers and TV screens. Who was the scientist who went on to win a Nobel Prize for his concept of the photoelectric effect? 7 On November 14, 1922, the BBC began daily radio broadcasts with a news bulletin at 6 p.m., followed by a weather forecast from the Met Office read by Arthur Burrows, director of programmes. Burrows read the bulletin twice, once fast and then slowly, so that listeners could take notes if they wished. This was from a transmitter situated in a house fittingly named after an Italian inventor who is credited with creating the first practical radio. Who was the house named after? 8 Born on November 14, 1948, this person is currently the oldest and longest-serving heir apparent in his country. He is known for his environmental activism, and his fleet of cars run on bio-fuel made from surplus English wine or cooking oil. He was the first royal baby born in Buckingham Palace in the 20th century and has three younger siblings. Who is this person and what is his title? 9 Born on November 14, 1954, this person first created history by setting a national swimming record for Greece at the age of 14. Quitting a Ph.D in psychology in the U.S. midway, he started a rock band called Chameleon. His rise to fame came because of a historic concert he performed in 1993 at the Herodes Atticus theatre in Athens. This was the start of a string of concerts at heritage sites such as the Egyptian Pyramids, China’s Forbidden City, Russia’s Kremlin, Puerto Rico’s El Morro castle, and the Taj Mahal. As the quizmaster’s mother says, ‘his music brings many cultures together’. Who is this globally resounding artist? 10 Born on November 14, 1971, this player was voted by his peers as Australia’s greatest cricketer in 2007. He was the first to hit 100 sixes in Test cricket, has the second most wicket-keeping dismissals and played a major role in Australia lifting the 2007 World Cup. Who is this athlete known to his friends as ‘Churchy’ or ‘Gilly’? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article37483207.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||In the den of marmots||Nandini Rajamani was on the look out for an animal that was active during the day and lived in a group, preferably on the ground. She found just the candidate in the Himalayan marmot of Ladakh. The researcher had previously studied flying squirrels in the tropical forests of the Western Ghats (‘Vanishing wizards of the night’ May 10, 2020). All she got for staying awake for many nights and gazing at the treetops were mere glimpses of these solitary and nocturnal animals. Observing these shy creatures for any length of time seemed impractical. In the mountains, however, marmots went about their lives out in the open. The house cat-sized adults settled scores with their rivals, courted their mates, and nibbled on grass stems and seeds, while keeping an eye out for predators. The pups had all the time to roughhouse in the sun. In areas frequented by tourists, they combed through trash, shoving their heads into tin cans and plastic bags. The researcher and her team merely plonked themselves at a distance to observe the nonstop entertainment. If one ventured too close to Rajamani, the mothers charged as if she had made a wrong move. But the adventurous males sometimes walked right up to her. Wary of the tubby animals’ enormous sickle-like incisors, she inched away from them. Although these marmots looked cute and harmless, Rajamani had heard a story that made her resolve to keep them at arm’s length. The human residents struggle to grow a crop of barley during the short growing season, but these rodents make their job harder by helping themselves to the ripening grain. An encounter A farmer tied his dog beside a marmot den, hoping its presence would encourage the animals to relocate elsewhere. He misjudged them. Marmot lives centre around their burrows. They don’t migrate downhill to beat the winter, opting to hunker 10 metres below the frozen ground for as many as six to eight months. Every generation inherits the burrow from the previous one. It takes much more than a tethered dog to force such homebodies to vacate their burrows. When the farmer returned some hours later, he found his pet decapitated by the rodents. It’s no surprise these marmots are feisty. Every large predator, from wolves to snow leopards and lammergeiers, eyes them for dinner. Studying marmots with their adorable looks and busy social lives on the spectacular Ladakhi landscape wasn’t as easy as it sounds. In the high altitude plateau, thin air made fieldwork difficult for the researcher from the plains of South India. “The higher you go, the tougher it gets,” she says. Working in the mountains taxed her mental strength and tested her physical stamina. Even walking felt strenuous. Although the Himalayan marmots live at lower elevations, they were more visible between 3,500 and 5,500 metres, altitudes at which the researcher and her team didn’t want to spend the night. In distress “Symptoms [of altitude sickness] descend with little warning,” says Rajamani. “There are stories of people who don’t wake up.” The daily travel up and down the mountains took its toll, too. Since she began the project in 2017, every year at least one person in her team had to be hooked on oxygen support. Despite these life-threatening difficulties, the researcher and her team hope observing marmot behaviour would reveal how they cope with climate change. Almost 20% of the Himalayan glaciers have melted. As the planet warms and winters shorten, the rodents may spend more time above ground. If grasses don’t get enough meltwater, they may not have enough forage, which could lead to shorter lifespans and fewer numbers. Predators may feel the pinch when their meat source becomes scarce. Rajamani has to spend many more years to see these effects play out. At least she escapes the bone-freezing Ladakhi winter by decamping to the plains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/in-the-den-of-marmots/article37483215.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Rumbles in Ramsar||Deepak Dabral wangles an invitation to a colleague’s wedding in Ramsar, a fictional town in the hills of Uttarakhand. But he ends up dead, his head bashed in and his body dumped in a van, which is then shoved off a cliff. But, before this critical event, Tanushree Podder sets the stage by introducing the key characters in Ramsar. These are mostly retirees, older Anglo-Indians who have not emigrated like the younger ones and local people. The tone is relaxed and chatty as the various residents are sketched in the background of the town and its happenings. So, if you hear about Violet Williams and her granddaughter Pia from the judge and his party, Laxmi Badola fills you in about Umesh Gudyal and what he’s doing in Ramsar. There is a sense of knowing these people, as you read. The nosy Badola could be the aunty next door keeping a watch on all that is going on around her. Judge Joshi and his cronies are the do-gooder retirees in the community. The action picks up when Violet Williams’ ancient van, which Pia uses for her bakery business, goes missing. When it is found with Dabral’s body inside, most people are mystified. The town is a peaceful one and murders are rare. But Badola is sure she knows who is the killer, having overheard a conversation between Dabral and Gudyal. When she takes her suspicions to the police, DSP Jung Bahadur Singh (irreverently referred to as Bulldog) pitches on Gudyal as the culprit and insists on his arrest. He is even more convinced when Badola is also killed. But ASP Timothy Thapa and Col. Arjun Acharya are not so sure. To add to their trouble is the large number of visitors at the wedding. As they try to eliminate suspects, their investigation takes them all the way to Delhi to check on Dabral’s wife Nisha and her brother Sudhir Sabharwal. Podder keeps the pace ticking and the reader guessing. An extremely mild romance between Pia and Thapa, which everyone in the town seems keen to encourage, adds to the general ambience. All in all, An Invitation to Die is a fun read — just the sort you want on a rainy day with a cup of hot tea.  An Invitation to Die Tanushree Podder Harper Black  Rs. 299||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rumbles-in-ramsar/article37483183.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Songs of freedom in the classroom at Tagore’s Santiniketan||For some time now students and the management of Visva Bharati University have been at loggerheads. In early September the Calcutta High Court stepped in, directing students not to protest within 50 metres of academic buildings. This is a far cry from the spirit in which the institution was founded by Rabindranath Tagore in 1921, as Hindi writer Shivani recalls in her charming little memoir, Amader Shantiniketan [Our Santiniketan], translated into English by her daughter Ira Pande.  It was written by Shivani sometime in the 1960s, and chronicles her stay at Santiniketan from 1935-1944. “Visva-Bharati was Gurudev’s [Tagore’s] ultimate sanctuary and retreat: a place where a prince sat on the same wooden bench as an ordinary student at mealtimes and under the canopy of the same trees while learning a lesson,” says Shivani. Breaking free As a child, Tagore had felt his school was like a jail and, therefore, at Santiniketan, he “tried to rectify all the wrongs that appeared to him as blights from his own schooldays.” Thus, every student was free to study (or not) any subject, were never burdened with “heavy courses”; classes were held in the open, and no child was reprimanded for following the flight of a bird or the dance of a squirrel; if fingers ached, they could put down the pen and stroll away to hear Santhal tribals sing. Tagore was very fond of outdoor celebrations, Shivani recalls. “A full moon, especially in spring… was like a personal invitation from Mother Nature” to the students to gather at night, sing songs and walk in a procession towards Uttarayan, where the poet would be waiting for them. Interestingly, Shivani believes that the freedom bred in each of them a sense of self-control: “Our freedom actually disciplined our minds.” She first met Tagore in 1935, the youngest of three siblings from Almora who had been sent to study at this unique gurukul. At their very first meeting, Tagore smiled and asked gently, “Are you very homesick?”, imploring her to learn Bangla. Tagore taught her the alphabet himself from Sahaj Path , the primer, written by him and illustrated by Nandalal Bose. Tagore and his nephew Abanindranath told stories to children and the sessions drew all the older students as well. Songs written by Tagore were sung by students with full-throated ease, including Amar Sonar Bangla , later adopted by Bangladesh as the national anthem. Filled with wonderful anecdotes on teaching, the student-teacher relationship, the right to dissent, and life, it makes you yearn for an education system not skewed towards putting unimaginable pressure on children and only testing them on marks. Decoding Keats Once her English teacher, Alex Aronson, asked the class to do a critical appraisal of a Keats poem, and she sought Tagore’s help. Unable to say no to her, he dictated some lines. Imagine her horror when she got back her paper, with a 4 on 10 and a comment, “Too elusive.” She ran straight to Tagore bitterly complaining about a foreigner’s marks for a Nobel laureate; he laughed and told her: “Don’t tell anyone I wrote it.” The book also has wonderful tributes to her contemporaries like Satyajit Ray, who believed the Ashram taught him a lot. The most important learning, however, is on education, and how Tagore breathed fresh life into it. In her introduction, Ira Pande says that “by creating... a cosmopolitan culture where students came not just from the four corners of India but from China, Japan, Ceylon and even Java and Sumatra, Tagore opened minds and hearts in a way that is so vital for embedding messages of harmony and love in young minds.” Shivani like many others was anxious about the future of Santiniketan in the absence of its inspiring founder, and the reason for the concern is unfolding in various ways, not least the disconnect between students and the administration.  Amader Shantiniketan  Shivani, translated by Ira Pande  Vintage/ PRH  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/songs-of-freedom-in-the-classroom-at-tagores-santiniketan/article37483195.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||What a water everywhere...||Dear Agony Akka,  It has been a rather miserable week, what with Diwali all wet and washed out and now the continuing rains in Chennai. Water has come into the ground floor of my house in Anna Nagar and we have moved ourselves and many of our precious goods to the first floor. We also moved our gas stove and food items so that we can cook and stay here itself till rain stops. I cannot understand why it should be like this. After 2015, why could our government not do something about drainage and flooding menace? We are well on our way to becoming trilling dollar economy, but we are still not able to tackle flooding. Please give one of your clever solutions. —With Extreme Testiness   Dear WET,  I amsorry to hear about your water problems but also secretly amused that you are feeling so entitled. The governments from Indus Valley to Indira Gandhi to Narendra Modi have told you repeatedly that they will give you roti, kapda and makaan . Since you are anti-Hindi Tamil person, that translates into food, clothing and housing. You have got house, even if it is little wet now. You have got clothes and food. What do you mean by now demanding dry housing like infant wanting dry nappy? It is too much. You are like the camel that finally took over the whole tent and sent the Arab into the desert. Oh sorry, I told politically incorrect story. You are like the elephant that took over the tent and sent the mahout into the jungle. You can’t keep asking and asking for more and more things. It is government or akshayapatra? Even real life akshayapatras are not giving eggs to children and children are keeping quiet. Why don’t you learn from them? Our prime minister has announced only the other day that one cannot keep demanding fundamental rights. One must first do duties, then ask. If you want dry house and drainage, first ask yourself what you have done for government? Did you send 5-6 WhatsApp history lessons to your friend circle? Did you watch latest Akshay Kumar thriller movie Bell Bottom? Did you erect life-size cutout of Chief Minister outside your home? See? You won’t do anything, but you expect fundamental rights all the time. On the other hand, Tamil Nadu’s government officials have been busy and useful. In T. Nagar apparently there is flooding because drains were blocked by corporation people studiously dumping building debris into them. Now, after the floods, they can raise fresh tenders and start work again to unblock the drains. This is known as doing one’s duty. The National Human Rights Commission held its annual debate yesterday and chose as its topic “Are human rights a stumbling block in fighting evils like terrorism & naxalism?” Like that I am asking, is citizen greed for development works a stumbling block when government officials only want to lead simple lives with Mercedes and foreign vacays? Think about it.  — AA  agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/what-a-water-everywhere/article37483205.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Beauty and the beasts||The cow, now a political animal, is perhaps the most written-about creature in India. ‘Love: An Essay’, the last of the 13 works of fiction collected in Guilt and Other Stories, explores the intertwining of love and hatred during the anti-foreigner agitation in Assam from 1979 to 1985 and thereafter. But it begins with what every school student has had to go through — pen an essay on ‘The Cow’, outlining the bovine’s assets and characteristics. The police is often the face of the government in rural Assam, which is riddled with communication bottlenecks. Harekrishna Deka retired as Director-General of Police in 2003, pursuing poetry while in service during the turbulent phases of linguistic and ethnic violence in Assam, and then moving on to other forms of storytelling. His observations of society and the political class in the course of his career reflect in tales such as ‘Moustache’, ‘The Captive’ and ‘Yawn’. ‘The Captive’, set at a time when extremist groups killed, extorted and abducted people for ransom, goes beyond the Stockholm Syndrome to portray a hostage’s attempt to understand his captor, whose ideas of justice do not match his own. ‘Yawn’, about the power struggle within a political party, has the machinations of a middle-level politician falling flat because of his inability to suppress a yawn at a critical time. According to Mitra Phukan, the translator, ‘Yawn’, written in the early 2000s, marks a change in Deka’s style from character- and plot-centric tales to allegory and symbolism. In stories such as ‘Snake’ and ‘The Bestower of Death’, the protagonists or incidents are both real and symbolic or imaginary. But Deka is at his best when he weaves spiritualism and supernatural elements into realistic tales painting the rural landscape and culture of Assam, in stories like ‘Madhusudan’s Bridge’ or ‘The Temple’. The titular story, about an old woman who recalls her role in a long-forgotten murder after becoming an eyewitness to a crime, also belongs to this category.  Guilt and Other Stories Harekrishna Deka, trs Mitra Phukan Speaking Tiger  Rs. 450||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/beauty-and-the-beasts/article37483179.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Play or defend?||Consider today’s deal and decide. Would you like to play or defend? South got a little too excited by North’s splinter bid and blasted into a slam that needed, at the very least, a successful spade finesse. The opening lead made it a virtual certainty that the king of spades was well placed. East withheld his king and dummy’s queen won the first trick. South cashed two high trumps and started on diamonds. The slam would roll home if the diamonds split no worse than 4-2. West, however, discarded a club on the second diamond. South was fortunate that West couldn’t ruff the diamond. Declarer now led dummy’s club to the three, eight, and nine. West reverted to spades with dummy’s jack winning the trick. South could now cash a third spade trick, a third diamond trick, and cross-ruff the last four tricks to get his total to 12. Have you decided yet? The defense could have prevailed against this line of play. East should have risen with his king of clubs and led his last trump, leaving declarer with no chance. Don’t choose to defend because of that, as South could have prevented that defense by leading a club at trick two, when a trump by the defense wouldn’t hurt him. Still, the defense could have come out on top. We’ll leave it to interested readers to figure it out. Have fun!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/play-or-defend/article37483210.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Eminent economist and caring friend||Rohini Nayyar, an eminent economist, a committed policy adviser passionate about inclusive rural development and the eradication of rural poverty, and a warm and affectionate friend, passed away on October 24, after a protracted illness. I first met Rohini when she was Head, Social Development Division of the Planning Commission in the late 1980s. I was then working on rural institutions and poverty eradication. I had earlier seen her only at a distance in St. Stephens College, where I was a student, in the company of Deepak Nayyar, her future husband. Vast experience When I walked into her Planning Commission office, she greeted me warmly, and I felt we had known each other for long years. She said she was familiar with some of my research, and listened intently when I elaborated on my ongoing work, offering extremely useful suggestions based on her vast experience in rural development challenges. She then asked if she could help in any way. I hesitantly mentioned that for my fieldwork I needed at least 15 letters for the District Magistrates in my field sites. Immediately summoning her secretary, she dictated and signed the 15 letters which were despatched within an hour! She had a lively sense of humour. She had nominated me to an expert committee on decentralised rural development but I often missed the meetings due to my frequent travels. Finally, she phoned me and after a polite rebuke, said good-humouredly that I should at least show up to sign the final report. Relieved, I did so. Rohini had a brilliant academic record. After graduating in economics from the University of Delhi, she received a B.Litt. from Oxford and a D.Phil. from the University of Sussex. She was selected for the IAS and served with distinction from 1969 to 1975. However, she yearned for more challenging work, which she found as adviser to high-level UN agencies on issues such as institutions, poverty, landlessness, women empowerment, and social safety nets. She brought to her work sharp analytical skills, deep dedication and rich field-experience. In 2004, she was appointed Principal Adviser in the Planning Commission (the rank of Secretary to the Government of India). She was responsible for designing MGNREGA, which was launched in 2006. She and I had animated debates on the stipulated minimum wage under this scheme. I argued that it would ration out jobs with the added risk that the better-off would crowd out the poor. She responded emphatically that this was the least the Government could do for the poor and that I should not lean so heavily on my econometric evidence. Grounded in reality Her reasons were grounded in reality and a sound intuition. She continued in her advisory role by setting up committees on a wide range of subjects, including rural poverty, employment, and women empowerment with a deep conviction that none of these programmes would succeed without a strong institutional delivery system for integrated rural development, especially Panchayati Raj. If she were alive and active today, she would have vigorously supported these initiatives during the COVID-19 pandemic, and their effective implementation would have saved countless lives. Rohini also made important contributions to development economics, including a classic article, “Rural poverty in Bihar: 1961-62 to 1971-72”, published in the Journal of Development Studies , 1979. Her findings were striking: while inequality in the distribution of consumption expenditure changed rather little over this period, all segments of the rural population suffered a reduction in per capita expenditure. Moreover, rural poverty rose. The “trickle-down” hypothesis was seriously challenged. Another important and pioneering contribution is her book, Rural Poverty in India: An Analysis of Interstate Differences (Oxford University Press, 1991). The novelty of this analysis lies in the construction of a poverty line taking into account under-nutrition. This was a sharp departure from the practice of using a poverty line that adjusts a minimum consumption basket for price changes. The comparisons between her estimates of rural poverty and those based on the conventional approach are striking. As I (with two collaborators) had published a paper on poverty-nutrition trap, following Partha Dasgupta’s (1993) seminal contribution, I concur that the policy challenges take on a different dimension. In other words, while income deprivation cannot be overlooked, it is perhaps equally (if not more) important to raise the nutrition of children, women and labourers. I regret not having visited Rohini before she passed away, though I thought of doing so many times. I was held back partly by COVID-19 but mostly by an overwhelming reluctance to see in pain someone who had been so vibrant.  (Raghav Gaiha is (Hon.) Professorial Research Fellow, Global Development Institute, University of Manchester, U.K. and Research Affiliate, Population Aging Research Centre, University of Pennsylvania, U.S.)  rgaiha@sas.upenn.edu  If she were alive and active today, she would have vigorously supported these initiatives during the COVID-19 pandemic   If she were alive and active today, she would have vigorously supported the initiatives during the COVID-19 pandemic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/eminent-economist-and-caring-friend/article37483171.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A victory for diplomacy||In his book, India vs UK , Syed Akbaruddin narrates the story of an unprecedented diplomatic win in 2017, complete with twists and turns, in the campaign for India’s candidature in the election to the International Court of Justice (ICJ). Written in first person, the narration flows like a story with anecdotes culled from his diary which he kept during his stint as India’s Permanent Representative to the UN from 2016-2020. David and Goliath The author describes the nail-biting finish in the elections with the contest narrowing down to two sitting judges — Dalveer Bhandari of India and Christopher Greenwood of the U.K. The ongoing Kulbhushan Jadhav trial at the ICJ added a sense of urgency for India. The ICJ election was sui generis in which the results were announced simultaneously in both the Security Council and General Assembly and stretched over several rounds. The U.K.’s significant global campaign was formidable given that it had an early lead of five permanent members in its kitty by virtue of being a member of the Security Council. In contrast, India was at a disadvantage of having fielded its candidate rather late. The author’s research into past trends of ICJ elections reveals some interesting insights; that the real battleground is not the Security Council but the General Assembly and also that progress in subsequent rounds actually hold the key for a successful outcome. More than the candidate’s virtues of knowledge, a sustained campaign, left to diplomats to square off in a long period of toil, mattered the most. Quiet work ethic The author gives a glimpse into how the wheels of Indian diplomacy move worldwide to serve the national cause. Believing in quiet diplomacy focused on outcome rather than reward, the author meticulously built a versatile team that was committed to the cause with freedom to speak its mind. As part of the campaign strategy, he reached out to his counterparts at a personal level; guided Indian missions abroad; and persuaded Headquarters to make appropriate interventions at the Foreign Secretary, Ministry of External Affairs and the Prime Ministerial level. The author also gives a sense of the enormous logistics challenges that the mission faces during the Leaders’ Week at the UNGA in September. Countering false narratives on Kashmir, terrorism, the Doklam standoff, etc. were other imperatives for the mission during the campaign. Often UN election uncertainties risk corroding one’s belief in the possibility of a win. At one time, there was talk of India sharing tenure with the U.K. as a possible way out. But India’s sustained campaign dramatically diminished support for the U.K. at the UNGA. The U.K.’s desperate attempts to set up a Joint Conference, under Article 12 (1) of the ICJ statute, to decide the outcome by a select group of countries, failed as it got exposed of stalling a democratic exercise of voting. The U.K.’s suggested compromises and negotiated outcomes were resisted in the firm belief that it was no longer an individual fight from which one could walk away, nor afford to lose. As the author kept the faith and held on to his horses, the U.K. caved in and conceded. The win also reiterated the importance of India to the UN membership.  The reviewer is a serving Indian Foreign Service Officer, currently working in the Ministry of External Affairs.  India vs UK Syed Akbaruddin HarperCollins  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-victory-for-diplomacy/article37483193.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A Shot to Save the World: The Remarkable Race and Ground-breaking Science behind the COVID-19 Vaccines||Gregory Zuckerman  Penguin Random House Rs. 799 The COVID-19 vaccines journey takes readers inside top-secret laboratories, corporate clashes and government negotiations. A journalist chronicles the scientific breakthrough.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-shot-to-save-the-world-the-remarkable-race-and-ground-breaking-science-behind-the-covid-19-vaccines/article37483201.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The Dawn of Everything||David Graeber, David Wengrow  Farrar, Straus and Giroux Rs. 1,412 (Kindle edition) Drawing on path-breaking research in archaeology and anthropology, the authors suggest that the course of history may be full of alternate possibilities. They transform the understanding of the past and offer a path toward imagining new forms of freedom, and of organising society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-dawn-of-everything/article37483203.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3176||Across  1 Establish boundaries: Jutland’s country not Norse (6) 4 Burns poem suggesting where deskbound worker’s hand sent? (2,1,5) 9 Attaches blame when returning veg (7) 11 Avoiding bungling, putting ‘depth’ for ‘breadth’ (7) 12 Cutting costs twice, Oscar, Mark and Mike — who live together? (9) 13 Ad-lib sentence enthralling dramatist (5) 14 Editor off, she’ll recast novel (4,2,3,5) 17 Here’s a tip: cultivate white wood aster (1,4,2,3,4) 21 Phrase uttered connoting keen approbation, primarily? (5) 23 Wine-lover, slippery weaselly one (9) 24 Artist’s image equally small and ordinary (7) 25 Plaintiff framing police officer increasingly in a lather (7) 26 Situations when that woman explodes (8) 27 Acted evasively, being surrounded by bushes (6)  Down  1 Banish Dutch figure of speech that’s come up (6) 2 Leading car brand announced: old Explorer (5,4) 3 North American, European tucked into wine with new label (7) 5 He’s all doltish, confused: that’s longestablished (3,2,3,5) 6 Diaphragm suggesting how song may abruptly end? (7) 7 Servicemen with quantities of booze (5) 8 Nervousness? Take some distilled gin essence (8) 10 Blunder, as tin-eared poet may? (3,1,4,5) 15 Rousing being part of espionage plot, we’re told (9) 16 Obtain smokers’ instruments (8) 18 Spooner’s pronounced Scottish river and lake (4,3) 19 I’m excited, finally: Alfred Russel Wallace to attempt charm (7) 20 In France, Everyman — seeing beer with head regularly — laughed derisively (6) 22 Conceal money, reportedly (5)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3176/article37483213.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Where Stories Gather||Karuna Ezara Parikh  HarperCollins India Rs. 399 Karuna Ezara Parikh’s first volume of poetry asks and answers questions of identity, memory, womanhood and the heart. Her poem ‘Pray for the World’, published in 2015, was a social media sensation. These poems are about the fragility of the human condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/where-stories-gather/article37483177.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Harlem Shuffle||Colson Whitehead  Fleet Rs. 699 To his customers and neighbours on 125th street, Ray is a respectable salesman with a family. Few people know that he descends from a line of uptown miscreants. As his façade slips with a heist gone wrong, an internal tussle begins between Ray the striver and Ray the crook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/harlem-shuffle/article37483185.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The Boy from Shenkottai||Stuart Blackburn  Speaking Tiger Rs. 499 The Madras Presidency, 1911. Vanchinathan, a young boy from a poor Tamil family, joins a militant group opposed to the British. He is tasked with killing a British officer who suppressed a riot and jailed its leader. Buffeted by self-doubt and misgivings, will Vanchi be able to shoot?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-boy-from-shenkottai/article37483187.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The Midnight Years||Jane de Suza, Sangita Unni  Hachette India Rs. 399 In this story about teenagers told from the p.o.v of teenagers, a party turns into a nightmare for four young friends. As they struggle through the dark patch of their lives, they must make life-changing choices that could make or break them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-midnight-years/article37483189.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Words for Birds||Salim Ali (edited by Tara Gandhi)  Black Kite/Hachette Rs. 599 This volume collects Salim Ali’s radio broadcasts on birds between 1941 and 1985. The talks cover many topics from bird habits, habitats to birds at risk. Birds, he says, have a crucial place in nature; they benefit agriculture and the economy in ways we don’t fully understand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/words-for-birds/article37483191.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Smashing the Patriarchy||Sindhu Rajasekaran  Aleph Rs. 699 Taking inspiration from multi-disciplinary theories, this book explores how young Indian women from diverse backgrounds overcome patriarchy in everyday lives. From body politics, and sexuality, to caste and power, Rajasekaran examines how women overcome challenges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/smashing-the-patriarchy/article37483199.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||SUNDAY RECIPE||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article37483169.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Was it really a black hole that the EHT imaged in 2019?||In 2019, astronomers of the Event Horizon Telescope captured the first ever image of a supermassive black hole (M87*) which was located at the centre of a galaxy Messier 87 (M87). This black hole is calculated to be 6.5 billion times the Sun’s mass and is 55 million light years away from the Earth. The discovery set the world of astronomy on fire and also found a mention in the “popular information” section of the announcement of the Nobel Prize in physics for 2020. Now, a paper published in The European Physical Journal C brings in an alternative explanation for the compact object that was imaged by the Event Horizon Telescope. The authors say it (M87*) is not necessarily a black hole but could even be a “naked singularity with a gravitomagnetic monopole.” When stars much more massive than the Sun reach the end of their lives, they collapse under their own gravity, and the product of this collapse, most astronomers believe is a black hole. A black hole has two parts: At its core is a singularity – a point that is infinitely dense, as all the remnant mass of the star is compressed into this point. Then there is the event horizon – an imaginary surface surrounding the singularity, and the gravity of the object is such that once anything enters this surface, it is trapped forever. Not even light can escape the pull of the singularity once it crosses the event horizon. That is why, we cannot see the singularity at the heart of a black hole but only see points outside the event horizon. Troublesome sibling In many scenarios of stellar collapse, the event horizon does not form, and the singularity is exposed to the outside, without any event horizon shielding it. Pankaj S. Joshi, a specialist in general theory of relativity and cosmology, calls this “naked singularity” a “troublesome sibling” of a black hole in an article by him in Scientific American. If this weird object should exist, observers can, in principle, see the bare, or “naked” singularity as it is called. While many physicists object because of some seriously problematic issues associated with the solutions, these nevertheless exist, puzzling researchers, perhaps embarrassing them. Prof. Joshi is the Founding Director of International Center for Cosmology and Advisor, Charusat University, Anand, in Gujarat, and is not involved in the work under discussion. In the above paper, Chandrachur Chakraborty, from the Department of Physics, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, and Kavli Institute of Astronomy and Astrophysics, Peking University, Beijing, China, and his collaborators show that M87* could be either a black hole or a naked singularity and each of these possibilities could be plain or coupled with what is called a gravitomagnetic monopole. In all, that leaves four possibilities in principle. Monopoles and gravity In the nineteenth century, James Clerk Maxwell unified electricity and magnetism as one combined phenomenon, showing that light is an electromagnetic wave. But there is an asymmetry between electricity and magnetism. While positive and negative electric charges can be found to exist independently, the poles of a magnet are always found in pairs, north and south bound together. Dr Chakraborty draws upon an analogy between gravitational force and electromagnetism to explain that in 1963, Newman, Tamburino and Unti (NUT) proposed a theoretical concept called a “gravito-magnetic charge” also called a gravitomagnetic monopole. “We have shown that M87* could be a black hole (with or without gravitomagnetic monopole) or a naked singularity (with or without gravitomagnetic monopole) … The Event Horizon Telescope collaboration mapped it to a black hole only and did also not consider that it might contain a gravitomagnetic monopole,” says Dr Chakraborty.  But this is where a difficult situation arises. When you allow the NUT-like solutions, there is a possibility of “closed timelike loops.” These are regions in parameter space of spacetime in which the past merges with the future allowing many bizarre situations. Hence, this solution comes in for strong criticism from physicists. “The Kerr and the Schwarzschild solutions of Einstein's equations [namely black holes with spin and having an event horizon] are considered appropriate for describing astrophysical black holes, like the one that has been recently imaged in M87. However, the Kerr-NUT solutions describing gravitomagnetic monopoles are not regarded in the same way,” says Joseph Samuel, a physicist from Bengaluru-based International Centre of Theoretical Sciences, who has worked in General theory of Relativity and Cosmology. “These solutions suffer from a pathology known as closed timelike curves. In such spacetimes, time is a periodic variable [that is, everything repeats after a period of time]. One can travel into the past and create logical contradictions by killing off one's ancestors,” Prof. Samuel adds. Prof. Joshi has this to say. “Some important solutions to Einstein equations do admit closed timelike curves. Despite this, the solutions have been studied because they have some other useful or important or interesting features. So, you have to take them in that spirit. This is why the so-called wormhole solutions that also admit closed timelike curves are very much under study today.” Another approach There is another approach. Why discard the entire solution? Only those regions of parameter space that give rise to the closed timelike loops could be thrown away. This is suggested by Prof. Joshi. “Not all solutions of Einstein equations have closed time like curves, but some have… If you do not like closed time like curves then you have to discard away these solutions. It is as simple as that. That is the status of the theory right now,” he says, clarifying that not all naked singularity solutions have closed timelike curves, many of them do respect causality. Thus, an old debate resurfaces with this paper: to throw out these solutions or keep them and handle them carefully.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/was-it-really-a-black-hole-that-the-eht-imaged-in-2019/article37482995.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Fighting mosquito-borne diseases: work in progress||Mosquito-borne diseases have been a scourge for thousands of years, with huge armies defeated, and economies shattered. We were therefore relieved to read reports announcing an effective malaria vaccine, following clinical trials in Burkina Faso conducted by the University of Oxford, the Serum Institute of India and others. This West African country has a long and hot season followed by monsoon rains, when mosquitoes emerge in huge swarms. The R21 vaccine has shown an efficacy of 77%, and targets the ‘circumsporozite’ protein (CSP) of the malarial parasite, Plasmodium falciparum. The sporozite stage of this parasite secretes CSP. Mosquito bites transfer the CSP and sporozites into the human bloodstream, and the CSP nudges the parasite towards the liver, where it enters liver cells, matures and proliferates. The release of mature merozites marks the onset of the symptoms of malaria. Efficient vaccines The WHO has just cleared another vaccine, called Mosquirix, from Glaxo Smith Kline (GSK) of the U.K. With the involvement of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, the vaccine has been tested in Kenya, Malawi and Ghana on over 800,000 children and shows an efficiency of over 50% in the first year, but dropping as time progresses. The Global Vaccine Alliance (GAVI) is planning to purchase the vaccine for countries that request it. (See a report by Apoorva Mandavilli published in New York Times ). Bharat Biotech of Hyderabad has entered into a deal with GSK to develop this vaccine in India, with a dedicated facility at Bhubaneswar. Another rapidly spreading disease is dengue. It is spread by Aedes aegypti mosquitoes, which happily grow in small stagnant pools of water, such as in discarded tyres. Four serotypes of the dengue virus are found. Serotypes make vaccine development difficult, as a different vaccine is needed against each serotype. A vaccine against dengue, DENGVAXIA, from Sanofi Pasteur, is approved in several countries and shows efficacies ranging from 42% to 78% against the four serotypes of the virus. Fighting dengue In India, Zydus Cadilla has been developing a DNA Vaccine against dengue. Dr. Easwaran Sreekumar at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology, Thiruvananthapuram has modelled a consensus of the four serotypes, which is the basis for Zydus Cadilla’s DNA vaccine, using a platform that the company successfully developed for their COVID-19 vaccine. Using parasites Other innovative methods to fight dengue have been in the pipeline. One particularly interesting strategy involves a bacterium, Wolbachia pipientis, an intracellular parasite commonly found in many insects, but not in the dengue-carrying mosquito. When introduced into this mosquito’s cells, this parasite competes successfully against other parasites such as the viruses that cause dengue, chikungunya, yellow fever and Zika.  Aedes mosquitoes, doped with Wolbachia in the laboratory, are released in localities where the disease is prevalent. They quickly spread the bacterium to native Aedes mosquitoes, and the incidence of new dengue cases starts to decline. In a controlled release study in Djakarta, researchers from the Gadjah Mada University placed clusters of Aedes mosquito eggs infected with Wolbachia in 12 localities of the city in December 2017 (9 other localities served as controls – no Wolbachia released). By the time the study was halted in March 2020 due to the pandemic, the 12 localities registered 77% fewer cases of Dengue fever compared to the control localities. The intensity of the fever was less, too, with an 86% drop in hospitalisations due to Dengue. Prevention of disease Another way of preventing, rather than curing, mosquito-borne diseases is to accurately predict the next outbreak, and focus your healthcare and mosquito control machinery accordingly. Both mosquitoes and the Plasmodium parasite need warm, moist weather to flourish. Using data continuously gathered by environmental satellites such as the NOAA-19, scientists at ICMR’s National Institute of Malaria Research have built elaborate models that correlate monthly rainfall data and data on annual state-wise incidence of dengue and malaria with the El-Nino Southern Oscillation, which influences global atmospheric circulation. The result is an early warning tool that forecasts the start of an outbreak and the dynamics of its progression, along with estimates of the likely number of cases. Therefore, health authorities can begin cautionary measures, several weeks in advance, to minimise the impact of an outbreak. This information is currently available for Indian States. Refining it to the district level should be the next step.  (This article was written in collaboration with Sushil Chandani who works in molecular modelling, sushilchandani@gmail.com)  dbala@lvpei.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/fighting-mosquito-borne-diseases-work-in-progress/article37482982.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Zika virus outbreaks, an opportunity to improve healthcare in India||Viruses are ubiquitous, most are innocuous and some, such as SARS CoV-2, turn out to be pernicious. Zika virus, first detected in rhesus monkeys in the Zika forest in Uganda in 1947 and then identified in humans after a few years, appears to be re-positioning itself. For the first 60 years after detection, only 14 human cases had been reported, from Asia and Tropical Africa. The first ever outbreak of Zika virus was reported in 2007 in the island of Yap (a federated state in Micronesia) in the Pacific. Zika virus received global attention with the start of a major outbreak in Brazil in March 2015, which then spread to many countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. The outbreak was associated with higher incidences of microcephaly (a condition which results in a small brain in the fetus) as well as the increased neurological symptoms such as Guillain-Barré syndrome and neuropathies in adults and children infected with the virus. On February 1, 2016, Zika virus outbreak was designated a public health emergency of international concern (PHEIC) by the World Health Organization (a classification a step before a disease is declared as pandemic). Between 2015 and 2017, nearly 550,000 suspected and 175,000 confirmed Zika virus cases were reported, which included nearly 2,700 cases of microcephaly in Brazil alone. The outbreak had subsided by mid-2017; however, by late 2019, the Zika virus has been reported from at least 87 countries across the world.  The earliest evidence of Zika virus in India is in 1952-1953. The prevalence studies conducted by the National Institute of Virology, Pune, in different parts of India, had detected the antibodies against the Zika virus from humans. Zika in India The first two outbreaks of Zika virus infections in India were reported in 2017. This included three human cases from Ahmedabad, Gujarat (January-February, 2017) and one case from Krishnagiri district of Tamil Nadu (July 2017). There were two more outbreaks in 2018 from Madhya Pradesh (130 cases) and Rajasthan (159 cases). In 2021, at least three Zika virus outbreaks have been reported. In Kerala (at least 89 cases) and then in Maharashtra (Around 12 cases), both in July, and most recently from Uttar Pradesh in October-November, 2021 (nearly 110 confirmed cases till now).  Zika virus is primarily a mosquito-borne illness, transmitted by the Aedes mosquitoes (which transmit chikungunya and dengue). However, Zika virus is transmitted from infected mother to fetus during pregnancy, through blood and other body floods and organ translation as well as sexual contact. Most people do not develop any symptoms; however, a few may develop fever, rashes, redness in eye, muscle and joint pain, headache, and generalised fatigue. It is a mild illness for all age groups except for the pregnant women, whose fetus may develop congenital malformation, especially abnormal brain development, microcephaly and other related neurological outcomes. The symptoms are very similar to other common viral illnesses. Infection is suspected if there is ongoing Zika virus transmission in the area, travel history or contact history with a confirmed case. The laboratory confirmation is done from blood or urine samples. There is no licensed vaccine to prevent disease and no specific treatment available. People are advised to take rest, eat well and drink plenty of fluids. Need to step up The current reports of Zika virus outbreaks are not a matter of immediate concern for citizens in India. However, knowing that the vector for Zika virus, the Aedes mosquito is present in all States of India, there is a need for stepping up preventive and public health measures. India should use the recent disease outbreaks as an opportunity to strengthen the disease surveillance system and health data recording and reporting systems in the country. The laboratory capacity for COVID-19, developed in the last 18 months, needs to be optimally used to conduct testing for other emerging infections. One of the key considerations is that the outbreak which had started in Brazil in 2015 was caused by a new variant of Zika virus, termed as American lineage. Though originated from South Asian lineage, it has crucial mutation S139N, attributed to higher incidences of microcephaly and other neurological conditions. All previous outbreaks in India have been due to South-East Asian lineage and no case of microcephaly has been reported from the country. However, there is a need for a systematic surveillance of evolutionary trends in Zika virus, which can be built upon newly developed genetic sequencing capacity for SARS CoV2. Considering most Indian states have reported Zika virus for the first time, there is a need for enhanced surveillance and equipping laboratories with testing kits for Zika virus. In areas where cases are reported, active case findings and surveillance and mosquito control measures (elimination of breeding sites and the public awareness campaigns, especially for specially for pregnant women should be prioritised. It is also the time to ensure coordinated actions between the State government and municipal corporation to develop joint action plans against vector borne diseases and share responsibilities for public health actions. The emergence and re-emergence of viral diseases is partly unavoidable. However, with a stronger public health system , application of principles of epidemiology and use of data, their impact can be minimised.  (Chandrakant Lahariya, a physician-epidemiologist, is a vaccines and health systems specialist. His forthcoming book ‘The Lighthouse of Peeragarhi: What We Need, To Prevent Diseases And Protect Health’ is scheduled for release in 2022.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/zika-virus-outbreaks-an-opportunity-to-improve-healthcare-in-india/article37482983.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Spurts of growth||Did land plants evolve gradually and continuously? The evolution of land plants has been marked by an increase in the complexity of reproductive structures. A recent study has revealed land plants did not evolve gradually over hundreds of millions of years. Instead, they underwent two major bursts of diversification 250 million years apart. The first occurred early in plant history, giving rise to the development of seeds, and the second took place during the diversification of flowering plants, according to a Stanford University release. The Stanford research uses a simple metric to classify plant complexity based on the arrangement and number of basic parts in their reproductive structures. The latest study (Science) has shed light on those changes. The researchers analysed the temporal pattern of the increase in the complexity of reproductive structures by studying fossil and extant land plants across the entire paleontological record. They found that reproductive complexity increased in two widely separated pulses that coincides with key developments in reproductive biology: the origin of seeds in the very late Devonian and the origin of flowering plants in the mid-Cretaceous almost 250 million years later. The second burst of complexity was more dramatic than the first, emphasising the unique nature of flowering plants, according to Andrew Leslie, one of authors of the paper from Stanford. That period gave rise to plants like the passionflower, which can have 20 different types of parts, more than twice the number found in non-flowering plants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/spurts-of-growth/article37482985.ece
14 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Sand mining on farm land near riverbeds stopped in Rajasthan||After the Supreme Court’s order paving the way for legal mining of riverbed sand in Rajasthan, the Mines Department has launched action to stop mining activities within the 5-km radius of rivers. As many as 173 sand mining leases on agricultural land in the demarcated areas have been cancelled. The Supreme Court had on Thursday passed the order while accepting the recommendations of a Central Empowered Committee (CEC) permitting riverbed sand mining to be conducted after obtaining all statutory clearances and payment of applicable taxes. The order has allowed legal mining in the State after a gap of four years. Survey by drone Additional Chief Secretary (Mines and Petroleum) Subodh Agarwal said here on Saturday the mining activities in the remaining 23 leases situated outside the 5-km radius would be monitored to ensure compliance with the regulations. “Those violating the conditions of lease will be closed. An aerial survey by drone will also be undertaken by this month-end to check the activities.” Mr. Agarwal, who has asked all District Collectors and SPs to implement the apex court’s directions, said the court order would facilitate legal mining, storage and transport of riverbed sand and provide relief to the people. The Department has stopped collecting departure tax from the trucks loading the sand, effectively prohibiting illegal mining. The availability of legally mined riverbed sand, mainly used for construction of buildings, had drastically reduced after the Supreme Court’s order in November 2017, restraining all 82 sand mining leases from carrying out mining activities in the absence of environmental clearances and a scientific replenishment study. During the last four years, a mafia had proliferated in the State, operating with illegal mining in several areas, which had led to an exorbitant increase in the prices of riverbed sand. The huge gap in demand and supply also led to delay and closure of several construction projects and posed a major challenge to the State Government on the law and order front. The CEC has recommended that the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change issue environmental clearance to all valid holders of letters of intent, as suggested by the Expert Appraisal Committee, within three months and without insisting on submission of the scientific replenishment report as a precondition. The replenishment study can be undertaken during the course of mining.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sand-mining-on-farm-land-near-riverbeds-stopped-in-rajasthan/article37483585.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Hamilton tops Brazil qualifying, gets 5-place grid penalty||SAO PAULO Lewis Hamiltonbeat rival Max Verstappen in qualifying to take pole position for Saturday's sprint race ahead of the Brazilian Grand Prix, although an engine change means the British driver is facing a five-place grid penalty on Sunday. Hamilton was more than 0.4 seconds ahead of his Red Bull rival in November 12 qualifying at Interlagos, having also set the fastest time in the morning's practice session. That means he'll start first in the sprint race on November 13, which will determine the starting grid for the Sunday’s Grand Prix. However, the decision byMercedesto change the engine of his car means the British driver will not start higher than sixth in Sunday’s race, even if he wins the sprint. “Today was a really good qualifying session, I’m super happy with it,” Hamilton said. “We’ve got the penalty but we’ll give it everything we’ve got. It’s not easy to follow, but I guess Max is starting on pole [Sunday] now so it’s going to be very hard to catch him but I’ll do my best to try and go through the field." The seven-time F1 champion trails Verstappen by 19 points in the standings with four races left in the season. It’s the second time the Mercedes driver has exceeded the limit of three engines for the season, and the penalty will make it even harder to close the gap to Verstappen. Mercedes' Valtteri Bottas finished third in qualifying, 0.014 ahead of Red Bull's Sergio Perez, who was faster than him in the practice session a few hours earler. The Red Bulls had proven faster than the Mercedes cars in recent races but Verstappen said Hamilton's performance on November 12 was “not a big shock” after the engine change. “I am just happy to be second. That is a good position to start from," he said. "You always want to be closer, but sometimes you just have to be realistic.” Hamilton took a 10-place grid penalty for a new engine inTurkey. Bottas has faced similar problems, which has raised questions about the engine's reliability. Mercedes team principal Toto Wolff said Hamilton's engine was replaced because of degradation, adding it's an issue that “is going to continue until the end of the season.” “We haven't yet realized why that is, but we are just seeing it creep down,” Wolff said. The Brazilian GP will be the third event of the season with a qualifying sprint race on Saturday to determine Sunday’s grid. The two previous sprint races were held in Silverstone and Monza. The weather could still play a role at Interlagos, with a thin drizzle falling in certain sectors of the track on November 12, but not enough to impact drivers' performances. Rain certainly won't affect the mood in the stands at Interlagos either, with the croud loudly cheering on the drivers during Friday's sessions. A total of 1,70,000 fans are expected during the three days of racing after last year's grand prix was canceled because of the pandemic. Health restrictions at sporting events in Brazil were removed on November 1. Brazil has reported more than 6,10,000 deaths from the coronavirus, but the rate has sharply decreased around the country. Eugenio Silvano (54) came from the capital Brasil to enjoy all three days at Interlagos. Wearing a shirt that read “Ayrton Senna forever” in Portuguese and a mask in Brazil's yellow and green colors, he said coming to the race in Sao Paulo is the highlight of his year after losing two friends to the virus. “One of them would surely like to come here too, he was 63 and a big fan of racing," Mr. Silvano said. "I know the pandemic is not over. This is the first trip I took in nearly two years, but I had to come, for myself and for those that couldn't.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hamilton-tops-brazil-qualifying-gets-5-place-grid-penalty/article37482922.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Gilts for all||The story so far: The RBI had in February announced proposals for the Retail Direct Scheme for investors in government securities and the Integrated Ombudsman Scheme. The schemes were unveiled by the Prime Minister on November 12. What is the Retail Direct Scheme? Under the Retail Direct Scheme, small investors can now buy or sell government securities (G-Secs), or bonds, directly without having to go through an intermediary like a mutual fund. It is similar to placing funds in debt instruments such as fixed deposits in banks. However, the same tax rules apply to income from G-Secs. But, with the Government being the borrower, there is a sovereign guarantee for the funds and hence zero risk of default. Also, government securities may offer better interest rates than bank fixed deposits, depending on prevailing interest rate trends. For example, the latest yield on the benchmark 10-year government securities is 6.366%. India’s largest lender, State Bank of India, offers 5.4% on deposits of less than Rs. 2 crore for a tenure of five to 10 years. How can individuals access G-Sec offerings? Investors wishing to open a Retail Direct Gilt account directly with the RBI can do so through an online portal set up for the purpose of the scheme. Once the account is activated with the aid of a password sent to the user’s mobile phone, investors will be permitted to buy securities either in the primary market or in the secondary market. The minimum amount for a bid is Rs. 10,000 and in multiples of Rs. 10,000 thereafter. Payments may be made through Net banking or the UPI platform. Retail participants would be bidding for the securities under the “non-competitive segment of primary auctions of Government Securities and Treasury Bills”, the RBI said in a November 12 notification. Why was it necessary to introduce this scheme? The RBI said the scheme would help “broaden the investor base and provide retail investors with enhanced access to the government securities market — both primary and secondary.” It said the scheme was a “major structural reform placing India among select few countries which have similar facilities”. This scheme, among others, would “facilitate smooth completion of the Government borrowing programme in 2021-22”. The Government intends to borrow up to Rs. 12 lakh crore this year ending March 31, 2022. The significant spike in borrowing — that is expected to spur infrastructure and social funding — follows a steep decline in the economy last fiscal. The Union Government, hence, wishes to broaden the base of investors signing up for bond purchases. The added benefit of the Government accessing retail investors could be the freeing up of room for companies to mop up funds from institutional investors; funds that may otherwise have been cornered by the government to fund its expenses. Why is the RBI setting up an Integrated Ombudsman? Prior to the introduction of this scheme, the RBI had three different ombudsman schemes to aid dispute resolution with respect to banks, NBFCs, and non-bank pre-paid payment issuers (PPIs). They were operated by the RBI through 22 ombudsman offices. With the introduction of the integrated scheme, the earlier ones stand repealed. When the regulator unveiled the proposal for an Integrated Ombudsman in February, it said it wished to make dispute resolution more “simpler, efficient and responsive”. Hence the proposal to integrate the three ombudsman schemes and introduce the centralised processing of grievances. This, it said, was intended to make the process of redress of grievances easier “by enabling customers to register their complaints under the integrated scheme, with one centralised reference point”. The RBI would appoint the Ombudsman and a Deputy Ombudsman for three years. Complaints may be made either physically to the Centralised Receipt and Processing Centre or the RBI’s offices; or electronically through the regulator’s complaint management system (https://cms.rbi.org.in/). What about grievances pending adjudication? Though the three earlier schemes have been repealed, the RBI clarified that the adjudication of pending complaints, appeals and execution of the awards passed “shall continue to be governed by the provisions of the respective Ombudsman Schemes and instructions of the Reserve Bank issued thereunder”.  Since the government is the borrower, there is a sovereign guarantee for the funds. Government securities may offer better interest rates than bank fixed deposits||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gilts-for-all/article37482924.ece
14 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Cong. demands judicial probe into woman teacher’s murder||The Opposition — the BJP and the Congress — on Saturday attacked the Naveen Patnaik Government by accusing it of deliberately weakening the probe into the murder of a woman teacher in Odisha’s Kalahandi district. Addressing a press conference here, Bhakta Charan Das, former Union Minister and senior Congress leader, demanded probe by a sitting Orissa High Court judge in the murder case. “The woman teacher was brutally murdered and was charred before being buried on the campus of a school. It cannot be a handiwork of one person. We suspect more people to be involved in the crime,” Mr. Das said. According to the police, the victim was strangulated to death by Gobinda Sahu, promoter of the school, who wanted to prevent her from disclosing his extramarital affairs. “The incident took place on October 8. Minister of State for Home Dibya Shankar Mishra, who had gone to the school a number of times, did not utter a word on the murder. Call details of the Minister and his close aides were not retrieved to establish link with the incident,” said the Congress leader. “Congress MLA Santosh Singh Saluja alleged the Minister along with the accused and the victim had gone to Raipur on September 18, 19 and 20. We had sought tour programme of the Minister. During that period, his presence could not be established,” he said. “The CM was expected to oust his ministerial colleague for being embroiled in the controversy. Instead, he shared the dais at Bhawanipatna and tried to protect him,” he said. Senior BJP leader Bijoy Mohapatra also questioned the role of the police in diluting case. “When the complaint was lodged on October 13, the police took three days to submit case diary in Bongomunda court,” he said BJD spokesperson Sasmit Patra alleged that Mr. Das was himself associated with Gobinda Sahu, and must come clean on this. Deepak Kumar, Deputy Inspector General (North), dismissed the allegation. “We are investigating the incident with utmost sincerity and professional capability,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-demands-judicial-probe-into-woman-teachers-murder/article37483397.ece
14 November 2021||Pune,||Woman held in cheating case against cruise probe witness||A woman has been arrested here in connection with a 2020 cheating case registered against Kiran Gosavi, a private investigator and witness in the Narcotics Control Bureau’s cruise ship drug bust operation, the police said on Saturday. A Pune Cantonment police station official said Kusum Gaikwad was held as she allegedly received a part of the proceeds after some people were cheated with job promises. “In the cheating case registered by us in 2020, of the Rs. 4.05 lakh involved, a sum of Rs. 1.30 lakh went into Ms. Gosavi’s account and the rest was given to Kusum Gaikwad. Ms. Gaikwad was also sending prospective cheating victims to Ms. Gosavi,” said Senior Inspector Ashok Kadam of Pune Cantonment police station. The 2020 case registered with Pune Cantonment police station involves the cheating of three people to the tune of Rs. 4.05 lakh on the pretext of giving them jobs in Malaysia. Ms. Gosavi, currently booked in cases registered with Pune Cantonment, Wanwadi and Faraskhana police stations, was also booked in a similar case by Bhosari police here, an officer informed on Saturday. A Latur resident has complained to Bhosari police that Ms. Gosavi cheated him of Rs. 2.25 lakh after promising a job in Brunei in 2015, the official added. Ms. Gosavi is a witness in the drug bust on October 2 on board a cruise ship off the coast of Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/woman-held-in-cheating-case-against-cruise-probe-witness/article37483582.ece
14 November 2021||Haflong,||Forty-six DNLA militants come overground in Assam||Forty-six militants of Dimasa National Liberation Army (DNLA) came overground in Assam on Saturday as part of the ongoing peace talks with the outfit, a senior police officer said. The group, mostly active in Dima Hasao district, had declared a unilateral ceasefire for three months on September 7 as a “goodwill gesture and as a positive response to the call for peace” by Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. “The peace process is on track and we welcome the DNLA militants for coming overground,” the police officer said. The ‘chairman’ of the outfit, Edika Diphusa alias Kharmindao Dimasa, his ‘deputy’ Juddychan Haflongbar alias America Dimasa and ‘general secretary’ Prithamjit Jidongsa alias Galao Dimasa came to the fore on September 24 to hold peace talks with the government, the police officer said. “More than 300 others will come overground soon once the ceasefire camp is ready,” the self-styled area commander of the outfit Naiding Dimasa said. Additional Director General of Assam Police (Special Branch) Hiren Nath and Inspector General of Police Dipak Kedia, along with other officers, attended a programme at Khepre Bazaar in Dima Hasao district on Saturday to receive the cadres. The DNLA was formed in 2019 with the purported aim to establish a “sovereign and independent Dimasa nation”. Its members were suspected to have been involved in the killing of five drivers of coal trucks in Dima Hasao district on August 27 after the vehicle owners allegedly failed to pay money as demanded by the outfit. CM Himanta Biswa Sarma had appealed to all militants to come forward for talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/forty-six-dnla-militants-come-overground-in-assam/article37483578.ece
14 November 2021||Kolkata,||Film festival aims to create LGBT awareness in schools||Prayasam, a UNICEF-supported organisation that works with underserved communities in Kolkata, is organising a film festival dedicated to the LGBT community, the idea being to drive home the point early on that its members needed — more than anything else — acceptance from their families and society. The organisation turned 25 this week and the Bad and Beautiful World Film Festival, which it has been holding since 2014, will show an anthology of eight short films titled Resh (reverberance), with screenings being held even in schools. ‘To normalise’ “The purpose of this film festival is not to ‘popularise’ a community but to normalise and accept people irrespective of their sexual preferences. Learning about LGBTQ issues from a formative age will enable youth to become good allies to their peers as they get older, which is why these films will be screened in Prayasam’s network of 60 schools once the educational institutions open soon,” said Prasanta Roy, director of Prayasam. “Be it in India or abroad, the scenario hasn’t much changed when it comes to social acceptance. Raising of eyebrows or extra inquisitiveness towards people in same-sex relationship can be witnessed everywhere. While it has become a trend on social media to use a rainbow frame on Facebook profile photos, this show of support remains limited to social media platforms, conferences, discussions and debates. It is questionable that though Article 377 has been repealed in the book, how many of us will be able to accept if our son or daughter or sibling or a family member is gay or lesbian,” Mr. Roy said. The festival will open on December 3 at Kalanjali Art Space in the neighbourhood of Salt Lake City, where Prayasam is most active. The crew for the eight short films was drawn from the youth associated with Prayasam, and the actors were people from outside the organisation. The panel of judges include professionals from India and abroad. ‘To stop bullying’ “Our objective is to promote all-inclusive education so that the LGBTQ youth do not feel isolated or unwanted. Through the films, we want to open a positive discussion around these identities and create a more supportive environment. This is very important because one of the main reasons of LGBTQ bullying in schools — which often results in dropouts — comes from lack of understanding of what actually means to be LGBTQ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/film-festival-aims-to-create-lgbt-awareness-in-schools/article37483571.ece
14 November 2021||Mumbai,||MSRTC strike: Minister meets NCP chief||Maharashtra Transport Minister Anil Parab on Saturday met NCP supremo Sharad Pawar in connection with the MSRTC strike that entered its seventh day. Employees of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation have been on a strike demanding that the State-run undertaking be merged with the State Government, a process that will give them better salaries and greater job security. State transport department officials indicated that a wage hike and additional facilities to staffers could be considered but merger was a far more difficult proposition as it could trigger similar demands from scores of State-run corporations. A meeting between Mr. Parab and Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte as well as senior officials and some BJP leaders is under way in State guest house Sahyadri to break the impasse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/msrtc-strike-minister-meets-ncp-chief/article37483583.ece
14 November 2021||Rangia (Assam),||Human trafficking racket busted in Assam||A human trafficking racket was busted in Assam on Saturday and 10 people, including two minors, were rescued in the operation in Kamrup (Rural) district, an official said. 3 ‘traffickers’ held Three suspected traffickers were also arrested during the raid by a joint team comprising the local police and 24the Battalion of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), he said. Navneet Kumar Yadav, SSB Assistant Commandant, said that based on an intelligence input, a raid was carried out in a house in the Teteliguri area, near Rangia Railway Station. Altogether 13 people were nabbed from the house, and based on spot interrogation, it was learnt that three of them – comprising a man, his son and daughter – were operating a suspected human trafficking network, Yadav said.  10 rescued The other 10 people, including two women and as many minors, hailing from different parts of Assam were allegedly kept confined in the house and were to be taken to New Delhi, with the promise of employment in private factories there, he added. “The three suspected traffickers have been taken into custody by the police. The rescued people have been handed to the police for the rehabilitation process,” the SSB officer said. A PAN card, eight multimedia mobile phones, and one motorcycle without a registration number were recovered during the operation, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/human-trafficking-racket-busted-in-assam/article37483572.ece
14 November 2021||November 14 2021 00:00 IST,||A patient wait||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-patient-wait/article37483580.ece
