15 November 2021||New Delhi,||CBI, ED chiefs can now have five-year terms||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday promulgated two ordinances that would allow the Union Government to extend the tenures of the directors of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) from two years to up to five years. The chiefs of the Central agencies currently have a fixed two-year tenure, but can now be given three annual extensions. While the change in tenure of the post of CBI Director was effected by amending the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946, the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003 was amended with respect to the ED Director’s post. The move comes just days before the present ED chief, Sanjay Kumar Mishra, is to retire on November 17. The move has riled the Opposition as the ordinances were brought in barely two weeks before the winter session of Parliament from November 29. “Provided that the period for which the Director of Enforcement holds the office on his initial appointment may, in the public interest, on the recommendation of the Committee under clause(a) and for the reason to be recorded in writing, be extended up to one year at a time,” the Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021 read. “Provided further that no such extension shall be granted after the completion of a period of five years in total, including the period mentioned in the initial appointment,” it added. SC order While the move will not immediately benefit CBI Director Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, appointed in May, it may benefit Mr. Mishra. Appointed in November 2018, the ED chief was to retire in November 2020. However, when the Government gave him a one-year extension retrospectively on November 13, 2020, the order was challenged in the Supreme Court. On September 8, a Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and B.R. Gavai directed the Government not to give Mr. Mishra any more extension, while observing that any extension of tenure during superannuation has to be for a short period and reasons must be recorded for granting such extensions. The court also noted that such extensions could be given “only in rare and exceptional circumstances” to facilitate an ongoing investigation. However, after the promulgation of the ordinance, the Centre can now give one-year extensions thrice after the completion of the initial two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-ed-chiefs-can-now-have-five-year-terms/article37496796.ece
15 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Deliveries of S-400 systems have begun: Russian official||Ahead of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s visit to India early next month, Moscow has started deliveries of the S-400 air defence systems to India, a senior Russian official confirmed. This risks the possibility of sanctions from the U.S. under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) which would come up for discussion at the India-U.S. 2+2 ministerial dialogue, also scheduled for early December. “Russia has started supplying S-400 air defence system to India, the first division will be delivered by the end of 2021,” said Dmitry Shugaev, Director of Federal Service for Military-Technical Cooperation (FSMTC). The supplies are proceeding on schedule, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/deliveries-of-s-400-systems-have-begun-russian-official/article37496794.ece
15 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Coal ‘phase-down’ is a right: Minister||A day after the 26th United Nations Conference of Parties (COP) in Glasgow ended on Saturday, Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav, in a personal blog, dwelt on India’s last-minute intervention that played a key role in the final text of the agreement that called for coal to be “phased down” rather than “phased out”. “Fossil fuels and their use have enabled parts of the world to attain high levels of growth. Even now, developed countries have not completely phased out coal. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) refers to mitigation of GHG emissions from all sources. UNFCCC is not directed at any particular source,” he wrote, “Developing countries have a right to their fair share of the global carbon budget and are entitled to the responsible use of fossil fuels within this scope.” He said the lack of commitment (by the West) to climate finance is “troublesome”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/coal-phase-down-is-a-right-minister/article37496806.ece
15 November 2021||TIRUPATI,||Amit Shah calls for competitive, cooperative federalism among States||Union Minister of Home and Cooperation Amit Shah on Sunday said the ancient culture, traditions and languages of southern States enriched the country’s culture and legacy. “India’s development can’t be imagined without the very important contribution of the States of southern India,” he said. Mr. Shah, who chaired the 29th meeting of the Southern Zonal Council here, said the Narendra Modi Government would respect all regional languages. He said he would be happy to see delegates feeling free to speak in the languages of their States in the future. He said the States should use the zonal councils for amicably settling inter-State disputes and promoting cooperative federalism. “Zonal Councils provide the platform to foster such collaboration through a structured mechanism for dialogue on issues affecting two or more States or the Centre and States, in the spirit that strong States make a strong nation,” Mr. Shah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amit-shah-calls-for-competitive-cooperative-federalism-among-states/article37496800.ece
15 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||KTR urges Centre to sanction mega powerloom cluster in Sircilla||Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao has requested the Central government to expeditiously sanction a mega powerloom cluster in Sircilla under the Comprehensive Powerloom Cluster Development Scheme (CPCDS). Sircilla has been a major hub of handloom and textiles activity for several decades. “The town has necessary ecosystem and trained manpower required to set up a mega powerloom cluster,” he said in a letter addressed to Union Minister Piyush Goyal. The letter is the eighth in the series of letters written by Mr. Rama Rao requesting the sanction for the powerloom cluster. The government failed to initiate any action in spite of repeated reminders and personal meetings. The State government had initiated several measures to ensure that the weaver community of this town finds gainful employment. Some of these initiatives included 40% input subsidy linked wage compensation scheme, thrift fund for handloom and powerloom weavers and providing work to them on a continuous basis. These steps resulted in revival of the industry along with major increase in wages. Recalling that the Centre had appreciated the measures initiated by the Telangana government, he, however, expressed disappointment over the State not receiving any significant support related to handloom and textiles sector from the Union government. “I would like to reiterate that the development of Telangana translates into the development of the country,” he said. He highlighted the achievements of the State in attracting marquee investments into the textile sector. The Minister said that the country was unable to compete even with smaller countries due to lack of support to progressive States like Telangana. “Over the past few years, we have been observing that the Union government is announcing schemes and assistance to States which lack the necessary ecosystem or resources. All this at the expense of fast developing States like Telangana,” he lamented. He highlighted the achievements of the State in attracting marquee investments into the textile sector and said Telangana could achieve these investments by competing not only with other States, but with other countries. The State has earmarked an extra budget for the handloom and powerloom sector and took up world class projects like Kakatiya Mega Textile Park. The youth of Telangana was eagerly waiting for employment opportunities that would be created by projects like the mega powerloom cluster, he said, appealing that the Centre should sanction the cluster in Sircilla without further delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ktr-urges-centre-to-sanction-powerloom-cluster-in-sircilla/article37497130.ece
15 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Slight improvement in Delhi air quality after 3 days||The air quality in Delhi improved on Sunday to ‘very poor’ from ‘severe’ category after three days. The slight improvement came as the State Government notified steps to control pollution, including banning construction activities and closing educational institutions. According to data from the Central Pollution Control Board, the average AQI over the past 24 hours ending at 4 p.m. on Sunday was 330. The Commission for Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas held a meeting during the day and advised States to be ready to implement ‘Emergency Measures’ as listed under the Graded Response Action Plan. It advised the Governments of Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh to consider curbs in their respective NCR districts as implemented by the Delhi Government. For its part, the Haryana Government ordered closure of schools, both Government and private, in four districts neighbouring Delhi — Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar — for three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/slight-improvement-in-delhis-air-quality-after-3-days/article37496977.ece
15 November 2021||TIRUPATI,||Amit Shah calls for cooperative federalism||Union Minister of Home and Cooperation Amit Shah on Sunday said the ancient culture, traditions and languages of southern States enriched the country’s culture and legacy. “India’s development can’t be imagined without the very important contribution of the States of southern India,” he said. Mr. Shah, who chaired the 29th meeting of the Southern Zonal Council here, said the Narendra Modi Government would respect all regional languages. He said he would be happy to see delegates feeling free to speak in the languages of their States in the future. He said the States should use the zonal councils for amicably settling inter-State disputes and promoting cooperative federalism. “Zonal Councils provide the platform to foster such collaboration through a structured mechanism for dialogue on issues affecting two or more States or the Centre and States, in the spirit that strong States make a strong nation,” he said. “We have been able to achieve 111 crore vaccine doses as of today [Sunday] during the COVID-19 pandemic. This is a big achievement and an example of cooperative federalism,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/role-of-southern-states-key-in-countrys-development-shah/article37496609.ece
15 November 2021||TIRUPATI,||Injustice done to State, says Chief Minister||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Sunday said that non-fulfilment of the assurances in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act -2014 had led to grave injustice to the residual State, besides laying a huge financial stress on it. At the 29th Southern Zonal Council meet here, chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the Chief Minister said that though Andhra Pradesh was divided on the assurance of providing the special status to the residual State, it did not happen even seven years later. “The delay in fulfilling the promises has forced the State into huge losses since 2014. Apart from financial losses, it is also adversely impacting the relations with others States. Despite our repeated appeals for the special category status, it has not been realised,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, urging Mr. Amit Shah to immediately look into the demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/injustice-done-to-state-says-chief-minister/article37496802.ece
15 November 2021||BENGALURU,||State opposes T.N.’s river-link proposal||Seeking its rightful share in Cauvery, Krishna, and Pennar river basins in the Godavari-Cauvery link project, Karnataka on Sunday urged the Centre that no statutory clearances should be given to large-scale permanent projects aimed at utilising surplus waters in violation of water tribunal awards. Participating in the 29th Southern Zonal Council meeting on Sunday, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said: “Though the shares of co-basin States have not been decided in the Godavari -Cauvery link, Tamil Nadu has been going ahead with the Cauvery-Vagai-Gundar link which is inadmissible in law. We have urged the Centre not to approve T.N.’s proposal for taking up the Cauvery-Vaigai- Gundar link”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-opposes-tns-river-link-proposal/article37496823.ece
15 November 2021||KHAMMAM,||Bus catches fire, close shave for 21 passengers||About 21 passengers of a Bhadrachalam-bound TSRTC Garuda bus had a miraculous escape when the bus caught fire in Wyra town late on Sunday evening. The incident occurred on the Khammam-Thallada highway while the AC bus was heading from Miyapur in Hyderabad to Bhadrachalam in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district late in the evening. Alerted by a passenger sitting in the back row of seats, the bus driver noticed smoke billowing from the rear left side of the bus and immediately halted it on the main road, sources said. All the passengers including crew members of the bus swiftly disembarked from the vehicle before its rear portion, above the back axle of the bus, caught fire with thick smoke emanating from it. A fire tender reached the spot and extinguished the flames a little later, sources added. The local police in coordination with the TSRTC officials made alternative arrangements for the onward journey of the passengers of the Garuda bus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bus-catches-fire-close-shave-for-21-passengers/article37497342.ece
15 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Festive sales have lifted economy’||The economy is “bouncing back” strongly with festive sales hitting highs “not seen in a long time” and is set to record the highest-ever exports of $550 billion in 2021-22, Commerce, Industry and Textiles Minister Piyush Goyal said on Sunday. Merchandise exports stood at $235 billion for the first seven months of the year and are “well on track” to hit $400 billion, while Services exports are expected to go up to about $150 billion, Mr. Goyal said at the launch of the India International Trade Fair. “I am told several reports suggest that Deepavali sales, festival sales, earlier this month, were probably the highest seen in a long time. Every statistic, be it job creation or enrolments into the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation, reflects a broad recovery,” he said. “The economy is bouncing back if you look at the figures in every aspect, the PMI [Purchasing Managers’ Index] for Services has hit a decade high, Manufacturing PMI is above 55. GST collections… one normally sees a spike in collections in April, because it’s the year-end, but this October, we recorded Rs. 1.3 lakh crore,” he said. “In some way, exports also reflect the growing relevance of India. Collectively, we are on track for a historical high for exports of goods and services in the current year, showing how quickly the world has engaged with India, wants to deepen engagement, so that they can be sure of India as a trusted partner in their supply chains and services chains.” Alluding to the need for States to take greater interest in promoting exports, the Minister cited the example of Uttar Pradesh and said no other State had taken steps like creating a full department for export promotion. “When you talk to other States, they say ‘Export promotion is the Centre’s role, Why should we do it?’ But Yogi Adityanath has understood that when exports are promoted, it will create jobs for people, economy will be strengthened and when domestic and export markets are combined, you get economies of scale,” he said. The 14-day trade fair starting on Sunday will tell the world that “India is back in business”, Mr. Goyal said. “The launch of this international trade fair reflects in some senses, the five Sutras of Bharat. They are Economy, Exports, Infrastructure, Demand and Diversity . How the economy has been protected by the Government, industry and people at large, and pushed it forward, is a matter of pride for us,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/festive-sales-have-lifted-economy/article37496797.ece
15 November 2021||Pune,||Gadchiroli encounter a blow to Naxals||The Gadchiroli encounter in which 26 members of the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist), including key fugitive Milind Teltumbde, were ‘neutralised’ was a severe blow to the Naxals’ urban and jungle networks in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, authorities have said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gadchiroli-encounter-a-blow-to-naxals/article37496804.ece
15 November 2021||Chennai,||Panel to probe AIADMK regime’s irregularities||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Sunday that a commission would be constituted to probe the irregularities said to have been committed by the previous AIADMK government. To a question on the Opposition’s criticism of his government’s handling of the floods, he said he was “not concerned” about the Opposition’s take on the functioning of his government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-to-probe-aiadmk-regimes-irregularities/article37496939.ece
15 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Night service buses resume in city||After over one-and-a-half years, the BMTC resumed night services from Sunday. To begin with, 70 buses will be operated on various routes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/night-service-buses-resume-in-city/article37496825.ece
15 November 2021||Chennai,||Panel to probe AIADMK regime’s irregularities||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Sunday that a commission would be constituted to probe the irregularities said to have been committed by the previous AIADMK government. To a question on the Opposition’s criticism of his government’s handling of the floods, he said he was “not concerned” about the Opposition’s take on the functioning of his government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-to-probe-aiadmk-regimes-irregularities/article37497053.ece
15 November 2021||Bulandshahr,||Congress to go solo in U.P. polls, says Priyanka||The Congress will contest all the 403 seats in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls on its own and emerge victorious, party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/congress-to-go-solo-in-up-polls-says-priyanka/article37496978.ece
15 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||Workers, farmers’ unions join forces||Several workers’ unions in Gurugram’s automotive sector and the Samyukt Kisan Morcha came together for the first time to hold a joint public meeting in support of their demands on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/workers-farmers-unions-join-forces/article37496979.ece
15 November 2021||Guwahati,||Two Delhi journalists detained in Assam||Two Delhi-based women journalists, booked in Tripura for criminal conspiracy and other charges, were detained by the police in Karimganj district of Assam on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-delhi-journalists-detained-in-assam/article37496980.ece
15 November 2021||Mangaluru,||Concerns over schedule of mid-term II PU exam||Teachers, parents, and students have expressed concerns over the mid-term II Pre-University examination, which is scheduled to commence from November 29, as there is not much gap between some of the papers . The concerns are more so with regard to the scheduling of Computer Science and Statistics papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/concerns-over-schedule-of-mid-term-ii-pu-exam/article37497253.ece
15 November 2021||Pune,||Amravati situation under control, says Minister||The situation in Amravati district is under control, the Maharashtra Home Minister said on Sunday. He said the motive behind the rallies by certain organisations which led to the violence and a heightening of communal tensions would be probed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amravati-situation-under-control-says-minister/article37497211.ece
15 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||Two women athletes go missing in Assam||Two kickboxers are among five women who have been missing in Assam for a week. A statement issued by the United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent, which has extended its cessation of operations, has indicated they may have left home to join the outfit in its hideout in Myanmar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-women-athletes-go-missing-in-assam/article37497212.ece
15 November 2021||Bulandshahr,||Cong. to go solo in U.P. polls, contest all seats||The Congress will contest all 403 seats in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls on its own and emerge victorious, party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Sunday. She called upon party workers to bolster booth committees and be active on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-to-go-solo-in-up-polls-contest-all-seats/article37497214.ece
15 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Slight improvement in Delhi air quality||The air quality in the national capital improved on Sunday to ‘very poor’ from ‘severe’ after three days . The slight improvement came as the Delhi Government notified a host of measures to control pollution including banning construction activities, and closing educational institutions and encouraging residents to avoid commuting by working from home. According to data provided by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the average AQI over the past 24 hours ending at 4 p.m. on Sunday based on the reading from 36 monitoring stations was 330. The AQI was 437 on Saturday, down from 471 on Friday and the improvement in the air quality has been attributed to the increase in wind speeds that have been able to disperse pollutants. The forecast shared by the Government-run Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi shows that the air quality is likely to deteriorate but remain in the “very poor” category on November 15 and 16. Shallow to moderate fog is likely in the morning on November 16. Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Sunday said that the Environment Department has issued orders regarding shutting of institutions under the Environment Protection Act of 1986 under which schools, colleges, skill development centres and educational institutions will remain closed till November 20. Only in cases where examinations are being conducted will the institutions be allowed to open, he added. Construction and demolition projects have been put on hold till November 17 and the Delhi Government’s offices and government autonomous agencies will also remain closed till November 17. Review to follow “The major objective behind these emergency measures is to cut down on vehicular pollutants. An advisory has been issued to private offices to follow suit,” Mr. Rai said. The Minister said that on November 17, the ban on construction will be reviewed as it has been estimated that the pollution levels are only going to escalate in the coming days. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia appealed to the people of Delhi to take small steps at the personal level like turning off the engine at traffic signals and using public transport for at least one day every month to to make the city healthy and pollution free. Mr. Sisodia was speaking at a “Yuddh Pradushan Ke Virrudh” campaign conducted by the Delhi Government’s Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC) in association with Raahgiri Foundation at Patparganj Vidhan Sabha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/slight-improvement-in-delhi-air-quality/article37496601.ece
15 November 2021||Pune,||Gadchiroli encounter a ‘severe blow’ to Maoists’ networks||The Gadchiroli encounter in which 26 members of the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) — including key fugitive Milind Teltumbde — were “neutralised” was a severe blow to the Naxals’ urban and jungle networks in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, said authorities. They said the death of Teltumbde, central committee member and in-charge of the newly formed Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh confluence (MMC) zone, was likely to affect the recruitment and expansion of the Maoists in this zone. Gadchiroli SP Ankit Goyal said Teltumbde was the “mastermind” behind violent and obstructionist activities and the organisation’s linchpin in establishing and expanding Maoist activity in the zone. Pivotal figure “Milind Teltumbde was an important figure not merely in the CPI(Maoist)’s organisation in Maharashtra but a pivotal figure in the country’s network. Likewise, two other slain Maoists, Lokesh and Mahesh Gota, were both divisional committee members (DVCMs) who terrorised the local populace and thwarted development work in the district and the region,” said Mr. Goyal. He said Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh too would reap the dividends of the “historic” operation as the zone was a veritable bastion for the Maoists on account of its hilly terrain and dense forests. Officials said Teltumbde had an elaborate personal security system and moved with heavily armed bodyguards and a platoon of Maoists wherever he camped. Authorities said given the high number of Maoists who had been laying down their arms or were killed in encounters in the past few years, the outfit’s leadership in north Gadchiroli was severely weakened and as good as finished for the past one year. He said the police had obtained intelligence inputs two-three days ago that a large number of Maoists had set up camp somewhere around the Gyarapatti village in Gadchiroli’s Korchi tehsil. The authorities apparently did not precisely know that Teltumbde would be among them. Sophisticated weapons “After analysing these inputs, we planned an operation headed by Additional SP Soumya Munde, who led teams of around 300 C-60 jawans and commenced combing operations. At around 6 a.m. on November 13, the Maoists opened fire on our teams using sophisticated weapons. Going by the intensity of the fire they kept up from their positions in the hilly areas, we estimate that 100 Maoists were present there,” Mr. Goyal said, adding that there was a likelihood of more outlaws being injured in the operation. He said the Maoists had kept up a heavy fire for the most part of the 10-hour operation. He said the injured men were immediately taken out of the combat zone in a chopper and admitted to a Nagpur hospital where they are out of danger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gadchiroli-encounter-a-severe-blow-to-maoists-networks/article37496572.ece
15 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Divide between haves, have-nots remains: CJI||The stark divide between haves and have-nots is still a reality, Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said here on Sunday. “Despite our being a part of a welfare state, benefits are not trickling down to the intended beneficiaries at the desired levels. People’s aspiration about leading a dignified life are often met with challenges. One of them, primarily, being poverty,” the CJI said. Chief Justice Ramana quoted Jawaharlal Nehru on the impact of poverty and a fragmented society in a country’s growth: “There could be no real freedom without economic freedom” and that “to call a starving man free, is but to mock him”. He was speaking at a pan-Indian legal awareness and outreach campaign programme which coincided with the birth anniversary of Nehru, India’s first Prime Minister. ‘Dignity for all’ Chief Justice Ramana reminded that the “fundamental mission of our Independence struggle was to find life and dignity for all”. The top judge reminisced how the Independence movement fought and won against the colonial attitude that “poverty is a misfortune for which the law cannot take any responsibility at all”. “The struggles and aspirations of our people shaped our Constitution, the document which promised us an egalitarian future,” the CJI said. Judicial independence The CJI said an independent and robust district judiciary was the foremost sign of a healthy judiciary. A woman in distress, a child in care of need, an illegal detainee approach the trial court first. “The mind of the Indian judiciary can be known to millions largely through the actions of the trial court and the district judiciary. For an overwhelming majority of litigants, what is real and existing is only the district judiciary. Without robust justice delivery system at the grassroots level, we cannot imagine a healthy judiciary,” Chief Justice Ramana said. The CJI reinforced the need to practise a justice delivery system which reached out to those in need and rendered them help without delay. The CJI said such people care little for “well-dressed, erudite lawyers or colossal court buildings”. “All they want is to be relieved of their pain quickly, without exhausting all their resources,” Chief Justice Ramana said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/divide-between-haves-have-nots-remains-cji/article37496583.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Will move dissent note in JPC on data Bill’||Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh says he will be submitting a dissent note in the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) on Personal Data Protection Bill against the clause that gives powers to the Union Government to suspend all or any of the provisions of this Act for Government agencies. Excerpts:  What is happening with the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Personal Data Protection Bill? The committee has been working on the Bill for the past two years. We are going to adopt the report on November 22. There will be dissent notes, but these will be decent notes. I must compliment Chairman P.P. Chaudhary. He has made every effort to bring together different points of views. He has been very democratic, collegial and consultative. I know there are senior people in this Government who do not want this Bill to come. There is a view in the Government, amongst some Ministers, that this law will add to the cost of compliance. Will you be moving a dissent note? Yes. My dissent is fundamentally against Clause 35 and I will also be moving a qualified dissent against Clause 12. Clause 35, I would say, is the basic architectural flaw with the law. It gives sweeping powers to the Government to exempt any agency from the entire Act. The Government should pass a law in Parliament for the exemption for any of its agencies. I moved an amendment in December 2020 seeking this change. But that was not accepted. The clause as it stands says that the Government has to record the reasons in writing for seeking the exemption. If the reasons have to be recorded in writing, I believe that it should be laid on the table of Parliament. That too was not agreed to, thus the dissent. Section 12 is the other problematic area. Under this Section, all Government departments which are governed by law such as the Income Tax Department and the Unique Identification Authority of India, will be exempt from purposes of consent. It is extraordinary that the UIDAI is seeking exemption, considering the Justice K.S. Puttuswamy judgment came because of it. We have come a long way from the Bill when it was introduced in 2019. But I have no doubt in my mind that this will be challenged in the Supreme Court and it will return to Parliament for several revisions. Secretary-General of Rajya Sabha P.P.K. Ramacharyulu was removed unceremoniously. Your comments. That is an extraordinary decision, particularly after credit was claimed saying that it is the first time in 70 years an officer of the Rajya Sabha was elevated to the post of Secretary-General. Mr. Ramacharyulu is a very qualified man, he is a Ph.D. from JNU and a thorough professional. This is also, I might say, a rebuff to the Vice-President and the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha. What are the issues that will dominate the upcoming winter session of Parliament? Farm laws are an ongoing issue, with no breakthrough in sight. The deterioration of the border situation and the complete confusion that exists vis-a-vis China and the continued unwillingness of the Government to discuss this in any form are also of great concern. Both Houses of Parliament were in session when the Chinese invasion was on in November 1962. If it could be debated back then why not now? The economy will also be in focus, particularly the runaway inflation. Haven’t the Opposition parties failed to bring the issue of “price rise” to the centre stage? No. Last session was unusual. I can’t recall any time when the Leader of the Opposition of the Rajya Sabha called a meeting of 14-15 Opposition parties. We met each day to decide the strategy. Of course that was dictated by Pegasus. While it remains an issue, but after the Supreme Court committee, the salience of that issue is different from what it was in the monsoon session. In a couple of days, the Opposition parties will get together to decide the strategy for the upcoming session. You are the AICC observer for Manipur. What are the Congress’s hopes and expectations for the Assembly elections next year? In Manipur, we stand a very good chance. In 2017, we were the single largest party; we had 28 MLAs, we could have formed the government if we had three more MLAs. But market forces intervened. In a similar situation, in 2002, we were the single largest party and we formed the government. In 2017 we were the single largest, but Mr. (Amit) Shah and Mr. (Narendra) Modi did not let us form the government. The Congress is perpetually fire-fighting in the States where it is in power. When will it stop? We are an open and democratic party where people are free to express their views. We represent India in all its colours. But if you ask me whether the Congress could have more unity, more discipline and more self-control, I can’t disagree. And Congress president Sonia Gandhi has said this repeatedly, I am not really saying anything new here. The Congress is really the only national force that can take on the BJP. The Trinamool Congress and the AAP may disagree with you about the Congress being the only “national force”. The Trinamool’s victory in West Bengal was magnificent, no doubt about it. They didn’t defeat the BJP, they destroyed the BJP. Similarly, the DMK is the pre-eminent political force in Tamil Nadu. The Congress also recognises this and it will work to bring these forces together. ‘Anti-BJPism’ is certainly a glue but a stronger glue will be a common programme and that will emerge.  Clause 35 gives sweeping powers to the Government to exempt any agency from the entire Act. It is a flaw with the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-move-dissent-note-in-jpc-on-data-bill/article37496590.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Reconsider transfer of Madras HC CJ, senior counsel urge SC Collegium||Thirty-one designated senior counsel have sent a joint representation to the Supreme Court Collegium, urging it to reconsider its recommendation to the Centre and the President to transfer Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee to the High Court of Meghalaya. The representation stated that the Chief Justice had assumed office in the Madras High Court only on January 4, and had completed only 10 months here, though he had two more years of service, with his date of retirement being November 1, 2023. “During his term, he has discharged his functions, both in the administrative and judicial side, to the best of his capabilities, bringing honour to the office he held. He has been a good administrator, and in the judicial side, has disposed a few thousand cases, even during the devastating COVID-19 pandemic,” the senior counsel said. Their representation went on to read: “The orders were predominantly dictated in the open court and delivered. When this is a fact that most advocates and litigants will readily agree to, we are unable to fathom the reasons for his sudden transfer to another court.” The senior counsel also said that constant transfers of judges had left the Madras High Court in a state of constant flux. Such short-lived tenures at the apex of the court’s hierarchy in a State bodes ill for the health of the institution and the justice delivery system, they said. Stating that it takes a new Chief Justice at least a year to understand the administration, composition and challenges of an institution, apart from understanding the culture, language and local practices of a State, the senior counsel said any Chief Justice of the Madras High Court should at least have a two-year term. However, in the last three years, the Madras High Court has had three Chief Justices apart from Acting Chief Justices who were at the helm of affairs for brief periods, the senior counsel said, requesting the collegium not to view the representation as a missive aimed at supporting the cause of any individual, but a plea to strengthen the health of the institution. The signatories to the representation included senior counsel P.S. Raman, V. Prakash, Nalini Chidambaram, E. Omprakash, Ravi Kumar Paul, N.R. Elango, P.H. Arvindh Pandian, Satish Parasaran, Veera Kathiravan, A. Thiyagarajan, M.K. Kabir and A.R.L. Sundaresan. Those who signed electronically, by consent, included senior counsel Arvind P. Datar, Hema Sampath, S. Subbiah, M. Ravindran, Vijay Narayan, M. Ajmal Khan, S. Ramasamy, A. Sirajudeen, J. Raja Kalifulla, N. Krishnaveni, P.R. Raman, Pushya Sitaraman, T.P. Manoharan, N.C. Ramesh, Chitra Sampath, Isaac Mohanlal, R. Venkataraman and R. Murari. The Madras Bar Association also passed a resolution, at an emergency general body meeting on Sunday, for the transfer to be reconsidered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reconsider-transfer-of-madras-hc-cj-senior-counsel-urge-sc-collegium/article37496984.ece
15 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||Workers, farmers’ unions join forces||Several workers’ unions in Gurugram’s automotive sector and the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a conglomerate of 500-odd farmers’ unions agitating against the farm laws, came together for the first time to hold a joint public meeting, “Mazdoor-Kisan panchayat”, in support of their demands on Sunday. Organised by Bellsonica Auto Components Employees Union, a workers’ union of a tier-one supplier company to auto major Maruti Suzuki, the seven-hour public meeting near the mini-secretariat saw participation of SKM’s national and local leadership including farmer leaders Darshan Pal and Yudhvir Singh, and Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan, besides leaders and workers from around a dozen workers’ unions in the region. The major demands raised at the meeting were to withdraw the anti-worker labour codes, implement the policy of regular job for regular work, stop retrenchment of workers, and revoke the three farm laws. Stressing the similarities between the farmers and the workers, Mr. Ugrahan, in his speech, said though the demands of the two groups were different, their needs and economic status were similar. The soldier-turned-farmer leader said both farmers and workers were indifferent to each other’s problems since their demands were different, but their exploiter was one and his policies for them were same. “It is the same Government which has brought the three farm laws and the four labour codes. They want to take it away from the working class and put it in the pockets of the corporates,” Mr. Ugrahan said. He cautioned that the three farm laws would lead to more hunger, debt, suicides and unemployment. “If the farmers are rendered landless due to the policies of the Government, they too would become labourers. It will lead to more unemployment among labourers and increase their exploitation,” Mr. Ugrahan said. Mr. Pal, in his 10-minute speech, said the farmers agitation spanning almost a year would not have been possible without all farmers’ unions of Punjab and the country joining hands, and added that the “day is not far-off when the different flags of farmers and workers will come together marking the beginning of a new era and offering a serious challenge to the regime of exploitation”. He added that the SKM would soon take a decision on support to the trade unions’ call for protest in February next year. “Our enemy is one, our fight is same. Soon we will have one demand charter and get our democratic demands met,” he said. Inqlabi Mazdoor Kendra central committee member Shyambir Shukla said the new labour codes had further weakened the position of the workers and taken away their rights, including the right to strike. He added that the workers were akin to “orphans” with none of the political parties coming out in their support. “Still many political parties are supporting the farmers, but none supports the workers,” said Mr. Shukla, making a call for more “Mazdoor-Kisan panchayats” across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/auto-workers-farmers-unions-join-forces/article37496587.ece
15 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||IMA wants to inoculate all diabetics, give booster dose||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Sunday demanded COVID-19 vaccination for all diabetes patients, including a booster dose, if needed. The association launched a campaign for early detection and mitigation of diabetes complications. The campaign, launched on the occasion of World Diabetes Day, will run for 10 days and aims to reach one billion people, the IMA said in a release. As part of the campaign, the IMA has joined hands with the Association of Physicians of India and other organisations. The IMA says that millions of people with diabetes do not have access to the kind of care they need and that patients often require continuous care and support to avoid complications. To make insulin accessible, the IMA’s State and local branches will set up special centres, the statement said. The World Diabetes Day logo — a blue circle — will be depicted by blue light and blue balloons during the campaign at all IMA branches. Also, special sessions will be organised during the week at ‘blue corners’ to make people aware of diabetes and complications caused by it, the statement said. “In India, more than 77 million adults are living with diabetes and researchers predict that this will increase to 134 million by 2045,” said the association. City lifestyle According to a 2021 review, people who live in cities and metropolitan areas in India are more likely to develop diabetes than ever before. “This is due in part to a city lifestyle that is marked by sedentary, stress, junk food, smoking, and liquor consumption. All these factors lead to an increase in a person’s body mass index (BMI) — a major risk factor in causing diabetes,” the statement said. Undiagnosed cases Overall, women have a higher risk of developing diabetes than men, but as both groups get older, the risk decreases, the IMA said. Although diabetes figures are high, researchers estimate that 57% of cases remain undiagnosed. It also spoke about the diabetic foot, terming it a dreaded complication, and saying that 80% of amputations of leg in India are due to this condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ima-wants-to-inoculate-all-diabetics-give-booster-dose/article37496593.ece
15 November 2021||Guwahati,||Two Delhi journalists booked in Tripura, detained in Assam||Two Delhi-based women journalists, booked in Tripura for criminal conspiracy and other charges, were detained by the police in Karimganj district in Assam on Sunday. They had checked out of a hotel in Dharmanagar in Tripura after covering incidents related to the communal violence in the State in retaliation for the attacks on Hindus in adjoining Bangladesh in October. “We have been detained at the Nilambazar police station, Karimganj, Assam. We were informed by the officer-in-charge of Nilambazar PS that SP of Gomati district (in Tripura) gave the orders for our detention,” Samriddhi K. Sakunia, one of the two scribes, tweeted. The other journalist is Swarna Jha. Both work for HW News Network. The two were booked after Kanchan Das, a member of a right-wing organisation, lodged an FIR at the Fatikroy police station in North Tripura district. The Indian Penal Code Sections slapped against them pertain to criminal conspiracy, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace. The complaint, accessed by The Hindu , claimed that the duo visited some Muslim houses in a village under Fatikroy Assembly constituency and made provocative comments against Hindus. “Assam Police says that our journalists will be taken back to Tripura for further questioning despite police allowing them to leave the hotel and giving seven days’ notice to record a statement. This is sheer harassment and targeting of the press on the part of Tripura Police and Tripura Government to suppress us from reporting the facts of the case,” HW News Network said in a statement. Earlier in the day, Ms. Sakunia said in a tweet that they had to face intimidation. The Tripura police trashed the allegations. “We served them a notice seeking their appearance before the Fatikroy police station but they sought time stating they would need to talk to their lawyer. So, we asked them to depose on November 21,” a senior police officer said. “We had dealt with them politely and this can be verified with the help of the CCTV cameras installed at the hotel,” he said. A statement issued by Tripura’s Assistant Inspector-General of Police (Law and Order) late on Sunday night said that a team from the Dharmanagar women’s police station was sent to Assam to fetch the two journalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-delhi-journalists-booked-in-tripura-detained-in-assam/article37496777.ece
15 November 2021||New Delhi,||Why House leaders absent at Nehru anniversary, asks Cong.||The official function to commemorate the birth anniversary of India’s first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, at the Central Hall of Parliament on Sunday, resulted in a controversy with former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh questioning the absence of the presiding officers of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha at the event. In a tweet, Mr. Ramesh called it “atrocious” that no Government Minister had been present. “Extraordinary scene today in Parliament at the traditional function to mark the birth anniversary of those whose portraits adorn the Central Hall. Speaker Lok Sabha absent. Chairman Rajya Sabha absent. Not a single Minister present. Can it get more atrocious than this?!” Mr. Ramesh tweeted. “Nothing surprises me anymore. This dispensation is destroying India’s great institutions, including #Parliament one day at a time,” added Trinamool Congress’s leader in Parliament Derek O’ Brien, in a response to Mr. Ramesh’s tweet. A senior official said the Rajya Sabha’s Chairman usually does not attend such functions at the Central Hall, and Mr. Birla attended the function in 2019 and 2020. A press release from the Lok Sabha Secretariat said, “Minister of State in the Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises, Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge; President, Indian National Congress, Sonia Gandhi and Members of Parliament and former Members of Parliament paid floral tributes at the portrait of Jawaharlal Nehru in the Central Hall of Parliament House on his birth anniversary.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-house-leaders-absent-at-nehru-anniversary-asks-cong/article37496585.ece
15 November 2021||UNCH (BHARATPUR),||Potters’ touch for clay griddle makers’ kilns||Traditional potters from Bharatpur district’s nondescript Unch village will travel to Deeg teshsil’s Punchari village next week to assist clay griddle makers in fabricating their kilns with a modified design. The furnaces set up with technical upgrade in Unch have helped potters scale up their production of earthenware with better strength and less breakage. The potters, forming the Kumhar community, in Unch have benefited from design interventions and new baking techniques for their furnaces, making the kilns more efficient and less polluting, as part of an experiment undertaken by Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi’s (IIT-D) Rural Technology Action Group (RuTAG). A total of 14 such kilns have been set up in the village since January this year. The initiative is being extended to Punchari village, which is famous for the production of clay griddles that maintain the earthy scent of the black soil, procured mostly from local ponds, even after they are baked. The clay griddles are supplied to different parts of Rajasthan, and as far as Agra and Mathura in Uttar Pradesh, and Faridabad and Gurugram in Haryana, generating an estimated annual turnover of Rs. 1.5 crore. 25% loss About 25% of the clay griddles break during baking in the kilns. RuTAG is working in collaboration with Bharatpur-based Lupin Foundation to find a solution to the issue and help the potters increase their production. The 14 furnaces installed in Unch have turned out to be successful in improving the quality of earthenware with a lesser quantity of mustard stubble used as fuel. Ramsukh Prajapat, 70, in whose household the first model kiln was set up, told The Hindu that the baking time for items like cups, cutlery, pans, clay griddles, dishes, bowls and pitchers had been reduced by half in the new furnace because of high and uniform temperature distribution in its chamber. Contrary to the open fire baking used earlier, the new technique has produced encouraging results, he said. Clay pottery is taken up in the region both as a traditional occupation and the only livelihood option for the Kumhar community. With the first-ever technical intervention, in which the potters themselves have fabricated kilns under RuTAG’s guidance, production has increased manifold and the community’s younger generation has evinced interest in the occupation. Fuel needs halved RuTAG research scholar Yashwant Prasad said trials in the kilns had found that fuel consumption could be reduced by 50% in addition to better results in baking, which would have a cultural impact in terms of lesser quantity of cow dung cakes and crop husk required for combustion. “Over 35 families of Kumhars in Punchari can benefit immensely from the modified kilns. We are extending our experiment to specifically include clay griddles in order to check the efficacy of our technical inputs,” Mr. Prasad said. While a team of potters from Unch would carry out “participatory designing” for their counterparts, the RuTAG would act as a facilitator, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/potters-touch-for-clay-griddle-makers-kilns/article37496597.ece
15 November 2021||Guwahati,||Kaiser-i-Hind is Arunachal’s State butterfly||An elusive swallowtail butterfly carrying ‘India’ in its name and found in next-door China will become the State butterfly of Arunachal Pradesh. The State Cabinet headed by Chief Minister Pema Khandu on Saturday approved the large, brightly coloured Kaiser-i-Hind as the State butterfly. The Cabinet meeting was for the first time held outside State capital Itanagar at an unusual location — Pakke Tiger Reserve. The Cabinet also adopted the Pakke Tiger Reserve 2047 declaration on climate change-resilient and responsive Arunachal Pradesh aimed at lowering emissions and sustainable development. Kaiser-i-Hind ( Teinopalpus imperialis ) literally means Emperor of India. This butterfly with a 90-120 mm wingspan is found in six States along the eastern Himalayas at elevations from 6,000-10,000 feet in well-wooded terrain. The butterfly also flutters in Nepal, Bhutan, Myanmar, Laos, Vietnam and southern China. The State Wildlife Board had in January 2020 accepted the proposal from Koj Rinya, the divisional forest officer of Hapoli Forest Division in the Lower Subansiri district to accept the Kaiser-i-Hind as the State butterfly. The proposal was made with a view to boosting butterfly tourism and saving the species from extinction in the State. Protected areas under the Hapoli Forest Division are popular with butterfly enthusiasts. Although the Kaiser-i-Hind is protected under Schedule II of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, it is hunted for supply to butterfly collectors. Habitat conservation According to Assam-based butterfly expert Monsoon Jyoti Gogoi, the species is confined to very few pockets of Arunachal Pradesh and could become extinct if not conserved. “The State butterfly tag can translate into its habitat conservation,” she said. The first dead specimen of Kaiser-i-Hind was recorded in Sikkim by Usha Lachugpa, a senior forest official of the State, in 2012. It was captured live on camera by a few participants during a butterfly watching meet in Arunachal Pradesh’s Talle Valley Wildlife Sanctuary in 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kaiser-i-hind-is-arunachals-state-butterfly/article37496579.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Festival sales have lifted the economy: Goyal||“Collectively, we are on track for a historical high for exports of goods and services in the current year, showing how quickly the world has engaged with India, wants to deepen engagement, so that they can be sure of India as a trusted partner in their supply chains and services chains,” he said. Alluding to the need for States to take greater interest in promoting exports, the Minister cited the example of Uttar Pradesh and said no other State had taken steps like creating a full department for export promotion. “When you talk to other States, they say ‘export promotion is the Centre’s role, Why should we do it?’ But Yogi Adityanath has understood that when exports are promoted, it will create jobs for people, economy will be strengthened and when domestic and export markets are combined, you get economies of scale,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/festival-sales-have-lifted-the-economy-goyal/article37496981.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Festival sales have lifted economy, says Goyal||“Collectively, we are on track for a historical high for exports of goods and services in the current year, showing how quickly the world has engaged with India, wants to deepen engagement, so that they can be sure of India as a trusted partner in their supply chains and services chains,” Mr. Goyal said. Alluding to the need for States to take greater interest in promoting exports, the Minister cited the example of Uttar Pradesh and said no other State had taken steps like creating a full department for export promotion. “When you talk to other States, they say ‘Export promotion is the Centre’s role, Why should we do it?’ But Yogi Adityanath has understood that when exports are promoted, it will create jobs for people, economy will be strengthened and when domestic and export markets are combined, you get economies of scale,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/festival-sales-have-lifted-economy-says-goyal/article37496575.ece
15 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Punjab BJP meets Modi on Kartarpur corridor||BJP leaders from Punjab, along with national general secretaries Dushyant Gautam and Tarun Chugh, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday and requested him to reopen the Kartarpur corridor before Gurpurab, which falls on November 19. Pilgrimage to the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara was suspended in March 2020 because of the COVID-19 outbreak. 11-member team The delegation, composed of 11 leaders from Punjab, met Mr. Modi here and conveyed the sentiments of Guru Nanak Dev ji’s devotees, BJP Punjab unit president Ashwani Sharma said. Mr. Sharma said the Prime Minister assured them that he would look into their demand. The BJP leaders from Punjab are also expected to meet party president J.P. Nadda later in the day and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday. The Kartarpur corridor links Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Pakistan, the final resting place of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev, to Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur district. Mr. Chugh, who was part of the delegation, said the party leaders from Punjab also thanked Mr. Modi for taking landmark initiatives for the well-being of both Punjab and the Sikh community. Farm protests The delegation is known to have raised the issue of the continuing protests against the three farm laws passed by Parliament last year. According to some who were part of the delegation, the Prime Minister reiterated his old stance that the Union Government was ready for talks with farmers groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-bjp-meets-modi-on-kartarpur-corridor/article37496603.ece
15 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC to examine relief for road accident amputees||The Supreme Court has agreed to hear expeditiously a Chennai-based man’s unique plea that people like him who lost a limb in a traumatic road accident have reduced life expectancy and should be eligible for separate, higher accident compensation. A Bench led by Justice K.M. Joseph admitted the petition filed by V.S. Venkataramanan, represented by advocate Vipin Nair, who reminded the court of its own words that judiciary should not be “a neutral umpire but an active explorer and a seeker of truth” when accident victims come for relief. The 42-year-old engineering graduate from BITS, Pilani, lost his left leg above his knee in a road accident in Chennai in 2015. He was categorised with 85% permanent physical disability. But the Madras High Court reduced the total compensation due to him from Rs. 84.36 lakh to Rs. 66.84 lakh. Mr. Venkataramanan said his medical bills, including for the amputation of his leg, had alone cost him Rs. 28.5 lakh. The High Court had reduced his compensation on the ground that he had lost his “future earning power”. Mr. Nair, arguing for his client, submitted that there has hardly been any research about chances of reduced life expectancy following a traumatic amputation. He argued that the motor accident law should introduce a new category called “compensation arising out of reduced life expectancy due to amputation in motor accident afflicted claimants”. He said there were no direct judicial pronouncements by the Supreme Court or High Courts on this aspect. Mr. Venkataramanan referred to the Supreme Court’s past judgments which had accepted home truths like “long expectation of life is connected with earning capacity”. Urging the court to invoke its extraordinary powers to do complete justice under Article 142, the court should come to his rescue and many like him “whose future is bleak and sheer existence, a huge struggle”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-examine-relief-for-road-accident-amputees/article37496568.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Deliveries of S-400 systems have begun||First elements of the S-400 system have reached Indian soil, a Russian official said on condition of anonymity, adding that delivery of the first division would be completed by the end of December. In October, stating that the delivery was on track, IAF Chief Air Chief Marshal V. R. Chaudhari had said the “first regiment should be inducted within this year.” Mr. Putin is scheduled to visit India in the first week of December for the annual summit and the inaugural India-Russia 2+2 ministerial dialogue is likely to be held a day before or on the day of the summit itself, an official source said. Deals are expected in defence, trade and energy, apart from the focus on regional issues especially the developments in Afghanistan, On the defence front, which is a major pillar of cooperation, some big ticket pending deals are lined up for conclusion which include Ka-226T utility helicopters, AK-203 assault rifles and Igla-S Very Short Range Air Defence (VSHORAD) systems. Some of these could see conclusion during the summit, a defence official said. The U.S. has so far remained non-committal on a waiver to India under CAATSA, with some officials cautioning New Delhi to move away from the deal while others called for a waiver to India. In this backdrop, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday met a high-power U.S. Congressional delegation, led by Senator John Cornyn, and discussed “issues related to the developments in South Asia and the Indo-Pacific region.” In October 2018, India and Russia signed a $5.43 billion deal for five S-400 regiments. Ahead of the scheduled deliveries, two Indian Air Force (IAF) teams have already been trained on the system by the manufacturer Almaz Antey, in Russia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/deliveries-of-s-400-systems-have-begun/article37496569.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||CBI, ED chiefs can now have five-year terms||Rashtriya Janata Dal MP Rajya Sabha Manoj Jha tweeted: “everybody should worry about the modus operandi of the Modi government”. While the move won’t immediately benefit the incumbent CBI Director Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, who was appointed in May this year for a fixed tenure of two years, it may benefit Mr. Mishra, the incumbent ED Director. Appointed in November, 2018, the ED chief was to retire in November 2020. However, when the government gave him a one year extension retrospectively on November 13, 2020, the order was challenged in the Supreme Court. On September 8, a bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and B.R. Gavai directed the government not to give Mr. Mishra any more extension, while observing that any extension of tenure during superannuation has to be for a short period and reasons must be recorded for granting such extensions. The Court also noted that such extensions can be given “only in rare and exceptional circumstances” to facilitate an ongoing investigation. However, after the promulgation of the ordinance, the Centre can now give one year extensions thrice after the completion of the initial two years. “Modi Govt uses ED-CBI as henchmen to usurp power & destabilise elected Govts. Raids by ED, CBI on the Opposition leaders has become a norm. Now, these henchmen are being empowered & rewarded with 5 yrs tenure, so that malicious prosecution is used to silence dissenting voices,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-ed-chiefs-can-now-have-five-year-terms/article37496570.ece
15 November 2021||GUWAHATI,||Manipur ambush: Naga outfit under scanner||A less-known Naga extremist group involved in killing seven, including an Assam Rifles officer and his wife and minor son, in an ambush in Churachandpur district of Manipur on Saturday has puzzled the security forces and counter-insurgency specialists. The Manipur Naga People’s Front (MNPF) had along with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) claimed responsibility for the attack that killed Colonel Viplap Tripathi and his family. The PLA had been lying low for about six years until Saturday’s strike but has been around since September 1978 as one of the fiercest of the VBIGs, an abbreviation used by the armed forces to mean groups comprising mostly of fighters from the Meitei community who dominate Manipur’s Imphal Valley. VBIG expands to Valley-based insurgent group. “There isn’t much information on the MNPF except that it is ideologically opposed to the NSCN(I-M), the strongest of Manipur’s Naga group but not in conflict with the armed forces in the State since the ceasefire in 1997,” an armed forces officer keeping tabs on activities along the India-Myanmar border said. The NSCN(I-M) is short for the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland. According to local intelligence officials , the MNPF was formed in June 2013 after the merger of two more obscure outfits called the United Naga People’s Council and Manipur Naga Revolutionary Front. A statement issued by the MNPF said the group’s objective was “restoration of sovereignty and right to self-determination” besides “bridging the gap” among all revolutionary groups across the seven northeastern States. Justifying the merger, the outfit had said: “We encompass all parties for a united struggle which is our loud and clear message. We shall not demoralise our political vision by remaining aloof like the organisations under ceasefire pacts whose interest is either higher autonomy or economic package.” Last known, the MNPF’s chairman was John Francis Kashung and Wilson Tao its general secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manipur-ambush-naga-outfit-under-scanner/article37496576.ece
15 November 2021||New Delhi,||Withdraw Kangana’s Padma Shri: DCW chief||Delhi Commission For Women (DCW) chief Swati Maliwal wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday urging him to withdraw the Padma Shri, India’s fourth highest civilian award, bestowed on actor Kangana Ranaut for her remarks allegedly belittling the country’s Independence. Ms. Ranaut on November 11 kicked off a row by saying India attained “real freedom” in 2014, apparently referring to the Narendra Modi-led Government assuming power, and describing the country’s Independence in 1947 as “bheek” (alms). Ms. Maliwal, in her letter, said the actor had “made certain outrageous statements disgracing the great freedom fighters of the country”. The DCW chief also demanded sedition charges against the actor. She also pointed out that it was not a stray incident by the actor and that “Ranaut appears to not be of sound mind”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/withdraw-kanganas-padma-shri-dcw-chief/article37496580.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Coal ‘phase-down’ is a right, says Minister||The 26th United Nations Conference of Parties (COP) concluded late on Saturday, local time, with a resolution by countries to “revisit and strengthen” their existing emission targets by 2022. A key thrust of COP26, led by the U.S. and the U.K., which held the presidency this time, was to have countries such as India and China agree to a year, preferably mid-century, by which their emissions would be near zero. This would also mean phasing out coal as a fuel. India had earlier in the week said that principles of equity meant all fossil sources, coal, oil and gas, be reduced, but the U.S. and other countries refused to target oil and gas, ostensibly because they were also critical to their own economies. “The Glasgow Climate Pact, combined with increased ambition and action from countries, means that 1.5 degree Celsius remains in sight, but it will only be delivered with concerted and immediate global efforts,” said a statement from the United Nations Secretariat. The Paris Agreement, a treaty signed in 2015, exhorts countries to strive to curtail emissions that would keep temperatures from rising over 1.5 degree Celsius by 2100. This would require significant adaptation to renewable energy, cutting global emissions by as much as 45% by 2030 and effectively zero emissions by mid-century. A major target when negotiations began on November 1 was to tie up loose ends from 2015 Paris Agreement. The Paris Rulebook, which specifies guidelines for how the Paris Agreement is delivered, was also completed today after six years of discussions. India was among the countries that had insisted on clarity on Article 6 because a bulk of the carbon credits accumulated by its several companies — private and public sector enterprises — over a decade were infructuous and India had pushed for them to be made valid again. Carbon credits allow companies in developed countries to indirectly pay for clean energy transitions in developing countries by accumulating credits. However, the 1997 Kyoto Protocol that validated carbon credit trading via a Clean Development Mechanism had expired in 2020. In the latest agreement, there is greater clarity on how bilateral carbon trades can proceed and the creation of a ‘centralised hub’ that replaces the Kyoto Protocol’s Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). There was confusion on whether countries would have to correspondingly adjust their carbon accounts when transferring emission reduction abroad and the degree to which Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) generated under the CDM could be applied towards a country’s Nationally Determined Contributions. Under the current agreement criteria have been set out for countries to use CERs from projects registered after January 1, 2013 to meet their first NDC or first adjusted NDC. It also designates a 12-member Supervisory Body to oversee the emerging hub and tasks it with reviewing baselines of recognised credits. Long-time COP-watchers said that despite progress on future emissions reductions, COP26 failed those most impacted by the climate crisis now. “The COP26 has definitely narrowed the gap for 1.5 and the processes which can be taken for future action. But the failure of the U.S. and EU to deliver on the promised $100 billion in climate finance remains urgent and central to any ambitious climate action. Blocking the establishment of even a modest fund to help vulnerable communities around the world with the massive loss and damage they are experiencing at the hands of the climate crisis is a serious blow,” said Arti Khosla, Director, Climate Trends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coal-phase-down-is-a-right-says-minister/article37496581.ece
15 November 2021||New Delhi,||Priyanka meets Mayawati||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday called on Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati to offer her condolences as her mother passed away in a Delhi hospital on Saturday. According to a BSP press statement, Ms. Mayawati's mother, Ramrati, 92, died while undergoing treatment at a hospital. The last rites will be performed in Delhi on Sunday, the BSP statement said. It also mentioned Ms. Mayawati's father had died last year at the age of 95. Accompanied by Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda, Ms. Vadra went to the BSP chief's official residence in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/priyanka-meets-mayawati/article37496591.ece
15 November 2021||Chandigarh,||Sonu Sood’s sister joins politics||Actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood on Sunday said his sister Malvika is joining politics, but added he has no such plans for himself. Ms. Malvika said she will contest the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls from Moga. Mr. Sood, who is from Moga district, said his sister has done a lot of amazing work in the past. “We today officially want to say that Malvika will certainly come to serve Punjab,” Mr. Sood said. Asked about joining any political party, Mr. Sood said no decision has yet been taken. “We have not yet taken a call about the party. Whenever the time comes, we will make sure that we let you know,” he said. “It is a very big decision in life. Malvika is strongly rooted in Moga…For me (joining politics), I have not thought of it,” he said. On his recent meetings with Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, Mr. Sood said both are good people. On Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, he said he would meet him too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonu-soods-sister-joins-politics/article37496982.ece
15 November 2021||Agartala,||‘Maharashtra violence unfortunate’||The Tripura Government has alleged that certain vested interest groups are trying to “create anarchy and communal trouble” by circulating fake information and morphed images suggesting atrocities on Muslims in the State. It expressed serious concern over the incidents in Maharashtra over the past two days and appealed to people to maintain peace at any cost. “Tripura has a glorious history of communal harmony and amity between Hindus and Muslims. Vested interest groups are trying to take advantage from fake and fabricated contents circulating on social media,” Deputy Chief Minister Jishnu Debbarman said at a press conference on Saturday. He highlighted old traditions of Tripura on harmony and bondage between different communities, and termed the violent incidents at Amravati, Malegaon and Nanded over the past two days “very unfortunate”. He said the Government was taking action as per law against trouble mongers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-violence-unfortunate/article37496577.ece
15 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana schools near border closed||The Haryana Government on Sunday ordered closure of schools, both government and private, in four districts neighbouring Delhi for three days in view of high level of air pollution. The Government and private offices have also been advised to allow work from home during this period, besides announcing a host of other measures with immediate effect. In a two-page order, Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan ordered that all schools would remain shut in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar districts of the State till November 17 with the aim to curb air pollution. With the objective of reducing vehicular traffic by one-third, government and private offices have also been advised to allow employees to work from home. The order said that there would be a ban on all kinds of construction and development activities during the period. The burning of trash by municipal bodies, stubble burning and manual sweeping of roads is not allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/haryana-schools-near-border-closed/article37496598.ece
15 November 2021||Patna,||Burnt body of abducted scribe found||The charred body of a journalist and Right to Information activist who was kidnapped four days ago was found on November 12 by the roadside in Madhubani district of Bihar. Local police have taken some people into custody and are investigating the case. The journalist, Buddhinath Jha, alias Avinash Jha, was working with a local news portal and was exposing fake medical clinics and nursing homes of Benipatti. He was also working as an RTI activist and getting details of such illegal private medical clinics and pathological laboratories running without following Government rules and norms to write on his portal. His recent reports had led to the closure of at least four illegal private clinics and nursing homes and imposition of fine of Rs. 50,000 on other clinics. By a Government order, 19 such illegal centres were ordered to shut in Benipatti and neighbouring area Dhakjari in February 2021 too. In 2019, action was taken against nine such illegal centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/burnt-body-of-abducted-scribe-found/article37496607.ece
15 November 2021||Pune,||‘Amravati situation under control’||The situation in Amravati district and other parts of Maharashtra is under control, State Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil said on Sunday. Mr. Walse-Patil said the motive behind the rallies called by certain organisations which led to the violence and a heightening of communal tensions in some cities would be investigated. He added that no casualties had been reported from Amravati where a curfew has been imposed and Internet services suspended. On Friday, violence had erupted out in at least three cities in the State — Amravati, Malegaon and Nanded — after the Mumbai-based Raza Academy had reportedly called for a day-long shutdown to protest against incidents of mosques being vandalised in Tripura. Additional forces “A curfew has been imposed in Amravati and the situation is now completely under control there... the BJP had given a call for a bandh today in rural Amravati. However, we have made provisions that no law and order situation should arise there. All reinforcements that could be required by the State police in sensitive places like Nanded, Malegaon, Yavatmal and other areas are in place… anti-social elements who incited the violence will be strictly investigated,” Mr. Walse-Patil said. On the possible role of the Mumbai-based Raza Academy, the Minister said an investigation would be conducted. The violence and heightening of communal tensions in Maharashtra because of something that may or may not have happened in far-off Tripura was “utterly unwarranted”, said Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. He also urged citizens to maintain peace and help local police by reporting rumours and inflammatory posts on social media. Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) has been imposed in both urban and rural areas of Amravati for the next three days as well as parts of Akola district and rural areas of Pune district, said authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amravati-situation-under-control-says-minister/article37496574.ece
15 November 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. starts protest against price rise||The Congress on Sunday launched a two-week agitation by kicking off the Jan Jagran Padayatra against price rise and policies of the Narendra Modi Government. “Flagged off #JanJagranPadYatra organised by Mumbai Regional Congress Committee in Mumbai today to raise the voice of the millions of Indians suffering due to Modi Govt’s inability to control soaring inflation. We will continue this movement across the country,” tweeted party general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal. Such padayatras are being organised by all the State units of the party. In October, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) decided to take to the streets over the “runaway inflation” and consistent increase fuel prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-starts-protest-against-price-rise/article37496782.ece
15 November 2021||NELLORE,||Article 370 not diluted in haste, says V-P||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday said the dilution of Article 370 of the Constitution, which granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir, was not done in haste. The Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Bill was adopted after a detailed debate, giving opportunity to all parties. “It was a historic moment in my life,” the Rajya Sabha Chairman said while taking part in the 20th anniversary celebrations of the Swarna Bharat Trust, a social service organisation, along with Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who had piloted the Bill in the Upper House. Speaking further on the repeal of the constitutional provision, he said: “It was my life’s ambition and mission since my student days as Kashmir is an integral part of India.” Countrymen were now rejoicing over the repeal, he said. This was achieved thanks to the determination of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Mr. Shah, who ensured that the Bill was passed smoothly, he said. A day before the passage, the Prime Minister had wanted the Bill to be taken up first in the Rajya Sabha though he [Mr. Naidu] had suggested that it could be taken up in the Lok Sabha where the BJP had a two-thirds majority, Mr. Naidu recalled. While he was worried about the passage of the Bill, his family members were worried about his health, Mr. Naidu said. But his cardiologist, Balram Bhargava (Indian Council of Medical Research Director-General), allayed their fears saying that he would be in the gallery and would take care. Though people wanted Article 370 to go, their wish had not been fulfilled for various reasons, he added. Describing the Rajya Sabha Chairman as a “model custodian of the Constitution”, Mr. Shah recalled how Mr. Naidu used to argue for taking out the provision from the statute book. God had given Mr. Naidu the opportunity to chair the historic session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/article-370-not-diluted-in-haste-v-p/article37496588.ece
15 November 2021||Lakhimpur Kheri,||Dudhwa National Park to reopen from today||The Dudhwa National Park in Uttar Pradesh is set to open for tourists from November 15, a senior official said on Sunday. The park was earlier scheduled to open from November 1. However, untimely very heavy rain in the area disturbed the schedule.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dudhwa-national-park-to-reopen-from-today/article37496985.ece
15 November 2021||Guwahati,||Two women athletes in Assam missing||Two kickboxers are among five women who have been missing in central and eastern Assam for a week. A statement issued by the United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent, which has extended its cessation of operations, has indicated they may have left home to join the outfit in its hideout in Myanmar. The families of the women have lodged missing complaints after a video showing them trekking inside a forest was posted on social media. The video showed Nayanmani Chetia of Tinsukia district and Sabita Chetia of Dhemaji district — both had taken part in national-level kickboxing events — and three others from as many districts. Nayanmani’s brother told local TV channels that she had gone out saying she would be participating in a tournament with the other girls. Her husband works in the State police and they have a six-year-old son, he said. “We are working on the complaint and trying to trace her,” Tinsukia’s SP Debajit Deuri told The Hindu on Sunday. His counterparts in the other districts said the mobile phones of the women have been switched off. There was speculation that the women were joining the ULFA-I, which issued a statement on Saturday saying “it is normal for people to join us because of our goal and ideals”. A senior police officer said there have been several cases of young people leaving their families to join extremist groups. While some get caught on the way to the hideouts of such groups, some are arrested later. “A few have surrendered after running away or quit the groups they joined,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-women-athletes-in-assam-missing/article37496595.ece
15 November 2021||Pune,||Noted Shivaji expert Babasaheb Purandare critical||Noted historian and Padma Vibhushan awardee Balwant Moreshwar Purandare, popularly known as ‘Babasaheb’ Purandare, is said to be in a critical condition and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/noted-shivaji-expert-babasaheb-purandare-critical/article37496784.ece
15 November 2021||Srinagar,||Policeman injured in gunfight with militants in Srinagar||One policeman was injured in a gunfight between militants and the security forces in Srinagar on Sunday. “Based on input about presence of terrorists in Jamalata, a raid was carried out. As the team approached, the hiding terrorists started indiscriminate firing on them,” Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/policeman-injured-in-gunfight-with-militants-in-srinagar/article37496785.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Initiative to develop public toilets begins this week||The Greater Chennai Corporation will start the process of developing public toilets under public-private partnership (PPP) this week. A meeting will be held on Monday to find ways to resolve the issues pertaining to public toilets in Chennai and other parts of the State. Officials of the Chennai Corporation, the Commissionerate of Municipal Administration and the private sector are to attend the meeting, which will be chaired by Municipal Administration Secretary Shiv Das Meena. A pre-bid meeting with private entities for the development of modern toilets and integrated commercial buildings at 50 locations of the city will also be held this week. Under the scheme, private agencies will develop public toilets and maintain them for eight years. Identification of locations is likely to be completed shortly. Under Swachh Bharat Mission initiated in 2014, the city has to develop a public toilet for every 500 metres. Many of the existing 816 public toilets have remained locked or damaged. Villivakkam resident V. Maran says the public toilet near the Villivakkam bus terminus has been closed for many months. “We have five famous temples that are more than 800 years old in the vicinity. Open urination has increased in such an area because of inadequate public toilets.” According to V. Rajagopal, president of Anna Nagar West Extension Phase II Residents Welfare Association, the residents have requested a modern public toilet at Officers Colony near the bus terminus. “Senior citizens visiting the area are using a park for open urination. We cannot prevent them, given their age. The construction of another toilet at Collector Nagar, Mogappair, has been stopped because of the opposition from a few residents of an apartment. The commercial area should have such facilities,” he says. Public toilets in the city are in bad shape because of poor maintenance, faulty design and inferior quality of materials used in their construction. Several initiatives have been made in the past few years to improve them. But the city has not found a solution even after seven years of the implementation of Swachh Bharat. The Corporation has identified 145 public toilets for demolition and reconstruction and 170 for major repairs. “The work is expected to be completed in six months,” says an official. According to estimates, more than 2,000 of the 7,600 seats in public toilets will be demolished and reconstructed. Another 3,000 will be closed for repairs. Finding a public toilet during this period is expected to be challenging for commuters, especially senior citizens. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi says the new toilets will be constructed with allocations from Singara Chennai 2.0, Swachh Bharat Mission and the civic body’s infrastructure and amenities fund. “We have also put up boards outside free toilets. We do not want anybody to collect money. We have taken action against the staff who had collected money for the use of free toilets. Most important thing is to ensure hygiene. It is a continuous challenge because many toilets are designed in accordance with the old standards. We need to make them more bright, with lot of air.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initiative-to-develop-public-toilets-begins-this-week/article37496881.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen complain of mistreatment during rescue work in Chennai||Fishermen, who lent their boats to help people stranded in the city’s flooded areas last week, have complained that they were not treated properly at several places during the rescue operations. “We were asked to open manhole covers and lift motors to pump out water, and in some places, we were told to clean the slush. We did not go there to perform such tasks. Our job was to rescue people, and we did that to our complete satisfaction. We helped women and senior citizens and were happy about that despite having to walk in slush and dirt,” said Raghu, a fisherman from Nochikuppam. A total of 66 men with 22 boats from Nochikuppam assisted those in need of evacuation or wanted to be ferried to buy provisions or medicines. In some places, the water was chest high, and at the end of the rescue efforts, the men had to apply turmeric and coconut oil to their bruised feet, Mr. Raghu said. Dhanapal, a boat owner, said the men were not even given food or a proper place to wait as they awaited their turn to be called. “This happened especially at Velachery, where our men had to wait at a dark place without any toilets. Only when they asked for food, were they sent to a nearby Amma Unavagam,” he said. K. Bharathi, of the South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association, said there were several complaints from fishermen about being treated badly. “This only shows that there was no proper planning at the zonal level. If you call people to help, you should make arrangements to ensure food and water for them. A couple of assistant engineers said they were new to the job, and therefore did not know what to do. In such a case, senior officials must have ensured that proper facilities were provided for the rescue teams,” he pointed out.  We were asked to open manhole covers and lift motors to pump out water, and in some places, we were told to clean the slush. We did not go there to perform such tasks Raghu A fisherman from Nochikuppam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-complain-of-mistreatment-during-rescue-work-in-chennai/article37496910.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Parts of Moulivakkam, Iyappanthangal remain inundated 3 days after the rain||With certain pockets of Moulivakkam, Iyappanthangal and Kolathuvancheri, near Porur, continuing to remain inundated even three days after the rain, residents are demanding a permanent solution to the water stagnation problem. Staging a demonstration on Sunday, a group of residents alleged that the areas were facing inundation for more than a decade whenever there was increased rainfall. “While water has receded in most places in and around the city, there is knee to hip-deep water in many pockets in our localities,” said Jeni, a resident. Apart from posing health hazards, the water stagnation has also resulted in snakes entering homes, she said. “Even the first floors of houses in many streets are fully flooded. We are finding it difficult to get essential supplies for nearly a week now,” Ms. Jeni added. K. Tamil Selvan, secretary, Dhanalakshmi Nagar Kumaran Nagar Sai Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, said though a few officials from Kundrathur taluk inspected the area, there had not been much help from their side. “Whenever there is flooding, we are just forced to wait for the water to recede gradually by itself,” he said. Shifting blame Demanding a permanent solution to drain the water, he alleged that the ruling party members were instead blaming the residents for constructing houses in low-lying areas. “If that was the case, why did successive governments approve layouts in the area and allow it to develop as a residential area,” he said. Arguing that the situation worsened only after the construction of bypass roads through Porur, Mr. Tamil Selvan appealed to the government to ensure that flooding did not happen in the coming years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/parts-of-moulivakkam-iyappanthangal-remain-inundated-3-days-after-the-rain/article37496886.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Providing a ray of light for children battling cancer||Ten years ago, Naresh Shanmugham, who was battling cancer with numerous complications, started receiving treatment. Today, he has successfully graduated in commerce and is hopeful of getting a job soon. “When I was getting treated, I skipped school for a year and never had friends for a while as children would be scared to come near me. But today, everything is different, and life is beautiful. Cross this difficult phase, and there is light at the end of the tunnel,” he said. On Children’s Day, Mr. Shanmugham, who was one of those numerous beneficiaries of the Ray of Light Foundation, which was started two decades ago to provide support for those undergoing treatment for cancer from the lower socio-economic group, was addressing the children at Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital to instil faith in them about how it is certainly possible to recover from cancer with good treatment. The children’s faces beamed with happiness as each of them received a gift from Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin. “It was inspiring to hear the story of Naresh and how he recovered. The service that doctors render is incomparable,” he said. Priya Ramachandran, founder of the Ray of Light Foundation, said in the last 20 years, 200 children had been treated, and nearly 85% had survived. Resource utilisation “We do not just strive for resources to help as many children as possible but ensure that they are utilised properly and provide each child the best treatment available. Many parents are upset beyond imagination when a child is diagnosed with cancer. But we want to tell them, cancer is definitely curable, and there are many who live a beautiful life after getting past it,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/providing-a-ray-of-light-for-children-battling-cancer/article37496888.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Protecting our riparian rights is crucial, says Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday told the Southern Zonal Council (SZC) that Tamil Nadu was ready to cooperate with neighbouring States and resolve the issues pertaining to the inter-State rivers for the benefit of all. Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudy delivered the Chief Minister’s speech at the meeting held in Tirupati as Mr. Stalin was busy with rain relief work in Chennai. Mr. Stalin said, “Solidarity among us [the southern States] is crucial in utilising the limited resources available to us in a judicious manner, and unnecessary litigation and needless conflicts will result in unwanted animosity that may hinder our progress”. “Tamil Nadu is a water-deficit State. The farmers toil with scanty groundwater and uncertain monsoon. Since we have a large farming population depending on traditional agriculture for ensuring food security, protecting our rights to inter-State rivers is crucial for our State. We are always ready to cooperate with our neighbouring States and resolve the issues in a constructive and amicable manner, resulting in mutual benefit,” he said. He also listed the initiatives taken to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic as soon as he assumed office, the welfare schemes and the plans to generate energy from renewable sources. He urged the Union Government to declare Tamil one of the official languages of the Union. The Chief Minister said railway land should be transferred for the Metro Rail Project on a permanent basis. “The transfer must be with full surface rights, without any restriction, when 99% of the market value is charged, as is being done by other Central Government departments/agencies for underground tunnelling work below their land. If the full surface rights are not given, only nominal/token value should be charged for restricted rights. In underground tunnelling, even to a depth of less than 15 metres, only the nominal fee as a track rent should be charged. When the surface is not affected and no surface rights are given, it is totally unreasonable to charge any such amount,” he said. The culture of the southern States has a lot of similarities, and they share common cuisine, values and weather. “The universal language of love can dissolve all problems and make us march on the path of progress,” he said.  Railway land must be transferred with full surface rights, without any restriction, when 99% of the market value is charged||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protecting-our-riparian-rights-is-crucial-cm/article37496927.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 805 fresh cases, 11 fatalities||With 805 more people testing positive for COVID-19 in the State on Sunday, its tally touched 27,14,830. Two districts — Perambalur and Theni — recorded no new case, and 18 districts logged fewer than 10 infections each. Chennai and Coimbatore continued to report cases in three digits — the former saw 128 cases and the latter 125. Erode followed with 78 cases, while Chengalpattu logged 63. There were 48 cases in Tiruppur and 40 in Salem. Tiruchi saw 38 cases and Namakkal 36. Tenkasi and Villupuram recorded a single infection each. The State recorded 11 deaths — six in private hospitals and five in government facilities. This took the toll to 36,284. There were two deaths each in Chengalpattu, Coimbatore and Tiruchi, while Chennai, Dharmapuri, Kanniyakumari, Salem and Tiruppur accounted for one fatality each. The remaining 30 districts reported no death due to COVID-19. Active caseload At present, 9,616 people are undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in the State. Chennai continues to lead the table with 1,245 active cases, followed by Coimbatore with 1,169. With 929 more people discharged after treatment, total recoveries touched 26,68,930. A total of 1,03,684 samples were tested. The total sample count reached 5,26,46,187.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-805-fresh-cases-11-fatalities/article37496896.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Villages cut off from Walajabad as causeway is still under water||Nearly a dozen villages remain cut off from Walajabad in Kancheepuram district as a causeway across the Palar remained flooded for the third day on Sunday. Officials put the flooding down to the heavy discharge from the Anaicut reservoir in Vellore district. There has been a heavy flow in the Cheyyar and the Vegavathi, the Palar’s tributaries that join the river at Thirumukkudal. More than 45,000 cusecs has been flowing near Walajabad. All checkdams are full, up to the Palar’s tail-end at Vayalur in Chengalpattu district. The district administration has stopped the traffic on the causeway. A senior police officer said, “Once the water recedes, we will resume the traffic.” More than 258 tanks are full as on Sunday in Kancheepuram district, which has 381 tanks. Avlur, Angambakkam, Kannadikurshai, Kammarajarpuram and other villages are cut off from Walajabad. In Tiruvallur district, the floodwater is flowing over the causeway between Kadambatthur and Mappedu following a heavy discharge from the Kesavaram Anaicut. Another causeway has also been closed near Puduchatram. A police officer said, “The causeways have been closed with barricades, and the police guard them round the clock.” The vehicular movement to Perumalpattu, Thirunindravur, Avadi and Periyapalayam was affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villages-cut-off-from-walajabad-as-causeway-is-still-under-water/article37497320.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City Sanitation Plan to be formulated||The Greater Chennai Corporation will formulate the City Sanitation Plan shortly. The plan will cover the baseline information about the city in all sectors related to sanitation, and will help the civic body analyse the sanitation condition of the 200 divisions. The initiative will also set the stage for the implementation of sustainable waste management practices through simple planning, officials said. Waste water management The plan includes improving access to toilets, wastewater management, including septage and sewage management, stormwater management, water supply and solid waste management. The stakeholders of the City Sanitation Plan will comprise residents, public institutions, businesses and industries, civic organisations, professional organisations, training and educational institutions, and others with an interest in urban planning and development of their neighbourhoods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-sanitation-plan-to-be-formulated/article37496890.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||History-sheeter held for robbery in Tiruvottriyur||The Tiruvottriyur police on Sunday arrested a 26-year-old history-sheeter for allegedly robbing a senior citizen. The police said when B. Ramakrishnan, 61, of Anna Nagar, was working on Ennore Express Highway, an unidentified person approached him and demanded money. He then attacked Mr. Ramakrishnana and made off with Rs. 2,000. The police, after investigating, arrested Kuppa alias Kuppusamy, of Thiruvottriyur Kuppam. He has four criminal cases against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/history-sheeter-held-for-robbery-in-tiruvottriyur/article37496882.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Policemen clear block in sewer line in Peravallur||The police have come to the rescue of residents plagued by overflowing sewage in flood-affected Peravallur. The men from the specially constituted Disaster Response Team swung into action and removed the blockage in the sewerage line. The sewage was overflowing near the police quarters and the Peravallur police station and mixing with the rainwater that had stagnated nearby. On noticing this, police personnel waded through the water, identified the blockage and removed it. Assistant Commissioner of Police, Sembium, Sembedu Babu said, “At times of natural disasters, we policemen should multitask and render assistance to the public. We have been supplying food packets, medicines and water bottles to stranded residents in Jawahar Nagar and G.K.M. Colony, where water has stagnated up to four feet. It is easy since the residents are in touch with us through WhatsApp.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/policemen-clear-block-in-sewer-line-in-peravallur/article37496884.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Waive crop loans taken since 2016: Annamalai||Tamil Nadu BJP president K. Annamalai on Sunday said that farmers whose crops were severely affected due to the torrential rain across the State would benefit from Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, a Central Government crop insurance scheme. He urged the State Government to waive crop loans availed after 2016-17. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Annamalai said that Union Minister of State L. Murugan visited Chennai and southern Tamil Nadu, surveyed the damage caused by rain. “He will provide the feedback to the Central Government. After the committee provides an estimate of the extent of damage, State BJP will make every effort to get funds for Tamil Nadu,” said Mr. Annamalai. He supported the extension of the last day of payment of crop insurance premium. BJP National general secretary C.T. Ravi said, “Mr. Stalin must focus on the problems of the people. When DMK was in power previously, they were focussing only on accruing wealth. They should focus on the development of Tamil Nadu. The State Government must provide Rs. 5,000 to all families below poverty line affected by the rain and Rs. 20,000 per acre should be given to farmers whose crops were damaged.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-must-waive-crop-loans-taken-since-2016-says-annamalai/article37496925.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Isolated heavy rain may persist in several districts||The rain pounding Kanniyakumari district and its neighbouring areas may abate slightly from Monday. The Meteorological Department has issued an orange alert for the district and a few others along the Western Ghats, as they may receive heavy to very heavy rain in one or two places. In the past 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Sunday, many places in Kanniyakumari district received intense rainfall. The Perunchani and Puthan dams in Kanniyakumari district received 22 cm of rainfall each. Wet weather may continue over the State for another week. On Monday, many places in the State are likely to receive light to moderate rainfall. Besides Kanniyakumari, the Nilgiris, Theni, Dindigul and Tiruppur districts are likely to get rainfall of very heavy intensity. Sixteen other districts, including Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram, Ranipet, Cuddalore and Erode, have prospects of heavy rain in one or two places. There may be a slight dip in the coverage of rainfall in the State on Tuesday and Wednesday. Chennai, which witnessed extreme rainfall episodes, may experience a break, as the department has forecast light or moderate rain in some areas till Tuesday. Meanwhile, the low-pressure area over the central parts of the Andaman Sea is likely to become well marked over north Andaman Sea and southeast Bay of Bengal by Monday. It may continue to move over the Bay of Bengal, and further intensify into a depression over west-central Bay of Bengal by November 17 and reach south Andhra Pradesh coast around November 18. S. Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology, Chennai, said strong westerly winds and a shear zone had led to such severe rainfall in the Kanniyakumari region. On the next weather system, he said the department was monitoring its movement. The impact over Tamil Nadu will depend on its movement and how it gains strength. Water release from reservoirs has been reduced considerably. While water discharge from the reservoirs in Red Hills, Cholavaram and Chembarambakkam has been brought down to 500 cubic feet per second and 400 cusecs respectively, about 6,000 cusecs are being let out from the Poondi reservoir, as inflow has decreased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isolated-heavy-rain-may-persist-in-several-districts/article37496894.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Suriya to deposit Rs. 10 lakh for Rajakannu’s wife||Actor Suriya, who co-produced and starred in the widely acclaimed film Jai Bhim that portrayed the custodial death of Rajakannu in the 1990s, has decided to deposit Rs. 10 lakh in the name of Parvathi, the victim's wife. The film is about the legal battle that culminated in the prosecution of the police personnel involved in the custodial torture and death. Request for assistance On Saturday, CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan requested Mr. Suriya to extend financial assistance to Ms. Parvathi, who is eking out a livelihood as a daily wager near Chennai. Mr. Suriya on Sunday said he would deposit Rs. 10 lakh in a bank and Ms. Parvathi could use the interest. “After her, her legal heirs can use the amount,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suriya-to-deposit-rs-10-lakh-for-rajakannus-wife/article37496929.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Meeting soon to find a solution to flooding in Ambattur estate||The State government has planned to hold a meeting of officials of all departments concerned to resolve the problem of flooding of the Ambattur Industrial Estate, according to T.M. Anbarasan, Rural Industries Minister. Pointing out that over 300 industrial units had been affected out of a total of 1,800 Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) at the Ambattur estate, functioning under the control of the Small Industries Development Corporation, the Minister explained that this had happened due to obstructions in the alignment of the drainage canal from the Ambattur tank to the Korattur tank. During an inspection of the area, it was found that the canal had suffered breaches too. A permanent solution would be found, regardless of the amount of rainfall, after taking up the matter with Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. With normality being returned, the enterprises had resumed operations, the Minister stated. Giving an account of the Minister’s inspection, an official release said Ambattur legislator, Joseph Samuel, MSME Secretary Arun Roy and SIDCO Managing Director R. Gajalakshmi took part in the inspection.  Flooding happened due to obstructions in the alignment of the drainage canal from the Ambattur tank to the Korattur tank T.M. Anbarasan Rural Industries Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-soon-to-find-a-solution-to-flooding-in-ambattur-estate/article37496914.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court installs Braille printer on its campus||The Madras High Court has installed a Braille printer at its principal seat in Chennai for providing judgment and order copies to visually challenged lawyers and litigants. Issuing a notification on instructions from Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee, Registrar General P. Dhanapal said the printer would be put to use from Monday. The notification stated that the facility had been created to facilitate better access to justice to the visually impaired and to comply with the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act of 2016. Passing interim orders on a case filed by advocate L. Muruganantham, the Madras High Court, in April 2017, stressed the need to make the campus more disabled friendly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-installs-braille-printer-on-its-campus/article37496915.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Name Metro station after Rs. 5 doctor’||Residents of north Chennai will hold a signature drive in 10 places, demanding that one of the Metro Rail’s stations be given the name of ‘Rs. 5 doctor’ S. Jayachandran, as he was among the foremost of the people, who campaigned for bringing the mass rapid transit system to the northern parts of the city. The doctor, who died three years ago, charged just Rs. 5 for treating the underprivileged. A press release said members of the Royapuram Roundup Group decided that it would be apt to rename a station to honour him. They have sent a representation to Chennai Metro Rail Limited with the proposal. But the organisation responded saying the request will be considered by the government at an appropriate time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/name-metro-station-after-rs-5-doctor/article37496889.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||16.32 lakh get jabs at eighth mega camp||Despite incessant rain in 12 districts, 16,32,498 people were vaccinated during the eighth mega COVID-19 vaccination camp held on Sunday. Of them, 5,44,809 people received the first dose of the vaccines and 10,87,689 the second, according to Health Minister Ma. Subramanian. The Minister inspected vaccination camps in Chennai and Tiruvallur districts. While 23.27 lakh people were covered in the sixth mega camp, 17.2 lakh people gots jabs during the seventh drive held last month. Following the mega camp, there will be no vaccination on Monday, according to a press release. Earlier during the day, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan urged those who have not taken the first dose and those due for the second to make use of the mega camp. He said there were 1.61 crore people in the State, eligible to take the first dose, while 71.15 lakh were due or overdue for the second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1632-lakh-get-jabs-at-eighth-mega-camp/article37496897.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown extended||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday announced that lockdown, with the existing set of restrictions imposed to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic, would be extended till November 30. The restrictions would remain in force, considering the possibility of spread of diseases such as dengue during the current northeast monsoon and in the interest of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-extended/article37496922.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Appeal to farmers||With Monday being the last day for enrolment under the Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme in 26 districts, the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department has requested agriculturists to make use of the services of primary agricultural cooperative societies and e-seva centres for covering paddy being raised during Samba season. Till now, around 10 lakh farmers have taken the insurance cover for 20.95 lakh acres, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appeal-to-farmers-for-insurance-coverage/article37496913.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Suriya extends finacial help to Rajakannu’s wife||Actor Suriya, who co-produced and starred in the widely acclaimed film Jai Bhim that portrayed the custodial death of Rajakannu in the 1990s, has decided to deposit Rs. 10 lakh in the name of Parvathi, the victim’s wife. The film is about the legal battle that culminated in the prosecution of the police involved in the custodial torture and death. On Saturday, CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan requested Mr. Suriya to extend financial assistance to Ms. Parvathi, who is eking out a livelihood as a daily wager near Chennai. Mr. Suriya on Sunday said he would deposit Rs. 10 lakh in a bank and Ms. Parvathi could use the interest. “After her, her legal heirs can use the amount,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suriya-to-give-rs-10-lakh-to-rajakannus-wife/article37497021.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||OPS demands hike in compensation||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Sunday demanded that compensation for the kin of those who died in the rain in Tamil Nadu be increased to Rs. 10 lakh. Referring to a reported statement of Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran that Rs. 4 lakh each would be paid as compensation to the families of the deceased, Mr. Panneerselvam, in a statement, recalled that when his party was in power, Rs. 10 lakh was paid after the State was hit by Cyclone Nivar in November last year. He contrasted the present situation with that of the previous year and said that despite the intensity of the cyclone being greater than a depression that crossed the coast last week, the loss of human lives was lower last year, when compared with now, which was, according to Mr. Panneerselvam, due to the “slackness” in precautionary measures taken by the DMK regime. For the third day, he visited rain-hit areas in Chennai, including those coming under the Assembly constituencies of Perambur, R.K. Nagar, Egmore, Harbour and Anna Nagar. Mr. Panneerselvam and party co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami will jointly visit the rain-hit Cauvery delta on Tuesday. Parries question Mr. Panneerselvam skirted a question on Chief Minister M.K Stalin’s announcement of an inquiry commission against the AIADMK regime. “Please ask me the next question” was the reply of Mr. Panneerselvam, who was the Deputy Chief Minister during August 2017-May 2021. He was interacting with reporters in Kasimedu. On the criticism regarding separate visits undertaken by him and Mr. Palaniswami, he replied: “Both of us are distributing relief. There is no distinction. It is you who view it that way.” He added that in some areas, inundation was still there and the government should work vigorously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-demands-hike-in-aid-for-kin-of-those-who-died-in-rain/article37496912.ece
15 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Paediatric liver, kidney transplant centre opened||Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi inaugurated a paediatric liver and kidney transplantation centre at Gem Hospital here on Sunday. Launching the centre, Mr. Poyyamozhi urged people to benefit out of the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Insurance Scheme that covered many high-end procedures in private hospitals too. He said health and education were two of the focus areas of the DMK government. The government took a decision on the opening of schools, taking views of experts on the education and the health of students, he said. Gem Hospital chairman C. Palanivelu said minimally invasive liver donation was becoming popular and Korean Taiwan were the leaders. A small segment of the donor’s liver, around 30% from the left lobe, was taken in the laparoscopic procedure. The donor would get back to routine life in a day or two. After donating a liver, the same parent was able to look after the child easily. Mr. Poyyamozhi gave away prizes to winners of childhood obesity awareness programme conducted by the hospital. District Collector G.S. Sameeran, Coimbatore Medical College Dean A. Nirmala, Masonic Hospital medical advisor M. Ramasamy, former MLA N. Karthik and Dr. R. Parthasarathi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paediatric-liver-kidney-transplant-centre-opened/article37496962.ece
15 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two-wheeler thief nabbed after chase||Sulur inspector R. Mathaiyan and the station driver Sivakumar nabbed a man involved in two-wheeler thefts, after chasing him on foot for nearly 1 km early on Sunday morning. M.S. Muthusamy, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Coimbatore range), lauded the inspector and the policeman for quickly reacting to the situation and nabbing the thief. According to the police, two policemen namely Jaihind and Mariappan asked the whereabouts of the two men whom they found in suspicious circumstances during a patrol at Sulur Pirivu around 2 a.m. The men, both wearing turban, ran away abandoning the two-wheeler they were holding. The policemen immediately alerted inspector Mr. Mathaiyan who was on another patrol nearby. Mr. Mathaiyan and Mr. Sivakumar spotted two men wearing turban coming on a two-wheeler at Muthalipalayam Pirivu. The duo left the two-wheeler and ran away as the police vehicle intercepted them. The inspector and the driver chased the duo and nabbed one of them – P. Hariharasudan (23), a native of Thangappa Nagar in Ramanathapuram district. His accomplice S. Shankaralingam (21) of Pappanaickenpalayam in Coimbatore was arrested later by the personnel. The police recovered stolen motorcycles from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-wheeler-thief-nabbed-after-chase/article37496974.ece
15 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Suppliers to Rly. seek easing of norms for TDS deduction||The Railway Suppliers Association has appealed to the Ministry of Railways to accept self declaration from suppliers (to the Railways) to calculate TDS on GST amount on bills. New section In a release, Association president S. Surulivel said the Central Board of Direct Taxes had inserted a new section 194 Q in the Income Tax Act 1961 that mandates buyers to deduct 0.1 % on GST amount in bills as Income Tax TDS while making payments to suppliers. This was in effect from July 1. The Railways Accounts Department had started deducting the 0.1 % amount for bill amounts paid after July 1. Mr. Surulivel said the TDS should be deducted on GST amount only if the total bill amount exceeded Rs. 50 lakh and this applied to all government sector supplires. However, the Railways was deducting the TDS for every bill. A supplier might have orders for more than Rs. 50 lakh from the Railways and the supplies would be made during the next two to three years. So, the amount should be deducted only for the total bill and not for every bill, Mr. Surulivel said. The Association appealed to the Railways Ministry to accept self declaration from the suppliers for the smallers bills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suppliers-to-rly-seek-easing-of-norms-for-tds-deduction/article37496956.ece
15 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Legal awareness rally taken out||A legal awareness rally to commemorate the 75 years of India’s Independence and 25th anniversary of the National Legal Services Authority was taken out here on Sunday. R. Sakthivel, Principal District and Sessions Judge, Coimbatore, flagged off the awareness rally on the combined court complex premises in the presence of judges, court staff, advocates and members from non governmental organisations. District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Coimbatore, which is headed by the District Judge, organised the rally. Organisers said the DLSA arranged various legal awareness activities from October 2 to November 14. A mobile legal awareness campaign was launched on November 1 under which vehicles equipped with public addressing system were sent to different parts of the district to create legal awareness among the public.  Notices distributed Notices on the various legal aid services given by the DLSA were distributed to the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/legal-awareness-rally-taken-out/article37496966.ece
15 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 125 new cases||Coimbatore district reported 125 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. A total of 104 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,169 active cases on Sunday. One person died of COVID-19 on Saturday and the district’s toll increased to 2,437. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate (TPR) of 1.5 % of Saturday when it reported 134 new cases of the disease. Tiruppur district had 634 active cases of COVID-19 including the 48 new cases it reported on Sunday. As many as 73 persons recovered from the disease on Sunday. The district’s toll increased to 986 after a woman died of the disease on Saturday. According to the Health Department, Tiruppur district’s TPR stood at 1.3 % on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-125-new-cases/article37496969.ece
15 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac salesman robbed of cash, mobile phone||All the Tasmac outlets in Coimbatore district remained closed for nearly three hours from 10 a.m. on Sunday after employees staged a protest in connection with the attack on a Tasmac salesman at Idikarai in the early hours of the day. The police said that three men assaulted V. Chidambaram (44), a native of Pudukkottai and a resident of Kasthuribai Street at Ganapathy, early on Sunday morning when he was returning from the Tasmac outlet (No:1621) at Idikarai. They robbed him of a bag containing cash and his mobile phone after attacking him with a knife. The attack took place in the limits of the Saravanampatti police station and Mr. Chidambaram was found injured in the limits of the Periyanaickenpalayam police station as he had walked for nearly 1 km after the attack. Case registered Though this initially led to a jurisdictional dispute between the two stations, the Saravanampatti police registered a case under section 397 (robbery or dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code. The police said that Mr. Chidambaram, who was admitted to a private hospital was stable as of Sunday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-salesman-robbed-of-cash-mobile-phone/article37496975.ece
15 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CM in city on Nov. 22||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will inaugurate various completed projects in Coimbatore and announce new schemes for the district at a function on the VOC Grounds here on November 22, said Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise V. Senthil Balaji on Sunday. The Chief Minister would announce various welfare schemes for people at the event, said the Minister. Mr. Balaji said that 73 sessions of ‘Makkal Sabhai’ of the 150 sessions planned for the district were held as of Saturday since its launch on October 30. A total of 55,600 petitions from people were collected in the sessions, exceeding the expected target of around 25,000 petitions. This showed people’s trust in Mr. Stalin’s governance, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-in-city-on-nov-22/article37496967.ece
15 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan gangster’s aide held||A special team of the Crime Branch-CID (CB-CID) on Saturday arrested a close aide of Sri Lankan gangster Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera alias Angoda Lokka who died under suspicious circumstances while hiding on the outskirts of Coimbatore in 2020. CB-CID sources said Chanuka Thananayaka (38) alias Nalin Sathuranga alias Ladia, who hails from Athurugiriya in Sri Lanka, was arrested from Bengaluru on Saturday. T. Gopalakrishnan (46) alias Jayapal, a resident of PNS Layout at Subbannapalya in Bengaluru, who allegedly harboured the Sri Lankan native, was also arrested. Thananayaka’s name surfaced when the CB-CID started its investigation into Lokka’s death while he was hiding along with a Sri Lankan woman, namely Amani Thanji in a rented house near Cheran Ma Nagar in Coimbatore on the night of July 3, 2020. As per Thanji’s statement, Lokka complained of severe chest pain and died before reaching a private hospital near Coimbatore airport. The investigators found that Lokka lived in Coimbatore as Pradeep Singh for nearly two years. Madurai-based advocate D. Sivakamasundari and her friend S. Dyaneswaran from Erode had helped Lokka get an Aadhaar card in the name of Pradeep Singh and get a plastic surgery done for his nose. Sivakamasundari, Dyaneswaran and Thanji took Lokka’s body to Madurai after post-mortem at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on July 5 and cremated it there. During interrogation, they told the CB-CID investigators that a pistol used by Lokka was handed over to Thananayaka in Madurai. The CB-CID was on the hunt for Thananayaka from September 2020. Sources added that Thananayaka was apprehended from Bengaluru based on specific intelligence with the help of the Karnataka Police. Thananayaka and Gopalakrishnan were brought to Coimbatore and produced before Chief Judicial Magistrate M. Sanjeevi Baskar who remanded them in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-arrests-aide-of-sri-lankan-gangster-from-bengaluru/article37496960.ece
15 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Makkal Needhi Maiam organised a marathon here on Sunday to commemorate the 67th birthday of its president Kamal Haasan and to create awareness on organ donation. Makkal Neethi Maiyyam State secretary (propaganda) Anusha Ravi and Coimbatore North district secretary SIDCO A. Siva said, the marathon was held from Kurichi Sundarapuram and more than 500 persons took part. Coimbatore Athletic Association executives and members conducted the marathon and gave away commendation certificates and medals to the participants. Prize money of Rs. 25,000 was given away, a release said.   HomeLane has launched an Experience Centre in Coimbatore as part of it plans to widen its presence in tier-two markets across India. HomeLane has invested Rs. 2 crore to set up the centre and is expected to generate Rs. 75 crore revenue by the financial year 2023. The company also plans to invest another Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 60 lakh to expand its presence in the nearby markets, such as Tiruppur and Erode, in the next six months. Tanuj Choudhry, Co-Founder and COO, HomeLane, said , “We are excited to expand our footprint in Coimbatore, one of the top 10 markets in India, and one of the top Tier-II cities for realty investments.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37496957.ece
15 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephants damage three shops near Valparai||A herd of elephants damaged three shops, including a ration shop, near Valparai on Saturday night. The elephants pulled out eatables and raw rice and damaged the front portion of the shops. Forest Department officials said a herd of eight elephants strayed into human habitations at Sheikalmudi on Saturday night. According to Manambolly forest range officer A. Manikandan, the elephants damaged a ration shop, a grocery store and a small store. Rice stored at the ration shop for distribution to card holders was eaten by the elephants. The frontline staff of the Department reached the spot and drove away the elephants. The herd moved from the area and damaged the bungalow of a private estate’s manager. Mr. Manikandan said the Department was making all arrangements to provide compensation for the damages caused by the elephants. Following frequent incidents of elephants raiding shops, the Department had intensified night patrols in Valparai and Manambolly forest ranges of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve. According to the frontline staff, raiding of shops by elephants continues in the hill station despite routine patrols. They said the elephants damaged shops mainly in search of rice, fruits, vegetables and other soft foods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephants-damage-three-shops-near-valparai/article37496964.ece
15 November 2021||DEVAKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Car gutted||A car was destroyed in a fire here on Sunday. Fire and Rescue Services personnel said the car, driven by Pandian, 62, of Puduvayal, had come to a fuel filling station on Tirupathur-Karaikudi Road. Instead of filling petrol, the bunk worker by mistake filled diesel in the vehicle. When it was noticed, they decided to drain the fuel completely. During the process, an accidental spark ignited the fire, which destroyed the vehicle. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/car-gutted/article37497039.ece
15 November 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Rain triggers landslips on Vathalmalai ghat road||Following incessant rain, landslips were reported on the Vathalmalai ghat road on Saturday. Officials said that the landslips were reported at three places between the foothills and Chinnangadu. Staff and workers from the Dharmapuri Block Development office removed the debris using excavators. Traffic movement resumed the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-triggers-landslips-on-vathalmalai-ghat-road/article37497062.ece
15 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Landslip hits movement of vehicles on Bargur ghat road||Vehicle movement was affected on Bargur ghat road following a landslip on Sunday. Following incessant rain, a huge boulder and debris fell on the Bargur ghat road at Chettinodi near Thamaraikarai. This is the third instance of landslip reported in the hills in the recent days. Vehicle movement towards Karnataka was affected due to the landslip and vehicles were stopped at the forest check post. Forest, Highways and Police department personnel are working on clearing the debris and resuming traffic in the route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/landslip-hits-movement-of-vehicles-on-bargur-ghat-road/article37497061.ece
15 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Every government that ignored people’s protests has fallen: MP||Every government that ignored people’s protests had fallen and the BJP government at the Centre (would be) no exemption, said DMK MP T.K.S. Elangovan on Sunday. Addressing a conference against disinvestment of Life Insurance Corporation shares, organised by South Zone Insurance Employees’ Federation here, Mr. Elangovan said, “The government says it wants to disinvest because it wants revenue. Earlier, a Union Minister said it was not the business of the Centre to sell petroleum products. The government was distancing itself from welfare sectors such as education and healthcare.” “If the government is not going to offer these services, then what is it for?,” he asked. The primary duty of the government was to protect the socio-economic conditions of the citizens. The LIC was started with a meagre investment of Rs. 5 crore in 1956 and since its inception it had given a dividend of Rs. 28,000 crore to the Centre. “This was possible, because every citizen has invested in the LIC. After the introduction of GST and demonetisation, Indian economy has been on the fall,” he said. A resolution passed at the conference said the LIC was a major investor in many State and Central government projects for constructing roads, bridges and housing facilities. Even after 24 private insurance companies had entered the market, 70% of the policies were still with the LIC. Besides, it had been ensuring employment opportunities to most backward and oppressed classes. ‘Only a prelude’ Disinvestment of LIC was only a prelude to privatise the public sector insurance company. Several private banks were facing losses and foreign insurance companies had fled the country. The Centre could generate revenue by increasing corporate tax, share market transaction tax, and taxing the super rich, the resolution said. The conference also resolved to protect the LIC from privatisation to uphold the people’s faith in the public sector unit. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan said that the Centre was planning to monetise All India Radio, Doordarshan, railway hospitals and playgrounds. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been in the forefront of demolishing public sector units. LIC employees were not fighting for salary increment but to protect the company in public interest,” he said. Federation functionary Swaminathan said that LIC employees would continue to oppose the Centre’s move to privatise LIC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/every-government-that-ignored-peoples-protests-has-fallen-mp/article37497250.ece
15 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP man’s kin robbed of Rs. 1.25 lakh, gold jewellery||A gang of four robbed the family members of the district secretary of Bharatiya Janata Party’s youth wing, S. Vijendiran, 37, of over 22 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs. 1.25 lakh at Tirumangalam late on Saturday evening. Mr. Vijendiran, a realtor, was at hospital when the crime took place. His mother, wife and children were at home when they saw some men knocking at the door of their neighbour’s house at around 6.30 p.m. They told them that their neighbours were away. Immediately, the robbers, who were wearing the now common face masks, barged into their house. One of the robbers pulled out a knife and made the family members sit in a corner while two others removed their jewellery. Another robber opened an alimirah and took away the cash, folowing which they fled away. None of the family members was injured. Mr. Vijendran’s house was located in Muthiah Nagar, an extension area along Virudhunagar highway. The robbers had entered the residential area through wild growth in the vicinity. Tirumangalam Town police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-mans-kin-robbed-of-rs-125-lakh-jewellery/article37497041.ece
15 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Landslip forces cancellation of trains||Southern Railway has fully cancelled four trains due to landslip between Kulithurai and Eranial railway stations in Nagercoil-Thiruvananthapuram section. Train No. 06426 Nagercoil-Thiruvananthapuram Special, Train No. 06427 Thiruvananthapuram-Nagercoil Special - (both scheduled to leave on 15 November); Train No. 06425 Kollam - Thiruvananthapuram Special and Train No. 06435 Thiruvananthapuram - Nagercoil Special (on November 15 and 16) are fully cancelled. Meanwhile, Train No. 09578 Jamnagar – Tirunelveli Special that left Jamnagar on November 13 will be short terminated at Thiruvananthapuram and will not run between Thiruvananthapuram and Tirunelveli. Similarly, Train No. 09577 Tirunelveli – Jamnagar Special scheduled to leave Tirunelveli at 8 a.m. on November 16 will start from Thiruvananthapuram at its scheduled departure timing of 10.50 a.m. Besides, the services of 21 trains are partially cancelled between Thiruvananthapuram and Nagercoil / Kanniyakumari / Tirunelveli on November 14 and 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/landslip-forces-southern-railway-to-cancel-trains/article37497043.ece
15 November 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||A major lake in Kanniyakumari dying slowly||Putheri, one of the major lakes in Kanniyakumari, is dying slowly. Encroachments, neglect, termination of agriculture in its command area in the wake of real estate development, release of untreated sewage and very recently filling of half the lake for laying a highway reduced the lake into a pale shadow of yesteryear. “In its original capacity, it is capable of storing water in huge quantities. Water enters nearby residential areas because the lake is no longer in a position to hold water to its capacity,” said P. Kannan, the president of Putheri Panchayat. The village, Putheri, takes its name from the lake and the huge ant-hill like structure (puttru), worshipped by the local people. The lake is also home to variety of birds and other aquatic species. The problem started when the Southern Railway laid a new lane and constructed a bridge. “It failed to remove tonnes of soil dumped into the lake. I made a representation to Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, when he visited the district,” Mr. Kannan said. Asked about real estate development on the paddy fields irrigated by the lake, Mr. Kannan said it started many years ago and had gone beyond control. To prevent the water from flowing into the housing plots, the real estate developers also damaged the sluices through which the water would flow into paddy fields. One could also see encroachments on the banks of the lake. Filling of one part of the lake for laying a national highway choked it like never before. “Instead of constructing a bridge on pillars, the National Highway filled the lake to lay a road. My petition in the Madras High Court resulted in a direction to construct a bridge. But I do not know what happened after that,” said Lal Mohan, convener, Nagercoil Chapter of Indian National Trust for Culture and Heritage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-major-lake-in-kanniyakumari-dying-slowly/article37497377.ece
15 November 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||‘Encroachments caused flooding in Kanniyakumari’||Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran on Sunday said encroachments on waterbodies and construction of houses on paddy fields were responsible for the heavy flooding in Kanniyakumari. The Minister, who is here to assess the flood situation, said the government would assess the damage once rain stopped. Asked whether the encroachments would be removed, he retorted, “Do you want them removed or not?” “There could be minor issues. We will look into them,” he said, while inspecting flooded areas in Suchindram. In Suchindram, the water from the Palayar entered Thanumalayanswamy Temple. Houses constructed on paddy fields around Suchindram are fully inundated. Residents moved from the ground floor and shifted furniture to other places. Mr. Ramachandran also said all the roads were damaged and the situation was quite grim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/encroachments-caused-flooding-in-kanniyakumari/article37497050.ece
15 November 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Kanniyakumari under water||Following the heavy rain in Kanniyakumari district over the last several days, all villages, including areas like the Pechiparai dam and Cape Comorin, have been submerged in rainwater. The three major rivers — Palyar, Valliyar and Thamirabharani — are in spate, and their water has entered main thoroughfares and neighbouring villages, especially after the rain on Friday night and the release of excess water from dams. Paddy, coconut, banana and rubber, grown on thousands of acres, have been submerged. A total of 18,000 cusecs from Pechipari, 20,000 cusecs from Perunchani and 2,000 cusecs from Chittaru were released. The average rainfall on Sunday was 109.53 mm. Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, who inspected the affected areas, said that as the Poigai dam had reached its capacity, water released from it had entered waterbodies in Chenbagaramanputhur, Thellanthi and Thirupathisaram and breached them. “The water flooded the neighbouring villages. Similarly, a breach in the lake at Thovalai flooded the low-lying areas,” he said. On Saturday evening, water from the Palayar, recharged with a fresh spell of rain, entered the Thanumalayaswamy temple at Suchindram. Since roads on the riverside are flooded, transport services have been terminated. The Tirparappu falls are roaring dangerously. “We have not been able to tap rubber for the last two months because of the rain. It has affected the livelihood of farmers and labourers. The rain has also caused damage to the banana crops,” said G. Anil Kumar, assessing officer, Rubber Skill Development Council. Mr. Ramachandran said villages in the Thovalai and Agastheeswaram taluks were the worst affected. Paddy fields in the northern region of the district, the rice bowl of the erstwhile Travancore, are under water, and have turned into an enormous waterbody, with patches of green showing up. Rubber plantations in the western parts have also been inundated. “Water has entered almost all places, and all six taluks have been affected. Our immediate priority is to ensure the safety of people. The district administration has launched rescue operations on a war footing,” said Information Minister Mano Thangaraj, who hails from the district. He said the government would work out a permanent solution, after addressing immediate issues like providing compensation to the affected for the loss of crops and cattle and damage to houses. “There is a unanimous opinion that encroachments choking waterbodies have resulted in floods. We have to remove them,” he said. His views were shared by N. Thalavaisundaram, AIADMK MLA, representing Kanniyakumari. “Waterbodies have not been maintained for years. Encroachments on them have also contributed to the flooding,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanniyakumari-under-water/article37496901.ece
15 November 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||8th mega COVID-19 vaccination drive held in three districts||Collector Shreya P. Singh inspected the progress of 8th mega COVID-19 vaccination drive in the district on Sunday. As many as 750 vaccination camps were organised in Namakkal, including 673 static centres and 77 mobile camps, on Sunday. Over 200 doctors, 430 nurses, 1,600 anganwadi workers, 1,400 volunteers, 415 trainee nurses, 265 trainee health inspectors, 1,400 teachers were involved in the camp. Ms.Singh inspected the camps set up at Chinnamudhalaipatti Government High School and a few other places and assessed the progress of the camp. Senior officials were present. In Erode, Collector H.Krishnanunni assessed the progress of vaccination at doorstep in the district. As many as 447 camps were set up in the district as part of the drive and about 1,788 workers were involved. The Collector said in a release that 40 medical teams have been set up in the district to vaccinate people at their homes. In Salem, Corporation Commissioner T.Christuraj visited a vaccination camp near Hasthampatti here and reviewed the arrangements. As many as 205 vaccination camps were set up in the Corporation limits on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/8th-mega-covid-19-vaccination-drive-held-in-three-districts/article37497058.ece
15 November 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Official reviews voters’ list revision works||Electoral roll observer for Namakkal district A. Gnanasekaran visited the district on Sunday and interacted with representatives of recognised political parties. According to a release, Mr. Gnanasekaran told party representatives that measures have been taken to ensure that there is sufficient stock of required forms at polling booths during the special camps. Individuals who would complete 18 years of age by January 1, 2022 may apply to include their names in electoral roll in the camps. Mr. Gnanasekaran said that if there were multiple entries of a voter, additional entries were being identified and removed using computer software. He requested the leaders to assist the Election Commission by including names of persons who completed 18 years of age in the respective areas in the voters’ list and to work with revenue officials to remove names of deceased voters. During the special camp conducted on Saturday, 6,512 applications were received for addition, deletion, address change and corrections in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/official-reviews-voters-list-revision-works/article37497059.ece
15 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records two deaths, 43 new COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory recorded two COVID-19 deaths and 43 new cases on Sunday. Puducherry and Mahe reported one fatality each to take the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,865. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,458), Karaikal (250), Yanam (108) and Mahe (49). Puducherry logged 11 of the new cases, which were detected from 2,662 tests, followed by Karaikal (13), Yanam (10) and Mahe (9). With 19 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases aggregated to 297. Of this, 96 patients were in hospitals and 201 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.62%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.32%. The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,28,444 cases against 1,26,282 recovered patients. Of an estimated 19.47 lakh tests carried out, about 16.48 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 4,507 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has to date administered 11,55,261 vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-43-covid-19-cases/article37497065.ece
15 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘U.T. needs Rs. 1,500 cr. additional allocation to tide over losses’||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Sunday sought at least Rs. 1,500 crore additional Budgetary allocation from the Centre for Puducherry to help tide over substantial GST-related revenue losses. Addressing the 29th meeting of the Southern Zonal Council in Tirupati attended by Chief Ministers and Lt. Governors, Mr. Rangasamy while stating the case for increased Central assistance pointed out that at present the allocation to the annual Budget of the Union Territory from the Home Ministry was “totally inadequate”. Citing as an example the Budget for the current fiscal which had only 1.57% increase, the Chief Minister said. Puducherry would need at least Rs. 1,500 crore additional Central assistance in the next budget to compensate the loss of revenue due to implementation of GST and also reduction of VAT on fuel and as buffer against a possible migration to GST regime of petroleum products in the immediate future. It may be noted that the Centre had earmarked Rs. 1,729.79 crore during the 2021-2022 financial year against Rs. 1,703.02 crore in 2020-21 that amounted to a net increase of about Rs. 26 crore. Mr. Rangasamy also wanted Puducherry to be treated on a par with other Union Territories in allocation of 100% funding of Centrally-sponsored schemes as the Union Territory was unable to meet the share apportioned to States. The Chief Minister also sought support for expansion of Puducherry airport that required acquisition of land to the tune of 216 acres in Tamil Nadu and 54 acres in Puducherry for which approximately Rs. 225 crore was necessary. Demand for Statehood Re-emphasising the long-pending demand of Statehood for Puducherry, Mr. Rangasamy said the status of a Union Territory was preventing the government from exercising any powers for creating employment opportunities on the industries and tourism fronts. In the present state, the government was hampered in creating employment potential by inviting more industries or creating infrastructure for tourism, the Chief Minister said. The project to construct a new Legislative Assembly complex with an estimated grant of Rs. 300 crore, release of a special assistance of Rs. 500 crore for COVID-19-related expenditure and ramping up of hospital facilities were also raised at the meeting. The Chief Minister also sought a special assistance of Rs. 500 crore for reviving the Puducherry Cooperative Sugar Mill, Spinning Mill and other sick units in the cooperative sector. Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan also participated in the high-level meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The Lt. Governor and Chief Minister also broached key demands at a meeting with Mr. Shah on the sidelines of the conference. Earlier, the Lt. Governor and Chief Minister were felicitated by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar and Abhijit Vijay Chaudhary, secretary to Lt. Governor were part of the delegation.  The status of a Union Territory is preventing Puducherry government from exercising any powers for creating job opportunities on the industries and tourism fronts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-needs-rs-1500-cr-additional-allocation-to-tide-over-losses/article37497324.ece
15 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Absence of parking lots leaves vehicle users high and dry in Puducherry||The absence of parking lots near the business hubs of Jawaharlal Nehru Street, Mahatma Gandhi Road, Kamaraj Salai and Anna Salai has become a major irritant for customers, especially during weekends and festivals. People scrambled to find space to park their vehicles on these streets in the run-up to the Deepavali. Four-wheeler riders were the most affected as they had to park their vehicles far away. “I had to park my car on Rue Suffren the day before Deepavali to buy clothes and other materials from a shop on Jawaharlal Nehru Street. There was no space around to park my vehicles. Walking back with the materials and elderly persons is a difficult task, and I had to depend on an auto-rickshaw. The driver charged me Rs. 120,” said R. Sidharth, a resident of Muthialpet. According to Elango, a resident of Vaithikuppam, the haphazard parking on several streets and main thoroughfares was the key reason for traffic bottlenecks in the town on weekends. “Take, for example, the stretch on Kamaraj Salai. People park their vehicles on both sides blocking free flow of traffic. It is a regular sight on weekends as a lot of people coming from Chennai and Bengaluru take this route to reach the town.” The place that was used to house the Old Jail Complex on Jawaharlal Nehru Street is now used as a parking lot, said a businessman. The spot, he added, could not handle the volume of vehicles coming to the street and the adjoining places for shopping. “We have been hearing about a multi-level parking lot coming up on the jail complex ever since the prison was shifted more than 12 years ago. We have seen reports in the newspapers several times about tenders being floated, but nothing has taken shape. Except for the traffic arrangements, including space for parking, near the beach, we are lagging in traffic management,” said the businessman, who owns a shop on Mahatma Gandhi Road. Evaluation over According to an official associated with the Smart Cities Mission, the evaluation of technical and financial bids was completed months ago for automated car parking lots in the old prison area and Old Port Complex near the beach. The lots could accommodate 200 vehicles each. The administrative process for clearance was taking time, he said.  We have been hearing about a multi-level parking lot coming up on the jail complex ever since the prison was shifted more than 12 years ago||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/absence-of-parking-lots-leaves-vehicle-users-high-and-dry/article37497329.ece
15 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tributes paid to Jawaharlal Nehru||Floral tributes were paid to former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru on the occasion of his birth anniversary on Sunday. PWD Minister K. Lakshminarayanan, P. Rajavelu, Deputy Speaker and V. Aroumougame, government whip were among the dignitaries who garlanded the statue of the leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tributes-paid-to-jawaharlal-nehru/article37497322.ece
15 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Collectors inspect water bodies in Salem, Krishnagiri||District Collector S. Karmegham inspected the Jangasamuthiram lake near Gangavalli here on Sunday. Mr. Karmegham said in a release that water level is increasing in water bodies in the district due to rain. Mr. Karmegham said that while the average rainfall expected for the district during South-West Monsoon was 440.60 mm, the district received 540.54 mm rainfall. He said that while the district is expected to received 370 mm rainfall during the North-East monsoon, it has received 360.03 mm rainfall until November 13. The Collector said that there are 430 water bodies in the district under various local bodies and departments. Sixty water bodies have filled up to the brim, 49 up to 75% and 35 up to 50%. He added that the continuous rain is improving water levels at other tanks as well. Due to better rain, better yield is expected in agriculture, this year. In Krishnagiri, District Collector V. Jayachandra Banu Reddy visited lakes that got filled up in the recent rain. Mr. Reddy visited Nagojanahalli lake, Kambukalapatti periya eri and Vadamangalam lake that were filled up in recent rain. Mr. Reddy viewed the works to strengthen the bunds of the lakes and checked the outflow channels. He also advised officials to take measures to pump out water that inundated residences and agriculture fields. He reviewed works taken to remove water that inundated residences near Jadayan Kottai and Kariyan Kottai after the Vadamangalam Panchayat lake filled to the brim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-inspect-water-bodies-in-salem-krishnagiri/article37497056.ece
15 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Mettur dam attains full reservoir level of 120 ft, surplus water released into Cauvery||Mettur dam attained its full reservoir level of 120 ft late on Saturday. The surplus was released into River Cauvery through Ellis Saddle surplus gates here, early on Sunday. According to officials from the Public Works Department, the water level at the dam reached 120 ft at 11.35 p.m. on Saturday, for the 41st time. Following incessant rain, the inflow to the dam increased on Saturday. The surplus gates were raised, offering special pujas. As of 8 a.m on Sunday, the stored capacity of water at the dam was 93,470 mcft. The dam received an inflow of 25,000 cusecs and 24,000 cusecs was released into River Cauvery. The discharge through East-West canal was maintained at 150 cusecs. A total of 16.8 mm rainfall was recorded at the dam. The outflow from the dam was increased to 28,000 cusecs by 10.40 a.m. A total of 17,000 cusecs was discharged through the power houses and 11,000 cusecs was released through Ellis Saddle surplus gates. A flood warning was issued to district collectors of 11 districts and people living along the banks of River Cauvery and low-lying areas were advised to move to safe places. By 4 p.m., the outflow from the dam was increased to 40,000 cusecs. The water level at the dam was 120.10 ft and the dam received an inflow of 40,000 cusecs. About 22,000 cusecs of water was released through power houses and 18,000 cusecs through surplus gates. Officials from the PWD have planned to conduct a trial run of Mettur Surplus Water Scheme by pumping the surplus from Thippampatti lift irrigation pump house to Kalipatti lake and three other lakes. According to the officials, 80% works of pump house have been completed and the trial run would be conducted on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-dam-attains-full-reservoir-level/article37496931.ece
15 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Tourists told to avoid visiting Yercaud||District Collector S. Karmegham has advised tourists to avoid visiting Yercaud due to recent landslips in the hill station. In a release, Mr. Karmegham said that due to incessant rain, inflow to water bodies in the district has increased and they are nearing full level. Public were advised not to venture near water bodies for bathing, taking selfies or any other activities. Mr. Karmegham said that due to heavy rain during the past 10 days, landslips have occurred on Yercaud ghat road leading to disruption in traffic movement. ‘Follow instructions’ There are chances of vehicles getting involved in accidents during landslips, hence people should avoid visiting the hill station, he said. Public were also advised to follow instructions issued by the district administration for safe traffic movement on the ghat road.  Heavy rain in the last l0 days has triggered landslips on Yercaud ghat road, resulting in disruption of vehicle movement. S. Karmegham District Collector, Salem||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourists-told-to-avoid-visiting-yercaud/article37497054.ece
15 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Erode district reports 78 new COVID-19 cases||Erode reported 78 new cases of COVID-19 and the district had 784 active cases as on Sunday. Salem district reported 40 fresh cases. According to Health Department officials, 25 cases were indigenous and 11 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal district reported 36 new cases, all indigenous. While Dharmapuri district reported 12 indigenous cases, Krishnagiri reported six cases. One death each was reported in Salem and Dharmapuri districts. While Coimbatore district reported 125 new cases, Tiruppur district saw 48 fresh cases on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-district-reports-78-new-covid-19-cases/article37497055.ece
15 November 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||First flood warning issued||PWD has issued the first flood warning at Mullaperiyar reservoir as the water storage level reached 140 feet on Sunday morning. The dam, which has a storage level of 152 ft, has been permitted by the Supreme Court to store water up to 142 ft. With widespread rain in catchment areas, the inflow into the dam was 4,400 cusecs and the discharge 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level stood at 69.19 feet (permissible level is 71 ft) with an inflow of 1,143 cusecs and discharge of 1,419 cusecs. The combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,395 mcft. Rainfall Rainfall recorded in various places during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday was in (mm): Periyar 26.8, Thekkadi 16, Thaniyamangalam 6.1, Gudalur 4.8, Shanmuganadhi 2.7 and Kodaikanal 1.2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-flood-warning-issued/article37497040.ece
15 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Steps will be taken to preserve surplus water: MP||Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi has assured to take steps to preserve the surplus water going waste into the sea. The MP, who visited a few low-lying areas and also the check dam at Marudhur near here, told reporters that following widespread rain in the catchment areas of Papanasam dam, the storage level in the reservoirs in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi was rising steadily. The surplus water, which is being released into the Tamirabarani, flowed into the sea. “We will examine modalities and take measures to prevent the water from going waste,” she said, adding water released from the dam was around 2,500 cusecs. However, when it reached the river, the flow was 10,000 to 15,000 cusecs. Accompanied by Ministers Geetha Jeevan and Anitha Radhakrishnan, and Collector K. Senthil Raj, she said preventive measures had been taken in view of the rise in the water level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-will-be-taken-to-preserve-surplus-water-mp/article37497374.ece
15 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Special camps held||About 3,000 persons have filed applications for inclusion of names in the voters list and 1,000 others submitted applications for deletion of names and change of address in the district at special camps held on Saturday and Sunday, officials said. Similar camps would also be held on November 27 and 28.  Collector K. Senthil Raj visited a few of the camps in the district, including Vallanadu polling station, the officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camps-held/article37497372.ece
15 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘We did not have enough time to clean waterways completely’||Days after several parts of Chennai were inundated, the city is slowly returning to normalcy. This is the second time in six years that Tamil Nadu’s capital is grappling with the impact of heavy rain. A blame game has begun between the ruling DMK and the Opposition AIADMK over who is responsible for the hardship the people faced. In an interview, Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru talks about the causes of waterlogging, actions that were taken and remedial measures to prevent flooding in Chennai and other parts of Tamil Nadu. Excerpts:  Many parts of Chennai are still facing inundation. What caused this? Normalcy has been restored in all places, except a few. Restoration work is progressing on a war footing. We have identified problematic spots along Metrowater lines that had aggravated the impact of the floods. Manpower and machines have been deployed at 400 spots to drain the water. Some areas, including Pulianthope, have been posing real challenges to us, as continuous efforts failed to yield the expected results, troubling residents. We have deputed 1,000 sanitation workers from other municipalities, in addition to the staff of the [Greater] Chennai Corporation, to carry out the restoration work. Power has been given to zonal officers to involve as many workers as possible from various sources. It [the work] has taught everyone a lesson. What we have come to know from the 10-day intensive fieldwork in the affected areas of Chennai is that the city will not face the level of hardship that it is facing now if the drainage system of Metrowater is good. We have found that the pipelines in north Chennai need repairs at many places. The drainage system is in a bad state. Several manholes are broken. In some areas, sewage is mixing with drinking water. The permanent solution lies in replacing the pipelines of Metrowater in north Chennai. There have been criticisms that the State Government failed to take flood prevention measures before the start of the monsoon. How do you respond to them? There is no truth in it. As a precaution, we began a major drive across the State, well before the north-east monsoon set in, to clear the silt accumulated in drainage canals and drainage systems. We have waterways and canals in Chennai and its suburbs to a length of about 2,700 km. We cleared bushes and weeds for about 771 km. We could not do it completely owing to a paucity of time. The situation would have been better if we had sufficient time to complete the task. We have identified 166 points vulnerable to inundation in north Chennai, Tambaram, Pallavaram and south Chennai. The expert committee on flood prevention in Chennai, led by V. Thiruppugazh, will begin its study soon. The government will implement its recommendations by drawing funds from various resources. It might take at least two years to complete the project. However, we will see that flooding in Chennai does not recur, as Chief Minister M.K. Stalin is committed to addressing the issue permanently. The AIADMK is blaming the DMK for the current crisis... Chennai faced unprecedented floods in 2015. The erstwhile AIADMK Government not just failed in preventing the crisis then but also in taking corrective steps thereafter. They [AIADMK leaders] spoke about schemes costing at Rs. 800 crore-Rs. 900 crore to prevent flooding. But we could see nothing in effect. They just concentrated on building multi-level car parking and parks under the Smart Cities Mission. We have prevented human losses and restored normalcy quickly. Can they list schemes that were implemented to prevent floods in Chennai? They did nothing except to hoodwink people. They pass the buck, despite having been in power for 10 years. In the six months after we took over, the DMK Government has devoted entire energy and resources for three months to bringing the COVID-19 infections under control. Next, we had to switch our attention for a month to the Assembly proceedings. In the next two months, we focused on facing the monsoon. Time was so short. In spite of this, we took up a State-wide drive to clear silt along drainage canals, as much as possible. Do you not think that encroachments on waterbodies are one of the reasons for the floods? Yes. More than 3,000-4,000 families reside in Kolathur alone illegally. The existence of the Velachery lake itself poses an issue. It is not easy to shift all of them [the residents] to alternative places at a go. It is a major task. We need to take into account litigation, too. However, we will shift the roadside dwellers to the Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board tenements.  We have prevented human losses and restored normalcy quickly. Can they [the AIADMK] list schemes that were implemented to prevent floods in Chennai?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-did-not-have-enough-time-to-clean-waterways-completely/article37496899.ece
15 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||It is back-breaking ride for vehicle users||The extensive damage of roads has caused nightmarish experience to motorists in the city. Even some of the arterial roads that were relaid about three months ago faced the brunt of the torrential rain that lashed different parts of the district and the city. Interior roads that witness less traffic when compared to the main and arterial roads, too, could not escape from the damage. According to sources, several complaints of severe damage to the road infrastructure from Srirangam, Ariyamangalam, Golden Rock and K. Abishekapuram zones have been made to Tiruchi Corporation. Almost all roads in low-lying areas, where water stagnation has been reported since Monday, have been battered badly, making them unmotorable. Deep potholes have emerged at several spots on most of the roads in the city. Srinivasa Nagar, Kumaran Nagar, Ammayapillai Nagar, Bankers’ Colony, M.M. Nagar, Shanmuga Nagar, Ramalinga Nagar, Bharathi Nagar on Vayalur Road were among the badly hit. Road users point out that the damage is not confined to one or two places. It is scattered in all 65 wards of the Corporation. Barring a few roads in Cantonment, several roads in residential colonies too were affected. Small to big potholes and uneven surfaces have appeared on Madurai Road, GH Road, Thanjavur Road from the Gandhi Market, East Boulevard Road, roads in Varaganeri, Palakkarai, Edatheru, Woraiyur, Ariyamangalam, Kattur, Thiruverumbur and other locations. The damage to the road infrastructure is stated in official circles as quite severe when compared to the rain during the last northeast monsoon. It has caused severe inconvenience to motorists mainly two-wheeler riders and car drivers. Residents, who live in colonies where the second and third phases of underground drainage works are on, have been the worst hit as the water stagnation and torrential rain have made the roads unmotorable. “Rides on city roads by two-wheelers are literally breaking the hip of motorists as they have to pass through the uneven and potholes-dotted roads. They give tough time to motorists,” says G. House Baig, a civic activist. He cities the worst condition of the roads in Anbilar Nagar in Edamalaipattipudur. While acknowledging the problems faced by residents in some parts of the city, Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman told The Hind u that the Corporation was committed to restoring all roads. The immediate priority was to make all roads motorable. The local administration had identified roads to a length of 70 km in the city that had been severely hit. The restoration works had already started. More rain had been forecast during the current monsoon. While the Corporation would concentrate on making the roads motorable until the end of the season, Mr. Rahuman said steps would be taken to relay all damaged roads. A plan had been evolved to develop roads to a length of 48 km at an estimate of Rs. 42 crore. All tender-related works were over. The works would commence immediately after the rainy season, Mr. Rahuman added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-is-back-breaking-ride-for-vehicle-users/article37497025.ece
15 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Earthen lamp-makers worry about sales ahead of Karthigai Deepam||Earthen lamp makers have taken out the potters wheel in the hope of better sales making earthen lamps for Karthigai Deepam this year. If the COVID-19 lockdown has ruined their business so far, heavy rainfall has made matters worse. Pottery was once a remunerative business for atleast 100 families in Thiruvanaikovil. They depended on their skills to earn and make a living. Now, however, less than 10 families remain. While some have moved on to making pots and pans which are in demand, most others have shifted to daily-wage labour. The potters have just begun to purchase clay and make traditional vilaku lit during Karthigai Deepam. “We did not make any for Deepavali as incessant rain meant that it could not dry under the sun,” L. Ganesan, a potter said. The cost of clay too has gone up. A load of clay, enough to fill a mini-truck, costs Rs. 3,000. Nearly 10,000 lamps can be made from it. Mr. Ganesan has involved his family in painting the earthen lamps in bright colours to attract customers and wholesalers. “As there is sunlight, we began to make the lamps this morning. Otherwise, we would have refrained,” he said. Wholesalers who purchase lamps from the lamp makers and sell them at the market too are apprehensive. The potters also continue to demand mechanised potters wheels from the district administration. While any potters across the State have received such wheels, none at Thiruvanaikovil have received them so far. They also sought government intervention in promoting pottery. “There are exhibitions held all through the year. If the district administration allows us to set up shops, we will be able to earn a living,” Mr. Ganesan's wife said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/earthen-lamp-makers-worry-about-sales-ahead-of-karthigai-deepam/article37497027.ece
15 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Legal awareness rally marks 75th anniversary of India’s freedom||A rally to create legal awareness was organised here by District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) on Sunday as part of the 75th anniversary of the country's Independence. Principal District Judge and DLSA chairman Y. Gladstone Blessed Tagore flagged off the rally at the Combined Court complex. Judicial officers, officials of the District Child Protection Unit, NSS students of Bishop Heber College and advocates participated in the rally. Pamphlets containing the activities of DLSA and the functioning of the Lok Adalat were distributed to the general public by the students during the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/legal-awareness-rally-marks-75th-anniversary-of-indias-freedom/article37497032.ece
15 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Demo flays privatisation of PSUs||A section of employees working in public sector units and state-owned undertakings staged a demonstration here on Sunday condemning the privatisation of railways, public sector banks, LIC and BSNL and other large PSUs by the Centre. Employees from the banking sector, BSNL, Postal department, LIC, railway, Tangedco and state transport corporation owing allegiance to CITU and their respective unions and associations took part in the demonstration that was organised in front of the Jawaharlal Nehru statue near Cantonment. The participants raised slogans expressing their resolve to protect the public sector units in the interest of the country. The demonstration, which lasted an hour, was led by CITU urban district secretary Rengarajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demo-flays-privatisation-of-psus/article37497034.ece
15 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||111 fresh cases, two deaths||The central region reported 111 fresh cases and two deaths on Sunday. However, the total number of patients reporting COVID-19 positive continued to be high in Tiruchi district, with a total of 38 fresh infections on Sunday. Two patients succumbed to the viral infection in the district. Meanwhile, the other eight districts in the central region reported less than 25 cases. In Thanjavur, 28 patients tested positive. Karur reported 14 fresh cases, and Tiruvarur 13. Pudukottai registered seven fresh COVID-19 cases and Nagapattinam district six. Meanwhile, Ariyalur district reported three COVID-19 cases, Mayiladuthurai two. Perambalur district reported no fresh COVID-19 case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/111-fresh-cases-two-deaths/article37497029.ece
15 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||10 detained under Goondas Act||The city police have detained 10 persons under the Goondas Act since the beginning of this month. The accused were detained under the Act for their involvement in crimes such as murder, sale of ganja, robbery, sexual harassment and smuggling of ration rice in different police station limits within the city. Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan has warned of stern action as per law against those involved in such types of crimes, a press release said here on Sunday. He has instructed police personnel to carry out patrolling and conduct vehicle checks to ensure maintenance of law and order and prevemtion of crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-detained-under-goondas-act/article37497030.ece
15 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Nehru’s birth anniversary celebrated||The 132nd birth anniversary of India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru was celebrated by BHEL Tiruchi on Sunday. I Kamalakkannan, General Manager, Boiler Shops and Advanced Technology Products, garlanded the statue of Jawaharlal Nehru and paid floral tribute. Other senior officials also paid floral tribute with BHEL Security personnel in attendance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nehrus-birth-anniversary-celebrated/article37497036.ece
15 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 138.40 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 8,213.40 cusecs and a discharge of 7,390.37 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 87.90 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 1,450 cusecs and a discharge of 10 cusecs. Rainfall recorded in various places during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday was (in mm): Kodumudiyar dam 70, Radhapuram 52.6, Gundar dam 44, Adavinainar dam 43, Papanasam dam 41, Servalaru dam 28, Gadana dam 24, Sengottai and Ayakudi 23 each, Manimuthar dam 20, Tenkasi 18.4, Ambasamudram 17, Kalakkad 16.4, Nanguneri 16, Cheranmahadevi 11.2, Ramanadhi dam 10, Moolakaraipatti 8, Palayamkottai 7 and Tirunelveli 4.2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37497375.ece
15 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two men die of asphyxiation in dyeing unit in Tiruppur||Two men died of asphyxiation inside a sewage tank of a private dyeing unit at Veerapandi in Tiruppur City Police limits on Sunday. According to police sources, Vadivel (32), a daily wage labourer from Kuruppankuttai, near Palavanjipalayam, in the city, along with three others were made to clean the sewage tanks in the dyeing unit at Kothukaduthottam in Veerapandi on Sunday morning. After cleaning the first tank, they entered the second tank at around 2 p.m. While the others quickly climbed out of the tank after detecting the noxious fumes, Vadivel fell unconscious inside the tank, the sources said. Following this, the unit’s manager Dinesh Pandian (28) and electrician Rajendran (55) entered the tank to rescue the worker. However, both fainted inside the tank. Based on the information, personnel from Tiruppur South Fire Station reached the spot at around 3.40 p.m. and commenced the rescue operations, sources said. Vadivel and Dinesh Pandian were found dead and their bodies were retrieved. Nagaraj (48), another worker, and Rajendran were rescued and hospitalised, according to the sources. Apart from them, two workers, Ramakrishnan (50) and a woman named Ramu (32) were admitted to hospitals. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) S. Aravind visited the dyeing unit for inquiry on Sunday evening. The Veerapandi police booked the unit’s owner R. Dhanalakshmi (48). She was arrested late on Sunday and efforts were on to provide compensation to the deceased’s kin, the police sources said. Officials from the Department of Department of Industrial Safety and Health also visited the unit. They said action would be taken against the unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-men-die-of-asphyxiation-in-dyeing-unit-in-tiruppur/article37496973.ece
15 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Mobile medical camps inaugurated in Nilgiris||Forest Minister K. Ramachandran inaugurated 20 mobile medical camps in the Nilgiris recently. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Ramachandran said the mobile camps would be used to offer treatment to people during the monsoon. The teams would visit houses and treat people with fever, cold and other illness. The camps would also help track the spread of COVID-19 in rural and urban communities, health officials said. Mr. Ramachandran said the government planned to hold 5,000 such camps across the State during the North-East Monsoon. The camps in the Nilgiris would involve 80 doctors, nurses and village health nurses. Mr. Ramachandran also said healthcare workers had been asked to note places where water was stagnating and alert local body officials. Deputy Director of Health Services, Nilgiris district, P. Balusamy and Ooty Municipal Commissioner, R. Saraswati were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-medical-camps-inaugurated-in-nilgiris/article37496970.ece
15 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman dies after boulder falls on houses in Vellore||A 45-year-old woman died after a boulder rolled off the hillock and plunged into some houses on the foothills of Kagithapattarai, off the Benguluru Highway, in Vellore on Sunday. Fire and Rescue Services and the police launched an operation to secure her daughter, who was trapped in the collapsed house. Her father K. Pichayandi, 52, escaped unhurt. “Encroachments, mostly houses, on the foothills will be removed soon. A plan will be devised to prevent encroachments on the foothills,” Collector P. Kumaral Pandian told The Hindu . Accompanied by Superintendent of Police S. Selvakumar and Assistant SP Albert John, Mr. Pandian inspected the spot. P. Ramani was severely injured, along with her daughter P. Nishanthini, 24, in their house, one of the five that collapsed. After more than two hours of efforts, Ramani was rescued from the debris and sent to the Government Medical College and Hospital at Adukkamparai where she died around 6.30 p.m. Seven youths rescued Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), 4th Battalion, Arakkonam, rescued seven youths, who were trapped while bathing in a lake at Mamandur-Pudur in Ranipet district on Sunday as the level in the Palar rose suddenly. The youths held on to a mound in the middle of the lake until the NDRF team rescued them on an alert from VAO J. Jayakanthan. A police rescue team cleared the landslip at the fifth hairpin bend on the Jawadhu Hills along the Polur-Jamunamarathur Main Road in Tiruvannamalai. The team restored traffic by the evening. A. Vishwanathan, 60, a herder, was rescued by an NDRF team from a lake at Lakshmipuram in Tiruttani. He followed his six cows that waded through the lake. Vaccination camp Meanwhile, 1.30 lakh persons were vaccinated at the mega camp in Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts on Sunday. In Tiruvannmalai, 75,579 persons were inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-dies-after-boulder-falls-on-houses/article37496919.ece
15 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore district logs 8 new COVID-19 cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,028 with eight new cases reported on Sunday. While 48,758 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 136. The district's death toll is 1,134. In Ranipet district, three cases were reported positive and the tally stood at 43,503. In Tirupattur district, two new cases were reported on Sunday taking the total number of positive cases to 29,355. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was four, and the total number of cases stood at 55,093. Out of this, 54,329 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 96.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-district-logs-8-new-covid-19-cases/article37497381.ece
15 November 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Mass vaccination camp conducted||Collector D. Mohan on Sunday inaugurated the eighth mass COVID-19 vaccination camp at Thalavanur panchayat in Koliyanur. He hoped that the special drive would help reach out to the left-out groups and attain the goal of 100% vaccination in the district. After having administered 16 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines till date, the administration has planned to vaccinate around 75,000 persons during the mega vaccination programme. The programme is being held in 1,082 camps across the district, Mr. Mohan also said. In Cuddalore district, Collector K. Balasubramaniam inaugurated the mass vaccination camp at Pudupalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mass-vaccination-camp-conducted/article37497326.ece
15 November 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Lottery kingpin arrested||Continuing with the crackdown on lottery agents, the Villupuram police on Saturday night arrested the kingpin in lottery trade Gajendran, 54, from Puducherry, for selling banned lottery tickets. According to police sources, the accused, hailing from Ariyankuppam, was involved in organised crime and wanted by the Villupuram police in three cases. The accused was selling three-digit lottery tickets that were circulated by a network of illegal lottery promoters. On Saturday, a special police team was conducting vehicle checks at Janakipuram when they nabbed Gajendran. He was produced before a local court and remanded in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lottery-kingpin-arrested/article37497325.ece
15 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Farmers oppose move to give fishing rights to contractors||Farmers have opposed a move by Fisheries Department to give long-term fishing rights in irrigation tanks for contractors. “The interests of contractors involved in fish rearing clashes with those of farmers and often tempers rise between us with regard to release of water for crop cultivation,” said R. Muthiah, Virudhunagar district president of Tamil Nadu Coconut Farmers’ Association. Agricultural operation in Virudhunagar district was predominantly through indirect irrigation – water stored in irrigation tanks and released through sluices. When the Fisheries Department started to allow fish rearing in irrigation tanks, it was only for six months – after the farming season got over. “It was originally for catching the fish that naturally grow in the tanks. But, of late, the contractors leave hatchlings in the tanks and feed them with a motive of harvesting them,” Mr. Muthiah said. In the process, the contractors assumed that they owned the entire tank, the sluices and their operation, he added. Whenever the farmers needed last wetting to save their crops or get better yield, the contractors did not allow water release claiming that the fish required minimum water storage. “Similarly, when we get ready for harvesting, the contractors unilaterally release the water in the nights and ruin the harvesting condition,” he added. Srivilliputtur Block Farmers’ Welfare Association has petitioned Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy requesting him not to give the contractors five years. “Even now, the contractors have the keys of the sluices and control their operations whereas it has to be done by the Public Works Department. If the contract is awarded for five years, the very purpose of irrigation tanks to store water and use them for agricultural purpose will be lost,” said association president T.A.S. Krishnan. Virudhunagar district got water only for one season in a year and the new move would jeopardise even that opportunity for the farmers, Mr. Muthiah said. Fearing a possible law and order issue, he appealed to the Collector to call off the tank auctioning scheduled for November 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-oppose-move-to-give-fishing-rights-to-contractors/article37497042.ece
15 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||9,869 seek inclusion of names in voters list||Virudhunagar district has received a total of 15,010 applications for inclusion, deletion and for incorporating correction in electoral rolls during the two-day special camps for revision of voters list held across the district on Saturday and Sunday. While a total of 6,676 forms (including online applications) were received for all the seven Assembly constituencies in the district on Saturday, another 8,334 applications (only offline forms) were received on Sunday. The details of online applications received (on Sunday) will be known only at the end of midnight of Sunday. Among these forms, 9,869 were for inclusion of names and the rest were for deletion of names, and for incorporating corrections in the voter list. Collector J. Meghanath Reddy inspected some of the camps on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/9869-seek-inclusion-of-names-in-voters-list/article37497045.ece
15 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine doses administered||A total of 51,440 doses of COVID vaccine were administered in Virudhunagar district during the 8th mega vaccination camp held on Sunday. Among them, 37,410 had taken their second jab and 14,030 had taken their first shot. A statement said that 18,653 persons in Virudhunagar health unit district and 32,787 persons in Sivakasi HUD had participated in the camps at 994 booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-doses-administered/article37497044.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Commission will probe irregularities’||For the eighth day in succession, the Chief Minister visited the affected areas, covering parts of the Villivakkam, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Kolathur and Egmore Assembly constituencies, according to an official release. He launched a special medical camp for COVID-19 vaccination and providing monsoon diseases preventive measures at Lakma Nagar in Villivakkam. Mr. Stalin distributed relief materials to residents at many places, including Mylappa Street in Kolathur, Sankara Bakthan Street in Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, East Tank Bund Street in Villivakkam and Dobikana in Egmore, besides the children at an orphanage at Vetriselvi Anbazhagan Nagar. Among those who accompanied him were Public Works Minister E.V. Velu, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekar Babu, Central Chennai MP Dayanidhi Maran, Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi and coordinating officer for north Chennai and Principal Secretary for Higher Education D. Karthikeyan, the release said.  For the eighth day in succession, the Chief Minister visited the affected areas, covering parts of the Villivakkam, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Kolathur and Egmore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commission-will-probe-irregularities/article37496902.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Private school principal arrested||The teacher, Mithun Chakravarthy, 31, was arrested on Friday under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 9 (l) (whoever commits sexual assault on the child more than once or repeatedly), read with Section 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault), of the POCSO Act. Mr. Jayachandran, who questioned Meera Jackson, along with DCP (Crime) E.S. Uma, for several hours since the morning, said the investigation would cover whether the girl was sexually assaulted by anyone else and whether there were other reasons for her suicide. He added that the police were also investigating a note which is said to have been left by the girl. The note read that a teacher (who was arrested), the father of a girl and the grandfather of another girl should not be spared. ‘Swift action’ School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi and Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji visited the parents of the girl in the morning. Mr. Poyyamozhi said the police acted swiftly and secured the principal late on Saturday night. The teacher, accused of sexually assaulting the girl, was arrested within 24 hours. The family accepted the body of the girl from the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital after the Ministers informed them that the principal was in police custody. The body was cremated in the afternoon. Former Minister S.P. Velumani visited the parents of the girl, along with Coimbatore North MLA Amman K. Arjunan, on Sunday. Mr. Velumani wanted the government to give the family Rs. 1 crore in compensation. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling ‘ Sneha’ 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-school-principal-arrested/article37496903.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||Due to the incessant rain, all roads in Paramakudi have been badly damaged. Pedestrians and two-wheeler riders find it difficult to use these roads. I request the authorities concerned to repair the roads on a war-footing. V. Rajendran, Paramakudi.   Rainwater gets stagnant on roads at several places in Ramanathapuram due to blockage. One such place is the junction of Sikil Raja Street and Mandayan Sandhu Street. The Municipal Commissioner must issue orders to clear the blockage ahead of the heavy rains expected in the coming months. Asmabagh Anvardeen, Ramanathapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article37497046.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||There used to be dumper bins on every street in Anjal Nagar, Koodal Nagar and Ashok Nagar along Alanganallur Road. After the inception of Smart City project, they were removed on the premise that corporation workers will come in vans and collect garbage door to door on alternate days. Now garbage is thrown on the roadside, leading to a health hazard. The residents want the corporation to revert to the old system of putting garbage in dumper bins which can be cleared once in two days or whatever cycle the civic body determines. B. P. Pereira, Ashok Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article37497251.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||The Government Higher Secondary School for Girls at Eruvadi in Tirunelveli district is in a rain- ravaged condition – either water-logged or slushy. Both students and teachers are unable to enter the school premises. The authorities concerned should drain the water, set things right and make the school surroundings fit for learning. A. Kaja Nazimudeen,  Eruvadi.   It is welcome that Indian Space Research Organisation plans to establish a Space Museum and Space Centre in Kanniyakumri. I request Tamil Nadu Science and Technology Centre to establish such a planetarium in Tirunelveli. P. Victor Selvaraj,  Palayamkottai.   This is with reference to the report on inauguration of a smart classroom in the Panchayat Union Middle School at Puraiyur near Alwarthirunagari in Thoothukudi district by MP K. Kanimozhi. The smart classroom and equipment were sponsored by Puraiyur Welfare Trust which took efforts to increase the student strength from 15 to 400 within a year. As every MP is allotted Rs. 5 crore a year (Rs. 25 crore for five years) as Constituency Development Fund, one wonders what actually they do with the money other than building bus shelters here and there. The money could be spent on development of village schools so that the clamour for money-spinning elite schools will wane soon. R. Donjeba, Nazareth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article37497378.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||While dengue prevention measures initiated by the district administration is appreciable in the post-COVID-19 scenario through operation of mobile fever camp vans, it is also important for the local body to ensure that there is no water-logging on the roads in residential localities. The apparent shortcomings in execution of underground drainage project in Ayyappa Nagar, for instance, has reflected in stagnant water remaining on the roads as breeding grounds for mosquitoes that cause dengue and other ailments. The Corporation ought to realise that in order to prevent mosquito menace caused by stagnant water during the rainy season works must be completed at one go street after street, instead of carrying out the work simultaneously everywhere. P.K. Raman Ayyappa Nagar   For residents of Tiruvanaikoil, Srirangam, Kumbakonathan Salai is ldeal for taking a walk since the vehicular density is low. However, the stretch from Chennai Trunk Road to GST Road on the eastern side has to be landscaped with avenue planting on the lines of Students' Road in Puthur to create space for the walkers as well as to breathe in fresh air. Rajagopalan Venkatraman Srirangam   The Trichy City Traffic Police, while having come up with the idea of playing music/announcements at traffic signals for motorists to relieve stress, should spare a thought for not making the residents in the vicinity of the traffic signals uncomfortable too. For instance, the voice blaring from the loudspeakers at Mannarapuram Traffic Signal could be heard in residential localities located at a distance. The least that the department could do is tone down the volume. Abdul. A Khajanagar   The junction of West Agraharam and North Agraharam on the Thippirajapuram- Nathankoil Main Road is an accident-prone zone due to movement of heavy vehicles, cars and two wheelers at high speed. It is risky for the people to cross the road and reach Siddhi Vinayaka temple at the opposite end. Senior citizens suffer the most. The local body has to act promptly by installing speed-breakers to prevent accidents. R. Pichumani Thippirajapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article37497023.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Sri Ramakrishna Hospital on Saturday conducted ‘Sangamam’, a patient education programme on diabetes to mark World Diabetes Day. A release said Head of Department of Endocrinology Suresh Dhamodharan explained the importance of access to diabetics care and usage of modern drugs to not just reduce blood sugar levels, but also to prevent heart and renal failures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37496959.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements. Coimbatore||Coimbatore Management Association: Virtual talk on Human Centred Services Design Thinking, 6.30 p.m.  New Century Book House: Book festival, Nehru Stadium, 9.30 a.m.  Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women: Signing of MoU with CADD Center Training Services, 2 p.m.  D J Academy for Managerial Excellence: Recruitment and selection by FACE ( Focus Academy for Career Enhancement ), 9.30 a.m  KPR College of Arts and Science and Research: Incubation and preincubation programme, 11 a.m.  Shri Nehru Maha Vidyalaya College of Arts and Science: Faculty development programme, 2 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements-coimbatore/article37496958.ece
15 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Council polls: Lakhan Jarkiholi announces his candidature||The campaign for the Legislative Council elections from Belagavi and Chikkodi districts has taken an interesting turn after Lakhan Jarkiholi, the youngest of the powerful Gokak clan, announced his candidature. On Saturday, Mr. Lakhan Jarkiholi, who switched from the Congress to the BJP a few months ago, told a group of friends and supporters that he would file his nomination on November 23. He said he would address a huge rally at the Sardar school grounds and then move to the Deputy Commissioner’s office to file his papers. This came a few hours after Balachandra Jarkiholi, his elder brother and BJP MLA, requested the party leadership to provide a ticket to Mr. Lakhan Jarkiholi, “at least as the second candidate”. This seems to have shaken up the district BJP unit, whose leaders are huddling up to plan “what to do if Lakhan contested as an independent”. What has added to the BJP’s worries is a cryptic request by Mr. Balachandra Jarkiholi to voters “to support the BJP candidate and our candidate”. BJP leaders are trying to decipher if he sought votes for Mr. Lakhan Jarkiholi, when he made this statement in Gokak a few days ago. Of the two vacant seats in Belagavi district, the BJP will try to retain the seat it holds by renominating the incumbent MLC Mahantesh Kavatagimath. Party leaders have maintained in public that they will field candidates for both seats and ensure their victory. The list of probable candidates for the second seat include Prabhakar Kore, former Rajya Sabha member, young leader Mahantesh Vakkund, and Deepa Kudchi, women’s wing leader. The other seat is held by Vivekrao Patil, the independent who joined the Congress later. Mr. Vivekrao Patil had defeated Veerkumar Patil, former Minister and Congress candidate, as he won the support of the Jarkiholi brothers. The Zilla Kurubara Sangh has urged the Congress leadership to renominate Mr. Vivekrao Patil, while Mr. Veerakumar Patil has sent in his application to the party high command. Laxmi Hebbalkar, Congress MLA, has sought a ticket for her brother Channaraj Hattiholi. The other contender is Prakash Hukkeri, former Minister and six-time MLA. Interestingly, Satish Jarkiholi, KPCC working president, has said the Congress would focus only on one seat. “We will not waste our efforts on two seats. We are sure to win one seat and we will focus on it,” he told journalists in Gokak on Saturday. This is seen as a slanted support to the possible candidature of his younger brother Mr. Lakhan Jarkoholi, who moved away from the Congress, after losing to his elder brother Ramesh Jarkiholi in the Gokak bypolls. This year’s Council polls are unique because the electorate will entirely be comprised of gram panchayat members. The State Government is yet to hold elections to zilla panchayats and taluk panchayats, and empty seats in these bodies means they will not make it to the electoral college. Urban local bodies have a lesser problem. Though their polls are completed, the winners have not been sworn in as members and are hence not voters, at least as of now. Sources in the Regional Commissioner’s office, who maintain the electoral rolls, said the rolls could be revised till November 23, the last day of filing nominations. “If the winners are sworn in before Novermber 23, they become eligible to vote. That possibility cannot be denied,” a senior officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/council-polls-lakhan-jarkiholi-announces-his-candidature/article37497073.ece
15 November 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||KLE Society celebrates 106th Foundation Day||Belagavi-based Karnataka Lingayat Education Society celebrated its 106th Foundation Day in Belagavi on Saturday. Prabhakar Kore, society chairman who spoke at the event, said KLE Society’s hospitals have provided a better quality of service than government hospitals. “We have treated several thousands of patients during the COVID-19 epidemic. We have been rendering such services since inception,” he said. He released a banner and video showcasing the importance of body and organ donation. A quick recap of the activities of KLE’s healthcare institutions in the fight against COVID-19 was also presented. Dr. Kore highlighted the emergence of KLE as a leading provider of healthcare services with over 4,300 beds. including 1,700 charitable beds. across 13 centres. Applauding KLE’s own COVID warriors for their efforts and sacrifice, he paid tributes to the healthcare workers who had succumbed to the virus while performing their duties. Dr. Kore also announced the commencement of a 500-bed hospital along with a Medical College with 150 seats at Hubballi from this academic year. He also mentioned several upcoming initiatives including a Law and Management College at Mumbai, a modern school at Palm Beach, Mumbai. and a 300-bed hospital at Pune. He spoke of the foundation of the society in 1916 by seven teachers, who wanted to provide quality education to people in North Karnataka. Now, the family has grown to include 278 institutions with over 1,38,000 students, he said. S . Kumar, former Chancellor, Sri Devaraj Urs University, Kolar, and other dignitaries felicitated students and staff from institutions of KLE Society for their accomplishments. A total of 39 gold medals and 42 silver medals were presented along with three institutional trophies. Society president Mahantesh Koujalgi delivered the presidential address and Sunil Jalalpure proposed the vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kle-society-celebrates-106th-foundation-day/article37497075.ece
15 November 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Legal awareness event held in Vijayapura||The District Legal Services Authority organised a legal awareness programme in Vijayapura district on Sunday, as part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. Sadanand S. Nayak, Principal District and Sessions judge, said the DLSA authorities across the country were organising such events, on the instructions of the National Legal Services Authority. DLSAs have conducted over 3,300 programmes in Vijayapura district till now, he said. He urged people to participate in this movement to create legal awareness among the society. “It is the duty of every person to respect the law. Only then can we seek protection of the law. No one should violate the law at any cost,” he said. He asked young people to remain patient in all circumstances and act with a balanced mind. D. Anand Kumar, Superintendent of Police, counselled young people to focus on their studies and not be swayed by misleading messages on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/legal-awareness-event-held-in-vijayapura/article37497076.ece
15 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Three boys drown in lake||Three boys drowned in the Doddakere lake at Jagalur village in Davangere district on Saturday evening. The deceased were identified as siblings Mohammad Afan, 10, and Mohammad Ashiq, 8, and a friend Syed Faizan, 11. Their parents complained to the police when they found their clothes on the banks of the lake. The bodies were fished out later. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-boys-drown-in-lake/article37497081.ece
15 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hacker Sri Krishna led a lavish lifestyle in star hotels, took many for a ride||Hacker Sri Krishna (SriKi), 26, was arrested from a star hotel in connection with a brawl on November 6. He was living in the hotel for nearly two months. Four laptops were recovered from him. That sums up the hacker’s lifestyle for many years now, as statements of his associates in the chargesheet reveal. The chargesheet also includes bills running into several crores from multiple star hotels in Bengaluru and cities across India. Fall out with friends Statements by Suneesh Hegde, Prasidh Shetty, and Robin Khandelwal – given in police custody and have no evidentiary value – paint the life and times of SriKi. Suneesh, contractor and co-accused, claims in his statement that they used to stay at star hotels partying while SriKr used to hack poker websites, showing them the card of the opposite player beforehand, helping them win big. “He claimed to have hacked and stolen several bitcoins and promised to give them to me. So I looked after all expenses of SriKi. Till now, I have spent over Rs. 2 crore on him,” Suneesh claimed in his statement. Eventually, the two reportedly fell out as SriKi did not deliver on the promises he made. Robin, 32, resident of West Bengal and a bitcoin trader, befriended by SriKi online with an offer to sell 900 bitcoins he claimed to have stolen, detailed how SriKi made everyone spend on him, promising huge windfalls in bitcoins, but did not part with any, leading to bitter tiffs within the gang. Robin claimed he put a fake bandage on his leg to scare SriKi that he was beaten up by the gang, and SriKi fled the hotel he was staying in. Robin claimed that with SriKi failing to give bitcoins to any of them, Suneesh brought SriKi and kept him in his flat. “SriKi told me not to give the bitcoins to Suneesh and suggested we flee from the balcony of the flat and we did so,” he said in the statement. Suneesh also claimed that SriKi initially hacked a poker website and stole Rs. 50 lakh, following which his associates were arrested and SriKi fled to Goa to hide. Suneesh claimed that through him the hacker contacted the poker website and promised them to fix the vulnerability. “The company’s officials came to Goa and paid Rs. 50 lakh to SriKi after he fixed the vulnerability in the website,” he claimed in his statement. Hacking charge SriKi is now charged for hacking the particular website. In his statement, SriKi said Suneesh earned his loyalty and respect “since he seemed like a guy who could be trusted,” but adds: “little did I know that there lived a demon inside him waiting to extort the living hell out of me”. SriKi has also been chargesheeted for cheating an individual taking money promising bitcoins in return and failing to deliver. The city police also claim to have been hoodwinked by him as he misled them to believe he had given up 31.12 bitcoins, but that was not the case at all. Robin has emerged as a key witness in the case as the hacker traded most of his bitcoins at his firm Robin Online Services. Robin, in his statement, claimed he had done business worth over Rs. 8 crore with the hacker. SriKi used to send him bitcoins and ask him to debit the money in his friend’s accounts. Robin claims he even booked a chartered flight for SriKi when he was on the run in the 2018 Mohammed Nalapad ‘Farzi Cafe’ assault case. In his statement, SriKi said he became friends with Omar Nalapad, Mohammed Nalapad’s brother, through common friend Manish D.K. in 2015 and hung out with the group till 2018. Cafe assault incident “We chilled for around three years,” he said. SriKi was an accused in the 2018 cafe assault case in which Mohammed Nalapad was arrested. He fled the city and was on the run, hiding for some days with Robin in Kolkata and later across north India till he got anticipatory bail. He says he eventually parted ways with the Nalapads and their friends as he got closer to Suneesh in 2018.  Suneesh Hegde, contractor and co-accused, claims in his statement that they used to stay at star hotels partying while SriKi used to hack poker websites, showing them the card of the opposite player beforehand, helping them win big.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hacker-sri-krishna-led-a-lavish-lifestyle-in-star-hotels-took-many-for-a-ride/article37496867.ece
15 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Eight lakh visitors over 4 days||The four-day Krishi Mela organised by the University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru, which came to an end on Sunday, turned out to be a crowd-puller despite weather vagaries with 2.46 lakh people turning up on the last day. With this, a total of eight lakh people visited the mela over the last four days. In addition to this, a total of 38.11 lakh people witnessed the event on digital platform. The online viewership reached the maximum on the last day with 18.29 lakh people witnessing the event. Various stalls at the mela that showcased technologies as well as products achieved a total business of Rs. 4.25 crore in the last four days. Governor Thaavarchand Gehlot participated in the valedictory at the GKVK campus on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eight-lakh-visitors-at-krishi-mela-over-4-days/article37496839.ece
15 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shift to M-sand has been swift because of shortfall||In Bengaluru that consumes most of the sand produced/extracted in the State, the new sand policy approved by the State cabinet earlier this week, may not have much impact. In the midst of a river sand shortage, the industry has already turned to M Sand. Construction industry estimates that currently over 7 % of Bengaluru’s sand requirement is met through M-sand, derived from stone as quality river sand is hard to come by. Big consumers including the government and big builders use it in construction work currently, industry sources said. Industry estimates that there are over 50 M-sand manufacturing units in Karnataka today. River sand unreliable “M-sand is now being largely used for both brick and stone masonry, and also plastering. It comes at half the cost of river sand, the quality of which is often suspect,” said K. Ramesh of Arna Shelters, a Bengaluru-based developer. He said that the river sand supply is unreliable, and mixed with filter sand, which is essentially mud. No takers for sand from Malaysia The rise in the usage of M-sand in the last five years is learnt to have coincided with acute shortage of river sand. Attempts to get natural sand from Malaysia did not see any takers. A few players, who imported sand, have exited the market while the State-owned MSIL is laden with nearly 75% of the 1 lakh metric tonnes that was imported from Malaysia in 2018. The sharp rate difference between river sand and M-sand has been another reason for the shift. A lorry load of 300 tonnes of river sand can go up to Rs. 80,000 (before the policy was put in place) whereas the same quantum of M-sand will cost between Rs. 35,000 and Rs. 40,000. Less than a decade ago, the cost of river sand was around Rs. 4,500 per load, and the price skyrocketed due to shortage caused by confusion in sand extraction policy. According to M. Ramesh, the Chairman of Builders’ Association of India-Karnataka Chapter, only a few high net worth individuals who are building their individual homes are looking to procure river sand, which comes at a prohibitive cost. “Otherwise, it is mostly M-sand that is used. Quality is good while supply remains unhindered,” he said.  M-sand is now being largely used for both brick and stone masonry, and also plastering. It comes at half the cost of river sand, the quality of which is often suspect. K. Ramesh Arna Shelters, Bengaluru-based developer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shift-to-m-sand-has-been-swift-because-of-shortfall/article37496830.ece
15 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||A tale of the ‘recovered’ bitcoins||The Bengaluru police, who claimed to have recovered “31 bitcoins worth Rs. 9 crore” from hacker Sri Krishna in January, later claimed the recovery was not made and that the hacker hoodwinked them. This has now raised several questions. The police, in a press statement on January 12, claimed to have “recovered and seized” the bitcoins from Sri Krishna, who had hacked “three bitcoin exchanges, 10 poker websites, and four other websites, including Government of Karnataka’s e-procurement website”. The recovery of bitcoins created considerable buzz as it was the first time bitcoins were recovered. “Since there is ambiguity on its legal sanctity, we got the State Government to issue a Government Order to recover the bitcoins,” a senior official said. On January 8, in the presence of an Indian Institute of Science professor and officials from Unocoin, a bitcoin exchange, Sri Krishna was charged of hacking. A panchnama, a copy of which is with The Hindu , was conducted in which the police changed the password of the bitcoin wallet identified as that of the hacker to “owned 123” for safekeeping of bitcoins. It had 31.123 bitcoins. However, it did not take long for it to come undone. As the Government Order had directed the police to sell the bitcoins and recover the money, the wallet was reopened to transfer the bitcoins to a wallet created by the city police on January 22. Inexplicably, the wallet contained 186.811 bitcoins. The wallet had live transactions during January 8 to 22. These bitcoins were “transferred” to the police wallet and the pop-up showed it was a success. However, the transaction ID was not visible on the blockchain explorer, which essentially meant the transaction never happened, the panchnama said. Unocoin submitted a forensic analysis of the failed transaction - part of the chargesheet - which says the accused used public keys of wallets available on the internet to create a wallet and “modified the application to show fake transactions”. “Going by the number of frequency of transactions, the said wallet seems to be a Live Exchange wallet”, said Unocoin in their report. The wallet did not belong to the accused at all, police say. Former IT Minister and Congress leader Priyank Kharge questioned the panchnama process. “For such a technical panchnama, a junior lineman and powerman were called as panchas in the first instance and two commercial tax officers in the second instance,” he pointed out. “Now that these bitcoins were not transferred to the police wallet, where are these bitcoins (31.123+186.811 bitcoins worth around Rs. 100 crore) now,” he questioned on Friday. “It is stated that neither any bitcoins were transferred from the account of Sri Krishna, nor any bitcoin was lost,” the police said in a statement on Saturday. Several officials not involved in the probe also point to lapses in the process followed by the city police. “It is puzzling as to why the police approached the government and not the court on the modalities of recovery,” an official said. Many also question as to why no inquiry was not conducted over the fiasco. If the official version is to be believed, at least there should have been a fresh case against the accused as it amounts to hacking right under the nose of officials, an official said. (Concluded)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-tale-of-the-recovered-bitcoins/article37496866.ece
15 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Film society members protest against academy||Members of the Suchitra Film Society held a silent protest against Suchitra Puravankara Film and Cultural Academy on Sunday for sidelining them and “effectively forcing their ouster”. The society has now decided to wage a legal fight against the academy to regain their rights in the trust managing the land allotted to the society in 1979. Veteran film-maker Girish Kasaravalli and journalist Vijayamma were among the protesters, even as the local police claimed they had not permitted the protest and tried to disperse them. The society, started in 1971, is in its golden jubilee year. In 1979, when the State Government allotted the society a CA site, it created a trust — Suchitra Film Academy — to manage the land. Since then, the society and the trust were on the same page with the elected president of the society being a permanent member of the trust, a statement from the society recounted. However, things started to change in 2015 when a corporate sponsor came forward to rebuild the auditorium. Starting with the name of the trust being changed, the trust deed was redone making several key changes, including removing the society’s president as a permanent member of the trust, essentially cutting off the relationship, B. Suresha, the incumbent president of the society, said. Since then, the trust has served notices to the society demanding a “contribution” of Rs. 50,000 every month to run their office on the premises and has hiked the rent for the auditorium to Rs. 10,000. “The society has an annual income of less than Rs. 2 lakh and cannot bear these expenses. We are essentially being forced out,” said Mr. Suresha. Legal notices In the 2020 annual general body meeting of the society, a resolution was passed demanding restoration of the permanent membership of the society’s president and the Director of the Kannada and Culture Department in the trust. The society members, who held the silent protest on Sunday, said they were forced to protest as the trustees refused to hold talks with them, sending legal notices instead. Raghavendra Rao Savanur, chairman of academy, said they would soon respond to the allegations made by the society members. “These are members who are not changing with the times and are insistent on continuing with old ways,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/film-society-members-protest-against-academy/article37496834.ece
15 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||One killed, two injured as car rams into bus||A 23-year-old man was killed and two others were injured after the car they were travelling in lost control, allegedly owing to overspeeding, and rammed into a BMTC Volvo bus on airport road in Chikkajala traffic police station limits on Saturday night. The deceased has been identified as Bhavin Sharma from Mumbai. The injured are his friends Ravi Kumar, 34, and Akash, 29. According to the police, the victim hired a cab and was going to Nandi Hills when the accident occurred around 11.45 p.m. on Chikkajala flyover. While Sharma died on the spot, the driver and Akash sustained injuries and are being treated in the ICU. A case of reckless driving has been registered against Ravi Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-killed-two-injured-as-car-rams-into-bus/article37496835.ece
15 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Guard arrested, stolen valuables recovered||The Annapoorneshwarinagar police have arrested a security guard and recovered two stolen mobile phones and three diamond rings worth Rs. 22.3 lakh from him. The accused, identified as Manjunath E., 34, a resident of Sultanpet on Nandi Hills road, was arrested while he was trying to sell the mobile phones which he had allegedly stolen from a shop in July. Policequestioning led him to reveal the theft of three diamond rings from a villa owned by a football player three months ago where he worked as a guard. The police are verifying his claim and checking with the jurisdictional Vishwanathapura police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guard-arrested-stolen-valuables-recovered/article37496836.ece
15 November 2021||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Big reduction likely||Notwithstanding the reduced consumption of river sand in Bengaluru, those in the sand extraction business say that the new policy will bring down the cost, significantly helping the consumers. They estimate that the cost could drop by at least Rs. 20,000 per load of 300 tonnes that currently ranges from Rs. 70,000 to Rs. 80,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/big-reduction-likely/article37497085.ece
15 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||V-P at PES convocation||PES University will hold its sixth convocationon Monday, with Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu as the chief guest. Governor of Karnataka Thaawarchand Gehlot will be the guest of honour. According to a release, the event will see five PhD degrees and an MTech degree being awarded. As many as 22 students will be conferred with gold medals and 59 students will get silver medals. As many as 2,249 graduates will receive degree certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/v-p-at-pes-convocation/article37496831.ece
15 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Poetry collection released||A compilation of poems of H.S. Shivaprakash, written over four decades, was released here on Sunday. Titled Hogi Banni Ruthugale , it has been brought out by Besagarahalli Ramanna Pratishthana. Prof. Shivaprakash has several anthologies of poems, plays, translations, and critical works to his credit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/poetry-collection-released/article37496832.ece
15 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Walkathon to spread awareness on diabetes||Onthe occasion of World Diabetes Day, diagnostic lab chain Neuberg Diagnostics organised a World Diabetes Walkathon to raise awareness about diabetes,its symptoms, and treatment. The walkathon commenced at the HMT ground and had over 300 participants. As walking daily can go a long way in maintaining physical and mental well-being, especially for those who are diabetic or at risk of diabetes, the walkathon was symbolic of this belief and aimed to nudge people towards positive action, a release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/walkathon-to-spread-awareness-on-diabetes/article37496837.ece
15 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Big reduction likely||Notwithstanding the reduced consumption of river sand in Bengaluru, those in the sand extraction business say that the new policy will bring down the cost, significantly helping the consumers. They estimate that the cost could drop by at least Rs. 20,000 per load of 300 tonnes that currently ranges from Rs. 70,000 to Rs. 80,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/big-reduction-likely/article37496842.ece
15 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nominated||Former administrator and chairman of Central Lalit Kala Akademi, C.S. Krishna Setty, has been nominated as trustee of Bharat Bhavan, Bhopal, by Government of Madhya Pradesh. Mr. Setty is presently member of Tagore Fellowship Committee, AICTE, and Executive Board of Lalit Kala Akademi, Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nominated/article37496863.ece
15 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Remove difference in renewable energy tariff’||Karnataka has urged for removal of inter-State difference in renewable energy tariff for creating level playing field. Raising the issue at the southern zonal council meet, the Chief Minister said that though Karnataka is the only state to achieve renewable purchase obligations targets of the Centre, it is not able to exploit great potential because of low tariffs which makes it unviable for the investors. “The inter-State difference in tariff should be removed to create a level playing field for the departments,” he added. Mr. Bommai said that the consent of Telangana, Pondicherry, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, and Kerala is awaited for Inter-State Reciprocal Transport Agreements between Karnataka and neighbouring States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remove-difference-in-renewable-energy-tariff/article37496869.ece
15 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Night service buses are back||After over one-and-a-half years, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) resumed night services from Sunday. To begin with, 70 buses will be operated on various routes. Considering the dip in the number of COVID-19 cases, on November 6, the State Government lifted the night curfew imposed between 10 p.m. and 5 a.m., paving the way for the BMTC to extend services. A BMTC official said, “During pre-COVID-19 times, we used to operate 130 buses as night services. We will start with 70 buses and steps will be taken to increase the services depending on the patronage. Usually, people working in hotels, malls, and restaurants or those having late night shifts use these services. As per schedules, the buses will be operated on prominent routes from Majestic and other points.” For late night services, the BMTC charges one-and-a-half rate. Patronage for city buses has been gradually increasing. The BMTC is running close to 5,200 buses every day. On an average, 21 lakh to 22 lakh people are travelling in city buses. “Patronage is increasing gradually. However, we are yet to reach pre-lockdown time ridership. Due to work from home and other factors, people are yet to travel in large numbers. During pre-COVID-19 times, we had an average daily ridership of 35 lakh,” an official said. A majority of the buses operated are ordinary ones. The BMTC has a fleet size of 860 AC buses, but hardly 120 are operational. The BMTC is gradually increasing the number of AC bus services depending on the demand.  Namma Metro services On the other hand, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) is buying time to extend the metro services. During pre-COVID-19 times, Namma Metro services were available till midnight. Now, metro services are available from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. After resumption of services, for the first time, the metro ridership touched 2.9 lakh on November 8. Chief PRO of BMRCL B.L. Yashwanth Chavan said, “Discussion is on about extending metro services. We have to consider various factors prior to that. On Mondays, the ridership is very high and on other days it drops. Depending on the demand, the BMRCL will decide on extending the services.” But commuters are demanding that the BMRCL extend services till midnight. Mohan Kumar, a metro passenger, said, “The number of people coming out for shopping or dining is increasing after lifting of the night curfew. In the interest of the public, the BMRCL should extend the services. There is also a need to run feeder services from metro stations during night.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/night-service-buses-are-back-after-over-one-and-a-half-years/article37496840.ece
15 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Meet discusses trend in livestock, fisheries sectors||A webinar on “Emerging Managerial Opportunities in ALPF: An Industry-Academia Perspective”, organised by the Indian Institute of Plantation Management Bengaluru on November 10 focused on the current and future trends in the sector, deliberated on managerial opportunities, and the need for trained and skilled managers. According to an IIPM release, the institute proposed to launch a first-of-its–kind 24-month programme on PGDM in Animal Husbandry, Livestock and Fisheries Management beginning next academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meet-discusses-trend-in-livestock-fisheries-sectors/article37497284.ece
15 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Midday meals: Some schools struggle for foodgrains||Teachers and members of School Development and Monitoring Committees in some districts of Karnataka are finding it tough to provide schoolchildren with midday meals due to delay in the supply of foodgrains. A few schools are approaching donors to get rice and other items, while some have asked children to bring lunch from home. The State Government opened schools after relaxing COVID-19 restrictions in a phased manner. The Education Department instructed the schools to start midday meals on October 25. With the available foodgrains, schools started to cook. However, the stock has not yet reached most of the schools. Venkatesh Hegde, chairman of the SDMC at Megaravalli in Thirthahalli, told The Hindu that a donor contributed 50 kg of rice recently. “Every day we need 17.5 kgs of rice for 170 students. If we do not get the stock in the next three-four days, we will face problems again,” he said. However, this is not the problem faced by just one school, but many others too. A teacher in Shivamogga, who wished not to be named, said with no rice and dal to cook, the staff had told the students to bring lunch from home. Schools in towns and cities could ask children to bring food from home. “Most of our students come from distant places. They cannot carry lunch as they leave home early to reach school. We have to provide them food,” said Mr. Hegde. Rs. 2 per child per day The officers of the Education Department, well aware of this problem, have told the staff members to purchase the essential items by spending the amount meant for the purchase of vegetables, cooking oil, salt and other food items. The government provides Rs. 2 per child per day to procure these times. “We are making use of the amount to purchase rice, which was earlier supplied by the government. The schools with high student strength may have sufficient amount to manage, but this is not so for small schools with meagre strength,” said a teacher in Hassan, who wished not to be named. The officers point out that the technical problems with the supply of food grains would be sorted out within a couple of days. The schools would also get the funds they required. ‘No shortage’ Deputy Director of Public Instruction in Shivamogga N.M. Ramesh told The Hindu, “There was no shortage in supply of foodgrains. We have instructed the staff to make use of the funds available. They are all managing with the money they have.” Sources in Education Department in Raichur too said that supplies for the scheme are yet be streamlined. Schools in the district have not received dal, an essential component of the midday meal. A week “We have received all the major items required for midday meal preparation except for pulses without which midday meal preparation is not possible. We have, however, asked the school authorities to procure the required items from local fair price shops and return equal quantity of the items after they get their supplies,” an officer said, adding it might take a week to streamline the process.  (With additional inputs from Kumar Buradikatti inKalaburagi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/midday-meals-some-schools-struggle-for-foodgrains/article37497084.ece
15 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||11 fresh cases in Hassan||Hassan reported 11 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. With that, the total number of cases in the district increased to 1,11,897. Of the fresh cases, six were in Channarayapatna, two in Arkalgud, and one each in Alur, Hassan and Sakleshpur taluks. So far 1,376 people have died due to the infection. As many as 123 people are under treatment. Shivamogga reported three fresh cases on the day. Of them, one was in Shivamogga and two in Hosanagar taluk. So far 1,072 people have died due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/11-fresh-cases-in-hassan/article37497275.ece
15 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Rains lash Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga||Several parts of Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga and Hassan districts received moderate to heavy rains on Sunday as well. The incessant rains in the last few days have left the farming community in dire straits, as they have not been able to harvest yield. And, coffee growers are finding it difficult to dry harvested coffee beans. Parts of N.R. Pura, Sringeri, Mudigere, Kalasa in Chikkamagaluru and Tirthahalli and other parts received heavy rains on the day. Many people affected by heavy rains have put up posts narrating their experiences. L.C. Sumithra, a resident of Tirthahalli, said it had been raining heavily continuously for hours in the town and that areca growers had not been able to harvest the crop. Similarly, those who grew paddy had left the yield in the field. Srinivas Murthy, a farmer at Mundagodu near Sringeri, said it had been heavy rains for the past few days in the taluk. The rains that lashed parts of Kalasa on Sunday, left many fields inundated. In Hassan, many coffee growers have not been able to dry the beans. The big planters, who have installed dryer machines in their estates, can protect their yield. Some are spending money on firewood to dry the beans. With such methods, the input cost would go up, reducing the income. Since November 1, Malnad region, which includes four districts – Kodagu, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga, has received 81.6 mm of rainfall, against the normal of 31.8 mm expected in this period. In the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Sunday, Shivamogga received 10 mm against the normal of 1.9 mm, Chikkamagaluru received 7.5 mm and Hassan reported 16.3 mm against the normal of 1.5 mm. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre has announced a yellow alert in these districts, warning of isolated heavy rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rains-lash-hassan-chikkamagaluru-shivamogga/article37497088.ece
15 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Datta Mala programme held||More than 300 Sri Rama Sene workers took part in the valedictory of Datta Mala Abhiyana at Sri Guru Dattatreya Bababudan Swamy Dargah atop Bababudangiri near Chikkamagaluru on Sunday. Devotees from across the State participated in the programmes held as part of the Abhiyana. The devotees had darshan of Datta Paduka. Sri Rama Sene president Pramod Mutalik and others participated in the event. The leaders of the organisation demanded that the place be declared a Hindu place of worship. Earlier in the day, Mr. Mutalik demanded that the State Government arrest people who allegedly attacked a bus carrying Sri Rama Sene activists at Kolara. The activists were on their way to Chikkamagaluru to take part in the Abhiyana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/datta-mala-programme-held/article37497276.ece
15 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||App developed to help small local businesses||At a time when there are complaints about small businesses being hit owing to online marketing giants, a Hubballi-based technology firm has come up with a business mobile application, Kalpavriksha, to help small businesses. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Saturday, Head of MWB Group Ramesh Bafna and Director of MWB Technologies India Pvt. Ltd. Mukesh Bafna said that their objective was to help small businessmen to connect so that they would be able to help each other in this era of digital marketing. Elaborating on Kalpavriksha, Mr. Mukesh Bafna said that the idea was to provide a platform for local traders and businessmen to connect to consumers and also provide technology support to them. He said that online marketing had killed general trade and resulted in only a few players with money and manpower controlling the market. “Their success is driven by technology and good marketing. Through this application, we will provide local businessmen that platform. For this we are not charging anything as our objective is to help the local, small players,” he said. Mr. Ramesh Bafna said that initially they would be launching the application with Dharwad district as the centre. “We will first try here and then launch it pan India after receiving feedback and correcting the anomalies if any,” he said. Mr. Mukesh Bafna said that the application was being launched with the theme ‘Connect to Grow’. This application will bring on board all businesses, professionals, and services and moreover the usage too was simple, he said. A technical team had worked on developing it for nearly a year and it had been designed to include around 12,000 businesses, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/app-developed-to-help-small-local-businesses/article37497079.ece
15 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Global honour for KLETU researchers||Two researchers of the KLE Technological University, Tejraj M. Aminabhavi and Nagaraj P. Shetti, have been ranked among the top 2% scientists in the world by leading publisher Elsevier BV and the Stanford University. According to a press release by KLE Technological University, Prof. Aminabhavi and Prof. Shetti, serving as Director of Research and Associate Professor, respectively, at School of Advanced Sciences of KLETU, have made it to the 2020 list of outstanding researchers prepared by Elsevier BV and Stanford University, USA. “Scientists are classified into 22 scientific fields and 176 sub-fields. Field- and subfield-specific percentiles are also provided for all scientists who have published at least five papers. Career-long data are updated to end-of-2020. The selection is based on the top 100,000 by c-score or a percentile rank of 2% or above,” the release said. Prof. Aminabhavi is also Diamond Jubilee Professor at Karnataka University, Dharwad. He has published over 900 research articles in international reputed journals with more than 45,000 citations and 103 as h-index. He has been ranked among the top 2% of scientists for career-long and single year impact. Prof. Shettiis has published over 210 research articles in journals of international repute with more than 6,200 citations and 49 as h-index. He is ranked among the top 2% of Scientists for single year impact, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/global-honour-for-kletu-researchers/article37497082.ece
15 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Sports is important in life of every student’||Deputy Commissioner of Police of the Kalaburagi Police Commissionerate Adduru Srinivasulu stressed the importance of sports activities in the academic career of every student. He said that every educational institution should pay as much importance to sports activities as to academic activities. Flagging off the four-day sports meet at Sharnbasva University at its main campus here on Sunday, Mr Srinivasulu said sports gave mental and physical stability to the students and prepared them to face the future challenges. Referring to his own experience during the rigorous training at the police academy after being selected to the Indian Police Service (IPS), Mr Srinivasulu said that that the tough regimen of training helped him in coping up with the extreme pressure and stress conditions after his posting. “Another important benefit of sports activities in schools and colleges is that it would help develop leadership qualities and comradeship among the students. It is unfortunate that many educational institutions pay little importance to sports activities as compared to academic activities,” he said. Mr. Srinivasulu also expressed discontentment over what he called falling moral and ethical values among the people and stressed the need for educational institutions to address the issue. The university is organising different field and track events, including athletics, football, cricket, badminton, kabaddi, kho-kho, volleyball, basketball, table tennis, chess, carrom, and other events in the four-day sports meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sports-is-important-in-life-of-every-student/article37497069.ece
15 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Kambalas to begin in the coastal belt from Tuesday||With kambalas (buffalo run on slush tracks or field) set to begin in the coastal belt from November 16, there will be additions to the annual event this and next year. It will take the total number of competitive events, barring the traditional kambalas which are mostly non-competitive in nature, organised by the Kambala Committee of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Kasaragod (Kerala) districts from 18 to 20. According to a former general secretary and presently a member of the committee N. Vijaya Kumar Kanginamane, a ‘kambala’ will be organised under the auspices of the committee at Ballamanja in Dakshina Kannada during the 2021-22 season as an addition. Thus the committee will organise 19 events in this season. In addition, a new kambala track, 135m in length, is being developed at Panapila, near Moodbidri now. It will be ready for hosting the event during the 2022-23 season. Mr. Kanginamane told The Hindu that Panapila village had been organising kambalas in a small way since a decade. It was on a 110m-long track. Moodbidri-Mulky MLA Umanath A Kotian has taken the lead to construct a new double track at a different place in the same village. It will come under the fold of the committee in the next season. He said that the traditional kambalas, organised by individual farmers or land-owning entities, including temples, which will begin in the belt on Tuesday, will go on for a month. More than 75 such kambalas are held every year in slush paddy fields without a designated track for holding the events. The competitive kambalas organised by the committee will be held from November 27 to March 26, 2022. The disciplinary committee for kambalas has decided that all events should get over henceforth within 24 hours. The first event of this season will be at Moodbidri and the last one will be at Bangadikolli in Belthangady taluk. He said that each event attracts from a minimum of 130 pairs of buffaloes to a maximum of 207 pairs. The events at Miyar in Karkala and Moodbidri draw the maximum number of pairs. Kambala jockey Girish Aladangady said that with increased media coverage and thanks to social media comparing kambala jockeys to international sprinters, more youth are turning up to be trained as jockeys. Meanwhile, K. Gunapala Kadamba, former principal of Jain Pre-University College, Moodbidri, and president of the pioneering Kambala Academy that has trained nearly 170 jockeys so far, is writing a book on kambala, throwing light on different aspects of the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kambalas-to-begin-in-the-coastal-belt-from-tuesday/article37497257.ece
15 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Opposition to BJP MP’s demand to prohibit use of arecanut grows||Opposition is growing from various stakeholders of arecanut, including from a senior farm scientist, to the reported demand by the MP from Godda constituency in Jharkhand Nihikant Dubey to prohibit the use of arecanut for human consumption claiming it caused deadly diseases like cancer. A section of media reported last week that Mr. Dubey, representing the BJP, wrote to the PM listing a number of harmful effects consumption of arecanut on human health and urged prohibition of its use. He, however, has said that it can be allowed for use in religious ceremonies. Senior farm scientist and former Director of the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI), Kasaragod P. Chowdappa, Puttur-based All India Areca Growers’ Association and Sirsi-based Totagars’ Cooperative Sale Society (TSS) Ltd. have strongly opposed the demand. Earlier, the Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative (Campco) Ltd. had condemned the demand. Mr. Chowdappa, who is now VC, BEST Innovation University, Anantapur, told The Hindu that arecanut in its pure form is not dangerous but has a plethora of medicinal properties including curing ulcers, wounds and even cancer. Quoting from the book ‘Arecanut’ edited by him and released in Bengaluru last month, he said that arecoline hydrobromide, a major active principle of arecanut, is found to arrest the growth of cancer cells. The book has quoted this from a recent study at the Winship Cancer Institute of Emory University, Atlanta, U.S. The book said: “The antioxidant activity of arecanut might play an active role in repairing DNA damage in cancer cells. While investigating the effect of aqueous and various organic extracts from different parts of Areca catechu on oxidative DNA damage in human hepatocarcinoma HepG2 cells, it was noticed that the methanol extract of eight-month-old arecanut husk showed a dose dependent inhibition of comet formation while other solvent extracts did not (Phaechamud et al., 2009).” Quoting from the book he further said that the adverse effects reported in association with arecanut chewing might be due to several other factors such as small sample size, the role of other ingredients used in the preparation of betel quid, the quality of arecanuts (including contaminations and adulterations) used for making different preparations of chewing products, etc. Studies showed that at lower concentration (1.5 to 5 g/ kg body weight) arecanut does not cause and cancer. Arecanut was found to arrest the growth and multiplication of several human cancer cells such as MCP-7 breast cancer cells, SGC-7901 gastric cancer cells and SMMC-7721 liver cancer cells (Anajwala et al., 2010; Xing et al., 2010). Mr. Chowdappa said that arecanut has been widely used in clinical practices in China and other Southeast Asian countries. It has an important place in the ancient Indian system of medicine such as Ayurveda, Unani and Homeopathy. The WHO has listed out as many as 25 different beneficial effects of arecanut to mankind. “It has potent antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and analgesic, antiulcer, hypolipidemic, antidiabetic and neuroprotective properties,” he said. Urging the Union government to instil confidence among the arecanut growers on the future of the crop, the General Secretary of All-India Areca Growers’ Association Mahesh Puchchappady said in a release that such statements and demands are being reported from various corners of society every now and then. The government should conduct a scientific study on the impact of arecanut on human health, he said. In a statement, Ravish Hegde, General Manager of TSS Ltd., said that various national and international studies by different institutes have highlighted the beneficial properties of arecanut.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/opposition-to-bjp-mps-demand-to-prohibit-use-of-arecanut-grows/article37497269.ece
15 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Concerns over schedule of mid-term II PU examination||Teachers, parents, and students have expressed concerns over the mid-term II Pre-University examination, which is scheduled to commence from November 29, as there is not much gap between some of the papers . The concerns are more so with regard to the scheduling of Computer Science and Statistics papers on December 3. While Computer Science has been scheduled between 9 a.m. and 12.15 p.m., Statistics is scheduled between 2 p.m. and 5.15 p.m. Students from Commerce stream, who have taken Business Studies, Accountancy, Statistics, and Computer Science (BASC) subjects will be affected. “As the two subjects fall on the same day, this will put a lot of pressure on students as these marks will be final, if there is a COVID-19 outbreak during March-April and in case the annual examination is cancelled,” said Ganesh J, parent of a II PU student from a college in Kodialbail. Mahesh L. Bondal, secretary and correspondent of Ganapati Aided PU College, Mangaluru, said there are 180 students who have taken the BASC combination. “We have flagged the issue. We are hopeful of a positive reaction from the department,” Mr. Bondal said. Similarly, students have expressed concern over the scheduling of Psychology and Beauty and Wellness subjects in the morning and afternoon session on December 9. A few students from Government PU College, Balmatta, who have taken this combination, have written to the Deputy Director of the Pre-University Department. Students are also concerned over scheduling of Basic Maths in the afternoon session on December 6 and Accountancy in the morning session on December 7.  A principal of a Government PU College said: “We need about 15 days to complete the lessons for mid-term examination. Hence we have sought postponing of the examination by 15 days,” the principal said. Pre-University Director Snehal R. told The Hindu that the department has taken note of the concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/concerns-over-schedule-of-mid-term-ii-pu-examination/article37497258.ece
15 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Day-long Children’s Day events planned in Puttur||From conducting the official programme to different cultural events, it will all be done by children during the day-long Puttur taluk Children’s Day programme to be held at the Town Hall on Monday. As many as 200 children from government and aided schools of 20 education clusters of the taluk will take part in the programme. “The events have been evenly distributed among the clusters and they have undergone training in the last a few days,” said Puttur Block Education Officer C. Lokesh, who has conceptualised the programme. Among the events that will held include an hour-long play Bharavase Baalina Belaku (Confidence is the guiding light to life) that will be staged by 21 students from the Harady cluster. “This play has been written by assistant teacher Malleshaiah from North Karnataka region. Teachers from Kadaba and Harady have trained the students,” Mr. Lokesh said. The other events include Tulu folk dance by students from Bhajathur cluster, group song by students from Noojibaltila and Kavu clusters, Kannada Dimdima rendition by Kaniyuru cluster students, Yoga by Narimogaru students, Kamsale by Uppinangady students, Koolata by Bettampady students, and group dance by Kodimbady and Puttur cluster students. Teachers have trained the students in the last one month for this programme, which is being held for the first time in Dakshina Kannada. Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor will inaugurate the programme at 9 a.m. and it will go on till about 4 p.m. Following the inauguration, Mr. Matandoor will interact with children. Members of Taluk Teachers’ Association are actively involved in the programme. Organisations have come forward to arrange refreshments and food the children, Mr. Lokesh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/day-long-childrens-day-events-planned-in-puttur/article37497262.ece
15 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Eight-year-old girl run over by lorry in Udupi||An eight-year-old girl died after she was run over by a transit mixer lorry near Ambagilu of Udupi town on Saturday evening. The Udupi Traffic police gave the name of the deceased as Pranamya G. Nayak. The police said that Pranamya was riding pillion on the scooter being driven by her mother, Divya G. Nayak, towards Udupi town. At Narayan Nagar junction, the lorry, which was following the scooter, hit it. Ms. Divya and Pranamya fell off the vehicle. The child came under the wheels of the truck and died on the spot, while Ms. Divya, who was injured, was admitted to a private hospital nearby. On the complaint by Pranamya’s relative Vignesh B. Nayak, the police registered a case against the lorry driver for offences punishable under Sections 279, 337 and 304 (A) of the Indian Penal Code. Slab falls on man Abdurrehman Rizwan, 30, of Jeppu died after a granite slab reportedly fell over him from a lorry in Attavar in Mangaluru on Saturday night. The Mangaluru South police said Rizwan was handling accounts of a building under construction in Attavar. Soon after the lorry came to the construction site with a load of granite, the building superviser asked Rizwan to take an image of the granite load on his phone. As he proceeded to the rear of the lorry to take the image, a granite slab fell over him. Rizwan was taken to a nearby private hospital where he died, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eight-year-old-girl-run-over-by-lorry-in-udupi/article37497259.ece
15 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Tulasi Gowda meets Harekala Hajabba||Octogenarian Padma Shri awardee Tulasi Gowda called on fellow elderly awardee Harekala Hajabba at the latter’s house and donated an amount for development of the government school, which the latter strived to build. “It’s just a small contribution by me for the development of the school that Mr. Hajabba has strived to build in his village,” she told reporters on Saturday. Ms. Gowda, who earned fame by planting saplings in Uttara Kannada district, and orange seller Mr. Hajabba were among the few who were conferred Padma Shri award by the President Ram Nath Kovind on November 8. While Mr. Hajabba returned to Mangaluru on November 9, Ms. Gowda stayed back in New Delhi. She came to Bengaluru and then arrived with her relatives to Mangaluru to meet Mr. Hajabba on Saturday morning. She spent some time with Mr. Hajabba and his family. The two then went to the school where she interacted with children. She then handed over money for development of the school. Mr. Hajabba and other members of school felicitated Ms. Gowda. Ms. Gowda left to her home town on Sunday morning. Soon after entering Bhatkal, a team of revenue officials from Uttara Kannada felicitated her before she proceeded to her village near Ankola of Uttara Kannada district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tulasi-gowda-meets-harekala-hajabba/article37497266.ece
15 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Minor’s rape: Two held for harbouring accused||The Dakshina Kannada women police arrested two persons for allegedly harbouring a person accused of raping a minor girl. The police gave the names of the accused as Ganesh of Ujire and Lingappa of Mudigere. A 15-year-old girl filed a complaint against Raju Hosmat of raping her in 2019 after promising of marrying her. The complaint was filed on November 7 and it was registered under the provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minors-rape-two-held-for-harbouring-accused/article37497260.ece
15 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||17 new cases in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported 11 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday. With nine patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 133. Test positivity rate was put at 0.24%. A fine totalling Rs. 1,07,63,870 has so far been collected in 88,709 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported six new cases of which five are from Udupi taluk and one from Kundapur taluk. Three patients are under home isolation and the remaining three are in designated government healthcare facility. With five patients discharged, there are 41 active cases in the district. With 789 people vaccinated on Sunday, the total number of people covered in Dakshina Kannada reached 24,41,794. Of these, 15,37,571 have received their first dose and 9,04,223 their second. In Udupi, 587 people were vaccinated taking the total number to 14,98,083, of which 9,22,203 have received their first dose and 5,75,880 their second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/17-new-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi/article37497264.ece
15 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Arecanut spread over 0.702 m hectares||Currently, the production of arecanut in the world is about 0.854 million tonnes from an area of 0.702 million hectares. Arecanut is primarily grown in India, Bangladesh, China, Indonesia, Sri Lanka and Myanmar. India ranks first in both area (49%) and production (50%) of arecanut. In India, arecanut is cultivated in an area of 472 thousand hectares with an annual production of 735 thousand tonnes, mainly confined to the states of Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Assam, West Bengal and Meghalaya. This crop offers immense opportunities to make a life better, as nearly 84% arecanut holdings belong to a small group of small and marginal farmers. Arecanut provides a decent livelihood for more than three million people and assured employment of 10 million man days annually.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arecanut-spread-over-0702-m-hectares/article37497267.ece
15 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||The Department of Endocrinology of Kasturba Medical College and Hospital, Manipal, organised a cyclothon in Udupi on Sunday to observe World Diabetes Day. Speaking on the occasion the Pro Chancellor of MAHE H. S. Ballal said that diagnosing diabetes at early stage is very important to prevent the severity. Arun Maiya, Dean, Manipal College of Health Profession said that the hospital will conduct a free foot screening for diabetes patients from November 15 to 19.    Mangalore University will organise a job fair at its University College, Hampankatta for two days from November 16 from 9.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. Over 30 private companies will attend it. Interested candidates can register their names on the spot. Online registration is also possible through https://docs.google.com /forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeHpg5 Tj2y7FjfynQVBpvX-bvkhGbu Y-rtd16rYoVz19YwBHw /viewform?usp=sf_link. It is mandatory to bring original mark cards, passport size photos along with at least four copies of the biodata.    Karnataka Private Postgraduate Colleges’ Association will hold Karnataka Management Aptitude Test (KMAT) 2021 on November 28. The online registration will end on November 20. The admit card will be released on November 26. The results will be announced on December 6. KMAT 2021 scores will be accepted by more than 169+ AICTE-approved and UGC-affiliated institutes offering MBA, PGDM, and MCA programs in the State. Log on towww.kmatindia.com.    P. Jayaram Bhat, part-time non executive chairman of Karnataka Bank retired from the service on Saturday. He took charge on April 12, 2017. Speaking on the occasion he said that he hoped that the bank will create many new benchmarks in the days to come.    Two persons died while two others were injured after a food catering vehicle hit a tree at Ramalkatte near Brahmarakotlu on Sunday. The Bantwal Traffic police gave the names of the deceased as Chetan, 25, and Ashit, 21, both from Uppinangady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37497256.ece
15 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Pre-COVID rail services to resume shortly||Regular travellers and short-distance commuters from Mysuru are a relieved lot as the railway authorities have announced the restoration of train services that existed before the onset of the pandemic. Train services were suspended from March 2020 following the outbreak of the pandemic and there was a phased re-introduction of only a few services from May/June. But these trains were introduced as ‘special’ with different numbers and had a higher fare. In all 52 pairs of trains used to originate from Mysuru railway station alone of which the authorities have re-introduced 42 in a phase-wise manner. But a majority of these trains are long-distance express services while a few short-distance intra-city train services had been disbanded. This included services between Mysuru and Chamarajanagar, Arsikere and Bengaluru all of which are expected to be restored in due course. Rail activist Krishnaprasad said that short-distance travellers will stand to benefit. The worst affected was the services to Chamarajanagar which used to be patronised by hundreds of daily wagers working in the construction sector. Meanwhile, rail passengers and activists in the region have sought clarity on extension of concessions under various categories consequent to the railways planning to restore services to pre-COVID-19 levels. Sources in the railways said they are awaiting directions on the re-introduction of the concessions. There were nearly 50 categories to whom railways offered concessional fare and this included senior citizens, visually challenged persons, physically challenged, hearing impaired, cancer patients travelling for treatment or check-up, Shram awardees, national awardee teachers, war widows, teachers going on an educational tour, and delegates of all-India bodies attending conferences. Mr. Krishnaprasad, said senior citizens are among the largest class who use the concession and hence the Railway Ministry should restore it at the earliest. “There is no mention of the restoration of the concessions in the latest directive issued by the railways which only states that the services will revert to the pre-COVID-19 levels’’, said Yogendra, who is among the activists seeking new train services and better amenities to the passengers. He said they also had a set of demands to be submitted to the Mysuru MP Pratap Simha for discussion in the Divisional-Level Rail Users Consultative Committee meeting, which, however, was postponed. However, sources in the railways said the concessions for different categories that existed in the pre-COVID scenario have to be reflected in the system. “Though the concessions have not been specifically mentioned, the directive states that the fares will revert to pre-COVID-19 levels and hence the understanding is that even the concessions will be restored’’, said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pre-covid-rail-services-to-resume-shortly/article37496864.ece
15 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mandya district farmer’s quest to preserve agrarian heritage||A farmer from Mandya has bagged the Plant Genome Saviour Award in recognition of his efforts to conserve the indigenous variety of paddy and agrarian heritage. Meet S. Bore Gowda, a farmer from Shivalli in Mandya district, whose journey from a farmer engaged in farming practices that focused on use of chemical fertilizers to that of a rice conservator and seed saver, has won him a fan following. It was an accidental fall and an injury in 1989 that was the turning point for Mr. Bore Gowda who was advised surgery. But he refused, got himself discharged against medical advice and took to yoga which gradually healed his injury. “While studying and practising yoga I was not only cured of the pain and injury but learnt that the food we eat also has a bearing on our health. As I delved deeper into the topic, I realised that the food we grow is laced with chemicals and hence switched over to organic and natural methods of farming,” he said. Over the years, he realised the rich agrarian tradition of the State and the country was getting obliterated owing to emphasis on monoculture and cultivation of high yielding varieties to the exclusion of indigenous paddy. His journey as a rice conservator began and by 2008 he not only had a sizeable collection of indigenous varieties of paddy but was now experimenting as rice breeder. “I crossed two varieties of rice to create a new one and named it ‘Siddasanna’ – after my father, Sidde Gowda, and mother, Sannamma,” said Mr. Bore Gowda who is also known as ‘Bhattada Bore Gowda’ in his circles. “I knew nothing of crossing and breeding but was helped by Sahaja Samruddha, an organisation advocating cultivation and conservation of indigenous variety of seeds,” he added. The Siddasanna variety has proved to be popular, and over 2,000 farmers are growing this variety which is easy to cultivate, resistant to pests and diseases, suitable for cultivation in different seasons and tastes good. Mr. Bore Gowda has also established a rice museum at his house in Shivalli where 210 varieties are on display. The museum, established in 2009, has a steady stream of visitors and both paddy grain and paintings of traditional agricultural systems are displayed. In recognition of his contribution, Mr. Bore Gowda – who is also the Director of Desi Seeds Producer Company Ltd, a farmer-owned seed company – was awarded the Plant Genome Saviour Award instituted by Plant Varieties and Farmer’s Rice Authority, Government of India in New Delhi last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mandya-farmers-quest-to-preserve-agrarian-heritage/article37496871.ece
15 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Pratap Simha rules out change of leadership in State||Terming the allegations against Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and BJP’s State unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel in the bitcoin scam as ‘baseless’, Mysuru Lok Sabha MP Pratap Simha on Sunday ruled out any possibility of change of leadership in the State and reiterated that the party will face the next Assembly elections with Mr. Bommai at the helm. Mr. Simha told reporters in Mysuru that the Congress party had mounted an offensive against the ruling BJP by citing the bitcoin scam and was spreading propaganda against Mr. Bommai and Mr. Kateel. He accused the Congress of creating an ‘imaginary’ scam as part of their efforts to create hurdles for the next one-and-a- half years till the elections and prevent Mr. Bommai from providing a good administration. But, however much they tried, the Chief Minister will not be replaced. The 2023 Assembly elections will be faced under Mr. Bommai’s leadership. This has been told by Union Home Minister Amit Shah also, the MP said. Mr. Simha sought to know from the Congress leaders under whose leadership they would face the next elections – whether it would be Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah or Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President D.K. Shivakumar?. He wondered how the Congress can blame the Chief Minister during whose tenure as Home Minister the alleged hacker Sri Krishna was arrested in a narcotics case. “Why are you accusing the person during whose tenure the accused was arrested?”, he sought to know before claiming that the alleged hacker had connections with the son of a Congress MLA. The BJP Government will take the bitcoin scam seriously and take it to the logical end. The true colours of Congress leaders involved in the scam will be exposed, he said. Mr. Simha accused Mr. Siddaramaiah of spreading rumours about the bitcoin scam and asked the Congress leaders to furnish evidence for the charges they were levelling. “Let the former Chief Minister provide details of the accounts from which the money has been hacked and transferred,” he said. He claimed that the persons levelling allegations have not understood the nature of transactions in bitcoins and were spreading baseless rumours about change of Chief Minister and BJP’s State unit President. Mr. Simha asked Mr. Siddaramaiah to instead talk to the Congress leaders in Punjab, Rajasthan and Maharasthra and prevail upon them to bring down the tax on petrol and diesel on the lines of the steps taken by the BJP-ruled States and ensure relief to the common man. Mr. Simha also trained his guns on Congress leader Priyank Kharge for issuing statements against the BJP in the bitcoin scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pratap-simha-rules-out-change-of-leadership-in-state/article37497278.ece
15 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Legislative Council polls: Congress weighing options||The Congress is weighing its options to field two candidates from the dual-member Mysuru-Chamarajanagar local authorities’ constituency, elections for which are scheduled to be held on December 10. R. Dharmasena from the Congress and Sandesh Nagaraj from the JD(S) are the sitting members, whose term is set to end on January 5, 2022. Mr. Sandesh Nagaraj has already made it clear that he is seeking a nomination from the BJP this time, and the JD(S) will have to field a new face. Though the Congress is confident of winning one seat easily, most of the aspirants seeking the party’s ticket are exerting pressure on the leadership to field two candidates, hopeful of bagging the second seat also on the premise that it enjoys enough support among the members of the gram panchayats and urban local bodies, who along with MLAs and MPs, constitute the electoral college. The partymen arguing in favour of fielding two candidates are also banking on the support of former Minister and JD(S) MLA representing Chamundeshwari assembly constituency G.T. Deve Gowda, who wields considerable influence in many parts of Mysuru-Chamarajanagar region. Mr. Gowda had not only spurned an offer from the JD(S) to field a member of his family in the coming elections, but had also evinced interest in joining the Congress before the next Aassembly elections. However, the Congress leadership, which has so far not fielded two candidates in the constituency, is wary of votes splitting along casteist lines in the preferential voting system when two candidates from the party are in the fray, endangering its prospects. A rout in the elections after fielding two candidates will be humiliating, said a party leader. Other contenders Apart from sitting member Mr. Dharmasena, nine others including State’s Mahila Congress President Pushpa Amarnath, former KPCC Secretary D. Thimmaiah and former Mysuru Zilla Panchayat President K. Mari Gowda are in the race for the Congress nomination. All the aspirants had submitted their applications with a Demand Draft of Rs. 1 lakh as donation to the party. The JD(S), which also enjoys a good support base in the constituency, is in the process of identifying a suitable alternative to Mr. Sandesh Nagaraj. Former Minister and JD(S) MLA representing K.R. Nagar assembly segment S.R. Mahesh said there are four aspirants including Abhishek, who had unsuccessfully contested from Varuna in the last Assembly elections, Krishna Naik from H.D. Kote and party leader Vivekanand. In the BJP, nomination has been sought by not only Mr. Sandesh Nagaraj, but also Raghu Kautilya, Chairperson of D. Devaraj Urs Development Corporation, and C. Basave Gowda, former Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Chairman, among others. While Mr. Raghu is a camp follower of former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and his son B.Y. Vijayendra, Mr .Basave Gowda has been a close confidante of former Minister and Chamarajanagar Lok Sabha MP V. Srinivas Prasad. Though a keen electoral battle is already on the cards between the three mainstream parties, the elections is expected to turn even more curious and interesting if the Congress chooses to field two candidates. The Election Commission of India has fixed November 23 as the last date for submitting nominations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/legislative-council-polls-congress-weighing-options/article37497280.ece
15 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tribal issues need greater attention: Judge||The Principal District and Sessions Judge M.L. Raghunath called for greater attention to issues and problems plaguing the adivasi communities in rehabilitation centres. He was speaking here on Sunday at a Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign with focus on creating legal awareness among the tribal communities. The programme was organised by the District Legal Services Authority, District Administration, Bar Association and other departments. Mr. Raghunath said issues plaguing the tribal communities who have been relocated from the forests and rehabilitated in various places, have come to light in recent times. Though the authorities promise land and hold out assurance at the time of relocation, the land promised to them is never identified or shown to the beneficiaries. Hence Mr. Raghunath suggested to the district administration that any relocation and rehabilitation should be preceded by identification and clear demarcation of land meant for allotment. There are issues related to health of the tribal communities who have been relocated and care should be taken to ensure that there are healthcare centres staffed by qualified doctors, he said. Stating that legal awareness was imperative to the economically backward and socially weaker sections of the society including adivasis, Mr. Raghunath noted that the latter were yet to be brought to the mainstream. There were complaints galore of shortage of teachers in schools catering to the adivasis and the government should ensure that the vacancies are filled up so that the children are not deprived of education. DC’s assurance Deputy Commissioner Badagi Goutham said that he would pay attention to the issues raised by Mr. Raghunath. Mysuru ZP CEO A.M.Yogesh, Bar Council Chairman Anandkumar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tribal-issues-need-greater-attention-judge/article37497281.ece
15 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Food, education, accommodation of poor children must be ensured’||The government should ensure food, education and accommodation of children from the economically weaker sections of society and uphold their rights, Second Additional District and Sessions Judge Hosmani Pundalik has said. After flagging off a rally to create awarenesss on children’s rights here on Sunday, he said children are not aware of their rights and those coming from the poorer sections tend to be exploited and hence are deprived of their rights. Poverty was forcing them to take up jobs after dropping out of schools, the judge noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/food-education-accommodation-of-poor-children-must-be-ensured/article37497279.ece
15 November 2021||MYSURU/HASSAN,KARNATAKA||Sand policy: Lack of focus on ecological issues irks activists||The new sand policy, cleared by the State Government during the last Cabinet, has drawn criticism from environmentalists on the grounds that little thought has gone into conservation of natural resources and conceiving a scientific approach in promoting alternatives and sustainable use of sand. It is perceived tohave focused on only price fixation apart from delineating the revenue sharing arrangement and legalising the extraction process through licensing.  Unbridled extraction “The message is that sand extraction will continue unabated and opening up local streams and waterbodies for local work is akin to issuing blanket permission for sand extraction anywhere,” said U.N. Ravikumar, an environmentalist who has been advocating alternative and sustainable technology for over three decades. Expressing concern over the absence of an environmental perspective in the policy, Mr. Ravikumar said unbridled sand extraction not only has a negative effect on groundwater recharge, it will also lead to erosion of riverbanks and cause flooding apart from wreaking havoc on the aquatic life forms and their habitat. Small streams and rivers The new rules allow sand extraction from local streams, tanks, and lakes. This leeway is expected to harm waterbodies if the officers fail to regulate the activities. Though the rule says the extraction from local sources is allowed for community works, housing works, and government works, chances of misusing the provision by the powerful lobby cannot be ruled out. Akhilesh Chipli, an environmentalist in Sagar taluk, said allowing extraction in local streams would pose a threat to rivers themselves. “Small streams finally join rivers. If streams are disturbed, rivers are also affected gradually. Under the guise of helping villagers, the Government is damaging local waterbodies and this should not be allowed,” he added. Mr. Ravikumar said streams and rivers — like Arkavati and Gundal near Gundlupet — which were once thought to be perennial, now have only intermittent flow as a result of reckless sand extraction and deforestation. No mechanism in place Though the guidelines and the policy states that the quantity of extraction will be monitored, there is no mechanism in place and the gram panchayats will be happy to issue licences as sand extraction is viewed as a source of revenue generation, according to Mr. Ravikumar. Advocating alternative methods that have evolved in the construction field, Mr. Ravikumar said there was also scope for recycling of building debris. Patta land The Government, in the new rules, banned the extraction of sand in patta land. However, it allows the district sand committees to take a decision on granting permission to extract sand from such land. Activists point out that when the district committee is authorised to take a decision, the ‘ban’ does not hold significance. Those into sand extraction are powerful people with the support of elected representatives. For them getting clearance from the district committee is not a difficult task, according to activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sand-policy-lack-of-focus-on-ecological-issues-irks-activists/article37496829.ece
15 November 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Shashidhar Reddy resigns from BJP||Shashidhar Reddy Hosalli, former chairman of the Yadgir City Municipal Council (CMC), has tendered his resignation to the primary membership of the Bharatiya Janata Party. In a letter to State president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Mr. Hosalli stated that he was resigning on personal grounds. Before joining the BJP, Mr. Hosalli was a prominent worker of the Congress and was a close associate of former Minister and senior leader A.B. Maalakareddy. Mr. Hosalli followed Mr. Maalakareddy when he joined the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shashidhar-reddy-resigns-from-bjp/article37497080.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Remembering Nehru||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remembering-nehru/article37497271.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Warm welcome||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/warm-welcome/article37497087.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Corridors||Seers of various mutts and heads of religious outfits seem to be playing a very active role in formulation of policies and laws in the state. In fact, much more than legislators in the state, it appears. In the latest instance, about 50 seers and leaders of various religious outfits met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai at the latter’s residence on Friday to press their demand for enacting an anti-conversion law by the BJP Government. Seers argued that anti-conversion law was the “need of the hour” to stop what they called “large-scale conversions of Hindus” to other religions by offering inducements. They claimed that the number of churches had increased and many Hindus had been converted into Christianity. They even urged Mr. Bommai to stop providing government benefits under various schemes to people who converted to other religious faiths. The Chief Minister assured the seers that existing laws in other states will be studied before enactment of a law here, which will stand the test of judicial scrutiny.   Minister for Excise K. Gopalaiah, who paid a surprise visit to a government first grade college in his Mahalaxmi Layout constituency, was in for a surprise. For, despite all the talk on hygiene post the pandemic, all he saw was dust on desks and benches and waste material in classrooms. Educational institutions, shut during the height of the pandemic, have reopened after a long break in Karnataka. The Minister took the college principal and other staff members to task for their irresponsibility in maintaining cleanliness in classrooms. College staff do not utilise funds meant for maintaining hygiene on the campus, he said, and warned the staff of disciplinary action if they continued to neglect cleanliness.   Balachandra Jarkiholi, BJP MLA and KMF chairperson, made a cryptic speech and kept his audience guessing when he kicked off the campaign for the Legislative Council polls recently. He addressed gram panchayat members in a hall near his home in Gokak, when the BJP was yet to announce its candidates. “The party is yet to nominate candidates, but I request you to support the party. I also request you to support our organisation’s candidates,” he said. However, it raised a few questions. What did he mean by “our organisation”? Was it the party or KMF or the GP members association or the Nayak Students Federation that he is an office-bearer of or the Sahukar Sene, the Gokak-based association of the “fans” of the Jarkiholi family? The answer depends on whom you ask. Party workers from Gokak swear he meant only the BJP. The reason he mentioned it separately was to emphasise the Gokak-Arabavi unit of the party, they say. Milk union members in the villages say he pointed to them, as several of them are GP members. NSF volunteers say Mr. Balachandra always refers to them as “his organisation”. The Sahukar Sene members also say it was obvious that he was referring to them. One supporter insisted that loyalty in the family’s case went beyond party. “If he [Balachandra] were to shift his loyalties to the Congress or the JD(S) tomorrow, his followers will move with him. That is why he mentioned it separately to emphasise that his supporters should work for the BJP candidates,” he said. Nagesh Prabhu Rishikesh Bahadur Desai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corridors/article37496872.ece
15 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Several parts of upper Kuttanad flooded||Rain continued to batter most parts of Alappuzha district on Sunday. Most of the upper Kuttanad and parts of Kuttanad remain waterlogged due to heavy downpours that lashed the region in recent days along with an increase in the flow of floodwaters from the eastern side. District Collector A. Alexander declared a holiday for all educational institutions including professional colleges in the district on Monday. People living on the banks of the Pampa and Achankovil rivers in Kuttanad, Chengannur, Mavelikara and Karthikappally taluks have been urged to exercise caution in view of the opening of the sluice gates of the Kakki dam. Houses in water Floodwaters have entered several houses and shops at Thalavady, Neerattupuram, Edathua, Muttar, Venmony, Cheriyanad, Chennithala, Pallippad among other places. The water level remained above the danger level at Neerattupuram, Nedumudi and Kavalam, while it was above the warning level at Pallathuruthy and Kidangara on Sunday evening. Parts of the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) road and a number of rural roads in Upper Kuttanad and Kuttanad have been submerged. The district administration has opened more relief camps. As of Sunday evening, 229 people from 67 families took shelter at 13 relief camps, nine in Chengannur taluk, and four in Mavelikara taluk, in the district. Besides, the administration also opened gruel centres in Kuttanad. Paddy farmers have suffered huge losses as waterlogging hindered harvesting and procurement of the additional crop (second crop) in Kuttanad. Farmers said combined harvesters could not be deployed as machines would get stuck on the field. Paddy was cultivated in 8,600 hectares in the second crop season in the district, while the crop in only around 2,000 hectares has been harvested so far. In October, paddy in 538.60 hectares were destroyed in floods. The weather agency has declared a yellow alert for moderate rain in the district on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/several-parts-of-upper-kuttanad-flooded/article37497232.ece
15 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Nurturing thinking minds||The book farm project of Kites Foundation, a non-profit organisation, which aims to revive inactive libraries, was launched in Alappuzha. It was inaugurated by former Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac at Udaya Reading Room and Library recently. On the occasion, Punnapra Jyothikumar, a teacher and poet, handed over 2,000-plus books collected by volunteers of Kites Foundation to the library. The books were collected in collaboration with various National Service Scheme units, schools, colleges, clubs, and individuals. As part of the book farm project, the foundation will identify and renovate 75 dormant libraries. As the second step, these libraries will be transformed into micro-learning hubs. P. Regimon, former president, Udaya Reading Room and Library, presided. Mararikulam South Grama Panchayat president P.P. Sangeetha, Aryad Block Panchayat member Kunjumol Shaji, District Library Council member R. Chandralal, Mararikulam South Grama Panchayat members T.P. Shaji and M.G. Prasanna, Kites Foundation director board member Heera Paresh and Udaya Reading Room and Library secretary N. Naveen spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nurturing-thinking-minds/article37497226.ece
15 November 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||‘LDF acts against State’s interests’||The LDF government led by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, which granted permission to Tamil Nadu to fell trees near the Mullaperiyar dam site, has acted against the interest of the State, Kerala Congress working chairman and former Union Minister P.C. Thomas has said. Mr. Thomas questioned the Chief Minister’s silence on the issue. He said Ministers were giving contradictory statements and asked the Chief Minister to apologise to the people of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-acts-against-states-interests/article37497233.ece
15 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Nomadic tribal group gets Aadhaar||Members of Kattupaniya, a nomadic tribal group that was rehabilitated from caves near the South Wayanad-Nilambur Forest Division a few years ago, have enrolled for Aadhaar cards on the intervention of the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA). As many as 33 members of the vulnerable tribal group had been rehabilitated from the Nilambur forest at Erattakkundu Colony near Attamala seven years ago. However, details of 20 members have not been entered in Government records. District Sub Judge K. Rajesh, who is also the secretary of DLSA, Wayanad, visited the tribal hamlet a few weeks ago as part of the Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach Campaign of the National Legal Services Authority. During the visit, Mr. Rajesh was told that the tribal group had been deprived of Government incentives, including free ration during the pandemic. As many as 18 children, who were born in the hamlet, do not have birth certificates, as their mothers were not admitted to hospitals for delivery. In the absence of birth certificates, Aadhaar cards could not be issued to them, Mr. Rajesh told The Hindu . Since members of the Kattupaniya tribe usually do not mingle with the public, they rush back to the nearby forest if an outsider turns up in the hamlet. Hence, Aadhaar seeding could not be done for a majority of them. “Later, we decided to organise a camp in the hamlet to issue Aadhaar cards and other documents like ration cards and bank accounts with the support of the district administration, Tribal Development Department, Akshaya centre at Thinapuram, and officials of the Vellarimala branch of the Kerala Grameen Bank,” he said. Though Aadhaar seeding was done for 14 persons, six left for the nearby forest owing to the presence of outsiders. Bank accounts were opened for 14 persons. Though the Tribal Development Department had constructed three concrete houses for members of the group, they still live in make-shift huts attached to the houses, Integrated Tribal Development Project (ITDP) officer K.C. Cheriyan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nomadic-tribal-group-gets-aadhaar/article37497146.ece
15 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||3-year-old drowns in tank||A three-year-old boy drowned after he fell into a tank on Sunday. Nasal, son of Paramal Sajid of Irikkur, drowned when he tried to pick a football that fell into the tank. He died while being rushed to hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-year-old-drowns-in-tank/article37497160.ece
15 November 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Holiday for schools in Kasaragod||District Collector Bhandari Swagat Ranveer Chand has declared a holiday for all schools in the district on Monday due to heavy rains. However, colleges would remain open. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rains in Kasaragod district and has issued an orange alert on Monday. People residing in low-lying areas and near river banks areas have been advised to be cautious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/holiday-for-schools-in-kasaragod/article37497159.ece
15 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Experts against RTC stretching service life of super-class buses||There is increasing concern that the KSRTC’s decision to continue operating 704 buses that are over seven years old as super-class buses, could have a bearing on safety of passengers and road users, especially so since many of the agency’s super class buses have been found wanting in upkeep. The decision is to continue operating them as fast passenger, super fast, super express, super deluxe, and AC buses until they are nine years old, following which they will be withdrawn and deployed as ordinary services, till they are scrapped. Even as KSRTC insists that this will not be at the cost of safety of passengers and road users, experts in the public transport sector cautioned against the trend. A high-ranking MVD official spoke of how such old buses that are not properly maintained, but are expected to operate at high speeds through highways and challenging terrain, could cause accidents. ‘Ride quality’  “It was in 2019 that the maximum age of super class buses was raised from five to seven, citing cash crunch. A combination of ageing and slack upkeep will affect their ride quality, while also increasing their operational expense. The KSRTC’s maintenance standards are known to be low and most of its workshops follow outdated practices, unlike other RTCs in southern India.” Over the years, the quality of driver training has suffered, while the agency has failed to even implement a GPS-based passenger information system that is the norm even in developing countries. Put short, it is mismanagement and irresponsibility to the core in KSRTC, which is badly in need of a visionary, professional management, he adds. Responding to the development, the agency’s CMD Biju Prabhakar says even a new bus, if driven in an unsafe manner or sans proper upkeep, could cause an accident. “The agency has its own workshops, trained engineers and mechanics to ensure that all buses are roadworthy. In addition, after completing seven years as super-class service, they have hitherto been operating for another decade more as an ordinary service - operating up to 140 kms, through highways and other roads in the State [but mostly at lesser speeds],” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/experts-against-stretching-service-life-of-ksrtc-superclass-buses/article37497144.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||CSML making headway in road infrastructure upgrade in city||After a lull in works due to the pandemic and delay in relocating utility lines, Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) has made considerable headway in upgrading roads, drains, and footpaths in the city hub. The agency has set December as the deadline to complete all works related to smart and other roads, barring the one to upgrade Bannerjee Road, its drains and footpaths and to install around 60 LED street lights on the corridor. “Our first major task was to widen and upgrade Abraham Madamakkal Road that links High Court Junction and the Goshree Bridge. Ninety per cent of the work is over. The bridge en route was widened, while tarring and road markings will shortly be completed. Similarly, Shanmugham Road and the stretch of D.H. Road from Club Road to Jos Junction will be upgraded in a month’s time. Works on Park Avenue Road too are getting over,” said CSML sources. MoRTH norms “All the road, drain and footpath upgrading works are being done as per norms of the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways [MoRTH]. Under the defect-liability clause, the contracting firm concerned would be held liable for any damage or sinking that occurs within another three years. Their bank guarantee and retention of 5% of the contract amount are a surety,” said the sources. Much more work could have been completed but for the rains playing spoilsport, especially with tarring. The Kerala State Electricity Board stands to benefit the most from the infrastructure upgrade, since a huge volume of its overhead power lines have been converted into underground cables. This is in addition to Kerala Water Authority pipelines that were relocated, many of them well away from sewage lines where they stood the risk of contamination. All these works were done by four sets of contractors – those dealing with civil works, utility shifting, electrical and installation of smart LED lights. Any delay by a contractor had its repercussion on rest of the works, added the sources. Works in Fort Kochi and Mattancherry too have made considerable progress, but for pending smart road works in Fort Kochi, where the contractor was unable to complete the works. Encroachments Mayor M. Anilkumar said Kochi Corporation provided all support to CSML in completing the upgrading works. Responding to widespread concern about vendors and vehicles encroaching onto upgraded footpaths, he said stern action was on the anvil, since they were meant for pedestrians and cyclists, wherever cycle lanes were being readied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/csml-making-headway-in-road-infrastructure-upgrade-in-city/article37497179.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Heavy rain lashes parts of district||Heavy rain lashed several parts of the district on Sunday bringing back fears of flash floods in August 2018, as some areas near Aluva, including a segment of the national highway near Companypady, went under water. While the Kochi city area did not face any significant disruption in normal life, instances of waterlogging were reported from the outskirts. The rain that started around 8.30 p.m. Saturday continued till Sunday afternoon with varying intensity. Eloor and Kalamassery were under constant threat of flooding, though there were no reports of damage. Heavy spells of rain pounded areas stretching from Fort Kochi on the west coast to Kothamangalam and Muvattupuzha in the eastern segments. Aluva and neighbouring areas saw the heaviest showers during Sunday. According to reports, Aluva received about 154 mm rain, while the Cochin International Airport area at Nedumbassery received about 189 mm of rain. Areas in the city like the naval air station saw 44 mm of rain, Ernakulam South 50 mm, Piravom 65 mm, and Perumbavoor saw 76 mm of rain during the day. Water level in the Periyar measured at different segments did not see any dangerous rise. Kalady, Marthanda Varma Bridge and Mangalapuzha segments did not see any alarming trend of rising water levels. The district administration has, however, issued a warning to those living along the Periyar and its tributaries to be on their guard against any rise in water levels and possible flooding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-lashes-parts-of-district/article37497190.ece
15 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Safety concerns as more trucks take narrow Vypeen-Munambam stretch||Two persons died instantly after their car rammed a container trailer along the narrow Vypeen-Munambam State Highway around midnight last month. It was symptomatic of the problem being faced by the 25-km highway after it is being increasingly used by huge container trailers, mostly from northern States, operating to and from the Vallarpadam Transshipment Container Terminal. Avoiding the toll plaza at Mulavukad along Container Terminal Road and saving a few kilometres and by extension fuel cost, being the incentives to take the narrow highway, are causing considerable hardships to other motorists and even pedestrians. “They [container trailers] pose a threat to smaller vehicles, especially during night time. The road is too narrow to give way when big container trailers come from the opposite direction. We are not asking to stop them from using the road altogether, but they definitely should be regulated,” said Supri Kattuparambil, chairman of Vypeen-based Yathra Samrakshana Samiti. Officials with the PWD (Roads Wing), which owns the highway, said except for the 8 km, the rest of the road had been renovated as per bituminous macadam bituminous concrete (BMBC) method, and the rest is set to be renovated soon after the rains. “The quality of the road would not be an issue in accommodating the movement of container trailers. But yes, the width could be a problem somewhat,” said officials. Widening road As of now, there is no proposal to widen the road though the PWD was open to such a proposal. Concerns are also being raised about the width of the numerous bridges along the highway and their ability to hold the tonnage of fully-loaded container trailers. “We have renovated eight bridges so far. While the remaining bridges have to be renovated, there have been no reports of damage or lack of strength to them except for minor issues to the one at Malippuram,” said PWD (Bridges) officials. Besides, the increasing traffic of container trailers with considerable height has been wreaking havoc with the low-hanging cables criss-crossing the road at many points along the highway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safety-concerns-as-more-trucks-take-narrow-vypeen-munambam-stretch/article37497175.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Road widening project hits another glitch||The much-delayed project to widen the Thammanam-Pullepady Road and to extend it to M.G. Road and the NH Bypass has been caught in yet another glitch, with a conclusive decision awaited on constructing an overbridge at Kathrikadavu and widening the road without disrupting a Jewish cemetery. This has resulted in the alignment and design submitted over a month ago by the PWD (Bridges Wing) to the Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB) being kept in abeyance, pending a final decision on the two key aspects, it is learnt. Joint efforts  The three-decade-old proposal to develop the road to augment east-west connectivity in Kochi had picked up pace during the past few months, with the Kochi Corporation, PWD, and the KRFB making joint efforts. Faced with the possibility of traffic snarls worsening at Kathrikadavu once the road was developed, the KRFB began probing the feasibility of readying an overbridge linking the eastern side of the Kathrikadavu Junction that will end beyond the Jewish cemetery on the western side. Still, stakeholders cite the need to acquire more space than what is required to develop the 22-metre road, at either end of the bridge, for service roads. Mayor M. Anilkumar said the road development project was well on track, although the two aspects need to be addressed. “One more site inspection by stakeholders will be done to find a way out and finalise the alignment near the cemetery,” he said. Traffic intersections Three or four design options are expected to be tabled at the forthcoming meeting of stakeholders that will be held in a week’s time. The meeting is also expected to take a closer look at traffic intersections proposed at Padma Junction and Chakkaraparambu, on either end of the 4-km road. The PWD had included their design in the detailed project report (DPR). It will be followed by an inspection by Kerala Infrastructure Investment Board (KIIFB) officials for approving financial and technical sanctions. Boundary stones might have to be relocated at a few places, based on their suggestions on the alignment. In the meantime, the Thammanam-Pullepady Road Vikasana Samiti has sought steps to begin land acquisition in areas away from Kathrikadavu, to save on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bridge-and-cemetery-issues-haunt-road-widening-project/article37497184.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||AI apps can tackle mental health issues, says expert||Diagnostic models and intuitive applications based on Artificial Intelligence (AI) can help individuals manage mental health issues effectively, Joemon M. Jose, professor at the University of Glasgow, said here on Friday. The AI-based app will recommend actions, including seeking professional help and personalised context-dependent activities. The diagnostic tool can measure the progress (positive or negative) of the health condition. It can also react appropriately, he said at the inaugural talk on ‘Artificial Intelligence and Mental Health’ organised by Cusat Alumni Network. A professor of Information Retrieval at the School of Computing Science, University of Glasgow, Prof. Joemon said studies had shown that persons suffering from mental health issues triggered by the pandemic situation had opened up on social media platforms better than face-to-face interactions. Developing AI-based solutions mimicking such social media activities will help users manage their conditions effectively. It can be provided using an application. However, any solution should also have an automatic diagnostic tool, which can detect the presence of mental health issues and their severity, he said. Prof. Joemon said the AI-based diagnostic tool would also help the clinician of the user receive regular updates about the digital interaction and could meta-manage the interactions between the user and the application. “The pandemic has caused anxiety, depression, and other mental health issues among people across the world. These persons require adequate support, and AI can offer it,” he added. Cusat Vice Chancellor K.N. Madhusoodanan and Pro Vice Chancellor P.G. Sankaran spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ai-apps-can-tackle-mental-health-issues-says-expert/article37497152.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Dog breeding centre at district jail proves a hit||Selling puppies is perhaps the last thing one may associate with a jail. But the Ernakulam District Jail has been doing it for the last couple of years thanks to its dog breeding centre. The centre turned operational with the purchase of three female dogs — a Labrador, a Doberman, and a German Shepherd — with sponsorship two years ago. Since then, the centre has sold five puppies, while a few were lost to miscarriage. Over Rs. 2 lakh  “The income from the sale of puppies is deposited in the treasury. So far, we have incurred over Rs. 2 lakh as operational expenses of the centre. We are likely to turn profitable with the next lot of puppies,” said P. Vijayan, Jail Superintendent. The centre has gained popularity by word of mouth, while the jail authorities publish availability of puppies through newspapers leading to their immediate sale. The latest to be sold were two German Shepherds, which were sold at Rs. 25,000 each on Thursday. They were snapped up by dog lovers no sooner than the jail authorities publicised their availability. Though there were three puppies, one was given to the person who gave the mating dog. Similarly in the past, three Dobermans were sold at a collective Rs. 89,000. Vaccinated Dogs at the centre are registered with a recognised canine club and are periodically vaccinated. Prisoners are trained in the handling of dogs and are entrusted with the upkeep of the breeding centre. “They feed the dogs and take them out for walk and exercise. The centre helps not only fruitfully engage the inmates but also offers them an opportunity to dabble in dog breeding business, which is a very profitable one, once they are released,” said Eldho P.Y., Assistant Jail Superintendent, who is also in charge of the dog breeding centre. The centre may add more dogs as and when it can afford them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dog-breeding-centre-at-ernakulam-jail-proves-a-hit/article37497150.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Efforts on to raise support price for pineapple: Minister||Efforts are on to raise support price to procure pineapple from farmers, Minister for Agriculture P. Prasad said. He was inaugurating the fruit jam unit at Vazhakkulam Agro and Fruit Processing Company Ltd. (VAFPCL), Muvattupuzha, on Sunday. The present support price is Rs. 15 per kg. The Minister also launched Jive farm products and flagged off a reefer van from the unit. VAFPCL is a public sector unit at Nadukkara, near Vazhakkulam, the biggest pineapple hub in India, which also got Geographic Indication (GI) registration for the fruit. The unit that operates under the Agriculture Department procured the reefer van to ensure a secure mode to transport fruits and vegetables for export. Muvattupuzha MLA Mathew Kuzhalnadan presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/efforts-on-to-raise-support-price-for-pineapple-minister/article37497182.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||More encroachments along Konothupuzha come to light||A Government survey has revealed further encroachments of the Konothupuzha on the river stretch coming under the jurisdiction of Mulanthuruthy and Chottanikkara grama panchayats. In Thripunithura  The Hindu had reported on Wednesday that the Revenue Department had found 21 cases of encroachment of riverbanks along the stretch coming under the Thripunithura Municipality. The 17-km-long Konothupuzha lies between the Champakkara canal and the Vembanad lake and runs through Thripunitura Municipality, and Chottanikkara, Mulanthuruthy, Udayamperoor and Amballoor grama panchayats. The Survey Department has found three encroachments of the riverbanks in Mulanthuruthy, while one case was reported on the stretch coming under the jurisdiction of Chottanikkara panchayat. The secretaries of both the local bodies have mentioned details of encroachments in their updated status report submitted before the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The court had asked the Government to take immediate measures to save the river from pollution and encroachment. Notices have been issued to encroachers for eviction. But the main issue is the rehabilitation of three families as they have no other house or property, said the report filed by the secretary of Mulanthuruthy panchayat. The Chottanikkara panchayat secretary said he was awaiting a report from the Tahsildar, Land Records, at Kanayannoor taluk before going ahead with the eviction. On the steps being taken to check pollution, the authorities of Chottanikkara panchayat said CCTVs had been installed near waterbodies, major junctions, and other hotspots in a bid to nab violators. The health wing of the local body has initiated steps to impose fine on those found dumping waste in public places, waterbodies and roads as per the provisions of the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 and Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. Waste collection The report filed by the secretary of Mulanthuruthy panchayat said the local body had set a deadline to ensure scientific collection and disposal of non-biodegradable waste by March next year. Members of the Haritha Karma Sena were collecting waste from households and institutions at regular intervals, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-encroachments-along-konothupuzha-come-to-light/article37497170.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Efforts on to recover flyover reconstruction cost||The Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala (RBDCK) is stepping up efforts to recover the cost of rebuilding pier caps, girders and slabs of the Palarivattom flyover from the firm that built the structure first. The agency has been facing flak for delay in recovering the amount although the rebuilt flyover was opened to traffic in March. The move follows concerns being raised over the reconstruction cost having to be paid from the public exchequer, if there is any further delay in recovering the approximately Rs. 27 crore, estimated as the reconstruction cost. Defect liability period RBDCK officials reiterated that the firm RDS Projects ought to pay the reconstruction cost, since the flyover that it built developed cracks on its girders and a few pier caps within a year of its commissioning in 2016. The defect liability period (DLP) of the structure was three years and the firm was thus duty-bound to pay the reconstruction cost, they added. Apart from rebuilding the pier caps, girders and slabs, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which was vested with the reconstruction task, had strengthened the pillars of the structure commissioned in 2016 by ‘concrete wrapping’. The reconstruction cost increased from an estimated Rs. 19 crore in 2019 to Rs. 23 crore, following a year’s delay in commencing the reconstruction work, after contractor bodies approached the High Court seeking a load test on the initial structure before deciding to pull it down. The DMRC incurred a total of around Rs. 27 crore as expenses, including the design and establishment cost, said official sources. Sources in RBDCK said the DMRC had provided details of the expenses. “A couple of rounds of meetings would be needed to ensure clarity on this, following which we can officially claim the flyover’s reconstruction cost from RDS Projects,” they added. The metro agency rebuilt the flyover using approximately Rs. 18 crore that it had saved while executing preparatory works like building bridges and the Edappally flyover for Kochi metro.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rbdck-intensifies-efforts-to-recover-palarivattom-flyover-reconstruction-cost/article37497180.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam records 919 fresh COVID-19 cases||A total of 919 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. The test positivity rate stood at 8.03%. According to a communication from the district administration, 915 persons got infected through local sources. The source of infection could not be identified in three cases. One health worker got infected. The places that had reported more that 20 cases included Thrikkakara (33), Puthenvelikkara (33), Thripunithura (29), Kottuvalli (27), Pallippuram (21) and Thiruvaniyoor (20). The places that recorded less than five cases included Fort Kochi, Mudamveli, Elamakara, Chalikkavattom, Vennala, Edakochi, Ernakulam South and Mattancherry. As many as 8,534 persons are under COVID-19 treatment in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-919-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37497186.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||More skill training centres to be set up: Minister||Union Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Rajeev Chandrasekhar has said that Jan Shikshan Sansthan training centres in the country will be doubled to 600 from the current level within the next three years. Addressing beneficiaries of Jan Shikshan Sansthan Training Centre on Saturday, the Minister said a new world order was emerging in the post-COVID scenario, offering plenty of opportunities to skilled workers. He said India had the potential to become the skill capital of the world. Noting that over two crore people were imparted skill training over the past five years, the Minister said of them, nearly 60% had either gained employment or become entrepreneurs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-skill-training-centres-to-be-set-up-minister/article37497172.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Educational institutions to remain closed today||Educational institutions, including professional colleges, in Ernakulam district will remain closed on Monday in view of the warning against heavy rain, said a communication from the district administration. The holiday will be applicable to CBSE and ICSE schools and Kendriya Vidyalayas. However, there will be online classes, the communication added. There will be no change in examinations fixed by universities earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/educational-institutions-to-remain-closed-today/article37497192.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Police blamed for dog’s death||Personnel of the Chengamanad police who went searching for a history-sheeter at a house reportedly hit a pet dog, resulting in its death. The police said they inspected the house while searching for Justin, 29, who was wanted in over 15 cases. Later in the day, Justin was arrested by the Nedumbassery police on charge of extortion at a bar. Chengamanad native Jijo, who owned the dog, alleged that the police who arrived at his house searching for his brother Justin had hit the dog, a pug, on its head using a wooden plank. His mother was reportedly alone at the house, when the police personnel closed in through the front and rear of the house. “Soon after the dog was hit, she confronted the officer who hit the dog, but he got into the jeep and went away. We will file a complaint before the Rural SP,” he said. Refuting the charge, the police said they went to serve summons to Justin. “We have nothing to do with the death of the dog,” said an officer who was in the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-blamed-for-dogs-death/article37497171.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Lorry driver killed as mud caves in||A lorry driver was killed after mud caved in on him at Kalamassery on Sunday morning. Parking space The incident occurred near the lorry parking space where Container Road takes off from Kalamassery. The deceased was identified as Thankaraj, 72, a native of Udiyankulangara in Thiruvananthapuram. Mud caved in following heavy rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lorry-driver-killed-as-mud-caves-in/article37497185.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||LDF to blame for Gandhi Nagar backwardness: Eden||The successive LDF councillors elected from Gandhi Nagar should be held responsible for the backwardness of the division, Hibi Eden, MP, has said. He was inaugurating the election committee office of P.D. Martin, UDF candidate in the byelection in the division, on Sunday. Mr. Eden said it was during the tenure of the previous UDF government that A.L Jacob Bridge linking the division to the city was constructed. Housing project The housing project, the foundation of which was laid by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in 2018, is yet to be completed. It is unfortunate that despite a lapse of three years, the project still remains on paper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ldf-to-blame-for-gandhi-nagar-backwardness-eden/article37497187.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Legal awareness campaign||Kerala High Court Judge S.V. Bhatti on Sunday inaugurated the Pan India Legal Awareness and Outreach campaign organised by the Kerala State Legal Services Authority, High Court Legal Aid Committee, and High Court Juvenile Justice Committee. As many as 200 children from various schools in the State participated in the programme and interacted with the judges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/legal-awareness-campaign/article37497188.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No role for Saseendran in tree-felling order: NCP||A leadership meeting of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) here on Sunday reiterated its stand that Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran had no role in granting permission to the Tamil Nadu Government for felling trees in the baby dam area, downstream Mullaperiyar reservoir, and fully backed the Minister's action to suspend the official who had issued the order. NCP president P.C. Chacko said the Chief Secretary would submit a report on the incident in which the permission was granted for felling the trees. Departmental officials would not have a free run, he asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-role-for-saseendran-in-tree-felling-order-ncp/article37497195.ece
15 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||State all for safety of children: Minister||The State Government aims at inclusive development that ensures the safety and education of children, Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development J. Chinchu has said here. She was speaking at the district-level inauguration of the Children’s Day celebrations jointly organised by the Department of Women and Child Development, District Child Protection Office, and Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights at Government P.V.H.S. Perumkulam. “Jawaharlal Nehru was the first Prime Minister of India who laid the foundation for primary education. He had fulfilled the wishes of children beyond borders. Japanese school children had written to him with a request and he made sure it was fulfilled. Our State is also working for a better future of children,” she said. Mylam grama panchayat president Bindu G. Nath presided over the function and State Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights member Reny Antony delivered the Children’s Day message. District Police Chief (Kollam Rural) K.B. Ravi delivered the keynote address while block panchayat member O. Bindu, District Child Protection Officer G. Prasanna Kumari, and school Principal P. Raju, were also among those present on the occasion. The inauguration was followed by cultural programmes held in accordance with COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-all-for-safety-of-children-minister/article37497234.ece
15 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Man held for possessing three kilos of ganja||A Punalur Excise team on Sunday arrested Nitish (33), a resident of Raji Bhavan, Piravathur, after seizing three kilos of ganja from him. A heavy vehicle driver, Nitish has been sourcing huge quantities of ganja from Tamil Nadu to sell in it in various parts of Punalur and Pathanapuram. The officials said he had been purchasing ganja for Rs. 25,000 per kilo and supplying it in smaller portions at a very high rate. The arrest was made by a team led by Excise Circle Inspector K. Sudevan. Safe time Nitish used to sell ganja during night as he believed it was a safe time to meet his customers. He was arrested around midnight while on his way to Punalur and the ganja was retrieved from the dash box of the scooter. The scooter and his mobile phone were also seized by the Excise team. A case under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) was filed against him at the Anchal Excise Range Office for further investigation. He was later presented before the court and remanded. Kollam Assistant Excise Commissioner V. Robert said there would be an extensive investigation into the case based on the mobile phone records and the statements of the accused. “The seized ganja is worth around Rs. one lakh in the market and people from nearby areas are currently under surveillance. The persons involved usually source ganja from other places and use youngsters to market it. Based on a tip off received by Deputy Excise Commissioner B. Suresh, these areas were under the close monitoring of the Department for last one month,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-possessing-three-kilos-of-ganja/article37497236.ece
15 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Seven relief camps opened in Kollam, Pathanapuram worst hit||As heavy rain continued to batter Kollam, hundreds of people trapped in flooded parts were evacuated and seven relief camps were opened in the district on Sunday. A total of 238 persons from 74 families were shifted relief camps functioning in Punalur and Pathanapuram. Of the total seven, five camps are in Pathanapuram, which was one of the most-affected locations. Reportedly, many families in Arayankavu, which witnessed multiple landslides recently, were unwilling to move though the authorities opened a camp there. Special fire and rescue teams were deployed in Thenmala, Kulathupuzha, Arayankavu and Achankovil areas that reported mudslides and flashfloods, while tribal officers were instructed to distribute food kits in the colonies. Heavy rain was reported in the catchment area of Thenmala dam and the three shutters were raised by 20 cm at 9 a.m. With this total shutter opening touched 1.20 m and the dam area is under orange alert. All the panchayats on the banks of Kallada river have been instructed to stay cautious. While two houses were completely destroyed and 31 others suffered partial damages in the rains, the district has incurred a total loss of Rs. 11.22 crore in last seven days. It had been raining intermittently in all the taluks of the district since early morning. While Punalur and Pathanapuram received heavy to moderate rainfall, others including Karunagapally and Kottarakara reported less intense showers. Traffic was restored in many parts that reported mudslides after removing the debris on roads including Pidavoor-Kizhakketheruvu road in Pathanapuram . Department of Geology has identified nine locations in the district that are prone to mudslides including Thenmala, Kulathupuzha, Chithara, Ummannur, Pathanapuram, Punalur, Mancode and Punnala. Kollam Collector has declared Monday a holiday for all educational institutions in the district including professional colleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seven-relief-camps-opened-in-kollam-pathanapuram-worst-hit/article37497237.ece
15 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Application for Asst. Professor post||Karunagappally College of Engineering, under the IHRD, has invited applications for the post (temporary) of Assistant Professor in the Department of Electronics and Communication. Qualification required is B.Tech and M.Tech with first class and interested persons can walk in on November 18 at 10.30. The applicants should carry original certificates and attend a written test and interview. For more details, visit www.ceknpy.ac.in or call 0476 2665935.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/application-for-asst-professor-post/article37497230.ece
15 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam municipal chief to be elected today||With the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) sharing an equal number of seats in the Kottayam municipal council, luck may play its part in the election of the civic body’s new chairperson on Monday. With both sides unable to find a way out of the stalemate, the winner is expected to be decided through a draw of lots. Bincy Sebastian, former chairperson who was ousted through a no-confidence motion a month ago, will once again be the UDF candidate. The LDF will field its senior councillor Sheeja Anil, and the BJP, Reeba Varkey. In the urban body with 52 seats, the UDF and the LDF have 22 seats each. Hence, the stance of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) with eight seats is decisive. But with both fronts unwilling to align with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition, in all likelihood, the NDA candidate will be defeated in the first round and the winner will be decided in the next round through draw of lots. The ouster of Ms. Sebastian, an independent candidate who later sided with the UDF, through a no-confidence motion in September, had plunged the municipality into a crisis. The motion, moved by the LDF, had received 29 votes including those of all eight BJP councillors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-municipal-chief-to-be-elected-today/article37497197.ece
15 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||STP at Avikkal hits another roadblock||The Kozhikode Corporation’s sewage treatment plant (STP) project at Avikkalthodu has hit another roadblock, with a section of local residents protesting against it and demanding that the project be shifted to another place. Rs. 116.5-crore projects The Corporation has planned two STPs at Kothi and Avikkalthodu under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme. The projects are estimated to cost Rs. 116.5 crore. The Avikkalthodu project has been cleared by the Pollution Control Board (PCB) and the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) Authority. ‘Not consulted’ However, local residents alleged that the Corporation authorities had not consulted them before deciding to set up the STP. They fear that the drain, near which the plant is coming up, will shrink further leading to waterlogging. The facility is being set up on the border of Vellayil and Thoppayil wards of the Corporation. “Vellayil is the ward with the highest population density. The drain is already narrow thanks to dumping of garbage. If it is blocked further, rainwater will cease to flow into the sea, putting us in trouble,” said Soufiya Aneesh, councillor from Vellayil. She demanded that the Corporation shift the plant to a less populated area. At the same time, C.P. Sulaiman, councillor from Thoppayil, said residents’ apprehensions were baseless, and that issues, if any, could be resolved if they communicated them to the Corporation. “We have conducted several rounds of discussions and have sought the views of people before going ahead with the project,” he said. Septic tank waste He added that the area had serious waterlogging issues, and that septic tank waste contaminated even drinking water. “The region is prone to not just flooding but contagious diseases such as jaundice, dengue, malaria, and leptospirosis. It is quite essential for us to find alternatives to dispose of septic tank waste,” said Mr.Sulaiman, who is recuperating from leptospirosis, which he contracted during a rescue mission during the recent floods. The STP is being set up using a technology connecting all houses to the pipeline that takes septic waste directly to the plant, where it will be powdered and converted into organic manure. The liquid waste is purified and used for construction purposes.  The drain is already narrow thanks to dumping of garbage. If it is blocked further, rainwater will cease to flow into the sea, putting us in trouble Soufiya Aneesh Councillor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stp-at-avikkal-hits-another-roadblock/article37497154.ece
15 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||All eyes on Kodiyeri ahead of party congress in April||The speculated return of Kodiyeri Balakrishnan as the State secretary of the CPI(M), a year after his son’s custody on the charge of involvement in a narcotics case, has assumed significance even as the party is gearing up for the 23rd Party Congress in Kannur in April next year. The possibility of his continuance in the post for a third term, however, appeared to be uncertain although the 20th Party Congress held in Kozhikode had fixed the tenure of all secretaries at all levels to three terms. Incidentally, the State conference will be held in Ernakulam in February. Party sources said that there are at least two issues at play here. One is his physical fitness although Mr. Balakrishnan has regained health after a prolonged treatment. He had taken a one-year leave from the party on medical grounds. Another issue is the disadvantageous circumstances in which the party got a bad press after his son Bineesh Kodiyeri was arrested last year and his elder son Binoy Kodiyeri faced charges in an alleged rape case in Mumbai. A major premise, sources said, is that Mr. Balakrishnan, a Polit Bureau member, enjoys a perfect sync with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan unlike when V.S. Achuthanandan was the Chief Minister during 2006-11 and Mr. Vijayan was the State secretary. Besides, Mr. Balakrishnan may not be concerned about any factionalism like Mr. Vijayan during his tenure as the longest-serving secretary of the Kerala unit from 1998 to 2015. The latter laid the groundwork and successfully decimated what was known as the “Achuthanandan faction”.  That said, it has to be admitted that the affable Mr. Balakrishnan, though not a typical political strategist, has been able to establish a good rapport with leaders of other political parties and mutual understanding with various social and religious pressure groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-eyes-on-kodiyeri-ahead-of-party-congress-in-april/article37497193.ece
15 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police on the lookout for more in Kottuli case||The medical college police are on the look out for a few more persons who allegedly colluded with a sex racket and exploited two young women, including a Kolkata native, at a rental facility at Kottuli in the city. According to police officials, the investigation is now in full swing based on the available telephone records of arrested persons and statements of local residents. “We have registered it as a case of immoral trafficking as the two women had been under the exploitation of the racket for a long time,” said Benny Lalu, Station House officer, Medical College Police Station. Local support He said local residents were all in support of the ongoing police investigation as they fearlessly gave their statements to quickly track the suspects. “We are happy that they are ready to go to any extent to ensure justice to the victimised women.” It was on November 12 that the five-member gang, including a woman, was arrested from the rented building. K. Nazeer, 46, Vinod Raj, 42, K.P. Anvar, 26, Sirajudheen, 36 and Seenath, 51, were the five who were charged under various sections of the Immoral Trafficking (prevention) Act. There were also a few persons who allegedly escaped from the spot during the raid. According to the medical college police, it was the second such incident they exposed within a short period of time in the city after a painstaking investigation into confidential complaints. They also pointed out that there were deliberate attempts on the part of the suspects to project the human trafficking case as an incident of “live in relationship ” to cover up the trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-on-the-lookout-for-more-in-kottuli-case/article37497157.ece
15 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Death of toddler: samples of internal organs sent to lab||Samples of the internal organs of two-and-a-half-year-old Mohammed Yamin from Narikkuni have been sent for lab tests to ascertain the cause of his death on Saturday. Yamin, son of Chengalamkandi Akbar, had uneasiness and loose motion after he had food from a wedding event last week. He was taken to two private hospitals but died midway to one of them. His mother Sana has now sought treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. Doctors there said that her condition is stable. It is learnt that the boy and others had food from both the bride and bridegroom’s place. Officials from the Health and Food Safety Departments inspected the premises of shops and units that served food at these places. However, no apparent violation of rules has been found. But they have been asked to stop functioning now. The samples of internal organs were sent for lab tests because the post-mortem examination did not throw up any conclusive results. Though officials suspect this to be a case of food poisoning, it is yet to be confirmed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/death-of-toddler-samples-sent-to-lab/article37497155.ece
15 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fire near petrol pump||The sign board of a petrol pump at Thiruvallur near Vadakara was destroyed in a fire outbreak on Sunday. The incident took place around 7 p.m. According to Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Vadakara, a minor short circuit triggered the flames. A major mishap was averted as the emergency call was attended on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fire-near-petrol-pump/article37497158.ece
15 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Women officers help bust drug rackets||The increased presence of women civil excise officers in enforcement squads has helped the Excise Department expose the secret network of a number of women suspected of having involvement in inter-district drug trafficking activities. Within the past three months alone, special squads comprising women officers arrested eight women who were working as carriers for wholesale agents. “We now have 20 women civil excise officers to assist district-level and range-level enforcement activities in cracking the secret network of drug peddlers. They are doing an excellent job in information gathering and other field-level activities with a focus on exposing women engaged in suspected narcotic deals,” said K. Jayapalan, Deputy Excise Commissioner, Kozhikode. He also said the department would get the full-time support of 15 more such women officers soon on completion of their ongoing training. Officials with range-level squads said the entry of women officers helped them crack a number of odd incidents in which women drug carriers used the fake “family label and professional identity” to hoodwink the public and enforcement squads. There were many women carriers who colluded with their male counterparts and travelled like a family to carry out the business, they said. In the wake of noticing a spike in drug trafficking attempts after the lifting of lockdown regulations, the department reconstituted its range-level squads in the city and rural areas. Many of the commercial apartments and flats suspected of offering shelter to drug carriers were brought under 24x7 surveillance. An officer heading one of the range-level squads said the Call Detail Records (CDR) of the arrested and those established contact with them for drug trafficking were available with the Department’s Crime Branch. He also said the call data analysis had helped them crack major drug trafficking cases and decode the hidden tie-up of many suspects with inter-State drug smugglers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/women-officers-help-bust-drug-rackets/article37497156.ece
15 November 2021||Mannanur,KERALA||‘Tiger tourism’ on Nallamala Hills||The lush green hills of Nallamala are now open for tourists to explore and learn from, thanks to the eco-tourism package announced by the Forest department. Safari ride into the Amrabad Tiger Reserve, which had been a minor sojourn for the pilgrims bound for the Srisailam temple, will be part of the ‘Tiger Stay Package’ which is set to begin from November 17. The package includes cottage stay, educational tour, jungle safari, and forest trek up to Umamaheshwaram Temple, exclusive of food. Pricing starts from Rs. 4,600 for two, and goes up to Rs. 17,000 for 12 members. More the number, better the bargain! On the first day, the tourists arriving at CBET (community-based eco tourism) resort of Mannanur, about 143 km from Hyderabad, around noon will be apprised of the Forest department’s initiatives which include a tour to the health clinic, interpretation centre, plastic recycling centre, biological lab and others. Jungle safari will follow, taking tourists through the verdant forest paths up to Farhabad view point, with ample opportunity for wildlife photography without any additional charge. Chenchu guides Youth from the local Chenchu tribe will accompany the tourists on the ride and explain about the culture of the particularly vulnerable tribal group (PVTG), besides providing assistance in spotting the wild animals. Returning to a night’s stay in the plain yet comfortable cottages named after bird species, the tourists may expect their experience only to get better, with a guided trek into the wild scheduled for the day break. The trek is not for the weak-limbed though. Part of it is in the rough, rock strewn terrain which presents a formidable challenge to the knee joints. The effort is amply rewarding, majorly due to the presence of the Chenchu guides who slide into their new roles effortlessly, stopping at every occasional tree to explain its significance and the symbiotic relationships it promotes. Interesting trivia Did you know that sloth bears shake up the topmost branches of fruit bearing trees, gifting succulent fruit meal for the wild pigs or Sambar deer underneath? Or that there is more than a single variety of honey, each with its distinct taste and texture? Or that unique medicinal properties of forest trees cure conditions ranging from simple diarrhoea up to accidental fractures? Breaking the ice with these unassuming guides will open the portals to great learning, as they could come up with most interesting facts like these and more about the wild which even the forest officials may not be aware of. The trek will last about four to five hours, terminating at the famed Umamaheshwaram temple nestled in its precipitous alcove. After a late breakfast upon return, the tourists may leave packing memories of a lifetime all in a day.  Spoiler alert: spotting of the big cat is pure chance — one in a hundred, one may say — though the package is named ‘Tiger Stay’. In fact, sighting of any wild animal is unpredictable, as they shy away from human presence. Hence, it is advised to go with an open mind, and thank one’s stars for any sighting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tiger-tourism-on-nallamala-hills/article37496612.ece
15 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Heavy rain leaves a trail of destruction in Pathanamthitta||From inundating houses to damaging crops, the heavy rains that lashed the Central Travancore over the last couple of days left a trail of destruction across the region. Water level in all major rivers across the region recorded a steady rise throughout the day on Sunday with Pampa and Achenkovilar crossing the danger level. The villages on the high ranges had been on their toes in view of the intense showers though no major incidents were reported till the evening. In view of the heavy rains, Pathanamthitta District Collector on Sunday issued a high alert for the district and banned travel to the hilly regions except for those in connection with the Sabrimala pilgrimage. A blanket ban on all quarrying related activities too was imposed. Taking note of the worsening rain situation, the District Disaster Management Authority opened control rooms at all taluk headquarters, which will function round the clock. Health Minister Veena George held meetings with the revenue officials in Pathanamathitta to asses the flood situation and preparedness. The Pampa, which flows in a spate, breached banks at several locations, also submerging the causeways at Karumbanmoozhi and Arayanjilimon. The flood situation in Pampa, which breached its banks at Pampa-Triveni, the base camp of Sabarimala, also cast a shadow over the preparations for the annual pilgrimage season. Traffic along the major roads including the Punalur-Muvattupuzha State Highway, Main Central Road and Kumbazha-Malayalappuzha roads etc. faced disruptions, besides Mannadi and Pattazhy, near Adoor. The approach road of the Kaipattoor bridge across the Pampa sustained damages and steps were on to restore the portion on a war footing in view of the inflow of pilgrims. The floodwater also entered several commercial establishments in Pathanamathitta, Adoor, and Pandalam towns. The heavy inflow of water from the upper reaches also began inundating the residential areas of Upper Kuttanad. Landslip A minor landslip was reported at the Kunnida Vettamala village in Enadimangalam, in which two houses sustained partial damages. The run-off water from Achenkovilar entered several houses from Konni to Cherikkal near Pandalam, where several families have been relocated. The torrential rains also triggered heavy inflow to the dams in the Pathanamthitta district. With its live storage touching 981.55 meters against a total capacity of 986.33 meters, a blue alert for the Pampa dam was issued on Sunday. Water level in the Kakki reservoir crossed 980.33 meters while a red alert was already declared for the Moozhiyar, where the live storage was about 82.88% of the total capacity. Eighteen relief camps were opened across the district, which accommodated 421 persons including 38 migrant labourers. Kottayam In Kottayam, the extreme showers brought the high-range villages including Koottickal on the edge as the water level in Pullakayar, which had burst its banks last month and claimed several lives, recorded a steady rise. Relief camps Seven relief camps have been opened and 200 people shifted there. Traffic along the Erumeli-Sabarimala route reported major disruptions due to a heavy gush of run-off water. The district received a total rainfall of 477. 4 mm during the 24 hours that ended on Sunday. Of this, the Mundakkayam region received the highest average rainfall of 94.6 mm. In view of the heavy rain that lashed the areas, a holiday has been declared for all educational institutions including professional colleges in Kottayam and Pathanamathitta on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-leaves-a-trail-of-destruction-in-pathanamthitta/article37497240.ece
15 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||New TDB president to take charge today||K. Ananthagopan, who has been appointed as the new president of the Travancore Deaswom Board (TDB), will assume office on Monday. At a function to be held at the TDB headquarters in Thiruvananthapuram, Mr. Ananthagopan and Manoj Charalel will swear in respectively as the president and member of the board. This will be followed by the first meeting of the reconstituted board. A senior CPI(M) leader from Pathanamthitta, Mr. Ananthagopan succeeds N. Vasu, whose term expired on Saturday. A State committee member of the CPI(M), he had held various positions in the party and was appointed as the secretary of its district unit from 2001 to 2013. Mr. Ananthagopan has served as member of the Pathanamathitta district panchayat. Mr. Charalel, 48, an elected representative of the Kottanad panchayat, is a nominee of the CPI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-tdb-president-to-take-charge-today/article37497199.ece
15 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rain leaves one dead, two injured||One person died and at least two were injured in rain-related incidents in the district. The district has been facing the brunt of a heavy downpour since Friday night. The deceased was identified as Lalithabai, 75, Keezhekannekkode House, Kattakada Taluk. She was reported missing in the Neyyar river on Sunday morning. Her body was recovered from Palakkadavu, Neyyattinkara. Two persons were injured in the Varkala taluk in rain-related incidents, the administration said. Nineteen relief camps were opened in the district in the past two days alone to accommodate families evacuated from vulnerable locations. As per the latest available data, 427 people (146 families) have been shifted to these camps. In Neyyattinkara taluk, 216 people from 75 families have been put up in eight camps. Five relief camps have been opened in Thiruvananthapuram taluk, and two each in Nedumangad, Kattakada and Chirayinkeezhu taluks. Three houses were destroyed while 52 others were damaged in the district. Sixteen houses were damaged in Kattakada taluk, 14 each in Thiruvananthapuram and Neyyatinkara taluks, seven houses in Chirayinkeezhu taluk and one house in Varkala taluk. The shutters of the Neyyar, Peppara and Aruvikkara dams are in a raised position. The district administration has advised people residing on riverbanks to remain alert. Crop loss has been reported in 0.12 hectares in the district. Yellow alert today Isolated heavy rainfall (7-11 cm in 24 hours) is likely in the district on Monday also. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put the district on yellow alert on Monday. District Collector Navjot Khosa appealed to people residing on riverbanks, and flood and landslip-prone areas to remain alert as heavy rainfall was continuing in these areas. She also urged the public to cooperate with officials if evacuation from unsafe locations became necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-leaves-one-dead-two-injured/article37497363.ece
15 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Call to espouse Nehruvian values||It is up to children to protect the values of equality, democracy and secularism that the country’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru espoused. India’s strength lies in its children, Nidhi P.A., children’s ‘prime minister’ has said. She was inaugurating the Children’s Day celebrations organised by the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare here on Sunday. Nidhi, student of Carmel Girls Higher Secondary School, said Chachaji, as Nehru was fondly addressed by children, wanted equal justice for all, irrespective of language, colour, religion, and caste. He spoke out against superstitions and evil practices in society and wanted farmer interests to be protected. Every child who loved and respected Nehru should work towards his vision for India. Only this could make the country great. Educating children Children’s ‘president’ Uma S., a student of Government Higher Secondary School for Girls, Cotton Hill, who presided over the function spoke about Nehru’s contributions to democracy, socialism, secularism, scientific consciousness, and foreign policy. He was inordinately fond of children, and firmly believed they were the leaders of tomorrow, she said. He made primary education completely free and constructed thousands of schools across villages. He launched projects to address malnutrition. Institutions such as Indian Institutes of Technology and Indian Institutes of Managment were founded during his time, she said, highlighting his vision of a new India. Children, she said, should reclaim the India that Nehru had dreamt of, she said. Council general secretary Shiju Khan J.S. read out Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s Children’s Day message. Opportunities Addressing children, Mr. Vijayan said the Government’s aim was to maintain Kerala as a child-friendly State. It was committed to ensuring opportunities for children to play, learn, and grow, and was devising projects with special attention to their physical and mental health. He emphasised the need for instilling a scientific bent of mind and secular values in children early on in life. They should be made to understand the importance of equality and cooperation. They should be taught to think beyond any discrimination on the basis of caste, religion, gender, language, or region. Children’s Day celebrations should aim at the aforesaid, he said. COVID-19 presented many challenges for children. However, the Government took the initiative to launch online education for them, and took up protection of the children left orphaned by the pandemic. In the post-COVID world, children should eagerly embrace study, play, and aspire to become the best, the Chief Minister said. Children’s ‘speaker’ Devaki D.S., Minister for Transport Antony Raju and Mayor Arya Rajendran spoke. Stamp released Minister for Women and Child Development Veena George released online the Children’s Day stamp featuring a painting by Akshay B. Pillai, a student from Kollam. Minna Renjith, a student of Christ Nagar Central School, delivered the welcome address, while Dhwany Ashmy of Nirmala Bhavan Higher Secondary School, Kowdiar, gave the vote of thanks. The welcome song was rendered by Nida Fathima.  Government’s aim is to maintain Kerala as a child-friendly State. Pinarayi Vijayan Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-espouse-nehruvian-values/article37497360.ece
15 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nod for nine new study depts. in KU||The Senate of the University of Kerala has granted approval to the proposal to launch nine departments in emerging areas of study. The approved departments include those for communication science and electronics, artificial intelligence and robotics, data science, functional organic materials, oceanography and blue economy, renewable energy, integrative biology, atmospheric science and design. Rejected A proposal to launch a department of public health that had been approved by the Syndicate was rejected by the Senate. While the decision will be sent for the Chancellor’s assent, the university remained hopeful of commencing post-graduate programmes in the new disciplines this year. New posts One post each for professor and associate professor and four for assistant professors will be created in each department. However, the university is likely to utilise the service of its existing faculty during the initial stages. Pro-Vice Chancellor P.P. Ajayakumar expressed confidence that the launch of the new departments would enable students to pursue studies in cutting-edge areas without having to go to other States or abroad.  New departments to enable students to pursue studies in cutting-edge areas in State itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-senate-nod-for-nine-new-departments/article37497227.ece
15 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A sea change at the helm of technical education||With the promotions of several government engineering college Principals and joint directors revoked following a court directive, the top echelons of technical education in the State will wear a new look. The extraordinary move comes on the basis of a Kerala High Court directive that requires the government to comply with the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) norms for promotion to the posts of Principals in government engineering colleges. The government order (GO) was issued on November 11. As many as 18 faculty members, including A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University Vice Chancellor Rajasree M.S.; Director of Technical Education Byjubai T.P.; and Kerala Public Service Commission member M.R. Baiju; are among those whose temporary promotions as Principals have been reversed. The Principals of the College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram (CET), and the government colleges in Kottayam, Idukki, Palakkad, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur have also been demoted after the court found the government to have promoted teachers on the basis of seniority, and not on eligibility norms. Not to recover incentives In the GO, the Higher Education Department has promoted 43 teachers to the cadre of Principals in government engineering colleges and joint director of technical education with retrospective effect from the date they turned eligible for the particular post as per the Pay Scales, Service Conditions and Qualifications for the Teachers and Other Academic Staff in Technical Institutions Degree Regulations, 2010. While many of those promoted have retired from service, they are in line for remunerative benefits with retrospective effect. Notably, the government does not intend to recover the incentives given to Principals whose promotions have been revoked. Within time-frame According to Additional Chief Secretary (Higher Education) Venu V., who led the selection panel, the allotment of Principals will be undertaken within the time-frame so that none of the colleges are adversely impacted. The reversal of Dr. Rajasree’s promotion would not have any bearing on her appointment as KTU Vice Chancellor since the selection process was independent of career advancement. A section of the teaching community felt that anomalies still existed in the new promotion list. Many who got PhD degrees less than five years ago have been promoted in violation of the AICTE norms, they claimed.  GO issued on Nov. 11 on the basis of an HC order Temporary promotions of 18 faculty members reversed 43 teachers promoted to Principal cadre with retrospective effect||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-sea-change-at-the-helm-of-technical-education/article37497204.ece
15 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Elder Line for helping senior citizens keeps ringing||On the second day after the formal launch of Elder Line, a toll-free helpline (14567) for the elderly, in the State, its ‘Connect Centre’ at Poojappura here registered more than 1,000 calls in a 12-hour period. Within 10 days from the helpline launch on November 1, a total of 6,144 calls from across the State were logged. The pan-India Elder Line has been set up by the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, National Institute of Social Defence (NISD), and the State Governments with technical support from Tata Trust to provide information and guidance on problems faced by the elderly on a day-to-day basis. In Kerala, the helpline functions under the Social Justice Department. Higher than other States The number of calls received at the Connect Centre here is much more than that received by other States, says the Elder Line team here. This is despite the lack of major publicity drives. Even during the dry run in the month of October, 2,640 calls were received. Of those, the team answered 1,556. Now, an average of 500 calls are received a day. The number is more than what the seven call officers can attend to. Of the total calls in the first 10 days of the month, only 2,060 could be answered. “We can attend around 400 calls a day.” Once the peak call period is over, the team will try and get in touch with people whose calls went unattended. Three more call officers are expected to begin work soon. Queries on pension While the maximum number of calls last month pertained to pension-related queries, at present complaints on abuse form a good chunk. Many calls require some field-level intervention, which is the responsibility of the seven field response officers. Among the calls received till November 10, 1,266 were actionable, while 701 did not fall within the protocol prepared by the NISD. “We are more of a facilitation centre, providing information and guidance, emotional support, and when needed rescuing the elderly. But we cannot solve cases pending in courts or police stations. We can update the elderly about the status of such cases, the next hearing date, why a case is pending, or get in touch with a lawyer. There are limitations too on our intervention in family matters,” says a team member. Database The Elder Line team has prepared a database of stakeholders across departments and agencies such as police, health, local self-government, Kudumbashree, District Legal Services Authority, ASHA workers, civil defence volunteers and so on right down to the ward level in order to provide help to the elderly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elder-line-keeps-ringing/article37497165.ece
15 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Huddle Global to focus on post-COVID opportunities||The Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) will hold the third edition of the annual ‘Huddle Global’ conference in virtual mode on December 8 and 9, focusing on business, investment and partnership opportunities for start-ups in the post-pandemic world. The event will set the stage for a meeting of globally known start-up founders, mentors, investors, industry leaders and representatives of Government departments, to deliberate a whole range of issues relating to the start-up ecosystem. Financial aid The conference will primarily look into the scope of entrepreneurial opportunities across the world and explore the availability of financial and technical aid for start-ups to accelerate their growth and reach. It will provide a platform for start-ups to take advantage of the rapid digitalisation process of Governments and companies from across the world by showcasing their innovative technology in the ‘Demand Day’ programme planned as part of the event. “This edition of Huddle Global has been planned on a grander scale than the previous ones to look into the whole gamut of issues and opportunities concerning the ecosystem from a truly global perspective,” said John M. Thomas, Chief Executive Officer, KSUM. Sessions ‘Huddle Global’ will have sessions led by Unicorn start-up entrepreneurs besides a start-up expo and hackathon. Interested start-ups can register at https://bit.ly/ HuddleStartupExpo. Last date of applications is November 19. For more details and registration for public participation, visit: https://huddleglobal.co.in/.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/huddle-global-to-focus-on-post-covid-opportunities/article37497163.ece
15 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pinarayi sounds a note of caution||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has asked the public to exercise extreme caution given the heavy rain forecast for Kerala in the next 72 hours. People living in flood and mudslip-prone localities should shift to safer ground or relief camps. Since November 10, seven mudslips have been reported in Kerala. However, no casualties were reported. Mr. Vijayan chaired a meeting of District Collectors, chiefs of emergency services, police top brass, and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) commanders to review Kerala’s disaster and climate risk mitigation preparedness. He said District Collectors could declare holidays for educational institutions based on the flood situation in their jurisdictions. Relief camps Mr. Vijayan asked Collectors to ensure hot food, clean drinking water, medical attention, sufficient clean toilets, comfortable bedding and hygiene at relief camps. Mr Vijayan said the government had opened the shutters of the Idukki dam to ensure the reservoir level remained within the safety threshold. Tamil Nadu authorities might open shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam. Officials were monitoring the water level in other dams in Kerala. The Chief Minister warned people living downstream of dams not to venture into waterbodies. The IMD has sounded a lightning alert for hilly areas. NDRF teams Five NDRF teams were already in Kerala. Four more teams would arrive on Monday. Defence Security Corps would be deployed in Kannur and Wayanad. The government has warned fishers against putting out their boats to sea. It has advised against unessential travel and urged the public to avoid hilly tracts and forested routes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pinarayi-sounds-a-note-of-caution/article37497202.ece
15 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Mikavu’ to supply skilled labour||With an aim to impart various skills to workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), the State mission has launched the ‘Mikavu’ project on a pilot basis in 56 grama panchayats. According to officials at the State mission, it is an effort towards addressing the lack of skilled labour to take up the scheme’s asset creation. The training programme is being jointly implemented by the Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA), MGNREGS State mission and respective local bodies. One aim of the project will be to provide training in various jobs that are part of construction activities. The workers in each area are divided into groups of 10 and training is imparted under an expert in a specific trade for each group. The initial training will be in the making of soak pits, azolla tanks and cattle sheds, following which they will be trained in road construction, building of compound walls for government schools and construction of anganwadi buildings. The State mission plans to train at least 100 workers in each panchayat to turn them into skilled labourers. Labour banks will be formed at the local level. They will be a part of various asset creation activities taken up under the MGNREGS and get higher wages of Rs. 700 to Rs. 1,200 as skilled labourers. They will also be deployed for various Plan projects of local bodies. Module in place KILA has set aside Rs. 10 crore for the training programme. A State-level expert team has prepared a module for training purposes. The training programme will be expanded based on the success of the pilot launch. The MGNREGS State mission has been making a conscious thrust for the past three years on creation of durable assets. It has reflected in the increase in the State’s material expenditure out of the total annual spendings from 8.51% in 2018-19 to 14.26% in 2019-20 and 34.46% 2020. The material expenditure, a gauge for asset creation, is capped at 40% of the labour budget.  Training will be provided in construction-related jobs, initially in 56 grama panchayats||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mikavu-to-supply-skilled-labour/article37497205.ece
15 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KIIFB terms CAG findings one-sided||Amid the row over adverse remarks made by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) has defended itself saying that it is not an off-budget borrowing mechanism, but a financial institution which works on an annuity model with a robust revenue source. The KIIFB has termed the findings in the State Finances Audit Report of the CAG tabled in the Assembly last week one-sided. The CAG report interprets KIIFB’s annuity-model system as a borrowing mechanism outside the Budget when even the Central Government has resorted to similar transactions, a clarification by KIIFB on its Facebook page and website said. In its State Finances Audit Report for the year ended March 2020 tabled in the Assembly last week, the CAG observed that ‘off-Budget’ borrowings made through entities such as KIIFB could increase the liabilities of the State, leading it into a debt trap. However, KIIFB strongly refuted the charge. KIIFB is not engaged in an unchecked borrowing spree. Nor has the State Government envisaged it as a short-cut for raising funds for projects outside the Budget. Rather, KIIFB is a body corporate designed to mobilise funds for infrastructure development. The State Government has entrusted it with infra projects worth Rs. 70,000 crore. The Government, through law, guarantees KIIFB 50% of the motor vehicles tax and the entire petrol cess collection as growing annuity payment. Revenue-generating The KIIFB director board approves projects by ensuring that the liabilities of KIIFB never exceeds the revenue. In the case of KIIFB, at least 25% of the projects are revenue-generating. Repayments with interest are assured to KIIFB on loans issued to the Kerala State Electricity Board, K-Fone and industrial projects. This amount, combined with the tax share assured by the State Government, ensures that KIIFB never plunges into a debt-trap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kiifb-terms-cag-findings-one-sided/article37497206.ece
15 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A platform to ensure help, protection to the elderly||An elderly resident from Nemom who was a regular caller during the Elder Line dry run wanted the helpline team to intervene to get back property sold to one son and evict the other son from the family house. She claimed that she does not have faith in the police. The Elder Line team held a meeting in the presence of the police and the woman was persuaded to approach the court. The team also put her in touch with the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), and were able close the case. Another case In another case, a woman looking to appeal to higher courts to seek justice for her son who, she said, died 15 years ago in an ashram under mysterious circumstances was also put in touch with the DLSA. Besides queries related to pension, the Elder Line also gets COVID-19 vaccine-related queries. Calls could be about mental or physical abuse by children or their spouses or pertain to property disputes or disputes with neighbours. The team extends help to callers who are not aware of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007. It also provides emotional support to elders. Rising population The rising population of the elderly in the State has been putting increasing demands on health-care and social-security mechanisms, besides having economic implications. Economic review As per the Economic Review 2020, Kerala has the highest proportion of elderly among Indian States (12.6% of the population as per Census 2011) against 8.6% nationally. Population data The Economic Review says that as per population data, proportion of the elderly has increased to 12.9% in Kerala against the all India average of 8.1% by 2018 (SRS Statistical Report 2018). With the Government working towards creating an age-friendly State, the Elderly Helpline is intended as a platform that will get the elderly protection and relief for improving their quality of life.  Besides queries related to pension, the Elder Line also gets several COVID-19 vaccine-related queries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-platform-to-ensure-help-protection-to-the-elderly/article37497167.ece
15 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Holiday for schools in two taluks today||Monday will be a holiday for schools in Nedumangad and Kattakada taluks on account of the heavy rainfall. The District Collector issued orders on Sunday declaring the holiday. There will be no change in public examinations scheduled for the day, the district administration added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/holiday-for-schools-in-two-taluks-today/article37497353.ece
15 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Don’t relax norms for doing business: expert||Standards, guidelines and ethics should not be compromised on the pretext of facilitating ease of doing business, Sanjay Dave, international expert to Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) and World Health Organisation and former chairman of Codex Alimentarius Commission, has said. Indian importers of food materials battle for relaxing food standards and specifications, when other countries insist on stringent standards for food items from India, he said in a keynote address at a national webinar on ‘Quality Standards in Agriculture’ organised by the city-based Centre for Innovation in Science and Social Action (CISSA) here on Sunday. Mr. Dave said Indian food laws should become part of the academic curriculum of Indian universities. “Unfortunately, in India this does not happen. It is astonishing for us that Michigan State University in the U.S. has an academic programme on Indian food laws.” For safe food To ensure that food supply to consumers is safe and healthy, there is need for proper standards, harmonisation of standards and capacity building of various stakeholders in food sector, he opined. Other speakers at the webinar pointed out that with the recent structural reforms in agriculture, India is now in a position to address the needs of food security and also become a reliant supplier of farm produce in the international market. They observed that though India has succeeded in achieving high production and productivity in the farm sector, the country is yet to attain a comfortable position in meeting global quality standards. Devendra Prasad, Deputy General Manager, Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), and Suresh Kumar S., Director, Agricultural Marketing division of Union Ministry of Agriculture, spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dont-relax-norms-for-ease-of-doing-business/article37497166.ece
15 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State reports 5,848 new cases, 7,228 recoveries||Kerala registered 5,848 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday when 63,463 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden now stands at 50,61,072 cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 35,750 with the State adding 65 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Saturday. These include 46 recent deaths and 19 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new norms of the Centre and following appeals by families. The State’s active case pool declined further to 67,185 patients on Sunday, with 7,228 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. According to the Health Department, only 6.8% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals. Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 919 cases,Kozhikode 715, Thiruvananthapuram 650, Thrissur 637, Kollam 454, Kottayam 383, Kannur 376, Wayanad 335, Palakkad 287,Idukki 269, Malappuram 251, Pathanamthitta 244, Alappuzha 218, and Kasaragod 110 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-reports-5848-new-cases-7228-recoveries/article37497208.ece
15 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Telemedicine platform for diabetes management||In line with the theme of this year’s World Diabetes Day, which is about equitable access to care and mediation, a group of doctors belonging to the 2006 batch of Kottayam Medical College on Sunday launched a telemedicine platform tailor-made for diabetes management. The online platform, mysugarclinic.com, enables patients to access diabetes consultations with doctors, upload and maintain electronic medical records, seek diet counselling and book follow-up appointments right from the comfort of their homes. Personalised care “The idea is to deliver evidence-based, personalised, comprehensive diabetes care to people, with an accent on dietary changes and lifestyle management. Early detection of the disease should be followed up with tight control of blood-sugar levels and this is where most patients falter. Many reasons There are many reasons which prevent a patient from being on regular follow-up with the doctor. This online platform will make doctor appointments and follow-up consults easier as they do not have to step out of their homes,” says P. Shamnad, one of the group members. A panel of doctors, nutritionists and diet counsellors will be available to provide consultations as well as advice on managing blood-sugar levels. The group of doctors are committed to reducing the direct and indirect cost of diabetes care, they say. “This is done by helping patients achieve better control over their sugar levels from the initial years of the disease so that they do not go into complications requiring more expensive drug modalities. High cost of care will further alienate patients from follow-up. Also, we intend to promote only generic drugs on our platform,” Dr. Shamnad says. Calorie log On mysugarclinic, people can choose a doctor, book an appointment at their convenience and after the consult, prescriptions will be made available online. A calorie counter is provided, with calorie values of several commonly eaten local foods, which will help patients maintain a calorie log and develop awareness of how much they are consuming and how to adjust their diet to maintain their blood sugar levels at a satisfactory level. Patients are encouraged to monitor their blood-sugar levels, which can be logged in their electronic medical records. Consultation fee A consultation fee will be charged while all other facilities on the platform as well as dietary advice can be accessed free of cost. Some 15 doctors are already on board to provide consultations. Anyone with a smartphone can access the online link or install the app and seek care, it is pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/telemedicine-forum-to-check-diabetes/article37497229.ece
15 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bid to destroy coop. sector for corporates: Pinarayi||The Union Government’s attempts to tinker with the federal structure, including the creation of a Ministry of Cooperation, are aimed at destroying the cooperative sector for the benefit of the corporates, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Inaugurating the observation of the National Cooperative Week through an online conference on Sunday, he said that such unilateral moves which did not respect the diversity of the country would prove to be destructive. “Be it the amendment of farm laws, the formulation of labour codes or the formation of a Cooperation Ministry, such moves are clearly an infringement on the powers of the States. These are subjects that are part of the State list, which the framers of our Constitution did with a specific purpose. The cooperative sector has also been facing such attacks for the past few years. Illogical controls are being implemented to strangle this sector and its institutions,” he said. Alternative path He said that the backbone of the State’s agricultural and industrial economy would be destroyed if the cooperative sector was affected. The cooperative sector provided the hope of an alternative path. Its survival and thriving were not to the liking of the proponents of liberalisation and globalisation policies. The laws being framed by the Union Government were proof of this. “We cannot forget the false propaganda unleashed against the cooperative sector following demonetisation. Some people accused this sector, which belongs to the common people, of being a collection centre of black money. There are some indulging in activities which would destroy such trust, while there are others who want to blow up these issues and paint the whole sector in black. We have to remain vigilant against all such tendencies,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bid-to-destroy-cooperative-sector-for-corporates-cm/article37497153.ece
15 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Milma offers digital payment||As part of improving its customer service, Milma’s Thiruvananthapuram Regional Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union will be introducing digital payment facility at its directly run stalls here from November 15. The digital payment facility using QR Code will be available at the Milma stalls at Pattom, Nanthancode, Kowdiar, Sasthamangalam, Museum, Statue, Thycaud, Poojappura, South Fort, Ambalathara, Veli, KSRTC Central Bus Station, East Fort and at the Marketing Hub Stall at Kandala, a pressnote quoting D.S. Konda, MD, TRCMPU said. Customers can make the payment by scanning the QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/milma-offers-digital-payment/article37497364.ece
15 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||650 COVID-19 cases in district||Thiruvananthapuram’s COVID-19 active case graph fell considerably to 9,270 with 992 people reported to have recovered from the illness on Sunday. As many as 650 fresh cases were recorded. The test positivity rate stood at 9.1%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/650-covid-19-cases-in-district/article37497361.ece
15 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Universities put off exams||The University of Kerala, Mahatma Gandhi University, the Kerala University of Health Sciences, and the A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University have postponed all examinations slated to be held on Monday. The revised schedule will be announced later, according to press releases issued by the universities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/universities-put-off-exams/article37497201.ece
15 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAURAM,KERALA||Uniform branding for wayside eateries||The city Corporation is set to implement a uniform branding system for thattukada units (wayside eateries) and dedicated vending zones in the capital. The officials of the National Urban Livelihoods Mission (NULM)’s wing that manages matters related to street vendors at the civic body have prepared a proposal for this purpose. Uniformly designed and colour-coded vending carts with the Corporation’s logo and specific locations in the city where vendors of different kinds of food items will be clustered together are part of the proposal. “The vending committee has already cleared the proposal, which will be forwarded to the State Government. The Corporation plans to start the implementation from January next year. Since the dedicated vending zones are proposed to be set up along roads owned by the Public Works Department, the National Highway Authority of India and the Roads and Bridges Corporation, we have to get clearances from them too. The vending zones will be designed in such a way as to not cause any obstruction on the footpath or to the traffic,” said an NULM official. Nightlife facilities In the first phase, the Corporation plans to brand around 500 of the wayside eateries in the city. The pilot project will be implemented in two or three locations, where vending zones will be set up. The civic body will also try to kick-start its earlier plan to improve facilities for nightlife in the city. Some of these vending zones, which will function till the early hours, could become starting points for that plan. The Corporation’s plan is to begin the vending zones project from the beaches and tourist spots in the city. The officials have identified Kovalam, Shanghumughom, Vizhinjam, Museum, and other locations as the possible spots to launch the projects. Survey Close to 2,500 street vendors were officially identified in a ground-level survey conducted by the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation in July, as per the instructions of the State Government. Out of the street vendors identified in the survey, more than 600 are existing vendors, while 1,800 are new vendors. The civic body also recently began digital onboarding of street vendors to equip them to accept digital payments using UPI QR codes. As many as 650 of the city’s street vendors have been provided training as part of this.  Corporation plans to brand 500-odd ‘thattukadas’ initially Vending zones likely on beaches, tourist spots||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/uniform-branding-for-wayside-eateries/article37497358.ece
15 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Red alert in Thrissur district||An emergency meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority convened here on Sunday asked the people to keep vigil as a red alert was declared in Thrissur district. Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan reviewed the preparations in the district to face any emergency situation. Dam shutters opened Shutters of Peechi and Peringalkuthu dams have been opened. Low-lying areas are under water. Many houses were damaged in the torrential rain. Three relief camps are functioning in Thrissur district, two in Chalakudy and one in Kodungallur. In all 64 people are at the camps. A three-year-old boy drowned in a water canal at Velukkara on Sunday. The deceased was Aaron Heaven, son of Bensil , residing near Anakkal Canal, Velukkara. The boy accidentally fell into the canal on Sunday morning. Though his mother also jumped to the water, she could not save him as there was strong current in the canal following the torrential rain that has been lashing the district since Saturday. Later his body was found near Thanikunnath bridge in a joint search operation conducted by the police, civil defence force and Fire and Rescue Services. As water level increased in all rivers, people residing on the banks of the rivers were asked to be careful. There is a ban on bathing and washing in the water bodies. Visitors are not allowed to beaches and river banks. The Minister asked officials to take all precautionary measures to face any emergency situation. There is a travel ban on high range roads from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. Visitors will not be allowed to tourist centres in the district for the next two days. Granite and sand mining have also been banned temporarily. The District Collector asked officials to rehabilitate people from landslide and flood -prone areas either to their relatives’ houses or to relief camps. In the wake of high tidal waves, fisheries deputy director and coastal police have been asked to ensure that no boats, including country boats venture into the sea. Warning boards As death due to drowning has increased in the district in the recent past, the meeting asked local bodies to set up warning boards near the water bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-year-old-boy-drowns-in-canal/article37497151.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rain continues to drench State||Water level in all the major rivers in Pathanamthitta recorded a steady rise throughout the day. High-range communities are on alert although no major incidents have been reported. The Pathanamthitta District Disaster Management Authority opened control rooms in all taluk headquarters. In Kottayam district, traffic on the Erumely-Sabarimala route was hit by major disruptions due to a heavy gush of run-off water. Six central and northern districts are on orange alert for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall (11-20 cm in 24 hours) on Monday. The districts are Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod. The remaining districts are on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall. Several central and northern districts are on yellow alert on Tuesday also. A cyclonic circulation lies over southeast Arabian Sea extending up to 3.1 km above mean sea level, the IMD said. A trough runs from southeast Arabian sea to southwest Bay of Bengal across north Kerala. Meanwhile, the low pressure area over the Andaman Sea is likely to become well marked by Monday and concentrate into a depression over west-central Bay of Bengal by Wednesday. A fresh low pressure area is likely to form over eastcentral Arabian Sea off the south Maharashtra-Goa coasts around Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-continues-to-drench-state/article37497203.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Children’s day out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/childrens-day-out/article37497148.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Spoilt for choice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spoilt-for-choice/article37497162.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fitness first||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fitness-first/article37497169.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Up in arms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/up-in-arms/article37497177.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For reinstating leader||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-reinstating-leader/article37497357.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Remembering Chacha Nehru||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/remembering-chacha-nehru/article37497371.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Legal awareness campaign||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/legal-awareness-campaign/article37497316.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Holiday time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/holiday-time/article37497318.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||‘Sole’ful gift||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/soleful-gift/article37496754.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Demand for child||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/demand-for-child/article37497366.ece
15 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apartment owners disapprove changes in assessing property tax||The Andhra Pradesh United Citizens’ Forum on Sunday conducted a meeting for the functionaries of Apartment Welfare Associations to discuss the mounting burden due to changes in the system of assessing property tax, user charges on garbage, water, sewage and lighting. The notification by Central Ground Water Authority to impose a user charge on the water taken from the borewells in residential apartments adds tax burden, opined forum general secretary A.G. Rajmohan. They apprehended that the tax may be imposed on individual houses as well in the next phase if they use their borewells. The participants decided to express their disapproval to the State Principal Secretary, Municipal Administration, over the change in the system of assessing property tax. The forum also decided to send a note of resentment to the Union Minister of Water Resources. It was also decided to sensitise individual associations to take up these issues through protest programmes. The meeting was chaired by forum office-bearer A. Rasool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apartment-owners-disapprove-changes-in-assessing-property-tax/article37496812.ece
15 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||IMA new body for Anantapur||Members of Indian Medical Association(IMA), Anantapur, elected G. Hemalatha as its president. Office-bearers are: L. Abhishek Reddy(secretary), C. Sankar Narayana(treasurer), P.V. Sreenivasa Kumar, V. V. Rama Bai, D. Surya Prakash(vice presidents), Y.M.S. Prasad, Moulali Basha Syed, Pratyusha C.V. (joint secretaries), K. Kondaiah, J. Sreenath, J. Bhanu Kiran, Y. Prabhakar and P. Prasuna(advisory committee).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ima-new-body-for-anantapur/article37496811.ece
15 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka CM hits back at Congress over Bitcoin scam||Under fire from the Congress over the alleged Bitcoin scam, the Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday hit back at the Congress by stating that he need not take lessons from those who had let off the accused in the Bitcoin scam charged with hacking earlier. “We have already responded to all their [Congress] charges. If the Congress is stating that the Bitcoin scam was since 2016, then why was it not investigated by the Congress Government that was in power then,” the Chief Minister asked when his response was sought over AICC General Secretary Randeep Surjewala’s accusations. “The accused [Srikrishna] had been arrested in 2018, but was let off. Even after he obtained anticipatory bail, he could have been questioned. But why was he not questioned,” asked Mr. Bommai. Claiming that it was the BJP Government that investigated the scam, he said, “We opened the investigation, we caught him in a drug case in 2020, we unearthed the scam and we are investigating. When you [Congress] were in power, you allowed it to grow bigger and when we are investigating, you are questioning us.” He said, “It was the BJP Government that referred the matter to ED and CBI. Today, the ED is investigating.” Accusing the Congress of attempting to mislead, he said, “Just to cover up, you are talking about two influential persons without naming them. Name them and we will investigate. We will not spare anyone.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-cm-hits-back-at-congress-over-bitcoin-scam/article37496752.ece
15 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka objects to violation of tribunal awards||Reiterating the demand for Karnataka’s rightful share in Cauvery, Krishna, and Pennar basins in the Godavari-Cauvery link project, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday urged the Centre to not give statutory clearances to large-scale permanent projects planned for utilising surplus waters in violation of water tribunal awards. “Though the shares of co-basin states have not been decided in the Godavari-Cauvery link, Tamil Nadu has been going ahead with the Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar link which is inadmissible in law. The Karnataka Government has urged the Centre not to approve the proposal of Tamil Nadu for taking up Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar link as an advance action in anticipation of the realisation of the Godavari-Krishna-Pennar-Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar link project,” Mr. Bommai said in his address at the 29th southern zonal council meet in Tirupati on Sunday. The Chief Minister sought the rightful share for Karnataka as was done in the case of Godavari diversion to Krishna river under Polavaram project. Mr. Bommai also stated that neither Telangana nor the Apex Council has a right to take up Lift Irrigation Projects at Palamuru Rangareddy and Nakkalagandi to draw large quantity of remaining surplus water from the foreshore of Srisailam reservoir on the Krishna river. With respect to construction of Rajiv Gandhi Sangama Banda barrage by Telangana, he said that Karnataka opposed the project as it will utilise the remaining water in the guise of savings which will come for review in 2050. “If remaining water is allowed to be utilised by the downstream states by way of permanent projects, Karnataka will be affected during its claims for an equitable share in 2050. Moreover, Telangana cannot invoke the liberty clause to utilise the remaining water as it is no the lowest riparian state of Krishna basin." He, however, said that subject to the above reservation, Karnataka is ready to be associated in conducting joint surveys. The construction of the Gundravulu project across Tungabhadra by Andhra Pradesh needs joint survey to determine the extent of submergence of villages and lands in Karnataka. Before the project, Mr. Bommai urged Andhra Pradesh to furnish details of allocation of water submitted to the tribunal and approvals from the Centre. “Moreover, no projects in Telangana or Andhra Pradesh against Krishna river is permissible if it is not a part of allocation. The projects in these states in the name of savings or temporary use of surplus are only intended to permanently commit the surplus water to the prejudice of North Karnataka,” Mr. Bommai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-objects-to-violation-of-water-tribunal-awards/article37496610.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Commission will probe AIADMK regime’s irregularities: Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Sunday that a commission would be constituted to probe the irregularities said to have been committed by the previous AIADMK government. Making this statement in response to a question on the Opposition’s criticism of his government’s handling of the floods, he told reporters that he was “not concerned” about the Opposition’s take on the functioning of his government. “For all their atrocities and wrongful acts [when they were in power], a commission will be constituted, as soon as the rain is over, to find out where mistakes were committed. The guilty will be brought to book.” ‘Working for people’ “My job is to work for people. This is why they gave us [his party and its allies] a huge victory [in the Assembly election]. Our policy is to serve not only those who voted for us but also those who did not vote for us,” he added. On the damage in the Cauvery delta districts, Mr. Stalin said a group of Ministers, headed by Cooperation Minister I. Periyasamy, had been formed to assess the situation. Its report was expected in a day or two. “Once the assessment has been completed, we will send a report to the Prime Minister [Narendra Modi]. If required, Ministers and Members of Parliament will meet the Prime Minister to make the request for aid.” To another question, he said he would visit Kanniyakumari on Monday to assess the damage. For the eighth day in succession, the Chief Minister visited the affected areas, covering parts of the Villivakkam, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Kolathur and Egmore Assembly constituencies, according to an official release. He launched a special medical camp for COVID-19 vaccination and providing monsoon diseases preventive measures at Lakma Nagar in Villivakkam. Mr. Stalin distributed relief materials to residents at many places, including Mylappa Street in Kolathur, Sankara Bakthan Street in Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, East Tank Bund Street in Villivakkam and Dobikana in Egmore, besides the children at an orphanage at Vetriselvi Anbazhagan Nagar. Among those who accompanied him were Public Works Minister E.V. Velu, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekar Babu, Central Chennai MP Dayanidhi Maran, Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation Gagandeep Singh Bedi and coordinating officer for north Chennai and Principal Secretary for Higher Education D. Karthikeyan, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panel-will-probe-aiadmk-regimes-irregularities-stalin/article37496848.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Reconsider transfer of CJ’||Thirty-one designated senior counsel have sent a joint representation to the Supreme Court collegium, urging it to reconsider its recommendation to the Centre and the President to transfer Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee to the High Court of Meghalaya. The representation stated that the Chief Justice had assumed office in the Madras High Court only on January 4, and had completed only 10 months here, though he had two more years of service, with his date of retirement being November 1, 2023. “During his term, he has discharged his functions, both in the administrative and judicial side, to the best of his capabilities, bringing honour to the office he held. He has been a good administrator, and in the judicial side, has disposed a few thousand cases, even during the devastating COVID-19 pandemic,” the senior counsel said. Their representation went on to read: “The orders were predominantly dictated in the open court and delivered. When this is a fact that most advocates and litigants will readily agree to, we are unable to fathom the reasons for his sudden transfer to another court.” The senior counsel also said that constant transfers of judges had left the Madras High Court in a state of constant flux. Such short-lived tenures at the apex of the court’s hierarchy in a State bodes ill for the health of the institution and the justice delivery system, they said. Stating that it takes a new Chief Justice at least a year to understand the administration, composition and challenges of an institution, apart from understanding the culture, language and local practices of a State, the senior counsel said any Chief Justice of the Madras High Court should at least have a two-year term. However, in the last three years, the Madras High Court has had three Chief Justices apart from Acting Chief Justices who were at the helm of affairs for brief periods, the senior counsel said, requesting the collegium not to view the representation as a missive aimed at supporting the cause of any individual, but a plea to strengthen the health of the institution. The signatories to the representation included senior counsel P.S. Raman, V. Prakash, Nalini Chidambaram, E. Omprakash, Ravi Kumar Paul, N.R. Elango, P.H. Arvindh Pandian, Satish Parasaran, Veera Kathiravan, A. Thiyagarajan, M.K. Kabir and A.R.L. Sundaresan. Those who signed electronically, by consent, included senior counsel Arvind P. Datar, Hema Sampath, S. Subbiah, M. Ravindran, Vijay Narayan, M. Ajmal Khan, S. Ramasamy, A. Sirajudeen, J. Raja Kalifulla, N. Krishnaveni, P.R. Raman, Pushya Sitaraman, T.P. Manoharan, N.C. Ramesh, Chitra Sampath, Isaac Mohanlal, R. Venkataraman and R. Murari. The Madras Bar Association also passed a resolution, at an emergency general body meeting on Sunday, for the transfer to be reconsidered.  During his term, he [Chief Justice] has discharged his functions, both in the administrative and judicial side, to the best of his capabilities... Senior counsel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reconsider-transfer-of-cj-senior-counsel-urge-sc-collegium/article37496846.ece
15 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension in Kuppam as YSRCP, TDP activists clash||Tension prevailed at Munaswamy Puram in Kuppam on Sunday after the YSRCP and TDP activists clashed. The activists of both parties suffered minor injuries in the incident. The maiden election to the Kuppam Municipality is scheduled to be conducted on Monday. According to information reaching here, a group of YSRCP leaders went to the locality alleging that the TDP activists were distributing money to the voters. After a heated argument, the activists came to blows. The police reached the spot and tried to control the activists. They took former ZPTC member into custody and shifted him to the area police station. In another incident, the police had a tough time bringing the situation under control at Chaldiganipalle village of Ramakuppam mandal when senior TDP leader N. Amarnatha Reddy tried to stop vehicular movement towards Kuppam contending that the YSRCP activists had deployed outsiders to rig the election. Of the 24 wards in the municipality, one ward witnessed unanimous election of the YSRCP candidate. The election assumes significance as Kuppam is the home turf of TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu. The police made elaborate arrangements for the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tension-in-kuppam-as-ysrcp-tdp-activists-clash/article37496798.ece
15 November 2021||Coimbatore,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sexual assault case: private school principal arrested||The Coimbatore city police on Sunday arrested the principal of a private school after a 17-year-old girl ended her life on Thursday alleging sexual assault by one of her teachers. Principal Meera Jackson, alias Mini Jackson, was arrested for failure to report the assault on the Class XII student to the police, said T. Jayachandran, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order). Police sources said she was arrested under Section 21 (2) (punishment for failure to report or record a case) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The teacher, Mithun Chakravarthy, 31, was held on Friday under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 9 (l) (whoever commits sexual assault on the child more than once or repeatedly), read with 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault), of the POCSO Act. Mr. Jayachandran, who questioned Meera Jackson, along with DCP (Crime) E.S. Uma, for several hours since the morning, said the investigation would cover whether the girl was sexually assaulted by anyone else and whether there were other reasons for her death by suicide. He added that the police were also investigating a note which is said to have been left by the girl. The note, thought to have been written by the girl, read that a teacher (who was arrested), the father of a girl and the grandfather of another girl should not be spared. School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi and Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji visited the parents of the girl in the morning. Mr. Poyyamozhi said the police acted swiftly and secured the principal late on Saturday night. The family accepted the body of the girl from the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital after the Ministers informed them that the principal was in police custody. The body was cremated in the afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/private-school-principal-arrested/article37496875.ece
15 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social media being used for resolving public grievances||The Guntur district administration has begun tapping the enormous reach of social media for resolving grievances of people, in a novel initiative to promote citizen-centric governance. The initiative, a brainchild of District Collector Vivek Yadav, involves a team of four young professionals. The team browses various social media platforms daily for any tagged or untagged queries or grievances in which the district administration could play a constructive role. The team leverages the free and easy to use Google Forms, which is given out to the public. The cell is in contact with the relevant line department/subordinate offices through calls and letters until the problem is resolved. “Our aim is to create an enduring method to ensure that grievances are effectively followed up. We have devised the programme after talking to various stakeholders. The current system bears some resemblance to an idea I got while reading an article from the Harvard Business Review,” says Mr. Vivek Yadav. The cell has received 177 complaints until November 8 and over 80 of them have been resolved. The other grievances have been communicated to the district offices/ line departments concerned for expedited action. Appreciation was received from all quarters with many complainants expressing satisfaction as seen from the tweets at @Collector Guntur, the District Collector’s official Twitter account. Going forward, the cell aims at institutionalising feedback mechanisms from complainants and other stakeholders to widen its ambit and introduce innovations for faster service delivery. “The unique feature of the initiative is that it was conceptualised and started quickly without the requirement of any major financial investment or infrastructure, showing the efficiency of the administration. It also provides direct feedback regarding governance to the district administration and sends a signal of intent to every government functionary in the district. The cell also provides department-wise and week-wise analysis to allow evidence-based decision making,” says Mr. Vivek Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-media-being-used-for-resolving-public-grievances/article37496807.ece
15 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS makes a pitch for Palamuru-RR project||The Telangana government has put up a strong defence against objections raised by Karnataka over the construction of two irrigation projects, Palamuru-Rangareddy and Nakkalagandi LIS, claiming that the two projects are taken up in line with the allocation made to the State. Counter argument The government countered the neighbouring State’s argument saying that “Karnataka has no concern in this matter and cannot object to the project as the two projects are taken up within the entitled share of Krishna waters.” The issue of allocation of Krishna water between the two Telugu States was being dealt with by the Brijesh Kumar Tribunal (KWDT-II) and the Telangana government had assured that it would abide by the allocation made by the tribunal in respect of the two projects. The ongoing and the proposed projects in the State were discussed during the meeting of the Southern Zonal Council (SZC) chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Tirupati on Sunday. The meeting discussed the detailed project reports of Palamuru-Rangareddy LIS and Nakkalagandi LIS proposed to lift water from the foreshores of Srisailam reservoir. Project reports Based on the contention made by Telangana, the SZC resolved to ensure that the DPRs would be submitted to the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) by January 15, so that the Central Water Commission would appraise the reports. The meeting also discussed construction of the Sangambanda barrage that could lead to submergence of villages in Karnataka. The State government said that it had already addressed a communication to Karnataka asking the government to conduct a joint survey to resolve the issue of submergence. Dues to Discoms The State government has resolved that dues to AP Genco payable by Discoms was Rs. 3,442 crore. This assumes significance in the light of the fact that the government of the neighbouring State had been claiming that Telangana is due to pay Rs. 6,015 crore to AP. The Telangana government represented by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and Special Chief Secretary (Finance) K. Ramakrishna Rao contended that ignoring the requests made by Telangana, the AP government preferred legal recourse by approaching the National Company Law Tribunal under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 (IBC). The State in fact should get Rs. 4,457 crore from AP after setting off the power purchase dues. Regarding the division of properties of AP Bhavan in New Delhi, the AP government had proposed two options in terms of Section 48 (1) of the AP Reorganisation Act 2014 and the matter has been under discussion between the CMs of the two States. Since there were certain differences between the two governments over the permitted floor space index among the two pieces of property, the Telangana government had informed the meeting that it was working on a third proposal that would be submitted to the AP government for expeditious redressal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-makes-a-pitch-for-palamuru-rr-project/article37497132.ece
15 November 2021||IDUKKI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shutter of Cheruthoni dam opened||The number 3 shutter of the Cheruthoni dam of Idukki reservoir was opened by 40 cm to release 40 to 50 cusecs of water in the wake of increased inflow following rain on Sunday. The shutter was raised at 2 p.m. However, the water level continued to rise and it reached the red alert level at 6 p.m. The red alert level is 2,399.03 ft, with the upper rule level at 2,400.03 ft (the full reservoir level is 2,403 ft). The water level was 2,399.04 ft at 6 p.m. Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine said that that the early opening of the dam shutter before the water reached the upper rule level was to regulate the water level in view of the increased inflow. The shutter was opened when the water level reached 2398.90 ft. “If needed, 100 cusecs of water will be released,” he said, adding that it depended on the rainfall in the catchment area and the inflow into the reservoir. According to the Minister, one generator, which was under repair, will be functioning again from Sunday evening. It would help in increased power generation at the Moolamattom power house and regulate the water level in the reservoir. Meanwhile, the water level in the Mullaperiyar dam on the upstream is also rising despite Tamil Nadu increasing the tunnel discharge from 556 cusecs to 1,867 cusecs on Sunday morning. There was an average inflow of 3,262 cusecs. The water level at 4 p.m was 140.15 ft. The upper rule level till November 20 is 141 ft. The maximum water level is 142 ft. Tamil Nadu issued the first flood warning when the water level reached 140 ft at 9 a.m. Idukki Collector Sheeba George said that there is a possibility of opening the spillway shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam and the release of water to the Periyar. She said that those living close to the river bank should take precautionary measures. The official said 46.8 mm of rainfall was recorded in the catchment area of Idukki dam on Sunday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shutter-of-cheruthoni-dam-opened/article37496614.ece
15 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,500 kg ganja seized, three held||The police seized 1,500 kg ganja and arrested three persons from Uttar Pradesh while they were transporting it from Odisha’s Malkangiri district to U.P., during a check at Chintoor town in East Godavari district. The ganja, valued at nearly Rs. 1.5 crore, was being carried in a lorry hidden under old furniture. It was seized on Satruday by a police team led by Chintoor ASP G. Krishnakanth. SP M. Raveendranath Babu told media persons here on Sunday said that some people carried the ganja on their shoulders for some days through the Malkangiri forest and crossed the Sileru river on the Andhra Pradesh-Odisha border. “The U.P. gang received the ganja from them at Sumumaamidi in Chintoor agency and loaded it into the lorry,” he said. Cases were registered against the accused Gaurav Raana, Naushad and Arif. Further probe on Police are investigating the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1500-kg-ganja-seized-three-held/article37496814.ece
15 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stone to be laid for Ekalavya school||East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran will lay the foundation stone for an Ekalavya Model Residential School at Veta Maamidi village in Rampa agency on Monday. Rampachodavaram Integrated Tribal Development Agency Project Officer C.V. Praveen Adithya said that the residential school was among the 15 to be set up by the Central government across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stone-to-be-laid-for-ekalavya-school/article37497335.ece
15 November 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||March to Syro-Malabar church headquarters||Members of the archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly, who are demanding a continuation of the practice of the celebration of the Mass with the celebrant (priest) facing the congregation throughout the ceremonies, marched to the headquarters of the Syro-Malabar Church at St. Thomas Mount, Kakkanad, on Sunday. The protest was against a recent circular issued by the synod of bishops of the Syro-Malabar church that the celebration of the Mass should be uniform across the Syrian Catholic church with the celebrant facing the congress for one-half and facing away from the congregation for the rest of the ceremonies. Riju Kanjookkaran, speaking for Almaya Munnettam, a group of lay people, religious and priests calling for more transparency in church administration, said that the synod of bishops should not impose a uniform way of celebrating the Mass on the people. A statement issued by Almaya Munnettam said that the current practice of the celebrant facing the congregation throughout the Mass has been a practice in the archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly over the last 54 years. The organisation also said that around 1,000 people participated in the march to the headquarters of the Syro-Malabar church on Sunday. The priests have declared that they would not accept a decision to impose the new synodal decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/march-to-syro-malabar-church-headquarters/article37496615.ece
15 November 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Samiti draws attention to Sribagh Pact||The Rayalaseema Saaguneeti Sadhana Samithi will hold a ‘Satyagraha Deeksha’ at Nandyal in the district on Tuesday to express dissent over the lack of willingness of the political class and successive governments to implement the provisions of the Sribagh Agreement. On Sunday, the samithi members led by Bojja Dasaratharami Reddy released a pamphlet detailing the issues that remain unresolved from the time Sribagh Agreement was reached on November 16, 1937. The pamphlet questions whether political parties are working towards a special package for Rayalaseema development as mentioned in the AP Reorganisation Act. The samithi opined that during the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh in 2014, the political class had got another chance to implement the provisions of the agreement. The pamphlet also questions the A.P. government’s dedication in protecting the interests of the Rayalaseema Irrigation projects as described in the Reorganisation Act after the Krishna River Management Board notification. They would send a set of demands to the State government on November 16 when the ‘Satyagraha’ begins, the samiti members said. The pact The pact was made between the political leaders of Coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema regions during the separate Andhra movement in 1937 at Sribagh, the residence of Kashinathuni Nageshwara Rao, founder of Andhra Patrika . The committee discussed the conditions to be fulfilled if Rayalaseema was to cooperate with the Coastal Andhra in the demand for Andhra province. This agreement came to be known as the Sribagh Pact or Sribagh Agreement, Mr. Dasaratharami Reddy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/samiti-draws-attention-to-sribagh-pact/article37496816.ece
15 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Taking the vaccine doses a patriotic duty: Venkaiah||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu has expressed concern over 50% of the people in the country not taking the prescribed two doses of vaccine to ward off COVID-19. Taking part in the 20th anniversary celebrations of the Swarna Bharat Trust, a social service organisation he had floated, here on Sunday, Mr. Venkaiah Naidu said he was perplexed over the “unsatisfactory vaccination coverage” at a time when the Union Government provided it free of cost. “It is your patriotic duty. One should take the vaccine not only in his or her interest but also in the larger interest of the country. Positivity is desired in all fields, but not in the case of COVID-19,” Mr. Venkaiah Naidu said. “Nothing gives me more happiness than social service,” he said while recalling the various activities taken up by the trust in the last two decades to improve the lot of farmers, women and youth in the region. ‘Promote agriculture’ He underscored the need for reducing the rural-urban divide and giving due importance for agriculture as it was the basic culture of the countrymen. He said that Swami Vivekananda was an inspiration for floating the trust with like-minded persons. Women empowerment The country had to go a long way in empowering women, who constituted 50% of the population, the Vice-President said, adding they should be given their due, including right to inherit property on par with men. Batting for promotion of the mother tongue, he said one should feel proud for speaking in Telugu. Trust’s secretary Deepa Venkat anchored the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/taking-the-vaccine-doses-a-patriotic-duty-venkaiah/article37497305.ece
15 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Merit alone matters in conferring Padma awards’||“Merit is the only yardstick for conferring the Padma awards in recognition of the outstanding contribution made by people from different walks of life,” Union Home Minister Amit Shah asserted on Sunday. Making a mention of the process of selection of awardees in the past, Mr. Amit Shah said no awardee had been selected without a recommendation either from a Chief Minister or an MP or an MLA. ‘Transparent process’ “Now, the process has become democratic and transparent. Nominations are taken online as Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made it clear that only merit should matter,” he said while taking part in the 20th anniversary celebrations of the Swarna Bharat Trust Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu had floated along with like-minded persons to do social service. “Persons at the grassroots level, who have rendered superb service, are being given the awards now,” Mr. Amit Shah said. In this context, he made a special mention of Tulasi Gowda, a 72-year-old tribal woman environmentalist from Karnataka, who, with her vast knowledge of the native flora, had not only planted thousands of saplings but also nurtured them for long. “The case of a poor woman from a remote village in Karnataka is a good example. She does not even wear footwear. She has been awarded the Padma Shri this year,” he explained. Lauds NGO’s services Lauding the Swarna Bharat Trust for taking up social service activities in a big way without taking any grant from the government, Mr. Amit Shah said the trust’s activities should be replicated across the country as rural development was crucial for the development of the nation. Mr. Naidu, who hailed from a sleepy village in the coastal Nellore district, knew very well the problems of the rural population and had contributed his mite for their uplift, the Union Minister said. Later, taking to the Twitter, Mr. Amit Shah said, “Visited the Swarna Bharat Trust in Venkatachalam, Nellore, on its 20th foundation day.” “Guided by Mahatma Gandhi’s idea of ‘Back to Villages’, the Vice-President, through this trust, is selflessly serving the poor and deprived sections of rural India,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/merit-alone-matters-in-conferring-padma-awards/article37497307.ece
15 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Support pours in for Amaravati farmers as they resume march||After a day’s break, a group of 157 farmers from Amaravati resumed their long march at Yerrajerla on Sunday but showers delayed the commencement of the court-to-temple maha Padayatra to Tirumala by about an hour. Drawing inspiration from Mahatma Gandhi, who had taken out a country-wide padayatra during the freedom struggle, farmers and farm workers from the Amaravati region walked up to M. Nidamanuru village till evening on the 14th day of the 45-day march. Rousing reception They got a rousing reception on entering the Kondepi Assembly segment as local farmers broke coconuts and pumpkins and offered worship to the chariot of Lord Venkateswara praying for the success of the long march, taken up to press their demand for retaining Amaravati as the sole capital of Andhra Pradesh. Activists of the Telugu Desam Party, led by Kondepi MLA Dola Balaveeranjaneya Swamy and former MLAs M. Ashok Reddy, Kandula Narayana Reddy and Ugra Narasimha Reddy, were present in full strength. People of Kandaluru and Marlapadu laid a carpet of flowers to invite the farmers, who have walked 130 km so far braving blisters on their feet. While local farmers came in bullock carts to greet their Amaravati counterparts, Dappu artistes performed to invite them. Moved by the response to the march from local people, the group of farmers led by Amaravati Rajadhani Joint Action Committee Convenor Puvada Sudhakar vowed to continue their stir till the government took back its three capital policy. The march would turn out to be a ‘political waterloo’ for the ruling YSR Congress Party government, he said. Police, who had put curbs to regulate the crowd earlier, allowed people to gather as the farmers walked from one village to another. Women from the villages took the women farmers to their homes and offered them refreshments in the evening. Farmers from Kanduluru and Markapur donated Rs. 4 lakh each to the protesting farmers, Mr.Sudhakar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/support-pours-in-for-amaravati-farmers-as-they-resume-march/article37496818.ece
15 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-hit persons are more prone to diabetes, says expert||Prakasam district COVID Care Coordinator B.Thirumala Rao on Sunday underscored the need for easy availability of diabetes care for all, amid growing concerns over the effect that COVID-19 has on diabetic patients. Taking part in the World Diabetes Day celebrations organised by the DRRMH School Walkers Club here, he said those who had contracted coronavirus were more prone to diabetes after recovery from the viral disease. It was observed that a majority of persons who succumbed to the virus happened to be diabetic. He said a majority of people was suffering from the metabolic disorder, but many do not go for regular testing. With regular medication, physical exercises, balanced diet eschewing food items with high sugar content, diabetes could be kept at bay. Psychiatrist J. Chandrasekhar talked about the importance of a healthy, stress-free life as stress was also an important factor in increasing sugar levels. Floral tributes were paid to a portrait of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, the architect of modern India, on his 132nd birth anniversary by members of the club, led by Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee vice-president Sripathy Prakasam on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-hit-persons-are-more-prone-to-diabetes-says-expert/article37496820.ece
15 November 2021||PALAKKAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Religious fervour marks Kalpathy chariot festival||Chariots rolled along the narrow lanes of Kalpathy heritage village on Sunday, bringing back the centuries-old religious fervour that the Tamil Brahmin village used to enjoy. The concerns of large sections of Kalpathy residents over uncertainties about taking out the chariots died down when three small chariots of major deities came out bedecked. They were pulled with the help of large ropes by a group of designated men who had taken two doses of COVID-19 vaccines and had tested negative for the virus. Rain too stayed away bringing cheer to the devotees. Blessings The festivities began on Sunday morning at Kalpathy Sree Visalakshi Sametha Sree Viswanathaswami Temple. Three chariots proceeded through the lanes in the morning and evening, offering the residents their annual opportunity to seek the blessings of their deities from the comfort of their homes. It was in 2019 that the chariot festival had taken place last in Kalpathy. Last year, COVID-19 had taken the sheen off the festival by reducing it to a symbolic one. The giant chariot of Sree Viswanathaswami or Siva used to be the biggest attraction of the festival. 200 participants However, the district administration has proscribed the movement of the giant chariot in view of the government restricting the festival to 200 people. Only the people of Kalpathy were allowed to take part in the fest. The police blocked several access points and restricted people’s entry to Kalpathy.  Only people of Kalpathy allowed to take part in chariot festival in view of the COVID situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/religious-fervour-marks-kalpathy-chariot-festival/article37496750.ece
15 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pilgrim season begins at Sabarimala today||With less than 24 hours left for the Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala to open for the annual pilgrimage season, authorities on Sunday braved heavy rain to complete the arrangements for the devotees. A meeting convened by the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday decided to regulate the number of pilgrims in the first few days in view of the continuing rains. With the Pampa remaining turbulent, the pilgrims have been banned from entering the river at Pampa-Triveni and in other bathing ghats. To restrict visitors, spot booking will be closed. Those who had booked slots online earlier may be permitted a change of date. Officials said the heavy rain at Sannidhanam and the Pampa base camp affected the last-leg preparations but the departments raced against time to complete the basic arrangements, including security. Renovation of the Sannidhanam and the Valiya Nadapanthal and cleaning of pavements were completed on Sunday. For medical emergencies Personnel of the Fire and Rescue Services have been deployed across Sannidhanam, Pampa, and Nilackal. The KSRTC has deployed a fleet of buses and staff. To address emergency needs while trekking, medical centres and oxygen parlours have been set up at five locations. These units have facilities for resting, first aid, and to check blood pressure. For those developing cardiac issues while climbing the hill, automated external defribillators along with trained nursing staff have been deployed. Dispensaries have be opened at Sannidhanam, Nilackal, Charalmedu, and Erumeli. An emergency operation theatre has be set up at the Sannidhanam. For free treatment of pilgrims under the Karunya scheme, arrangements have been made in hospitals in Kottayam and Pathanamthitta. At 5 p.m. on Monday, outgoing head priest V.K. Jayaraj Potti will open the sanctum sanctorum in the presence of chief priest (Tantri) Kandararu Mahesh Mohanararu. This will be followed by the transferring of the fire to the ‘aazhi.’ Melsanthis’ installation Later in the day, the newly selected melsanthis for the Ayyappa temple and the Malikappuram Devi temple, N.Parameswaran Naboothiri and Sambhu Namboothiri, will be installed. The Mandalapuja festival is from November 16 to December 26 while the temple will reopen for the Makaravilakku festival from December 30 to January 20, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pilgrim-season-begins-at-sabarimala-today/article37496904.ece
15 November 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rotary Club holds medical camp for diabetics||The Rotary Club organised a diabetic medical camp on Sunday for pregnant women, newborns and their mothers here to mark World Diabetes Day. Senior doctor P. Santi Priya said that many pregnant women were suffering from diabetic problems due to the changes in lifestyle. She said infants would also become victims of diabetes if proper care was not taken during pregnancy. Senior eye specialist Dinesh Kanth conducted diabetic retinopathy tests for patients as many of them had vision problems. Club past president and ophthalmic officer M.R.K.Das said that medical camps were conducted in all mandals as many youngsters and children were found to be having eye problems due to excess exposure to smartphones and electronic gadgets. Club president P.S.V.S.Varma, services director S. Apparao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rotary-club-holds-medical-camp-for-diabetics/article37497339.ece
15 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 killed as rain continues to lash Kerala||Heavy rainfall continued to drench Kerala districts on Sunday, even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned districts to expect more rain till at least Tuesday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who held a high-level meeting to discuss the weather situation, appealed to the people to remain vigilant. More NDRF teams Four more teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are expected to reach Kerala by Monday, the Chief Minister said. Three NDRF teams are already positioned in various districts. Two teams of the Defence Security Corps are on standby for Kannur and Wayanad districts. A 75-year-old woman drowned in the Neyyar river in Thiruvananthapuram district. A three-year-old boy drowned in a canal at Velukkara in Thrissur district. Both their bodies have been recovered. Several districts have reported damage to property and waterlogging in low-lying areas. Some districts have declared a holiday on Monday for educational institutions in view of the rain alert. Water released Water was released from the Idukki and Kakki reservoirs after water levels rose on Sunday. One shutter (No: 3) of the Cheruthoni dam was raised by 40 cm to release water from the Idukki reservoir. The water levels in all the major reservoirs are being closely monitored. In Thiruvananthapuram district, 427 people (146 families) have been shifted to 19 relief camps opened over the past two days. Three houses were destroyed and 52 damaged in the rain havoc in the southern district. In Alappuzha district, most of the upper Kuttanad and parts of Kuttanad remain waterlogged. Parts of the Alappuzha- Changanassery (AC) road and a number of rural roads in the region have been submerged. In all, 229 people were shifted to 13 relief camps by Sunday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-killed-as-rain-continues-to-lash-kerala/article37496616.ece
15 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Expedite second dose of vaccination: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday asked the States to speed up the second dose COVID-19 vaccination at the sub-division level. The Chief Ministers and the official machinery should monitor the progress, he said. Making the closing remarks at the 29th Meet of the Southern Zonal Council here, Mr. Shah said the Government of India had initiated the work for amendment of the IPC, the CrPC, and the Evidence Act. States should submit their inputs for the amendments by involving officials and experts, he said. The Home Minister said the Chief Ministers should give priority to checking the spread of narcotics, as drug usage destroys the life and potential of youth. States should create an independent institution of Director (prosecution) to speed up prosecutions. Forensic studies In tune with the establishment of the National Forensic Science University and Rashtriya Raksha University by the Center, all the States should establish at least one forensic science college with a syllabus in the local language so that they could have trained manpower that would meet the needs of forensic investigation, Mr. Shah observed. “The POSCO crimes should have zero tolerance, they should be given priority. Crimes against children are unacceptable. A timeframe of sixty days should be adhered to,” the Home Minister said. ‘Janjatiya Gaurav Divas’ The Center had decided to observe November 15 as ‘Janjatiya Gaurav Divas’. “This day will be observed every year through various formats spread over one week to highlight the contribution of tribal communities to our freedom struggle and national development,” Mr Shah said, urging the Chief Ministers to develop an action plan in their States to showcase and highlight the contribution of the tribals to India’s freedom struggle and to the development of their States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/expedite-second-dose-of-vaccination-amit-shah/article37497308.ece
15 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police biased towards YSRCP, says Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has criticised the police for “illegally arresting and harassing” the TDP leaders with a view to scuttling the chances of the party candidates in the municipal elections. “The police are, however, allowing the ruling YSRCP leaders to commit all sorts of election offences. When the violations are questioned, false cases are being booked against the TDP followers,” Mr. Naidu alleged in a statement on Sunday. Mr. Naidu sought to know why the police did not take into custody all the YSRCP leaders who were “caught red handed while distributing cash to the voters in Kuppam.” “The threat being issued to the TDP cadre is undemocratic, unethical and unconstitutional,” he alleged. Asserting that it was not a crime to prevent persons from casting bogus votes, Mr. Naidu said, “TDP leaders were arrested for stopping bogus voters. The YSRCP is using the official machinery to hijack the election process.” He criticised Water Resources Minister Anil Kumar for “harassing” Kappira Srinivasulu for extending his support to the TDP candidates in Nellore. “Mr. Srinivasulu has attempted suicide unable to bear the harassment at the hands of the YSRCP leaders,” the TDP chief alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-biased-towards-ysrcp-says-naidu/article37496747.ece
15 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power Ministry asks States to achieve NDC goals||The Union Ministry of Power (MoP) has appreciated the efforts being made by the Energy Department of Andhra Pradesh to promote energy efficiency and energy conservation by setting up a dedicated State Designated Agency (SDA) – the A.P. State Energy Conservation Mission (AP-SECM). While complimenting Andhra Pradesh for emerging as a role model for other States, the MoP called for a sustained campaign by all to achieve the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) goals related to greenhouse gas emissions. The MoP, in a recent communique to the Energy Department, observed that the SDAs of Andhra Pradesh and Kerala were in the forefront of promoting energy efficiency and conservation activities, a press release issued by SECM CEO A. Chandra Sekhar Reddy said. He mentioned that Abhay Bhakre, Director General of the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE), had praised Andhra Pradesh for implementing Internet of Things-based technology projects for saving energy in the MSMEs. In this regard, IoT-based power monitoring devices had been installed in 65 MSMEs in East and West Godavari districts to map energy-intensive processes in order to conserve energy. As per the BEE, the industrial sector alone consumes 40% of total energy consumed in India, and the sector may record a rapid increase in demand in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-ministry-asks-states-to-achieve-ndc-goals/article37497303.ece
15 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. trying to divert Rs. 250 cr. NTRUHS funds: Pawan Kalyan||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan on Sunday slammed the State government for its reported attempts to divert the funds of Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences (NTRUHS). In a statement, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said it was brought to his notice that the YSRCP government was trying to bring pressure on the university’s governing body for diversion of funds meant to be spent for development of the facilities in the university. Mr. Pawan Kalyan said instead of allocating more funds for further improving the standards of medical education and other facilities, it was unfortunate that the government was trying to take away the funds. He urged educationists and medical experts to condemn the move of the government. He said, of the Rs. 450 crore funds available with the university, Rs. 170 crore would have to be paid to Telangana after bifurcation of the State. The JSP president alleged that the government was trying to take away Rs. 250 crore, leaving a meagre Rs. 30 crore with the university authorities. He demanded that the government spell out for what purpose it wanted to divert the funds. Mr. Pawan Kalyan said he had asked his party leaders to focus on the issue of diversion of funds by the government from various universities in the State. “We will study the issue and come out with a comprehensive report,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-trying-to-divert-rs-250-cr-ntruhs-funds-pawan-kalyan/article37497311.ece
15 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam flags presence of ‘outsiders’ in Kuppam||Telugu Desam Party MLC P. Ashok Babu has urged the Returning Officer for the Kuppam Municipal election to initiate action against “outsiders.” In a letter to the official on Sunday, Mr. Ashok Babu alleged that 500 women from Thamballapalle Assembly constituency were provided shelter in the Kuppam Agriculture market yard to enable them to cast their votes in the election on November 15. “Around 100 field assistants of DWMA are staying in the CLRC building, near Ganeshpuram. Around 300 sarpanches and MPTC members and councillors belonging to the YSRCP from Punganur and other adjacent Assembly constituencies reached Kuppam on November 13,” the TDP leader said. “It appears that the police are escorting the outsiders into Kuppam town. Further, it has been noticed that the YSRCP cadre, along with the village / ward volunteers are distributing Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 5,000 per vote along with the voter slips,” he alleged. The presence of “outsiders” after the campaign ended was a serious violation of the model code, and casting “fake votes is unconstitutional and undemocratic,” he said. “It is pertinent that the SEC gives webcasting links to all parties, or to their representatives, or to contesting candidates, to ensure transparency,” Mr. Ashok Babu said. Uninterrupted video recording of polling should be carried out, he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-desam-flags-presence-of-outsiders-in-kuppam/article37497312.ece
15 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Balotsav’ brings out talent among children||Tummalapalli Kalakshetram was abuzz with activities and events organised as part of Balotsav-2021, on the occasion of Children’s Day on Sunday. Organisers arranged food court, flower show, kids zone, pet show, handicrafts exhibition, expo on forest produce and games such as balloon shooting and other amusement activities for hundreds of children who participated in the event. Students from different schools welcomed Krishna District Collector J. Nivas, Joint Collector L. Siva Shankar, Sub-Collector G. Suryasai Praveenchand and other officers with traditional dance and other performances. After garlanding the portrait of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and inaugurating the event, the Collector said the theme of Balotsav is to bring out the hidden talents among the children. He appreciated officials of Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW), SSA and Education departments for arranging stalls and events. “Its our duty to raise awareness among the children on environment, science, culture, protein diet, games and sports and fine arts,” said Mr. Nivas and asked parents and teachers to focus on moulding them into good citizens. West Godavari Children attended the celebrations at the Godavari Conference Hall in the Collectorate in Eluru in large numbers. Speaking on the occasion, District Collector Kartikeya Misra appealed to the parents and teachers to spend more time with children and try to be their best friends. The Collector directed the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Department officials to take care of the children staying in government-run homes well. Later, the Collector visited the Government Children Home for Boys in the town and celebrated Children’s Day with the inmates. He asked the home staff to monitor the health and education of the inmates regularly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/balotsav-brings-out-talent-among-children/article37496809.ece
15 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Price rise affecting people hard’||APCC president Sake Sailajanath on Sunday said people were vexed with the “skewed policies” of the BJP government at the Centre and the “autocratic rule” of the YSRCP government in the State. Speaking after launching the ‘Jana Jagran Abhiyan Yatra’ at Kaleswararao Market in the city, Mr. Sailajanath slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for “subjecting the common man to miseries.” Pointing to the “exorbitant” prices of petrol and diesel, he said people were at the receiving end of the cascading effects of the fuel price hike. The prices of vegetables and essential commodities had also gone beyond the reach of the middle class, and those who tried to question the government, were being harassed and arrested, he alleged. To protest against the fuel price hike, Mr. Sailajanath pedalled a cycle-rickshaw. Tributes to Nehru Earlier, he paid tributes to former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru on his birth anniversary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/price-rise-affecting-people-hard/article37497386.ece
15 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man wanted in several cases of burglaries held||The West Godavari district police arrested Manukonda Anil Kumar alias Rakhi, who was wanted in many cases of house burglaries and an attempt-to- murder case. The accused, a native of Kamavarapukota village in the district, was absconding since 2013. Anil Kumar was wanted in 16 offences committed in Rajahmundry, Tirupati, Nellore, and Krishna and West Godavari districts, and Hyderabad, said SP Rahul Dev Sharma. He allegedly tried to kill Bandi Naresh at Kondagudem in 2020 by attacking him with a knife. “Police are inquiring into the cases against Anil Kumar in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Puducherry,” the SP said. Addressing the media at Jangareddygudem on Sunday, Mr. Sharma said that Anil Kumar and his accomplice Ch. Satish were arrested by the Tadikalapudi police and sent to jail in an attempt-to-murder case. After undergoing six months jail term, Anil absconded to Hyderabad. Later, he allegedly befriended a woman from Tamil Nadu and went to Puducherry with her. The accused used to visit A.P., Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka and commit property offences. “After committing robberies, he used to leave the State and continue committing crimes in other States. The accused used to mortgage the booty in various private banks and pawn brokers,” Mr. Sharma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-wanted-in-several-cases-of-burglaries-held/article37497383.ece
15 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 claims three more lives in State||The State reported three COVID-19 deaths and 208 infections in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The cumulative tally and toll increased to 20,69,978 and 14,415 respectively. Krishna, Guntur and Visakhapatnam districts reported one death each. A total of 32,630 samples were tested during the period and their positivity rate was 0.64%. The overall positivity rate of the 2.998 crore samples tested so far remained at 6.90%. Active cases The tally of active cases slightly came down to 3,086 as 247 patients recovered. The total recoveries and the recovery rate stood at 20,52,477 and 99.15%. Chittoor district reported 53 infections in the past day. It was followed by Krishna (32), Guntur (19), Nellore (18), West Godavari (18), Visakhapatnam (13), Anantapur (12), Kadapa (10), East Godavari (8), Prakasam (8), Srikakulam (7), Vizianagaram (6) and Kurnool (4). The overall district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,94,383), Chittoor (2,47,560), West Godavari (1,79,353), Guntur (1,78,480), Visakhapatnam (1,58,106), Anantapur (1,57,935), Nellore (1,46,635), Prakasam (1,38,624), Kurnool (1,24,170), Srikakulam (1,23,277), Krishna (1,19,780), Kadapa (1,15,773) and Vizianagaram (83,007).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-claims-three-more-lives-in-state/article37497302.ece
15 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven hurt as buses collide||Seven passengers suffered injuries when two buses collided on the National Highway at Kesarapalli village in Krishna district on Sunday. The accident occurred when a private travels bus and an APSRTC bus collided on the Vijayawada outskirts in the early hours on Sunday. The injured were admitted to a private hospital at Gannavaram and later shifted to Vijayawada. The condition of one passenger is said to be critical. The police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-injured-as-buses-collide/article37496810.ece
15 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector inspects District Jail||Krishna district Collector J. Nivas has appealed to prisoners to lead a respectful life after getting released from the jail. He visited the District Jail on Sunday and enquired about the facilities. Interacting with the prisoners, Mr. Nivas told them to forget their past and plan for a good future after completing their jail term. The Collector, along with Joint Collector K. Mohan Kumar, jail superintendent K. Raghu and jailor G. Ravi Babu went round the blocks, kitchen, store room and other facilities and enquired about the quality of food being served. “Many people land in jail by committing a crime on the spur of the moment. Your family members will face the stigma and suffer due to your jail life,” Mr. Nivas said and promised to take care of their families. Earlier, the Collector garlanded the statue of Mahatma Gandhi on the jail premises and paid tributes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-inspects-district-jail/article37497382.ece
15 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No Spandana today||Spandana, the government’s grievance redressal programme, will not be held at government offices on Monday as the election code for local body elections is in force. Spandana programme at District Collectorate, VMC, revenue divisions and other offices will not be conducted on Monday, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-spandana-today/article37497385.ece
15 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many attend HR Conclave||The ‘HR Conclave 2021’ was held in the city on Sunday marking the fifth-anniversary celebrations of the Amaravati HR Chapter (AHRC). Human Resource professionals from various places and organisations took part in the conclave. During the inaugural session, Varun Group vice president Chandrasekhar spoke about the changes in Acts related to labour, wages and companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-attend-hr-conclave/article37497384.ece
15 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social activist alleges changes in scope of Polavaram||Economist and social activist Pentapati Pulla Rao, in a letter to the Prime Minister recently, complained that many changes had been made in the scope of the Polavaram project and certain new components included in it, but the same were not considered by the Central government agencies such as the expert appraisal committee of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, the Central Water Commission, and the Polavaram Project Authority while giving clearances. He alleged that the project-related activities of the Andhra Pradesh government were being casually endorsed by the Central agencies. He appealed to the Prime Minister to review all issues such as environmental violations, change of scope of the project, forceful eviction of people and lack of legitimate R&R package, and illegalities, and order a comprehensive inquiry. He also sought an expeditious study of the carrying capacity of the project in order to avoid disasters and loss of public money. Mr. Pulla Rao said a disaster had taken place in October in the form of a hill caving in on the twin tunnels built for the right bank canal of the Polavaram project at Mamidigondi village of West Godavari district. He claimed that experts expressed concern over “weak foundations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-activist-alleges-changes-in-scope-of-polavaram/article37497304.ece
15 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Rejection by girl’ made youth to take extreme step, say police||Preliminary investigation into the case of the 21-year-old youth setting his classmate ablaze in a lodge, near Suryabagh, revealed that the boy had indulged in the crime after being rejected by her. According to the police, Harshavardhan, the accused, a resident of Bhupalpalle in Telangana and the girl from Visakhapatnam, were pursuing B.Tech., since 2017 and were classmates in a renowned university in Punjab. Since the outbreak of COVID-19, they were staying at home. The girl reportedly informed the police that Harshavardhan was just her friend. But he had been allegedly insisting on her to love him, she said. The accused youth, however, reportedly told the police that the girl was in a relationship with him. But now, she is rejecting him for various reasons, he said. The youth had arrived Visakhapatnam on November 12 and checked into a lodge near Suryabagh. The girl reached the lodge the next morning. The same evening, the accused had allegedly poured petrol on her and on himself, and started the fire with a lighter. The duo opened the door and started running out. The lodge management immediately rushed them to the King George Hospital. Police also learnt that Harshavardhan had checked into the same lodge on November 7, where the girl had gone to meet him. According to the police, the girl had suffered around 60% burns, while the boy had suffered 65% burns. The duo are undergoing treatment and the condition of both of them is said to be stable. Police are also yet to ascertain how the accused had managed to get loose petrol, when petrol bunks in the city were strictly instructed not to sell. The investigating officers suspecting that he must have brought it from his native place. The Disha police are investigating the case. The CLUES team collected samples and sent them to the Forensic Science Laboratory for analysis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rejection-by-girl-made-youth-to-take-extreme-step-police/article37496822.ece
15 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman dies in road accident||A 22-year-old woman died on the spot while her mother suffered severe injuries in a road accident on the BRTS Road, near Arilova, her, on Sunday. The condition of the victim’s mother is said to be critical. According to reports, the accident occurred when Moulika and her mother were returning home from their relatives’ house at PM Palem on a two-wheeler. The traffic police said that the two-wheeler skidded on the road while the riders tried to overtake a car near Q1 hospitals area. The police said the road became slippery due to heavy rain. A case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-dies-in-road-accident/article37497393.ece
15 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||72.50% voting recorded in Gram Panchayat polls in district||Sageni Chinatalamma of Ginnelakota in Pedabayalu mandal, Appanna Appalanarasa of Balaram (Koyyuru mandal), Nayakam Bhagyavathi of Jarrela (Munchingput mandal) and Sammidi Srinivasa Rao of Rekhavanipalem in Bheemunipatnam mandal were declared elected as Sarpanches in the Gram Panchayat polls in the district, held on Sunday. In addition to these, 12 others were declared elected as Ward Members for the Gram Panchayats in Narsipatnam, Makavarapalem, Nathavaram, Cheedikada and Bheemunipatnam mandals in the district. Earlier in the day, the poll percentage in the Gram Panchayat elections held in the district was 67.62 by 11 a.m. and the final percentage at 1 p.m. was 72.50, according to an official release. Meanwhile, the scheduled ‘Spandana’ programme on Monday stands cancelled as the election code is in force in view of the Gram Panchayat and MLC elections. District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has appealed to the public not to come to the Collectorate for the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/7250-voting-recorded-in-gram-panchayat-polls-in-district/article37497390.ece
15 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Competitions, meetings mark Children’s Day fete||Drawing and painting competitions, sports and games for children and planting of saplings were conducted by various organisations and institutions in the city as part of Children’s Day celebrations on Sunday. The Women and Child Welfare Department in association with Childline – 1098 organised a programme at the Mahila Pranganam at Pineapple Colony here on Sunday. Project Director of the Women and Children Welfare Department N. Sitamahalakshmi told the children about the importance of the day. She told them about the ill-effects of the use of mobile phones by children. District Child Protection Officer A. Satyanarayana spoke on the rights of children. SEED organisation director Sanyasi Raju spoke on the services being offered by the Childline 1098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/competitions-meetings-mark-childrens-day-fete/article37497389.ece
15 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Viveka murder case: Ayyanna Patrudu seeks intervention of Amit Shah||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu has appealed to Union Home Minister Amit Shah to intervene in the case pertaining to the murder of Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy, paternal uncle of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. In a video recorded message on Sunday, Mr. Patrudu alleged that administration in the State was going out of gear and it was high time that Mr. Amit Shah intervened in the matter. He also sought that the Chief Minister should also come out with a statement on the murder as it involved his paternal uncle. ‘Book Vijaya Sai’ Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu also expressed suspicion on the involvement of Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy in the case as he had labelled the death as a ‘heart attack’ on the day of the murder though there was no confirmation by a doctor. Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu sought that a case should be booked against Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/viveka-murder-case-ayyanna-patrudu-seeks-intervention-of-amit-shah/article37497391.ece
15 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Children enjoy free guided tour of zoo||On the occasion of Children’s Day, the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park has conducted a special programme named as ‘Classy Critters’, a free zoo tour programme for children up to 15 years of age from various schools in and around Visakhapatnam here on Sunday. Children actively participated and enjoyed the guided tour of the zoo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/children-enjoy-free-guided-tour-of-zoo/article37497392.ece
15 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||36 kg ganja seized at city railway station, 3 held||The Railway Protection Force arrested three persons, including a woman, while they were allegedly trying to transport about 36 kg ganja at the Visakhapatnam Railway Station on Sunday. All the three accused are from Delhi. The RPF teams, led by Inspector Koteswara Rao, conducted checks. Cases were booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/36-kg-ganja-seized-at-city-railway-station-3-held/article37497394.ece
15 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child welfare panels in villages sought||Senior advocate and Child Welfare Committee member P. Chittibabu on Sunday urged the government to appoint child welfare committees in all villages to create awareness among them about their rights which were being neglected in spite of enactment of many laws. People’s Action for Rural Awakening (PARA), Dalit Bahujan Shramik Front (DBSU), Child Rights Response Society (CRRS) and other organisations jointly launched awareness programmes on child rights. After releasing a poster, Mr. Chittibabu said that child marriages and child labour turned into a bane for children in rural areas of the district. PARA convener N. Varaprasad said that effective implementation of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act-2015 was the need of the hour. PARA coordinator S. Kalibabu and International Human Rights Association coordinator B. Sankara Rao were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/child-welfare-panels-in-villages-sought/article37497337.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Injustice done to State, says Chief Minister||To effectively address the inter-State disputes with a time-bound action plan, Mr. Jagan urged the Centre to constitute a special committee which would facilitate amicable settlement of issues. Terming the Polavaram project as the “lifeline” of Andhra Pradesh, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said though it had the assurance as a national project in the A.P. Reorganisation Act, with complete funding by the Centre, there was inordinate delay in its execution. He said the insistence of the Centre that it would consider the estimates of 2013-14 was a violation of the Act and urged the Centre to bear the entire expenditure for its completion. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that pendency of funds to overcome the resource gap, which he termed as “revenue deficit” to the tune of Rs. 22,948.76 crore till 2021 had hamstrung the development of the State. He recalled the assurance of the then Prime Minister to release the funds in 2014. Referring to sharing of assets with and pending arrears on the consumption of power by Telangana, he said that these prime issues continued to be dodged, further forcing A.P. into financial losses. Assets worth Rs. 1,42,601 crore had to be distributed and power consumption arrears of Rs. 6,112 crore had to be cleared. “Though the AP Genco had clarified in 2018 that it would not supply power to Telangana, later we had to continue, following the Centre’s involvement,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. The Chief Minister recalled that as per the Reorganisation Act, the Centre had to take up construction of eight mega infrastructure projects and 11 institutions of national importance by 2024. Water to T.N. Referring to the supply of drinking water to Tamil Nadu, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that as per the inter-State agreements since the 1970s, it was the collective responsibility of the united A.P. along with neighbouring Karnataka and Maharashtra to allow 5 tmcft each for T.N. However, at present, it was only A.P. that had been bearing the burden. Payment of Rs. 338.48 crore had been pending from T.N. towards maintenance charges for supplying Telugu Ganga waters to Chennai, he said. Responding to the Chief Minister’s appeals, Mr. Amit Shah said that all the concerns of A.P. would be looked into and steps initiated for amicable settlements at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/injustice-done-to-state-says-chief-minister/article37497301.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call for competitive, cooperative federalism among States||“The Zonal Councils take up issues involving Centre and States and one or many States falling in the zone, thus providing a forum for resolving disputes and irritants between Centre and States and among many States in the zone. The Zonal Councils discuss a broad range of issues which include boundary-related disputes, security, infrastructure-related matters like road, transport, industries, water, matters of forests and environment, housing, education, food security, tourism and power,” the Union Minister said. Vaccination “We have been able to achieve 111 crore vaccine doses as of today (Sunday) during the COVID-19 pandemic. This is a big achievement and an example of cooperative federalism. It is Prime Minister Modi’s vision to leverage cooperative and competitive federalism to achieve all-round growth in the country,” he said. When the pandemic began, it was said that India would not be able to cope with it. However, India quickly ramped up its health infrastructure as well as domestic production of vaccines under Mr. Modi’s leadership, the Home Minister said. “Today we have overcome fear about the pandemic, and the Union government will continue to do everything possible to cover all States under the vaccination programme,” Mr. Shah maintained. “Zonal Council’s are advisory bodies in nature and yet we have been able to successfully solve many issues. These councils provide an opportunity for interaction at the highest level among members,” Mr. Amit Shah said. Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Lieutenant Governors of Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Telangana Home Minister Md. Mahmood Ali took part in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/call-for-competitive-cooperative-federalism-among-states/article37497299.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nature’s magic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/natures-magic/article37497396.ece
15 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revanth questions CM’s ‘sincerity’ on paddy issue||Telangana Congress chief Revanth Reddy has questioned the ‘sincerity’ of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on his ‘fight’ with the BJP government over procurement of paddy and asked him when would he stage a dharna at Jantar Mantar on the issue as promised. Speaking to reporters here on Sunday, Mr. Reddy said that KCR’s ‘insincerity’ was evident when he stayed away from the TRS-sponsored dharna against the Centre. “The Chief Minister is just fooling people with a ‘fake fight’ call while continuing his close association with the BJP at the Centre. Both BJP and TRS are hand in glove in confusing farmers and ultimately not procuring the paddy,” he alleged. Stating that the Centre and State governments were behaving irresponsibly, he asked the Chief Minister if he was unable to allocate Rs. 10,000 crore from his ‘rich budget’ to buy paddy as promised. “Isn’t it possible in a rich State that CM always boasts of,” he asked. Mr. Reddy said that the proposed ‘Praja Chaitanya Yatra’ of the Congress has not been cancelled but postponed. He said the Collectors in Telangana have acquired political colour and the police too were denying permission to Congress party’s protest programmes. “Police doesn’t have any problem while permitting protests of TRS and BJP but suddenly remember forgotten norms and rules when Congress wants to highlight people’s issues,” he charged. Nehru’s role Mr. Reddy, who earlier garlanded Jawaharlal Nehru’s statue in Abids and portrait at Gandhi Bhavan on his birth anniversary, said that the BJP government was vilifying Nehru and smearing his reputation to dilute his contribution in the freedom struggle while promoting those who never had any connection with the struggle. Entire history is being distorted feeding this generation of students and youngsters with false narratives. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka objected to people insulting the freedom gained by Indians in 1947 comparing it to ‘seeking alms’ and demanded severe action against such people. Hinting at actor Kangana Ranaut’s controversial statement that India got freedom in 2014, he said that such ‘anti-nationals’ should be punished. He called for ousting the BJP government stating that it was selling precious assets of the nation created by Congress governments. He also dismissed the reports of leaders making personal allegations against each other in the “Huzurabad election result review’ meeting in New Delhi and said the media reports were far from truth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-questions-kcrs-sincerity-on-paddy-issue/article37497137.ece
15 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||No clarity on postings for new IPS officers of Telangana cadre||Eleven IPS officers of 2018 batch, including a few from earlier batch who trained with them, who were allotted to Telangana cadre are a concerned lot as they have not been given postings even after joining the service of the State a year ago. Some of them are, however, attached to police sub-divisions in existing vacancies. While their batchmates in Jammu and Kashmir have already become Superintendents of Police or those in other States and Union Territories are at least holding independent charge of sub-divisions and are set to be promoted to SP rank on January 1, 2022, the Telangana allottees are still attached to police commissionerates and district Superintendents of Police without any independent charge. Rigid structure A senior police officer said that the structure of the cadre had become rigid and inflexible resulting in frustration for new recruits. Speaking to The Hindu, an officer waiting for posting shared his anguish and said it is totally demoralising to work without posting right at the beginning of their career by waiting for the very first posting, something that has to happen as a matter of routine. “Our service records also get skewed and this unfair treatment would result in long-term consequences in our career.” Another threat looming large over their heads is the move to confer IPS to non-cadre Superintendents of Police. While the top bosses regularly harangue them on ‘role clarity’, “we are at a loss of words as we have neither a role to play nor clarity over what lies ahead of us,” another officer said. A few months ago when the aggrieved officers knocked on the door of a key senior official to express their concern, they were shocked that they got a cold shoulder and an earful from that officer who also questioned them whether they took permission from their respective unit heads and had an appointment to meet him. ASP posting is important in the career of any IPS officer as it helps them understand fieldwork and ground reality. “Next we will move to supervisory ranks, without a handful of field experience. How can we supervise the investigations and address the law and order issues that arise and other aspects of policing,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-clarity-on-postings-for-new-ips-officers-of-telangana-cadre/article37497114.ece
15 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Talks on e-healthcare bring curtains down on conclave||The concluding day of Public Health Innovations Conclave (PHIC) expo on Sunday was dedicated to talks and discussions on the role of digital technology in healthcare. Remote assessment of health, its challenges, role of doctors in coming years, impact on economy, and other aspects were discussed. The expo, which began on Friday, was held under the aegis of Infection Control Academy of India and Hitex, Hyderabad. President of AI and Robotics Technology Park at IISc, Raghu Dharmaraju virtually spoke about how technology might enable citizen-centered universal healthcare by 2030. Through a pictorial representation, he presented a fictional situation in which a woman in a remote village wakes up with cough after which a phone app helps in preliminary analysis, a wearable device and video-based algorithm help record vitals, and online consultation of doctor is also facilitated. Mr Raghu said through use of technology, patients can get empathy, timeliness, choice (to select doctors), affordability, continuity (records are stored), and other advantages. He also spoke about assets and liabilities in current health system. A few of the assets that he listed out include public health systems including frontline workers, private health systems, government health insurance schemes and force multipliers (technology). The other topic presented was ‘Digital Health-Global Strategy-Past Present and Future’ by Ambuj Chaturvedi, senior vice-president, IKP Knowledge Park. ‘Role of Incubation Hubs’ was discussed too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/talks-on-e-healthcare-bring-curtains-down-on-conclave/article37497094.ece
15 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Allergy clinic at Chest Hospital to be open on Saturdays too||Owing to overwhelming response to its allergy clinic, the authorities of Government General and Chest Hospital at Erragadda have decided to run the clinic on Saturdays too. Till this week, it was open to people on Wednesdays only. The allergy clinic was inaugurated on October 6. Primary reason for opening the facility clinic is high costs: tests for the allergies at private hospitals ranges around Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000, and each injection for the treatment costs around Rs. 10,000. The total cost might range from a few thousands to lakhs of rupees. This would be offered free of cost at the government hospital. Superintendent of the Chest Hospital Dr Mahaboob Khan said that they have expected around 50 people to consult the doctors in a day. “But 90 to 100 people are consulting us in a day. It takes 15-20 minutes to check on each patient. We have decided to keep the Allergy Clinic open on Saturdays too from next week. We have four to five doctors there,” said the superintendent. Patients from across the State, cutting across economic lines, have sought the medical services. Some of them have incurred heavy cost for consultations and tests at private hospitals. Assistant professor, Dr Nalini Ghanate, said that they treat respiratory allergies including bronchial asthma, allergic rhinitis, and other associated conditions. The doctors earlier said that they attend allergies related to skin, respiratory issues. The tests available are spirometry, FeNo, skin prick test. During the first visit, patient’s medical history (related to allergies), food s/he eats, and other factors are gathered. Depending on the type of allergy, either a diagnosis test is conducted, or doctors list down possible triggers of allergy and suggest patients to observe the cause. From October 6, around 80 skin allergy tests were conducted. Dr Khan said that most of the cases are related to mixed allergens: more than two causes. The cases will be observed for two more months and jot down the allergies that most of the patients are suffering from. “There after, we will get immunotherapy solutions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/allergy-clinic-at-chest-hospital-to-be-open-on-saturdays-too/article37497107.ece
15 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police urged to release book on RK’s memoirs||Sirisha, the widow of CPI (Maoist) Central Committee member Akkiraju Haragopal alias Ramakrishna who died recently, has demanded release of over one thousand copies of the book comprising memoirs of her husband which were seized by police during a raid on a printing press at Moosarambagh. She told a press conference on Sunday that there was nothing incriminating about the books as they were a compilation of articles and photos published in newspapers of her husband when he came overground for peace talks with the State government on behalf of CPI (Maoist) and his arrest earlier. The book on RK was an attempt similar to condolences observed for people who died. Prof Haragopal who was also present said Sirisha made an attempt to share her memories of RK with the society. RK was introduced to the outside world during peace talks. He recalled Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s words when he led the separate Telangana agitation that the TRS was identified with the agenda set by the Maoists. But, his approach had changed after he assumed power, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-urged-to-release-book-on-rks-memoirs/article37497120.ece
15 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 7.71L tonne paddy procured so far: Gangula||Civil Supplies Minister Gangula Kamalakar has stated that procurement of paddy produced in the Kharif season is going on swiftly in spite of the allegations being made by the Opposition that purchases were slow. The Civil Supplies Corporation along with other agencies engaged in paddy purchases have opened 4,039 procurement centres so far against over 6,630 centres proposed for the season. The Minister said that the pace of purchases was almost equal to that of last Kharif season as 7.71 lakh tonnes of paddy was procured till November 13 this year against 8 lakh tonnes procured by the same day during the 2020 procurement season. The paddy procured so far was worth Rs. 1,510 crore and the amount was being credited to the bank accounts of over 1.13 lakh farmers. The Minister stated that steps were being taken to shift the paddy purchased at procurement centres to the rice mills without any delay. Steps were also being taken to keep the purchased paddy safe from untimely rains by arranging the required tarpaulin sheets. On the supply of rice through public distribution system, the Minister said of the 2,99,310 tonnes of rice allotted for November, 2,29,231 tonnes was drawn by about 67 lakh cardholders already.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-771l-tonne-paddy-procured-so-far-minister/article37497126.ece
15 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State did not get Central govt.’s health grant now||The Central government has released the health grant of Rs. 8,453.92 crore for rural and urban local bodies of 19 States in line with the recommendations of the XV Finance Commission. However, the name of Telangana did not figure in the list of States that received the grant released by the Department of Expenditure of the Union Finance Ministry. The grant formed part of the XV Finance Commission recommendation for releasing Rs. 4.27 lakh crore to local governments for the period 2021-22 to 2025-26 and this included health grant of Rs. 70,051 crore — Rs. 43,928 crore for rural local bodies and Rs. 26,123 crore for urban local bodies. The grant, according to the Union Ministry, is meant to strengthen the health system and plug critical gaps mainly at primary healthcare level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-did-not-get-central-govts-health-grant-now/article37497350.ece
15 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No COVID death in TS after almost 1.5 months||After over a month and half, Telangana has recorded zero COVID-19 deaths even as 105 persons tested positive for the virus in the State. A COVID death-free day was last recorded on September 26. The death toll currently stands at 3,793. On Sunday, 23,888 samples were put to test and results of 529 were awaited. Low testing and subsequently, low detection of cases has been the norm on Sundays apart from festive occasions. Of the new 105 infections, the highest of 59 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region and 10 from Rangareddy. No infection was detected in 17 districts. So far, over 2.80 crore samples have been tested. Of the total cases, 3,740 were active.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-covid-death-after-15-months/article37497095.ece
15 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bal Rakshak vehicles for all 33 districts||Thirty-three Bal Rakshak vehicles to rescue children in trouble were released by Women and Child Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod to mark Children’s Day celebrations. The vehicles, donated by private companies under corporate social responsibility, will be handed over to each of the 33 districts of the State. They can be accessed by dialling ‘1098’. Women and Child Welfare Commissioner Divya Devarajan said the donors came forward on just a phone call. Earlier, Ms. Rathod and Animal Husbandry Minister T. Srinivas Yadav participated in the official Children’s Day celebrations at Ravindra Bharati. The event saw children presenting songs and performing dances. Plans for next year Ms. Rathod said the celebration could not held on a grand scale last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Next year, it will be held at the district and State levels over seven days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bal-rakshak-vehicles-for-all-33-districts/article37497098.ece
15 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NCC pre-Republic Day camp begins||The annual training camp –II (Pre RDC-I) being conducted by 1 Telangana Battallion NCC, Secunderabad has commenced at Bison Training Grounds with effect from November 10 to 19 with 270 girl cadets and 130 boy cadets from across various districts of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh States attending. Deputy camp commandant Maj Aditi Singh is being assisted by four lady NCC officers. The camp is also giving special training to the cadets for selection for the Republic Day Parade to be held in New Delhi, 2022. Camp Commandant Col Ramanuj Singh briefed all the cadets about the aim of the camp and the Dos & Don’ts to be followed by all cadets. Training activities like drill, weapon training, map reading, firing, sports and cultural activities will be taken up. Guest lectures in fire fighting, traffic rules and road safety awareness, mental health, food and nutrition have been lined up. All attending cadets will be awarded with participation certificate on successful completion of the camp during the closing address scheduled on November 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ncc-pre-republic-day-camp-begins/article37497112.ece
15 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bank staffer succumbs after suicide attempt||Two days after he attempted to end his life by consuming unknown chemicals in his residence at Shaikpet, an employee of Bank of America died while undergoing treatment on Sunday. The victim, Santosh Kumar, resorted to the extreme step on Friday night when no one was at home and it came to light only on Saturday morning when his mother returned. Soon, he was rushed to hospital. However, he succumbed on Sunday. In a selfie video message to his family members, the victim accused his wife and her family members of harassing him and attempting to kill him; as a result, he ended his life. For the last few months his wife and their son were living with her parents’ house at Kulsumpura. Dead on track A government teacher from Medak was found dead on the railway tracks near Secunderabad Railway station here in the wee hours of Sunday. According to Government Railway Police, the victim, E Ramarao Satyanarayana (43) from Chinna Gotimuula village in Shivampet mandal in Medak district, ended his life jumping in front of a running train. “He resorted to the extreme step due to family disputes,” police said. Soon after learning about his death, his wife attempted to end her life in their village. Ramarao was a native of Cheepurupalli mandal in Vizianagaram district of Andhra Pradesh. [Roshini — Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bank-staffer-succumbs-after-suicide-attempt/article37497115.ece
15 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CLAT-2022, ’23 dates announced||Common Law Admission Test 2022 (CLAT-2022) will be held on May 8 while CLAT-2023 will be held on December 18, 2022 and this will be the first time that CLATS of two different years will be held in the same year. This was decided at the Annual Executive Committee and the General Body Meeting of the Consortium of National Law Universities held on Sunday at NALSAR University of Law, Hyderabad under the chairmanship of Prof. Faizan Mustafa. The Consortium further resolved to reduce the counselling fee from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 30,000 for the general category candidates and Rs. 20,000 for ST, SC, OBC, BC, EWS, PWD and other reservation candidates. The Consortium has also elected a new Executive Committee with Prof. Poonam Saxena, Vice-Chancellor, National Law University, Jodhpur taking over as President from the outgoing President Prof. Faizan Mustafa. Prof. Vijender Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Maharashtra National Law University, Nagpur was elected as the vice-president and Prof. V.C. Vivekanandan, Vice-Chancellor, Hidayatullah National Law University, Raipur was elected as CLAT Convenor, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/clat-2022-23-dates-announced/article37497118.ece
15 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Guru Nanak Dev birth anniversary fete||The birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev will be held under the auspices of Gurudwara Sahib of Secunderabad from November 16 to 19. The Prabhandak Committee of the gurudwara said on Sunday that ‘Nagarkeerthan’ (holy procession) will be taken out at 4 p.m on Tuesday and a grand Vishaal Deewan (mass congregation) will be held at Classic Gardens, Balamrai, on Wednesday from 10.30 a.m to 3.30 p.m. A night Keertan Darbar will be organised on Thursday at the gurudwara from 7.30 p.m. to 11 p.m. in which ‘Gurubani Keertans’ will be recited, said a press release. The procession will be taken out from gurudwara and proceed via Rathi File bus station, Blue Sea Hotel, Keyes High School, Sangeet Crossroads, St Ann’s High School, Clock Tower and Manohar Talkies before returning to gurudwara in the evening. Guru Granth Sahebji (revered holy scripture of the Sikhs) will be carried on a decorated vehicle along with ‘Nishaan Sahebans’ (religious flags) all along the procession. The famous Sikh martial arts ‘Gatka’ and sword exercises will be performed. During mass congregation next day, ‘Gurbani Keertans’ (holy hymns) by the reputed ‘Ragi Jathas’ (religious preachers) will be sung.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/guru-nanak-dev-birth-anniversary-fete/article37497108.ece
15 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Dharma Bhiksham was a humanist’||State CPI secretary Chada Venkata Reddy said that veteran communist leader and former Lok Sabha member Bommagani Dharma Bhiksham was a humanist and always lived among people addressing their problems. Addressing a preparatory meeting of Dharma Bhiksham Centenary Celebrations Reception Committee meeting held at Makdhoom Bhavan on Sunday, Mr. Venkata Reddy said that Dharma Bhiksham had inculcated the habit of fight from his student days and prepared a students’ army and later fought against the Nizam. Calling upon people to participate in the celebrations, he said that as part of celebrations to be held till February 15, 2022, lectures and essay writings will be organised across the State. An anthology of poems will also be released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dharma-bhiksham-was-a-humanist/article37497128.ece
15 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||7,636 of 26,845 vacant after MBA, MCA seat allotment||The first phase of admissions into MBA and MCA colleges saw 7,636 seats remaining vacant out of the 26,845 available seats in the convenor quota. The allotment of seats was released on Sunday with 19,209 seats taken and 28 colleges getting 100% admissions. Out of the 51,316 candidates who cleared the Integrated Common Entrance Test (ICET), only 22,416 candidates attended the certificate verification and out of these only 21,811 candidates exercised the options. There are 272 colleges offering MBA and MCA courses in Telangana. Candidates can download the allotment order on ‘https://tsicet.nic.in’ and also self-report on the same website to their allotted colleges before November 18 or else the allotment would be cancelled. Final counselling The candidate has to report in person at the allotted college after final phase of counselling from November 27 to 29. The Sports and NCC quota seats earmarked are not considered for allotment in first phase of counselling. All the candidates claiming reservation under NCC and Sports have to exercise options in final phase of counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/7636-of-26845-vacant-after-mba-mca-seat-allotment/article37497138.ece
15 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Delhi-based credit card phisher held||Rachakonda police nabbed a Delhi-based phisher who cheated credit card users from across States to earn an easy lifestyle. The 26-year-old accused, Deepak Kumar would call credit card holders based on lists bought from third parties and introduce himself as an executive of credit card department of various banks. Asking users for their details such as card number, card verification value and one-time passwords, to help him redeem their accumulated points, he would complete the fraudulent transactions. Officials traced the young man to Sagarpur of South Delhi district, following a complaint by a 53-year-old resident of Sahara Estates, Auto Nagar. They said the phishing attack took place in April 2021, when the youth had called the complainant and made a transaction of Rs. 93,772. Following investigations led by Inspector B. Prakash, the youth was nabbed and booked for cheating, impersonation and identity theft. He was brought to Hyderabad from Delhi on a transit warrant and remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/delhi-based-credit-card-phisher-held/article37497105.ece
15 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Youth battling multiple health issues gets new lease of life||A 25-year-old youth suffering from multiple complications has recovered after 47 days of treatment at a corporate hospital here after he was flown to the city in an air ambulance for 15 hours, with advanced mechanical ventilator support. M. Sasikanth Reddy, who hails from Kadapa district in Andhra Pradesh, had been working as a production manager at a food manufacturing company in Lagos, Nigeria. Further complication He suffered from a drug-resistant malaria with encephalopathy. He sustained a tracheal rupture while receiving treatment at a local hospital in Nigeria which further complicated his condition. The patient’s attendants consulted doctors at Apollo Spectra Hospitals here. Subsequently, Mr Reddy was brought to the city on September 28. Upon evaluation, doctors found Mr Sasikanth suffered from multiple complications including severe drug resistant brain malaria along with brain complication, kidney failure, post cardiac arrest, sepsis and a tracheal rupture. Road to recovery A multi disciplinary team from the hospital treated and monitored his condition for 47 days. He has recovered and is now all set to return to Nigeria.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-battling-multiple-health-issues-gets-new-lease-of-life/article37497344.ece
15 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man killed over financial dispute||A businessman Mohammed Arif (32), was killed by unknown persons at his house at Payeen Bagh under Falaknuma police station limits here on Saturday night. Suspecting that the accused persons could be related to Arif, police said that financial disputes could be the reason for the murder. Arif was attacked on his head with a blunt object, and was soon rushed to Osmania General Hospital, where he died while undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-killed-over-financial-dispute/article37497116.ece
15 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Software to monitor Mission Kakatiya bags Skoch award||A software developed by the e-governance division of the Irrigation and Command Area Development of Telangana for supervision of minor irrigation tanks restored and repaired under the Mission Kakaitya programme has bagged the SKOCH award. The software was developed by executive engineer K. Ramacharyulu and assistant executive engineer M. Keerthika of the department. The award was received by Mr. Ramacharyulu at a virtual event held on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/software-to-monitor-mission-kakatiya-bags-skoch-award/article37497125.ece
15 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Former CS bereaved||A noted businessman and educationist of Warangal town Prodduturi Ganga Reddy (94) died of age related issues during treatment at a hospital in Hyderabad on Sunday. He was the president of Warangal Ekashila Education Society. He is survived by three sons and two daughters. His eldest son-in-law P. Ramakanth Reddy was the Chief Secretary of combined AP during the chief ministership of Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/former-cs-bereaved/article37497134.ece
15 November 2021||Mannanur (Nagarkurnool district),TELANGANA||Srisailam highway stained crimson with roadkills||Monkeys caught from villages as well as urban areas and left in jungles are killed in droves every year, owing to highway accidents. More than 12% of the roadkills on the Srisailam highway through Amrabad Tiger Reserve, are of Rhesus Macaque, the primate most commonly seen roaming human habitations. Rhesus Macaque is not an endemic species to Nallamala Hills and its members are left here after being caught from municipalities and panchayats, officials from the Forest department say. Fatal feeding Unable to survive in the wild, the monkeys hang around the highway feeding off morsels thrown by travellers and occasionally coming under the tyres of the passing vehicles. Together with Bonnet Macaques, Langurs and other primates, they occupy the second place in the number of roadkills, only after reptiles. Since 2017, the forest department has counted a total of 208 wildlife roadkills on the 85-km stretch, and of those, 58 are primates, including 26 Rhesus Macaque. Snakes and reptiles of all varieties constitute a whopping 97 of the casualties, with Red Sand Boa most frequent at 11. Other common faunal victims of highway accidents include monitor lizards, langurs, civets, spotted deer, wild pig, and porcupine, among others. Though the figures are collated over the past four years, data collection has been streamlined only during the last couple of months, officials say. Each forest range officer has been asked to fill out a proforma at the end of every month with data about wildlife casualties, and a social media group has been started where forest watchers and officers are expected to post information about each roadkill with geographical coordinates. After the system is put in place, a total 59 roadkills were reported only during October this year, indicating a serious challenge for conservation. Speeding vehicles Vehicles speeding at 80 to 120 km per hour are to be blamed, despite presence of signboards along the highway indicating the speed limit of 30 kmph inside the tiger reserve. “Our hands are tied, as the road belongs to the National Highways. Our requests for speed-breakers are rarely heeded, and there is absolutely no enforcement of the speed limit,” an official shared. Despite the bloodshed, proposals have been made for widening of the road further, which as of now stand rejected by the department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/srisailam-highway-stained-crimson-with-roadkills/article37497103.ece
15 November 2021||Mannanur (Nagarkurnool district),TELANGANA||Towards a plastic-free jungle||A plastic segregation and baling unit established at Mannanur by the Forest department is helping clear the Amrabad Tiger Reserve of plastic waste. Between 500-2,300 kg of plastic and other waste is collected every week from inside the wildlife areas, and dumped at the unit to be segregated and dispatched. The plastic waste is especially more during festive seasons such as Maha Shivaratri and Saleshwaram Jatara, when pilgrims make a beeline to Srisailam and Saleshwaram temples. Forest watchers and ragpickers collect the waste from the wildlife areas in bags, and place them at selected points on the road, to be collected by patrolling units every day. The plastic is then segregated into multi-layer plastic, plastic bottles and cardboards. Each kind is separately baled and bundled mechanically for transport. The multi-layer plastic is dispatched to Hooghly for specialised waste management, while the other plastic and cardboard waste is collected by another enterprise operating through a digital platform on weekly basis. “This is the first time ever in the country that such an initiative is taken to clear protected areas of plastic waste. Taking a cue from our experiment, the Nagarjuna Sagar Tiger Reserve, too, has started two units recently,” informed field director of Project Tiger, Amrabad Tiger Reserve, B.Srinivas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/towards-a-plastic-free-jungle/article37497104.ece
15 November 2021||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||Work on medical colleges in coal belt gathers pace||Efforts to create requisite infrastructure for the proposed government medical colleges at Ramagundam and Kothagudem in the State’s coal belt region have gathered momentum with the departments concerned stepping up efforts to develop facilities in an expeditious manner. The State government has already submitted applications to the Medical Council of India (MCI) seeking its nod for setting up a total of eight new government medical colleges one each at Jagtial, Mancherial, Mahabubabad, Wanaparthy, Nagarkurnool, Sangareddy, Kothagudem and Ramagundam. The new medical colleges with an intake of 150 MBBS seats each are expected to be operationalised next year, sources said. A site at the Government Degree and PG College in the coal town of Godavarikhani in Ramagundam mandal has been tentatively identified for establishment of the proposed medical college. Sources added that efforts were on to ensure speedy construction of the buildings for the proposed college and hostels, upgradation of the facilities at the district/referral hospital to maintain the requisite bed strength as per the stipulated norms. The authorities have drawn up plans to speed up the process of creating the infrastructure and recruiting the faculty and other staff for all the proposed new medical colleges in view of the likely visit of teams from the MCI to inspect the physical infrastructure next month. Bhadradri-Kothagudem Collector D. Anudeep on Sunday inspected the site earmarked for construction of the proposed government medical college as well as nursing college at the University College of Engineering (formerly Kothagudem School of Mines) located at old Palvancha, about 6 km from the district headquarters town of Kothagudem. He reviewed the progress of works related to the proposed nursing college building for which the government has already sanctioned Rs. 5 crore. He directed the officials concerned to ensure expeditious completion of the ongoing works by the first week of December. Plans are afoot to set up 100 beds each at the proposed nursing college building and the existing Mother & Child Health Block at Ramavaram and 130 beds at the district headquarters hospital in Kothagudem to meet the requirement of 330 bed strength for the proposed medical college, sources added. The State government’s decision to set up the government medical college in the tribal dominated district drew wide appreciation from various quarters as the move is likely to expand medical education opportunities, augment public health care infrastructure and provide super-speciality services in the underserved areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/work-on-med-colleges-gathers-pace/article37497140.ece
15 November 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Sugarcane farmers on tenterhooks as mill workers continue stir||Kulkarni Satyanarayana Rao is a sugarcane farmer from Atmakur village in Sadashivapet mandal. He has cultivated the crop in an area of 12 acres, and now, the sugarcane is ready for harvest and transport to the nearby sugar mill called Ganapathi Sugars at Fasalwadi. Any delay in sugarcane crushing will get him less returns as the crop will lose its moisture content. But, he is in a helpless situation. Not only Satyanarayana Rao. Several other farmers who are dependent on Ganapathi Sugars for their income are at a loss. Reason: The employees at Ganapathi Sugars are on a strike for the last 20 days demanding wage revision. Their work will be only for three months during the season. They will be involved in other revenue generating activities in the off season. About 2.8 lakh metric tonnes of sugarcane will be the output this year in the limits of Ganapathi Sugars. In addition, sugarcane grown in the limits of Trident Sugars located at Zaheerabad is also expected to arrive here for crushing. More than 2 lakh metric tonnes of sugarcane is expected to reach here. Farmers from Andol, Vikarabad and Narsapur area will also bring their sugarcane to Ganapathi. “We are on the path of agitation for the last 20 days but the management is not responding. We are requesting the management to sign an agreement with employees and commence crushing activity,” said an employee. “The agreement between workers and the management is purely their own issue and we are in no way connected to it. However, the strike is impacting our lives. Sugarcane production was good this year due to good rains and any delay in crushing will hit the yield. We request the authorities to sort it out at the earliest and commence grinding,” Mr. Satyanarayana Rao said. Meanwhile, an official said that discussions with the employees and management will be held by the deputy commissioner of labour and the issue would be settled in a day or two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sugarcane-farmers-on-tenterhooks-as-mill-workers-continue-stir/article37497349.ece
15 November 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Everyday begins on an apprehensive note||Sirigi Gangamma is 67 years old and had lost her husband about a year ago. Her son Nagaiah, about 45 years old, is a sanitation worker and met with an accident some time back. Since then, he is unable to go for work and is dependent on his mother who has to feed him. Ganagamma is not getting old age pension and her repeated appeals to the authorities fell on deaf ears . Similar is the condition of Ankamma, another elderly woman. She gets her meal at the nearby anganwadi centre thanks to the mercy of the staff there. If it is a holiday, she has to depend on her neighbours to feed her. She has also lost her husband. For both of them, residents of Maddikunta village in Sadashivapet mandal, every morning starts with an apprehension on how to lead the day. On Sunday, when K. Naresh, a representative of ‘Little Soldiers,’ a voluntary organisation serving the poor, visited the house there was nothing to eat for both. “Psychologically, hunger begins when we start our day by brushing. Hence, she has not brushed her teeth. She consumed the banana supplied by us after brushing. We can understand their condition. In addition, she has to take care of her son Nagaiah as well,” said Mr. Naresh. The neighbours informed that she never seeks any help from others and unless someone comes voluntarily. Some times she sleeps on an empty stomach. “My husband used to get pension. But after his demise we have lost that little financial support. I have applied for pension but there has been no response. I request the officials to sanction pension and Antyodaya card so that our problems will be solved and we will not be dependent on anyone,” said Ms. Gangamma.  I request the officials to sanction pension and Antyodaya card so that our problems will be solved and we will not be dependent on anyoneGangamma||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/everyday-begins-on-an-apprehensive-note/article37497347.ece
15 November 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||5 held with cannabis oil worth Rs. 7.5 lakh||Kodad police on Sunday arrested five persons and seized 1.5 litre of cannabis oil worth Rs. 7.5 lakh. The three-member gang from Paderu and Hukumpet mandals of Visakhapatnam was smuggling the psychotropic drug to Kodad and Hyderabad via NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada). District Superintendent of Police S. Rajendra Prasad, while presenting the seized material and the accused tribals – G. John Victor, V. Bheema Raju and V. Govindu, said that the trio, drivers by occupation, were planning to make a quick buck. And to evade the increased surveillance on ganja smuggling, they were carrying the liquid extract. As per police estimate, the two packages of the oil, reportedly brought from unknown persons in the Andhra-Odisha border at Rs. 75,000, were worth Rs. 7.5 lakh in the target market at the rate of Rs. 5,000 per 10 ml. On Sunday, based on suspicion, Kodad police carried out searches on Khammam crossroads and nabbed the three tribals, and two other locals – N. Anudeep and B. Suresh – who were buying the contraband from them. A four-wheeler registered with Srikakulam RTO, Rs. 10,000 cash, weighing scale and other material were also seized. Kodad police have booked the five persons under various charges of the NDPS Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/5-held-with-cannabis-oil-worth-rs-75-lakh/article37497127.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Breather for leaders!||The release of schedule for elections to the Legislative Council from MLAs quota has given a break to political activity in masses. The TRS had to call off its Vijaya Garjana public meeting with lakhs of people at Warangal on November 29, the BJP its Praja Sangrama yatra from November 21 and the Congress Praja Chaitanya yatra from November 14. The withdrawal of these programmes has given some leaders of the three parties a breather after the Huzurabad byelection. While the losing parties are on introspection mode, BJP, which won, is on celebrations’ spree. A prominent leader of BJP hosted a dinner for party seniors at her farmhouse on Hyderabad outskirts on Saturday while some others were taking cue from her. Incidentally, she had hosted a luncheon get-together for Congress seniors at the same venue days before she quit the party to join the BJP, a couple of years ago.   The season of surprise visits, at least in government hospitals, may start again, if Finance Minister Harish Rao, who has recently been given the Health portfolio, sticks to his word. Mr. Harish Rao, during a video conference with district collectors the other day, warned that the government will not tolerate any compromise on quality of services in these hospitals. It was accordingly decided to monitor the performance of staff at every level and promotions and incentives to them will be based on it. Doesn’t it remind one of the ‘surprise visits’ during N. Chandrababu Naidu’s tenure in the erstwhile united State under full media glare?   The sudden change in guard in a key police unit a few months ago has brought in another change in the way information is disseminated. Credible sources have confirmed that a key officer has given instructions to his officers, including those in senior ranks, to be guarded with media while sharing information. As a result, officers are keeping their cards close to their chest. Interestingly, this key officer after taking charge told the media that he will continue the practice of his predecessors to maintain a cordial relationship with media in sharing information. But, things look very different now.  (N. Rahul, M. Rajeev and Abhinay Deshpande)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/breather-for-leaders/article37497135.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Dreaming of a forever home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dreaming-of-a-forever-home/article37497122.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Children’s Day!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/childrens-day/article37497352.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||page 2 Reader’s Mail||It has been a year since the start of Dharani, but teething problems still exist. There’s no option to change the status of the land and it is erroneously entered as “sold out”. Consequently, I am unable to do any transaction on those lands. I have been desperately running from pillar to post only to be told that I have to wait for a few more days for rectification. There is no option of checking the status of land matter grievance and the dashboard of grievance relating to technical issues is impractical. I request the authorities concerned to include these features or provide some backup to make the portal more robust. Syed Khaja Hussain, Hyderabad    The road from Ammuguda Railway Station towards Shaktinagar Colony has not been repaired for many years now with the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) and the GHMC passing the buck to each other. It is a major road connecting many residential colonies. Many representations have been made to authorities of both organisations but there has been no progress in this regard. I request the government to intervene and come to the rescue of scores of commuters using this road. P. Narsing Rao, Shakinagar Colony    TSTRC has unfortunately curtailed bus services to residential colonies, maybe because it is “uneconomical”. But public transport serves the poor and the middle class during these times of high price of petrol and diesel. I have appealed to RTC authorities to restore 100-R (Snehpuri Colony to Nampally), 90-D (Dilsukhnagar to Secunderabad Station) and 100 (Alkapuri Colony to Nampally), all of which pass through RK Puram colonies of IT, Alkapuri, Snehpuri and Telephone. Now that COVID-19 situation has eased, State-run buses must also be restored on all routes as a social welfare measure. B. Rajendra Prasad, RK Puram    The merger of public sector banks may have been smooth but for the old customers of non-existing banks, it has become a nightmare. It appears the staff and infrastructure issues are yet to be sorted out as was evident when I recently approached a bank at Golkonda crossroads and was aghast to find a big queue for getting printouts or to update passbook. Just one printer and another was lying unrepaired, and staff strength was minimal. I request the banking authorities to make services hassle-free for existing customers. K.S. Narayana, Vidyanagar    This is with reference to my previous letter about the ‘Wrong Signage’ near the Sobhana complex at  Babu Jagjivan Ram - Balanagar Flyover. I wish to express special thanks to the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority for correcting the signboard indications of Jeedimetla and Fatehnagar .  These clear-cut indications are now helpful to all the new commuters using the line. K.M. Ramayanam, Balanagar  (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns.   They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu. co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-2-readers-mail/article37497097.ece
15 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha steps up drive against hemp cultivation||Stepping up the crackdown against cannabis cultivation in Odisha, the Malkangiri district administration has destroyed cannabis hemp plants grown over 250 acres within the past one week. “In continuation of the special drive against ganja cultivation, a team of Mudulipada police station has destroyed hemp plants cultivated in about 65 acres of land in the Badadural area. We will continue our drive by spreading out to cultivation areas in other parts of the district,” said Prahlad Sahai Meena, Malkangiri Superintendent of Police. The police destroyed about 65,000 plants. Worst-hit area Malkangiri continues to be the worst-affected district as far as the presence of Left-Wing Extremism is concerned. The cannabis cultivation is taken up clandestinely deep in the forest. Illicit cultivation is flourishing in remote areas with the support of Left ultras. In separate drives taken up in Kalimela, Chitrakonda and Mathili police station limits of the district, a total of 1,89,000 hemp plants were felled and set on fire in 135 acres of land at three places Rajulukonda (Chitrakonda), Tekguda (Kalimela) and Gumajharam (Mathili). Similarly, Chitrakonda police also destroyed hemp plants at Rajulkonda-Bangur-Rekhapalli area, cultivated on about over 70 acres. During this process, almost 98,000 cannabis plants were destroyed. Odisha is one of the leading ganja (cannabis) producing States in India. In 2019-20, hemp plants were destroyed in 18,295 acres, it went up to 23,538 acres in 10 districts in 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/odisha-steps-up-drive-against-hemp-cultivation/article37497015.ece
15 November 2021||Bulandshahr,||Congress to go solo in U.P. polls, contest all 403 seats: Priyanka||The Congress will contest all 403 seats in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls on its own and emerge victorious in the electoral battle, party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Sunday. Ruling out an alliance with any political party, she said the leaders of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (SP) were nowhere to be seen even when the 2017 Unnao rape case and the Hathras gangrape-and-murder case in 2020 rocked the country, adding that only the Congress was fighting for the people. Addressing the party cadre at the Pratigya Sammelan - Lakshya 2022 in Anoopshahr here, the Congress general secretary stressed on the importance of the Uttar Pradesh polls for the party, calling it a “do-or-die” situation. Emphasising that the electoral contest can only be won by strengthening the party at the booth level, she called upon the Congress workers to bolster the booth committees. ‘Post all party activities’ Priyanka Gandhi asked the Congress workers to be active on social media and post all party activities on various social networking platforms. Taking a jibe at the ruling BJP, she said the party has no respect for the freedom movement as its leaders did not shed blood and sweat for the country’s independence, and added that only leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and B.R .Ambedkar envisioned freedom for the country. The Congress leader said her party has not only brought development but has also promoted brotherhood and harmony. Hitting out at the BJP-led government at the Centre over the rising fuel prices, she said for 70 years, the Congress ensured that the fuel prices did not shoot up above Rs. 70 per litre. However, in the last seven years, the BJP government has let the guard down, which has allowed the prices to shoot upwards of Rs. 100 per litre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/congress-to-go-solo-in-up-polls-contest-all-403-seats-priyanka/article37497219.ece
15 November 2021||Bulandshahr,||Congress to go solo in U.P. polls, says Priyanka||The Congress will contest all 403 seats in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls on its own and emerge victorious in the electoral battle, party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Sunday. Ruling out an alliance with any political party, she said the leaders of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (SP) were nowhere to be seen even when the 2017 Unnao rape case and the Hathras gangrape-and-murder case in 2020 rocked the country, adding that only the Congress was fighting for the people. Addressing the party cadre at the Pratigya Sammelan - Lakshya 2022 in Anoopshahr here, the Congress general secretary stressed on the importance of the Uttar Pradesh polls for the party, calling it a “do-or-die” situation. Emphasising that the electoral contest can only be won by strengthening the party at the booth level, she called upon the Congress workers to bolster the booth committees. ‘Post all party activities’ Priyanka Gandhi asked the Congress workers to be active on social media and post all party activities on various social networking platforms. Taking a jibe at the ruling BJP, she said the party has no respect for the freedom movement as its leaders did not shed blood and sweat for the country’s independence, and added that only leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and B.R. Ambedkar envisioned freedom for the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/congress-to-go-solo-in-up-polls-says-priyanka/article37497012.ece
15 November 2021||Chandigarh,||Sonu Sood’s sister joins politics||Actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood on Sunday said his sister Malvika is joining politics, but added he has no such plans for himself. Ms. Malvika said she will contest the 2022 Punjab Assembly polls from Moga. Mr. Sood, who is from Moga district, said his sister has done a lot of amazing work in the past. “We today officially want to say that Malvika will certainly come to serve Punjab,” Mr. Sood said. Asked about joining any political party, Mr. Sood said no decision has yet been taken. “We have not yet taken a call about the party. Whenever the time comes, we will make sure that we let you know,” he said. “It is a very big decision in life. Malvika is strongly rooted in Moga…For me (joining politics), I have not thought of it,” he said. On his recent meetings with Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, Mr. Sood said both are good people. On Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, he said he would meet him too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sonu-soods-sister-joins-politics/article37497223.ece
15 November 2021||Coimbatore,||School principal arrested||The Coimbatore city police on Sunday arrested the principal of a private school after a 17-year-old girl ended her life on Thursday alleging sexual assault by one of her teachers. Principal Meera Jackson, alias Mini Jackson, was arrested for failure to report the assault on the Class XII student to the police, said T. Jayachandran, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order). Police sources said she was arrested under Section 21 (2) (punishment for failure to report or record a case) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The teacher, Mithun Chakravarthy, 31, was held on Friday under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 9 (l) (whoever commits sexual assault on the child more than once or repeatedly), read with 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault), of the POCSO Act. Mr. Jayachandran, who questioned Meera Jackson, along with DCP (Crime) E.S. Uma, for several hours since the morning, said the investigation would cover whether the girl was sexually assaulted by anyone else and whether there were other reasons for her death by suicide ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling ‘ Sneha’ 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/school-principal-arrested/article37497013.ece
15 November 2021||Ghaziabad,||Noida STF team nabs two kidnappers, rescues man||A man was rescued from a car by the Noida Special Task Force (STF) after he was allegedly kidnapped for ransom, the police said on Sunday. The Noida STF freed Amit Kumar, a resident of Bulandshahr district and currently living in Ghaziabad, from the clutches of the abductors, Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Raj Kumar Mishra attached to the Noida STF said. On Saturday evening, the STF team arrested two men near Hindan Bridge under the Teela Mod police station limits. They were identified as Jasbir alias Kaloo and Yogesh who were taking Mr. Kumar in a car and were searching for a safe place to hide him for extorting ransom, the police officer said. Kaloo confessed to committing several crimes like looting and attempt to murder, including smuggling of illicit arms from Indore with his neighbour Shaka’s help. A police uniform, a countrymade pistol of .32 bore, five live cartridges and a car used for the kidnapping were seized, Mr. Mishra added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/noida-stf-team-nabs-two-kidnappers-rescues-man/article37497011.ece
15 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana petrol pump owners to go on day-long strike today||The petrol pump owners in Haryana have announced a 24-hour-long strike from Monday morning seeking reduction in the value added tax (VAT) on diesel and petrol to bring the rates on par with Punjab and an increase in the dealers’ commission, among other things. Around 6,000 petrol pumps are expected to remain shut from 6 a.m. on the call given by the All-Haryana Petroleum Dealers Association and the Petroleum Dealers Welfare Association of Haryana. Rakesh Kumar, vice-president, All-Haryana Petroleum Dealer Association, told The Hindu that one of their four demands is a curb on the illegal use of base oil as motor fuel. “The illegal use not only causes financial loss to the dealers due to fall in demand but also damages parts of vehicles and is highly polluting.” Huge loss He also said the Government had reduced the excise duty and the VAT on petrol and diesel without prior notice causing huge loss to them on their existing stock and demanded compensation for it. A dealer, on the condition of anonymity, said fuel retailers operating at wafer thin margins were subjected to sudden price shocks of around Rs. 12 per litre on petrol and diesel. On the other demands, Mr. Kumar said, “In 2017, the Government promised to increase the dealers’ commission every six months but has not kept its word narrowing our margins. The costs have escalated but the commission has not been increased. Also, the diesel and petrol in Punjab are cheaper compared to Haryana, causing loss to the owners in the border areas. The Haryana Government must reduce VAT to bring it on par with Punjab.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/haryana-petrol-pump-owners-to-go-on-day-long-strike-today/article37497004.ece
15 November 2021||Lakhimpur Kheri,||Dudhwa National Park set to reopen for tourists from today||The Dudhwa National Park is set to open for tourists from November 15, a senior official said on Sunday. Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) Field Director Sanjay Kumar Pathak said tourists wishing to visit the rhino area in south Sunaripur range will have to wait for a few days more as the rhino area is still swampy and not fit for elephant movements. “As per government directives, the Dudhwa National Park would now be opened for tourists from November 15. However, due to heavy water-logging still prevailing in Sathiyana, the area would not be allowed for tourist activities till further instructions,” he said. The park was earlier scheduled to open from November 1. However, untimely heavy rains, unprecedented discharge of 5,33,000 cusecs of water into the Sharda river from Banbasa barrage that flooded Mohana and Suheli rivers passing through Dudhwa National Park disturbed the schedule. Mr. Pathak said, “elderly persons over 60 years of age would have to (mandatorily) produce their vaccination certificates on entering the Dudhwa National Park area, while other tourists between 18 to 60 years of age may be randomly asked to produce their vaccination certificates.” He added every tourist must follow COVID-19 protocols while visiting the park. Located on the India-Nepal border, the Dudhwa National Park attracts tourists, wildlife enthusiasts and researchers every year with its untouched natural habitat, rich grasslands, wetlands and a vast population of wild life species. It is home to Royal Bengal tigers, wild elephants, 400 species of birds, five species of deer including swamp deer, various species of reptiles, medicinal plants and vegetation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dudhwa-national-park-to-reopen-from-today/article37497222.ece
15 November 2021||Medininagar (Jharkhand),||BJP youth wing leader found dead inside car||The body of Sumit Srivastav, a BJP youth wing leader, was found inside his car on National Highway 98 in Palamu district on Sunday, with the police suspecting that he might have been murdered, a senior police officer said. Morning walkers spotted the body of the 26-year-old Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) leader in the vehicle on the Medininagar-Aurangabad Road on NH-98, Superintendent of Police Chandan Kumar Sinha said. The car was locked and bloodstain was found on the victim’s head, Mr. Sinha said. Srivastav was suspected to have been murdered with a sharp weapon, the police officer said. On receiving a call on his mobile phone on Friday midnight, the BJP leader had left his hotel in his vehicle after informing his younger brother, the he said. “We are verifying the call details and the culprits will be arrested soon,” Mr. Sinha said. Srivastav was murdered elsewhere and the body was dumped in his car, which the accused locked and fled, he said. The victim's lawyer father, Vijay Kumar Sinha, told the police that the family had dinner together at 10.30 pm on Friday and as usual Sumit along with his younger brother Jatin went to sleep in their hotel, 100 metres from their residence. On Friday midnight, Srivastav had left the hotel after receiving a call and did not return home, he said. Shops and markets in Hariharganj block remained closed in protest against the death of the leader who was a treasurer of the BJYM of Palamu district unit. BJP serves ultimatum District chief of BJP Vijayanand Pathak has served an ultimatum of 12 hours to the police to apprehend the perpetrators failing which, he said, the party will launch an agitation. The body has been sent for post-mortem to Medinirai Medical College here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-youth-wing-leader-found-dead-inside-car/article37497221.ece
15 November 2021||Mumbai,||Sensitisation needed in childcare: Lokur||Former Supreme Court Judge Madan B. Lokur called for greater sensitisation and proper training for dealing with children, while raising concerns over care accorded to vulnerable and orphaned children Justice (retd.) Lokur was speaking on a podcast ‘Care of the State’ hosted by Catalysts For Social Action (CSA), a non-government organisation (NGO) that works with children under institutional care. In September 2013, Justice Lokur was appointed as the one-man Committee to suggest improvements in the working of homes and organisations under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2000, and the Juvenile Justice Rules, 2007. Satyajeet Majumdar, head of advocacy at CSA spoke to him about children who are in need of care and protection and children who are in conflict with law. Justice Lokur said, “Many of them are kept in children’s homes, which are run by the State and many of them are kept in homes that are run by NGOs, well-meaning people. They are taken care of in terms of food, clothing and shelter, [but] the quality of care is a different issue.” Duty of the State Justice Lokur explained, “The duty of the State and NGOs who run homes for children is quite vast. Many times, a child in conflict with law, who has committed a crime is someone in need of care and protection. If a child robs, the question is ‘Why is the child doing that? Is there some particular reason that has prompted the child to do that?’ And once you get into the mind of the child, to try to understand why a crime has been committed, one will probably come to the conclusion that the child needs care and protection. Then it is the duty of the State and NGOs to provide relief.” “Then there are children who are victims of circumstances like COVID-19 orphans who have lost both parents. In many cases, children are victims of domestic violence, there are times when a parent remarries and abandons the child, children go missing, children get abducted or kidnapped or are forced into child labour, trafficking. So, after they are identified they are produced before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) that has the responsibility to take care of the child.” he said. Arlene Manoharan, the Head of Restorative Practices at Enfold India, an organisation addressing gender-based violence and child sexual abuse, spoke on the role of the CWCs. “Under the Juvenile Justice Act, there is a CWC, that consists of five individuals; chairperson and four other individuals, one of whom has to be a woman. It is a multi-disciplinary body where a teacher, a doctor, a social worker, or counselor, persons with relevant experience for a minimum of seven years and even psychiatrists can be a part. This body is vested with the power of a Judicial Magistrate of the first class to conduct inquiries related to children who may be a child in need of care and protection,” she said. Laws and sensitivity Ms. Manoharan added, “There around 18 different kinds of laws enacted to provide entitlements for children. We also have the child helpline, which I think is a huge resource for many children who are impacted by violence by crime and who just have to call 1098 to get access to help across India. I only hope that this ChildLine is also established within childcare institutions, within police stations, where children may be at harm by the duty bearers themselves.” Justice Lokur also expressed concern about the lack of sensitivity towards problems faced by children and pending cases before the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB). “There are awareness campaigns and child rights campaigns which have led to awareness and woken up the civil society and State authorities. However, there still is a lack of sensitivity. There are some Special Juvenile Police Units which are not adequately trained and some are only on paper,” he said. Regular hearings He added that JJB’s need to assemble and hear cases on a regular basis because the whole philosophy behind a JJB is reintegration, restoration and rehabilitation. Ms. Manoharan also emphasized on the need to not have any cuts in the budgets for children. She said, “The budget for children in 2021 in the Union budget was only 3.16%. I would definitely talk about the need for the budget to not be lowered and the existing budgets to be enhanced.” Justice Lokur concluded by saying, “We need greater sensitization about the rights of children... In civil society, police, government, the persons who matter should be trained.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sensitisation-needed-in-childcare-lokur/article37497218.ece
15 November 2021||New Delhi,||Driven by a burning desire||Eight months into her marriage, 28-year-old Shivani had developed a habit of waiting for her husband Amit Baliyan’s call early in the morning when he was on duty as a fire operator at the office of Delhi Fire Services (DFS). The morning of January 2, 2020, was no different. Amit was in office and Shivani was waiting for his 7 a.m. call to start her day. As her wait stretched from minutes to hours, Shivani knew something was not right. Her cell phone rang finally but the call was from Amit’s office. The 29-year-old fire operator had been crushed under the debris of a four-storey building housing a battery factory at Peeragarhi in Udyog Nagar. A sudden blaze inside the premises caused an explosion and parts of the building collapsed, trapping a civilian and 18 fire brigade personnel. While the rest of his colleagues were rescued, Amit’s body was recovered around 1 p.m. He was rushed to a hospital where the doctors declared him brought dead. Sitting at her house in north-east Delhi’s Meet Nagar, Shivani recalled, “We had seen on television  that his colleagues had been rescued. It gave me hope that Amit too would survive but that was not meant to be. I knew the risks involved in his job but we never expected such an incident to happen.” Anuj Baliyan, Amit’s younger brother, said their father, a Delhi Police officer, kept telling them that Amit would be fine. “Our eyes were glued to the TV for some news on his rescue. Instead, we learnt that his body had been recovered from the debris,” said Anuj. Shivani, who works as a constable with the Uttar Pradesh Police, and Amit’s mother have received the stipulated Rs. 1 crore ex gratia, in addition to Rs. 50 lakh monetary help from the DFS. ‘Unfulfilled’ promise Anuj said the Delhi Government’s promise to provide the same post to Amit’s kin has remained unfulfilled. “I have written to several Government officers and even to the Lieutenant-Governor (Anil Baijal), but nothing has come through.” DFS chief Atul Garg, however, said the matter is under process. As many as 156 DFS personnel have suffered non-fatal injuries in various rescue operations between January 2018 and October 11 this year, consisting of 98 fire operators, 25 leading firemen, 13 sub-officers, 14 station officers, two assistant divisional officers, and four divisional officers. Amit is one of the seven deaths on duty in the DFS since 2018. Recently, fire operator Praveen Kumar, 30, who had joined the service in 2019, succumbed to burn injuries he sustained while dousing a fire in a building in Bhorgarh, Narela. These deaths, though alarming, do little to shake the determination of the firefighters, who are guided by a burning desire to rescue as many lives as they can. Serious injuries Mahavir Singh, 57, posted at Jawala Heri fire station as a leading fireman, recalled an incident in Chandni Chowk in 2010 when a major fire broke out in a building. “My colleague and I were inside the building when the blast happened. An LPG cylinder exploded and the structure collapsed on us. Both of us sustained serious injuries,” said Mr. Singh, who suffered 70% burns in the incident. He had to undergo plastic surgery on parts of his face. “I returned to duty after nine months. I can’t sit idle for long. Firefighting makes me happy, nothing else matters,” he said. Sharing one of his most cherished memories, Mr. Singh said, “In a building fire incident at Kalkaji, a girl and her dog were trapped inside their house. I entered the premises as my colleagues extinguished the flames around me. I managed to save both the lives that day.” “Whenever a big incident happens, I feel hurt if I am not part of the rescue operation,” said Mr. Singh. Even on his off days, if he hears a siren, Mr. Singh comes running from the staff quarters to check what happened. “My children ask me to stay away from major fires but I cannot stop myself if there is a big incident,” he said, adding, “It has often happened that a lot of my colleagues have cut down on their leaves only to be part of a major rescue operation.” ‘Tough as the Army’ For fire operator Manjeet Rana, 34, posted at Kirti Nagar fire station, it was a choice between the Army or the fire service. “Due to some documentation issues, I couldn’t make it to the Army but thankfully I got through as a fireman,” he said. Mr. Rana, who was also part of the Peeragarhi rescue operation last year, said that it became his most important mission ever since he joined the service two years ago. “After the building collapsed, I remained under the debris for several hours and was rescued around noon. All my veins were blocked. My left eye and right shoulder had to be operated upon. I still struggle with body pain,” he said. Mr. Rana said once a fire call is made, a team reaches the location and it has to quickly analyse the situation. “Usually, two teams are formed — one that does the firefighting and the other that rescues the trapped persons. We also have to ensure that there is limited monetary loss due to the blaze,” he said. Often, problems arise when the fire engine is not able to enter the narrow lanes of a locality, in which case the firemen extend the hose up to several metres in order to reach the spot, Mr. Rana said. “A fireman dies either after being burnt or being crushed. All we have in our defence is an extinguisher. Does that make our job any less tough than the Army?” he asked. Narrow  escape Station officer Satyawan Singh, who joined the service as a fire operator in 1990, said he doesn’t bother much about getting burn injuries. The 56-year-old, who was also part of the firefighting mission inside the Peeragarhi factory along with Amit, Mr. Singh, and Mr. Rana, said that the explosion pushed him aside and he crashed into a wall, narrowly escaping death. “All the heat and dust from the blast affected my eyes and I was not able to see anything but I somehow I managed to escape safely along with my equipment,” said Mr. Satyawan, a father of four children. Hailing from Panipat in Haryana, Mr. Satyawan works a 72-hour shift before getting a 24-hour rest period. Recalling another incident, he said once a slum cluster near the Yamuna caught fire and he, along with three other firemen, carried out the rescue operation. “By the time we had rescued all persons, the blaze had spread so much that all four of us had to jump into the river to save ourselves,” he said. However, Mr. Satyawan claimed that it was his passion to save lives of people. “ Jaise fauji border pe reh kar hamare desh ki raksha karta hain, vaise hi hum logon ki aag se suraksha karte hain [Like the Army protects the country from enemies, we protect people from fire].” Amit, Mr. Singh, Mr. Rana, and Mr. Satyawan are among the recipients of this year’s President’s Fire Service Medal for Gallantry for their commendable work during the Peeragarhi fire incident. The DFS c hief agreed that the job of a fireman comes with its fair share of risks. “In Delhi, most buildings function without an NOC (no objection certificate) and while the building may have been sanctioned for a particular purpose, it is later revealed that some other work has been going on all the while,” Mr. Garg said. Often, multiple activities take place inside a single building — “like a factory godown is set up on the first floor, the workers cook their food on the second floor and the third floor is meant for them to take rest”, said Mr. Garg, adding, “You never know when or how a blast will occur in the property in such cases.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/driven-by-a-burning-desire/article37496999.ece
15 November 2021||New Delhi,||City’s air quality improves; Govt. resorts to emergency measures||The air quality in the Capital improved to the “very poor” category on Sunday after remaining in the “severe” level for the last three days. This comes on a day when the Delhi Government, in a move to control local sources of air and dust pollution, decided to close educational institutions and ban construction activities, while encouraging work from home. According to the data provided by the Central Pollution Control Board, the average air quality index (AQI) over the past 24 hours ending at 4 p.m. on Sunday, based on the reading from 36 monitoring stations, was 330. The AQI was 437 on Saturday, down from 471 on Friday. The improvement in the air quality has been attributed to the increase in wind speeds which dispersed pollutants. Shallow fog The forecast shared by the Central Government-run Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi shows that the air quality is likely to deteriorate but remain in the “very poor” category on Monday and Tuesday. Shallow to moderate fog is likely on Tuesday morning. Environment Minister Gopal Rai said that his department has issued orders under the Environment Protection Act, 1986, regarding closure of schools, colleges, skill development centres, and educational institutions till November 20. Only in cases where examinations are being conducted, will the institutions be allowed to open, he added. Construction and demolition projects have been put on hold till November 17 to curb dust pollution while the Delhi Government offices and Government autonomous agencies will remain closed till November 17. The Minister said that on November 17, the ban on construction will be reviewed as it has been estimated that the pollution levels are going to escalate in the coming days. “The objective of these emergency measures is to cut down on vehicular pollution, giving the people of Delhi some relief. An advisory has been issued to private offices to follow suit and help this initiative have an impact on the pollution levels,” Mr. Rai said. Sisodia appeals to people Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia appealed to the people to take small steps at the personal level like turning off the engine at traffic signals and using public transport for at least one day every month to make the city healthy and pollution-free. He was speaking at a ‘Yuddh Pradushan Ke Virrudh’ campaign conducted by the Delhi Government’s Dialogue and Development Commission in association with Raahgiri Foundation at Patparganj. Mr. Sisodia said there is a need to work at three levels to reduce pollution in Delhi. It is the Government responsibility to make rules and regulations, introduce systems to facilitate enforcement, conduct awareness campaigns, and take action against violators. Secondly, he said, industry and construction stakeholders should reduce their share of pollution, and in the third step, the citizens of Delhi need to come forward and bring down pollution at the individual and community levels. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/citys-air-quality-improves-govt-resorts-to-emergency-measures/article37496990.ece
15 November 2021||New Delhi,||Pandemic curve plummets, corruption graph shoots up||After witnessing a brief slowdown following the advent of the pandemic last year, alleged corruption in the city’s Government departments appears to be back with a vengeance. The number of complaints alleging graft against officials posted in various Government departments received by the Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) till the end of September surpassed the total number of complaints filed with the ACB throughout 2020 by over 12%, it stated in response to a Right to Information query from The Hindu . From 180 in 2018, the total number of complaints alleging corruption received by the ACB fell to 85 in 2019 and 56 in 2020. However, till the end of September 2021, as many as 63 complaints have been recorded, registering an increase of 12.5%. On the other hand, the number of cases registered on the basis of these complaints as well as the number of Government officials arrested for alleged graft was found trailing by mere single digits compared to 2020. But, no Government official was convicted either in 2020 or till September this year. The ACB had registered 12 cases of alleged graft and arrested 11 Government officials in 2020. Till the end of September 2021, a total of 11 cases have been registered and 10 Government employees have been arrested. From 2015 to September 30 this year, prominent departments such as revenue saw 15, Delhi Jal Board (DJB) 11, education 10, health 9 and the municipal corporations of Delhi 8 cases registered against their employees by the anti-graft body. Few convictions The most number of arrests, 21, were of DJB officials followed by 18 of Revenue Department, 11 civic body, and 10 Education Department officials. However, as many as 11 civic body employees were convicted during the period compared to only two officials, each, from the Revenue and Health Departments and one each from departments, including Excise, PWD and Education. Not even a single DJB official was convicted during the period. Of the total number of 1,212 complaints alleging graft received by it from 2015 till September this year, 100 or 8.25% were converted into cases. Court challans — a pre-requisite for a trial – were filed in 106 or 8.75% cases. Arrests were made in 90 or 7.43% of the cases and convictions secured in 23 or 1.9%. The ACB, created in 1975, was envisioned as a police station with jurisdiction ‘all over the National Capital Territory of Delhi’ and mandated with the investigation of offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act (1988). In addition to the power to conduct inquiries against public servants of the Delhi Government and departments under the L-G, the ACB, till mid-2015, had the power to probe graft complaints against officials posted in departments such as the Delhi Police and the DDA, if the instances of alleged graft unfolded within the borders of the Capital. Powers curtailed Between 2014 and 2015, back-to-back directives were issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) effectively curtailing its ambit and power to investigate graft complaints against officials employed by the Central Government. Sources said the seemingly ‘low’ complaint-to-case conversion ratio was due to this ‘change in the remit’ of the anti-graft body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pandemic-curve-plummets-corruption-graph-shoots-up/article37497010.ece
15 November 2021||New Delhi,||Two Ugandan nationals with over 12 kg of heroin arrested||Customs officers at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport have arrested two Ugandan nationals and seized 12.9 kg of heroin worth Rs. 90 crore from their possession. Officials said on Sunday that the two women, who had arrived from Nairobi in Kenya, were arrested on the intervening night of November 12 and 13. “The smugglers had passed through several jurisdictions, including Uganda, Kenya and India, before being intercepted. The heroin was concealed in the false bottom of their check-in luggage,” the officials said. Sniffed by dog squad The officials said that the baggage of the two passengers was sniffed by the dog squad of the Customs, which indicated the presence of narcotic substance. “On detailed search and questioning, the two admitted to have brought the heroine by concealing it in the specially made cavities beneath the fake layer of fibre-plastic base on both sides of their check-in suitcases,” they said. One of the women revealed that she was introduced to a Kenyan national who had promised her money in exchange of delivery of certain goods in Delhi following which she travelled to Nairobi from Kampala by road. There, the Kenyan handed over a bag to her which was to be delivered in Delhi and also provided tickets and certain documents to cover her visit as a medical tourist. “She was supposed to deliver the goods to a person who would contact her on exit,” the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-ugandan-nationals-with-over-12-kg-of-heroin-arrested/article37496988.ece
15 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks details of pending cases before consumer forum||After coming across an insurance claim case that remained undecided before a consumer forum here for over 14 years, the Delhi High Court, taking a strong view, has called for records of other similar cases pending before the forum and their status. Justice Prathiba M. Singh also directed the District Consumer Dispute Redressal Forum (West), Janakpuri, Delhi, where the insurance claim case was pending, to decide it before December 20. The court’s direction came while hearing a plea of a man who came aggrieved that the District Consumer Dispute Redressal Forum (West), Janakpuri, has, till date, not decided his consumer complaint, which was filed in 2007. The man had lost his son, who was just 13 years of age, and had filed a consumer complaint seeking compensation against the Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) and the Employees State Insurance Hospital. The father’s case was that there was medical negligence, which led to the demise of his young son. Fast-track cases “Such cases ought to be adjudicated expeditiously and with alacrity. This delay of 14 years has taken place despite the parties having concluded evidence within one year of the filing of the complaint, because the forum has not finally heard the matter and passed the final judgment. There can be no justification for such a long delay in finally hearing the matter,” Justice Singh said. During the hearing, the lawyers representing both sides raised various grievances about the manner in which the forum is functioning, besides the issue of delay in this specific case. They submitted that the consumer forum does not assemble on time and on several occasions, presiding officers do not hold court. They also submitted that on most occasions, proceedings are not held for the entire duration of the working hours. Moreover, counsel of both sides informed the High Court that the vacancies in the consumer forum have now been filled and the requisite quorum is available for hearing the matters. Cause for concern Taking note of the submission made by the counsel, Justice Singh said the manner of functioning of the consumer forum was a “cause for consternation”. The court called for a list of cases or complaints pending for final hearing from the forum, Janakpuri. The High Court also asked about the status of vacancies of presiding officers, including chairperson and members of the consumer forum, and if there was any infrastructural requirements. It will hear the case again on January 6 next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-seeks-details-of-pending-cases-before-consumer-forum/article37497001.ece
15 November 2021||New Delhi,||Be ready to implement ‘emergency measures’, CAQM tells States||The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas (CAQM) on Sunday directed the States and the agencies concerned to be in a complete readiness for implementing the ‘emergency measures’ listed under the Graded Response Action Plan. It also advised the Governments of Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh to consider the restrictions in their respective NCR districts as implemented by the Delhi Government like closure of schools. The advisory followed a meeting by the CAQM held in the wake of the deteriorating air quality in Delhi-NCR. The CAQM in a statement said that the adverse air quality in the Delhi-NCR is a combined result of stubble burning, vehicular pollution, pollution after Deepavali, dip in temperature, and other local factors. The air quality was also impacted by a dust storm moving in from the south-westerly direction of the Thar desert, which further amplified the PM2.5/PM10 levels significantly, it said. The commission said it has identified five factors that are contributing to the poor air quality in Delhi-NCR. The measures, it suggested, are to control stubble burning, reduce dust from construction and demolition activities, check dust from roads and open areas, and cut down on vehicular and industry pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/be-ready-to-implement-emergency-measures-caqm-tells-states/article37496991.ece
15 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC directs civic body, police to clear illegal vendors from Bungalow Road||The Delhi High Court has ordered the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and the Delhi Police to remove illegal vendors from the no-hawking and no-vending zone on Bungalow Road at Kamla Nagar. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh directed the authorities to submit a status report before the next date of hearing on February 10 next year. Information boards The High Court further asked the authorities to install boards informing the public that it is a no-hawking and no-vending zone. The court’s direction came while hearing a petition filed by the Bungalow Road Jawahar Nagar Traders’ Association seeking directions to the authorities to ensure that there is no illegal squatting and vending in the area as it is an admitted position that the area is a no-hawking and no-vending zone duly notified by the North Delhi civic body. The petition, filed through advocate Ashish Dixit, said that the authorities, on the contrary, have impliedly permitted illegal activity by not taking action against the violators. Glaring violation The traders’ association said it has approached the court against the glaring violation of legal and fundamental rights of shopkeepers and the residents of the area. The association said it has made several representations to the authorities but they have yielded no results, forcing it to knock the door of the High Court. The plea claimed that even during the pandemic, the illegal squatting and vending was continuing unabated in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-directs-civic-body-police-to-clear-illegal-vendors-from-bungalow-road/article37496987.ece
15 November 2021||New Delhi,||Capital reports 36 fresh COVID-19 cases, 1 death||The Capital recorded one death and 36 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi Government on Sunday. The Government conducted 54,161 tests in the same period with a positivity rate of 0.7%. There are 349 active COVID cases in Delhi, of whom 158 are in home isolation. Under the vaccination drive, 1,13,420 beneficiaries were administered the vaccine in the last 24 hours, of whom 38,043 received their first dose. A total of 2,12,39,154 beneficiaries have been vaccinated so far, of whom 79,24,806 have received both doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-reports-36-fresh-covid-19-cases-1-death/article37497006.ece
15 November 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. proposes RO water ATMs in JJ clusters||People living in JJ clusters in Delhi will not have to stand in queues for long for water tankers as the Government plans to install around 1,000 RO water vending machines there by the end of next year, which will operate round the clock. The water ATMs will be installed on the existing tube wells at Government facilities, such as those belonging to the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board, a Government official said. “The work on the project will get under way by April 2022 and will be completed by December 2022,” the official said. These water dispensing systems will gradually replace tankers which cause a lot of inconvenience to people dwelling in such clusters, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-proposes-ro-water-atms-in-jj-clusters/article37497008.ece
15 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Virtual book fair launched for students||To inculcate reading habit in students, the Delhi Government has launched a virtual book fair for Government school students where they can get their desired books delivered to their libraries. Speaking at the launch of the initiative on Sunday, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that the students will be able to choose the best books for their libraries, place online orders on the publishers’ websites, and the books will be delivered to the schools. “Books play an important role in the all-round development of children and our aim is to provide quality books to the children studying in Government schools. The online platform of Virtual Mega Book Fair will play an important role in this direction and children will be able to access quality books,” Mr. Sisodia said. This year, Mr. Sisodia said, the Delhi Government has allocated Rs. 9 crore for 1,031 Government schools to buy books that not only serve as a source of knowledge but also have significant social and emotional impact. He added that the book fair allows the teachers and students to take a virtual tour by visiting the website of the Directorate of Education and choose from 8,000 books by 220 publishers selected for the fair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/virtual-book-fair-launched-for-students/article37497005.ece
15 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP blames AAP for pollution emergency||The BJP on Sunday blamed the Delhi Government for the air pollution emergency that has arisen in the Capital and said the Kejriwal Government has failed in every crisis. BJP MLAs said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal should resign taking moral responsibility. They also demanded a complete lockdown in Delhi for a week to find out the contribution of stubble burning to the pollution and what is the role of factors inside the city. Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said the Delhi Government kept on announcing measures but practically did not take any step apart from the installation of a smog tower in Connaught Place, which too had proven ineffective. “If there is pollution in Delhi due to stubble burning, then States like Punjab and Haryana should have more pollution than Delhi because it is happening there. The pollution level on Sunday in various cities of Punjab is lesser than that of Delhi,” Mr. Bidhuri said. He added that the collapse of the public transport system and the state of Delhi’s roads are also to be blamed for the bad air quality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-blames-aap-for-pollution-emergency/article37496992.ece
15 November 2021||New Delhi,||Arnab- Fire||Five people sustained burn injuries after an LPG cylinder blast at a JJ cluster in north-east Delhi’s Azadpur, the Delhi Fire Services said. DFS chief Atul Garg said that after receiving the fire call, three fire tenders were rushed to the spot. “An LPG cylinder blast occurred in a 25-yard jhuggi injuring five people. All of them have been moved to a nearby hospital while the cooling operation continues,” Mr. Garg said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/arnab-fire/article37497002.ece
15 November 2021||Patna,||Congress’s bid to woo upper caste comes a cropper in Bihar||After the Congress lost the two Assembly bypolls in Bihar on November 2, with both the seats being retained by the ruling JD(U), political circles are abuzz with questions on whether the former was losing ground in its bid to woo the upper caste voters and what would be its future strategy in the State. Coming out of the Mahagathbandhan (grand alliance), the Congress had fielded candidates on both the seats — one of them was from an upper caste — and both lost their security deposits. The party had even sent former Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union president Kanhaiya Kumar, who belongs to the upper caste Bhumihar community, for campaigning. Both the candidates came at fourth place. A good number of the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee members, including its president Madan Mohan Jha, come from upper caste. At Tarapur bypoll, the party had fielded an upper caste candidate, Rajesh Kumar Mishra, but he polled a mere 3,590 votes with a vote share of just 2.2%. At the traditional seat of Kusheshwarsthan (reserved seat) from where senior Congress leader Ashok Kumar had polled 34,265 votes and had lost to the JD(U) candidate by a little over 7,000 voters in the 2020 Assembly polls, his son Atirek Kumar polled only 4.28% votes. When asked why the upper caste voters didn’t vote for the Congress candidate in Tarapur, Bimal Chandra Singh, a Rajput transport businessman, told The Hindu , “We didn’t want to lose our vote.” “The Congress leaders are seen only during the election time. And for the rest of period, they indulge only in making statements or in intra-party infighting,” he added. In Kusheshwarsthan, where the upper caste voters have negligible presence, Satya Prakash Jha said, “The Congress has to revamp its Bihar unit and start working at the ground level while making a connection with its traditional voters.” ‘Shifted to BJP’ “Since the party has been with the RJD and the Yadav caste in the grand alliance for so long, the upper caste vote bank of the Congress has shifted to the BJP. Now the party has to do a rigorous overhauling to make its presence felt in the State,” added his friend Ritesh Anand. “The Congress’s show at both the seats was a poor reflection of how the party has failed miserably in wooing the upper caste voters in the State. Kanhaiya Kumar may deliver an impressive speech but he is not a guarantee to get our votes for the Congress. The party has to connect with the grassroot leaders and voters,” Rajesh Singh from Tarapur Bazaar said. Political observers too agree that the BPCC has lost connection with its traditional upper caste voters after its association with parties like the RJD. “Congress may have some long term plan for Bihar like U.P. to go alone in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections and expand its base but first the party has to regain its vote share of the upper castes and connect with the voters at ground level,” political observer Ajay Kumar said. “After its poor performance in the 2020 Assembly elections (the party won only 19 out of the 70 contested seats under the grand alliance) and in the bypolls, the Congress has to take an urgent call to revive its base. The party has taken a tough stand by coming out of the alliance,” retired professor of Patna University and political commentator Nawal Kishore Choudhury said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/congresss-bid-to-woo-upper-caste-comes-a-cropper-in-bihar/article37497018.ece
15 November 2021||Pune,||Noted historian and Shivaji expert Babasaheb Purandare critical||Noted historian and Padma Vibhushan awardee Balwant Moreshwar Purandare, popularly known as ‘Babasaheb’ Purandare, is said to be in a critical condition and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Pune, sources said on Sunday. Mr. Purandare, an authority on the Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji, was diagnosed with pneumonia a week ago and was admitted to the city’s Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital where he is currently undergoing treatment. “He has been diagnosed with pneumonia owing to advanced age and has been admitted here [Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital] and is currently on ventilator in the hospital’s intensive care unit. His health has deteriorated and he is in an extremely critical condition,” said Shirish Yadkikar, the hospital’s public relations officer. The historian’s declining health sparked rumours of his passing away in a section of the vernacular media and a number of local news portals. Refuting such reports, Siddharth Shirole, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Pune’s Shivajinagar constituency tweeted that “Shivshahir Babasaheb Purandare is critical and undergoing treatment at the Deenath Mangeshkar Hospital. Please refrain from sharing otherwise.” Known by his moniker ‘Shiv Sahir’ (literally Shivaji’s bard), the 99-year-old Mr. Purandare is considered one of the pre-eminent authorities on Chhatrapati Shivaji.  Raja Shivchhatrapati , Mr. Purandare’s popular two-part, 900-page magnum opus on Shivaji in Marathi, was first published in the late 1950s and has since been a staple in Marathi households, going through numerous reprints over decades. Earlier this year, tributes had flown in from across the political spectrum on the occasion of the historian having completed 99 years, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeting Mr. Purandare via a video message. “Babasaheb’s work is inspirational. I visited Pune to see Babasaheb’s play ‘Janata Raja’, based on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. Even when Babasaheb used to visit Ahmedabad I used to attend his programmes,” Mr. Modi had said. The historian was one of the earliest ideologues of Bal Thackeray’s Shiv Sena in the 1970s. His also conceived and directed the theatrical history extravaganza on Shivaji’s life titled Jaanta Raja in the mid-1980s. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/noted-historian-and-shivaji-expert-babasaheb-purandare-critical/article37497216.ece
15 November 2021||Pune,||Volunteer outfit helps underprivileged students realise their medical dreams||As coaching for medical entrance exams in Maharashtra turns increasingly commercial, its prohibitive costs often discourage students from social margins, particularly the rural hinterland and the tribal belts, from realising their dreams of becoming doctors. With the objective of changing this, a free Pune-based coaching facility called ‘Lift for Upliftment’ (LFU), founded by students and alumni of the prestigious B.J. Medical College, is helping the underprivileged and the marginalised students to clear the highly competitive National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET). Ajay Sondage, the first member of his family from Solapur to clear the Higher Secondary Certificate or Class 12 exam, is now headed to a medical college. Mr. Sondage, who hails from the small village of Waralegaon, cleared NEET securing 575 marks. His mother is an agricultural labourer while his father is a plumber. “While I wanted to pursue higher education, I had neither guidance nor financial resources. LFU not only imparted exam-oriented knowledge for free but brought about a change in my mental make-up by giving me encouragement at a time when my family had been particularly hard up during the pandemic,” he says. Mr. Sondage now wants to help students from the social margins achieve their life goals. Since it came into being in 2015, LFU has helped more than 100 such students fulfil their aspirations of becoming doctors. After 2017, it has been running a special batch named ‘Ulgulaan’, focusing only on the students from the malnutrition-racked tribal region of Melghat. Ambitious vision The brainchild of Dr. Atul Dhakane, who himself hails from the boondocks of Beed district in the Marathwada region, LFU was conceived with an ambitious vision of not just ensuring financial upliftment of these students but also helping them make a wider impact upon society. The idea is to help them become community doctors and bolster the State’s rudimentary healthcare in the rural hinterland. “I was distressed at seeing the students from the economically underprivileged background not being able to have a fair shot at NEET merely because of the high coaching fees,” says Dr. Dhakane. He conceived LFU not just as a vehicle to provide free academic training but also one that would help in the moral and social upliftment of these students as well as the volunteers. Dr. Dhakane credits the socially sensitive atmosphere of B.J. Medical College in helping him set up this outfit and find kindred souls to help further the noble enterprise. Dr. Farooque Faras, Vice-President, LFU, says: “The rationale for LFU is what about those who cannot afford private coaching? Should they not dream of becoming a doctor? After an entrance test and an interview, we select students for coaching.” Apart from a core team of around 25 members, the LFU today has nearly 500 volunteers from diverse streams, engaged in preparing the students for the exam as well as helping transform themselves into better citizens. Operating out of a single school room in the city’s Shaniwar Peth area, rigorous three-hour sessions daily await students selected by the LFU. Dr. Dhakane says the LFU courses were a two-way learning process where the volunteers, too, developed more empathy and compassion. In the recently announced NEET results, 25 students helped by the LFU cleared the exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/volunteer-outfit-helps-underprivileged-students-realise-their-medical-dreams/article37497225.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Fired-up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fired-up/article37497291.ece
15 November 2021||HONG KONG,||U.S., China trade barbs ahead of summit||The lead-up to Tuesday morning’s virtual summit between United States President Joe Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping has seen the two countries exchange sharp remarks on Taiwan, one of many thorny issues on which both sides are unlikely to make much headway. In a telephone call between top U.S. and Chinese diplomats, both sides expressed concerns over the other’s position on Taiwan, with China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi attacking “the U.S.’s wrong words and deeds” and saying that “any connivance of and support for the ‘Taiwan independence’ forces...would only boomerang in the end.” China last also week hit out at a visit by a U.S. congressional delegation to Taiwan, while the People’s Liberation Army carried out more drills that have followed recent record aerial intrusions into Taiwan’s Air Defence Identification Zone. In the phone call, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken “expressed concern regarding the PRC’s [People’s Republic of China’s] continued military, diplomatic, and economic pressure against Taiwan” and “urged Beijing to engage in meaningful dialogue to resolve cross-Strait issues peacefully and in a manner consistent with the wishes and best interests of the people on Taiwan.” ‘Red lines’ Mr. Xi however is expected to reinforce China’s “red lines” on the Taiwan issue in Tuesday’s virtual summit, one of many points of difference on which the two sides are unlikely to reach a meeting of minds. The measured expectation ahead of the summit is a lowering of temperatures and an improvement in tone after years of a rancorous relationship marked by a trade war during the term of the Trump administration and tensions that have continued this year under the Biden administration, a reflection of an increasingly bipartisan consensus in Washington on the approach to China. One point of difference with the new administration appears to be its keenness to find common ground with China on some issues such as climate change, on which the two countries recently announced a new cooperation agreement, even though officials have made clear they still viewed China as the primary strategic challenge. On the other hand, the Biden administration has said it would seek to work more effectively with U.S. allies and partners, including with the Quad grouping, in coming up with a more coherent approach to China, while also speaking out more on human rights issues. Common ground Underlining the state of relations, Mr. Biden and Mr. Xi have only had two phone calls this year, the first shortly after the inauguration. In the second call in September, the U.S. President told his counterpart that both sides needed “to ensure competition does not veer into conflict” as they deal with a growing list of differences. Two months before that call, the Chinese side had presented the U.S. in talks in Tianjin with two “lists” of demands, named a “List of U.S. Wrongdoings that Must Stop” and a “List of Key Individual Cases that China Has Concerns With.” Among those demands were unconditionally removal of visa restrictions on Communist Party members and withdrawal of an extradition request for Meng Wanzhou, the chief financial officer of tech firm Huawei who was arrested in Canada for violating U.S. sanctions on Iran. The latter demand was met, with Ms. Meng allowed to return to China in October. Tuesday’s summit may pave the way for other limited agreements, including on reopening consulates that were closed down during the time of the Trump administration and on visas. Fundamental differences, however, remain, with Mr. Biden likely to repeat U.S. concerns on Taiwan, Xinjiang and Hong Kong and Mr. Xi expected to rebuff them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-china-trade-barbs-ahead-of-summit/article37496560.ece
15 November 2021||Warsaw,||50 migrants cross into Poland, held||Dozens of migrants have been detained after crossing into Poland from Belarus, Warsaw said on Sunday, warning of a possible larger breakthrough ahead of an EU meeting to widen sanctions on Belarus. Police said on Twitter that 50 migrants had crossed the heavily guarded EU and NATO border near the village of Starzyna “by force” on Saturday. They were all later detained, the border guard said, adding that they could see signs across the barbed wire on the Belarusian side of “a bigger attempt at crossing the border today”. Thousands of migrants from the West Asia are camped out on the EU-Belarus border, creating a stand-off between the EU and US on one side and Belarus and its ally Russia on the other. One of the routes taken by the migrants has been through Turkey, which has flights to Belarus. Western countries accuse Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko’s regime of engineering the crisis by encouraging migrants to come to Belarus and then taking them to the border. Belarus denies the charges and blames the West. “If someone thinks that Lukashenko or Belarusians will flinch, then this will not happen,” Mr. Lukashenko told a Russian defence journal. Aid agencies say at least 10 migrants have died so far and have warned of a humanitarian crisis unfolding as temperatures drop below freezing. Poland has refused to let the migrants in. Interior Minister Mariusz Kaminski on Saturday said a rumour was being spread among the migrants that on Monday Poland would allow them through and coaches would come from Germany to pick them up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/50-migrants-cross-into-poland-held/article37496561.ece
15 November 2021||Tripoli,||Qadhafi’s son to run for President||The son and one-time heir apparent of late Libyan dictator Moammar Gadhafi announced on Sunday his candidacy for the country's presidential election next month, Libya's election agency said. Seif al-Islam, who is wanted by the International Criminal Court on charges of crimes against humanity related to the 2011 uprising, submitted his candidacy papers in the southern town of Sabha, the High National Elections Commission said in a statement. Gadhafi’s son was captured by fighters in the town of Zintan late in 2011, the year when a popular uprising, backed by the NATO, toppled his father after more than 40 years in power. Moammar Gadhafi was later killed amid the ensuing fighting that would turn into a civil war. Mr. Seif al-Islam, who was seen as the reformist face of Gadhafi’s regime before the 2011 uprising, was released in June 2017 after more than five years of detention. He has deeply rooted links to tribes across Libya, and is the first major presidential hopeful to submit his candidacy to the highest post. Also widely expected to announce their bids are powerful military commander Khalifa Hifter, Parliament Speaker Agila Saleh and former Interior Minister Fathi Bashaga. Libya is set to hold presidential elections on December 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/gaddafis-son-to-run-for-president/article37496563.ece
15 November 2021||London,||Johnson hails ‘big step’ with COP26 deal||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has hailed the deal struck at the end of the COP26 climate summit in Glasgow as a “big step forward” and the first-ever international agreement to “phase down” the use of coal. Praising the hard work of COP26 President Alok Sharma — the British Indian Cabinet Minister in charge of navigating the negotiations — Mr. Johnson expressed the hope that the two-week-long summit which went into extra time over the weekend will mark the “beginning of the end of climate change”. His statement followed an agreement between nearly 200 countries on a final communique late on Saturday, which recognises India’s intervention for the world to “phase down” rather than “phase out” fossil fuels. “There is still a huge amount more to do in the coming years. But today’s agreement is a big step forward and, critically, we have the first ever international agreement to phase down coal and a roadmap to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees [Celsius],” he said.  “On the issue of coal, for the very first time in any of these conferences, the word coal is actually reflected in the text; that is a first. Yes, of course, I would have liked to ensure that we maintained the ‘phase out’ rather than changing the wording to phase down, but on the way to phasing out you have got to phase down,” Mr. Sharma told ‘Sky News’ on Sunday. “Ultimately, we need to ensure that we continue to work on this deal and commitments. And, on the issue of coal, China and India are going to have to justify to some of the most climate vulnerable countries what happened. You heard the disappointment on the floor,” Mr. Sharma added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/johnson-hails-big-step-with-cop26-deal/article37496768.ece
15 November 2021||Dubai,||Kuwait’s Emir issues amnesty to dissidents of 2011 uprising||Kuwait’s Emir Sheikh Nawaf al-Ahmed al-Sabah has pardoned a group of prisoners in an amnesty intended to defuse a political row. Among those released included Shia Kuwaitis convicted in 2016 for spying for Iran and Lebanon’s Iran-allied Hezbollah. The amnesty was a key demand of opposition lawmakers locked in a dispute with the government over the Prime Minister’s refusal to be questioned in Parliament. Earlier on Sunday, the Emir accepted the government’s resignation in another step to end the feud. The Emir on Saturday issued two decrees granting pardons and reduced sentences of 35 people, including former lawmakers in self-exile in Turkey sentenced for storming the Parliament building in 2011 protests against corruption. The decrees pardoned two members of the alleged ‘Abdali cell’, named after the place where a weapons cache was discovered in a 2015 raid, along with four convicted of covering for the group, and halved the sentences of 18 others, some of whom had already served the commuted term. Women threw flower petals as more than 10 prisoners were seen exiting a bus in a parking lot outside the central prison, where more than 200 relatives and friends gathered to meet them, embracing amid chants of “There is no god but God”. Authorities have so far not disclosed how many convicts were released on Sunday, but one lawyer said 20 had been freed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kuwaits-emir-issues-amnesty-to-dissidents-of-2011-uprising/article37496564.ece
15 November 2021||Guayaquil,||At least 68 dead in Ecuador prison violence, dozens injured||Prison inmates from rival gangs in Ecuador fought each other with guns, explosives and blades in a bloodbath that left at least 68 dead in the same prison where a riot in September claimed 119 lives, officials said on Saturday. Authorities said late on Saturday they had regained control of the prison in Guayaquil for a second time in as many days after President Guillermo Lasso’s spokesman said fighting had again broken out earlier in the day between inmates from rival gangs tied to drug trafficking rings. In the initial riot that began Friday night prisoners fought with “savagery,” said Pablo Arosemena, governor of the province of Guayas where the prison is located. The riot began around 7:00 pm Friday when prisoners tried to enter Block 2 of the jail where their rivals were held, firing gunshots, detonating explosives and swinging machetes, and prompting police to move in. At least 68 prisoners were killed and another 25 were wounded, according a statement which the Ecuador Prosecutor’s Office posted on Twitter. In the second outbreak of fighting on Saturday, inmates from two other blocks attacked each other, said presidential spokesman Carlos Jijon. He confirmed a little while later that police had pushed through to the prison’s interior and that the situation was “under control.” Officials said the violence started when one of the gangs inside the prison, the Tiguerones, was left without its leader because he was released after serving part of his sentence for stealing auto parts. Other groups, sensing weakness in the Tiguerones with that man gone, went on the attack to try to crush the gang, Arosemena said. He said their goal was “to go in and carry out a total massacre.” ‘Help them’ Earlier Saturday, police officers in riot gear were seen climbing up the blood-stained prison walls, while the body of an inmate in an orange prison jumpsuit lay on the roof of the jail encircled by barbed wire. Dozens of people gathered outside the prison gates Saturday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/at-least-68-dead-in-ecuador-prison-violence-dozens-injured/article37496565.ece
15 November 2021||Khartoum,||Al Jazeera says bureau chief in Sudan arrested||The Qatar-based satellite news network Al-Jazeera said Sunday its bureau chief in Sudan was detained by security forces, a day after mass protests across the country against last month’s military coup. The network said on Twitter that Sudanese forces raided the home of El Musalmi El Kabbashi and detained him. The development comes after security forces fired live ammunition and tear gas Saturday to disperse protesters denouncing the military’s tightening grip on the country. The Sudan Doctors Committee said a 15-year-old protester died Sunday of gunshot wounds to his stomach and thigh, raising the death toll to six people. In a later statement, Al-Jazeera said El Kabbashi had been arrested at his home in Khartoum, the Sudanese capital. The broadcaster said it held the Sudanese military responsible for his safety. “Al-Jazeera condemns in the strongest terms the reprehensible actions of the military and calls on the authorities to release El Kabbashi immediately and to allow its journalists to operate unhindered, free to practice their profession without fear or intimidation,” the channel said. Thousands of pro-democracy protesters took to the streets across Sudan on Saturday to rally against the military coup last month. The takeover has drawn international criticism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/al-jazeera-says-bureau-chief-in-sudan-arrested/article37496558.ece
15 November 2021||Johannesburg,||Novelist Wilbur Smith passes away||Zambian-born bestselling adventure author Wilbur Smith has died at his home in South Africa. He was 88. With 49 titles under his belt, Smith’s swashbuckling adventure stories took readers from tropical islands to the jungles of Africa and even Ancient Egypt. His 1964 debut novel When the Lion Feeds became an instant bestseller and led to 15 sequels, tracing an ambitious family’s fortunes for more than 200 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/novelist-wilbur-smith-passes-away/article37496567.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Striding back into the Afghan theatre||Amidst the multiple messages that New Delhi wished to send out by convening ‘The Third Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan’ on November 10 — a National Security Adviser (NSA)-level meet — one stands out: that despite the current absence of an on-ground presence in the country, India continues to matter in Afghan affairs. To ensure that this thought was acknowledged by the Indian political and strategic classes as well as the region, Indian officials, in their background briefings, emphasised that India’s invitation was accepted by countries that have significant stakes in Afghanistan — Russia, Iran and all the five Central Asian Republics (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan). They correctly downplayed Pakistan’s outright refusal to join the meeting and China’s lame excuse for its absence. Indeed, in the context of the present state of Sino-Indian ties and Pakistan’s obsession of keeping India away from Afghanistan, neither country’s decision was surprising. Similar concerns There is little doubt that the initiative succeeded in demonstrating that many regional countries accept that India has legitimate concerns relating to Afghanistan. The Delhi Declaration that emerged from the deliberations of the National Security Advisers/Secretaries of the National Security Councils of the participating states shows that all these countries share similar concerns which are also widely held in the international community. The Delhi Declaration demanded that Afghan soil is not used to spread terrorism or extremist ideologies. It called for a control on the production of Afghan opium. It reflected the widely held view that the Taliban have to conform to acceptable standards of behaviour on gender issues and minority rights. The Declaration also called for the formation of “an open and truly inclusive government” that was “representative of the will of the Afghan people” and had the participation of “all sections of society” in its “administrative and political structure”. This is a laudable objective, but is it realistic? The hard fact is that the Taliban achieved a military victory and unlike in the 1990s now control all of Afghanistan. Is any neighbour of Afghanistan willing to nurture a long-lasting insurgency to effectively pressure the Taliban? Hurdles, an outreach All the participants of the Delhi Dialogue except India have open contacts with the Taliban even if some of them consider the Taliban to be a negative political force. It is, therefore, likely that despite this clarion collective call for an inclusive government, these states will ultimately individually settle for a Taliban government that will show a degree of responsiveness on gender issues and minority rights, including of ethnic minorities. Even more they will look for how the Taliban are addressing their individual concerns on specific terrorist groups that target them. The Russian press statement after the Delhi Declaration itself reveals that each country will act not on the basis of common positions in this document but in keeping with its interests. It is here that Indian policymakers are still struggling to accept the consequences and realities of the great change that took place in Afghanistan on August 15, when Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani fled from Kabul and the Taliban rolled in. This far-reaching development eroded the very basis of India’s Afghan policy. It required an immediate re-assessment of the regional situation and nimble, quick and comprehensive action with salience given to strategic considerations. It needed a ruthlessly cold ‘all of political and strategic classes’ approach unaffected by political considerations of any nature. Almost three months later this is still not discernible. And, the Delhi meeting, while serving a small diplomatic purpose, will not contribute to addressing the vast challenges that India now faces in its entire western neighbourhood, especially Afghanistan. Pakistan link Pakistan has avoided its mistake of the 1990s, of giving formal diplomatic recognition to the Taliban. It is however acting in a manner with the group’s government, which it helped put together, as it would have with a ‘recognised’ administration. It is no coincidence that the day the Delhi Dialogue was convened, the acting Afghan Foreign Minister, Mullah Amir Khan Muttaqi, reached Islamabad leading a high-level delegation. In India’s absence in Kabul, Pakistan has a free hand. As it is with its deep and abiding relations with the Taliban it has a unique and enduring advantage. But should that mean that India ignores Afghanistan altogether and confines itself to only covert contacts with the Taliban? There has been no repeat of a Doha-like meeting between the Indian Ambassador and senior Taliban officials. A place for India India will have to play a multi-faceted diplomatic game to safeguard and promote its interests in Afghanistan and the region. It cannot join the game unless it re-establishes a presence in Kabul. All-important regional players and Russia have kept their missions open in Kabul. New Delhi must note that the Taliban spokesperson, taking note of the Dialogue said that India was an important regional country with which it desired good diplomatic relations. India has to proceed with caution but without inhibitions. That can only be through an understanding of Afghan traditions and culture which has been under strain but which has not disappeared altogether. At no stage in Afghan history has any ruler or group not chafed at foreign dependence howsoever necessary it may have been. They have always looked to alternatives. Taliban signals on India to Pakistan should be taken in this context. Besides, the Taliban are not immune from regional and tribal cleavages. This is not to underrate the difficulties in India’s path in Afghanistan but it would be a profound mistake to consider that there is no space for India to operate in Afghanistan; the Taliban public statements are themselves indicating that it does; Muttaqi has publicly said that India-Afghan trade via Wagah should be allowed by Pakistan. Expressing concern for the “deteriorating socio-economic and humanitarian situation in Afghanistan” the Delhi Declaration called for “urgent humanitarian assistance” to the Afghan people. It also did well to emphasise that humanitarian assistance should be provided in an “unimpeded, direct and assured manner to Afghanistan”. This is directly relevant for India wishes to send 50,000 tonnes of wheat for the Afghan people overland via Pakistan. Obviously, the Taliban have welcomed the Indian offer and asked Pakistan to agree. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan told Muttaqi that he will “favourably” consider the Taliban’s request. At this stage, India should be bold and enhance its offer to one million metric tonnes of wheat; that is what it pledged in 2002 at the Tokyo Afghanistan conference. It should also publicly declare, if needed, that it would hand the wheat over to the World Food Programme at the Wagah border. If Pakistan obstructs the additional offer, let it explain its negativity to the Afghan people. On China It is not only Pakistan that India will need to confront in Afghanistan but also China. The Chinese have always maintained contacts with the Taliban and their strategic and economic interests have and will continue to make them adopt pragmatic policies. Indian economic interests also demand its presence in Afghanistan. There is no time to lose for this purpose. A heavy and long-term price will have to be paid otherwise. In all this process India must remain grounded in reality but that seems absent in some Indian analysts who believe that it is a Eurasian power too. That should be the objective. But is it so today when it does not have connectivity to the region and is reluctant to play the Afghan game where it matters — the mountains and valleys of the Hindukush? Vivek Katju is a retired member of the Indian Foreign Service||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/striding-back-into-the-afghan-theatre/article37496546.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||A routine matter or a punishment post?||The Supreme Court collegium’s recommendation to transfer the Chief Justice of the Madras High Court, Sanjib Banerjee, to the Meghalaya High Court, as well as the senior-most judge of the Allahabad High Court, Munishwar Nath Bhandari, to the Madras High Court, has raised eyebrows. Many questions Justice Banerjee was appointed as a judge of the Calcutta High Court on June 22, 2006. He was appointed as Chief Justice of the Madras High Court on December 31, 2020, and he assumed office on January 4, 2021. Without a promotion, he would have to retire from office on November 1, 2023. He has two more years to serve at the Madras High Court. The Calcutta High Court has a sanctioned strength of 72 judges and the Madras High Court has a sanctioned strength of 75 judges. The proposal is to transfer him to the Meghalaya High Court, established in 2013 and with a sanctioned strength of only four judges. It is therefore only fair that some would term the transfer of a judge, who was managing a large High Court for nearly 10 months, to a northeastern State as a punishment unless the collegium provides reasons for its decision. Article 222 of the Constitution provides for the transfer of a judge (including Chief Justice) from one High Court to any other High Court. In the case of Justice Banerjee, since the proposal came from the Supreme Court collegium, the Central government, which has to advise the President of India, is entitled to ask for relevant material before tendering any advice. If it is not satisfied, the Central government can ask the Supreme Court to reconsider its decision. Recently, the Union Law Minister, Kiren Rijiju, said that the Chief Justice of India (CJI) will “create a new dawn in judiciary”. The CJI in turn said that Mr. Rijiju was “ the only Law Minister or politician in recent times, who recognised our judicial hard work and appreciated us”. Therefore, it may be possible that both the decision-makers have a common intention for the transfer. Justice Banerjee was appointed as the Chief Justice of a High Court with three years of service left. He was found suitable for that post. How is that within 10 months of his tenure he is being found unsuitable for the same High Court and is being transferred to a far-away State which has just two judges at present? Another puzzling decision Justice Bhandari’s transfer is equally puzzling. In its September 16th decision, the collegium recommended the transfer of Justice Bhandari to the Madras High Court. The details of his appointment show that he was initially appointed as a judge of the Rajasthan High Court on July 5, 2007. If he joins the Madras High Court, he will become the senior-most judge since Justice T.S. Sivagnanam was transferred to the Calcutta High Court and the next two judges — M. Duraiswamy and T. Raja — are admittedly junior to him. With his transfer, Justice Bhandari will become the Acting Chief Justice of the Madras High Court. Even if the consultation process in making Justice Bhandari the Chief Justice of the Madras High Court is delayed because of, say, the State government raising any issues, Justice Bhandari will continue as Acting Chief Justice and will retire on September 12, 2022. Justice Bhandari’s tenure at the Rajasthan High Court was not free from controversy. After being appointed as a judge in that High Court, he was transferred to the Allahabad High Court. The collegium proposed his transfer in 2019 and the reason it provided was that the transfer was in the “interest of better administration of justice”. Justice Bhandari requested through representations on January 18 and 23, 2019, that his proposed transfer be deferred for the time being for further consideration. The collegium rejected his representation and the note published, it stated: “the Collegium has carefully gone through the aforesaid representations and taken into consideration all relevant factors including his request to defer his proposed transfer for the time being for further consideration in future. On reconsideration, the Collegium is of the considered view that it is not possible to accede to his request”. Justice Bhandari joined the Allahabad High Court on March 15, 2019, and in due course, he became the senior-most judge in that Court. If the Supreme Court collegium of 2019 thought that Justice Bhandari should leave the Rajasthan High Court in the “administration of justice”, what changed that prompted the collegium of 2021 to transfer him to the Madras High Court with the full knowledge that he will be heading that court? What was once a punishment transfer has now become a rewarding transfer. If a judge is not considered suitable for one High Court, then how he does he become suitable for another High Court? This is the question that is being asked in legal circles. And does this mean that the decision to transfer Justice Banerjee to the Meghalaya High Court was made to facilitate Justice Bhandari’s elevation as Chief Justice of the Madras High Court? Also, if the decision was taken as early as on September 16, why was it made public only about one and a half months later? This is a question that many are asking. Normally when such proposals are made, a judge in the Supreme Court who comes from the State in which the transferee judge is holding office is also consulted. With regard to Justice Banerjee’s transfer, there are four judges who are qualified to be called consultee judges. Why was consultation in the case of Justice Banerjee made only with the junior-most judge of the Supreme Court and not the senior judges? Not a routine matter Evaluations are not made on the discharge of duties of a judge as there is no reliable basis for making such an analysis. In terms of disposal of matters and writing skills, no one can find fault with the present Chief Justice. If there are other reasons for his transfer, then such a transfer proposal can only be termed as a punishment and not a routine matter. It is time for the Central government to step in and clear these doubts. Justice K. Chandru is a retired judge of the Madras High Court||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-routine-matter-or-a-punishment-post/article37496554.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Learning from the best in India’s COVID-19 fight||A few months ago, as the country reeled under the impact of the second wave of COVID-19, officials deep inside Madhya Pradesh’s tribal districts had to contend with an additional crisis: vaccinating a people firmly resistant to any coronavirus vaccines. A transformation It was April 15, 2021, and less than 10% of the eligible population had been vaccinated in Jhabua, the district in Madhya Pradesh, per government figures, with one of the highest percentages of Scheduled Tribes population in India (https://bit.ly/3Cez2Lk). It was then that district officials decided to leverage tradition in their efforts to convey the message of timely vaccination. They started by organising khatla baithaks ( khat means “woven bed,” and baithak means “meeting”), or community meetings, to dispel vaccine myths. By July, Jhabua saw a five-fold increase in vaccination uptake, with approximately 40% of eligible people in the district having received at least one dose. In fact, as members from the department of Women and Child Development handed out turmeric-smeared rice to rural houses as a traditional means of welcoming people to vaccination programmes across the district, vaccination drives across the district saw a discernible uptick. An easy interpretation of this intervention might make it seem that Jhabua district is an outlier in the larger narrative of COVID-19 containment strategies. However, the data has made us see that, quite simply, it is not. Like Jhabua, there are multiple districts and regions where individuals and groups, from both government and civil society, have stepped in to ensure that impact of COVID-19 was mitigated in any and every way possible — even if that meant the use of rice or khatla baithaks . But just as it is easy for such stories to dissolve in the predominant din of the news cycle, it is also easy to see why our journey over the last several months began. Space for initiatives In April and May 2021, when the nation was going through the peak of a crippling second wave, a small group of us — that soon grew to over 500 people — came together to form India COVID SOS. We realised that there existed a wide spectrum of people who had made it their mission to help society steer to safer shores in this pandemic: medical professionals who, despite the volume of patients, were managing COVID-19 in an evidence-informed, pragmatic way; teams vaccinating entire villages once overwhelmed by hesitancy; workers ensuring even the remotest areas had adequate oxygen supply, etc. These efforts needed to be foregrounded, and a space was essential to document learnings from such successful initiatives. Subsequently, together with Exemplars in Global Health, our research led to the development of case studies from India; now publicly available, these case studies highlight interventions and innovations that drove meaningful outcomes in the pandemic response across India. We confirmed that the story of Jhabua was not one of exception. As our case studies show, there are other commendable endeavours as well. For instance, in February 2021, when India’s vaccination drive was initiated, health-care workers in Janefal, a rural hamlet with just over 500 residents in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad district had a difficult time convincing people to get vaccinated. Some had heard stories from neighbouring villages about people dying after vaccination. Others believed that people who were vaccinated had to amputate their arms. To build trust and confidence, village heads and other front line workers set an example by getting vaccinated first. They had their photos taken while getting the vaccine, and later, to address apprehensions, spent time painting gram panchayat buildings. A task force was also set up. It comprised health workers, police officers and village council leaders who discovered villagers had an unprecedented fear of hospitals and were terrified doctors would kill them and rob them of their kidneys if they went in for treatment. With the nearest vaccination centre being eight kilometres away, the task force overcame both challenges by conducting a vaccination camp in the village, taking the vaccines to the people. They also did this on April 27, Hanuman Jayanti — an auspicious day for the locals. It was an insightful and clever way to leverage the occasion for the right cause. In Tamil Nadu and Bihar In Nilgiris, Tamil Nadu, the district administration in collaboration with local non-governmental organisations (NGOs) addressed vaccine hesitancy effectively, too. The NGOs enlisted the help of community members to write songs in tribal languages to share the benefits of getting vaccinated. The district administration also recorded statements from village leaders in their own languages, regarding the vaccine’s effectiveness, and broadcast those messages throughout the district’s different villages. This helped villagers engender trust, and soon, vaccination rates there went up, too. In East Champaran, Bihar, district officials remarkably achieved 95% COVID-19 vaccination of adults in the Bankatwa block in just two days using what has been dubbed the “Bankatwa Way”. Bankatwa block historically had low routine immunisation coverage of just 64.3% due to challenges of difficult terrain, poor health infrastructure and vaccine hesitancy in the community, among others. To tackle this, the district adopted a mission mode approach. This was a concentrated effort of all government departments in collaboration with World Health Organization, civil society organisations, local elected leaders, and religious leaders to mobilise all eligible people in the district for COVID-19 vaccination. In just 48 hours, over 55,000 of the block’s 62,000 registered inhabitants were vaccinated by setting up vaccination sites in each of the area’s 102 villages and hamlets. The effort had a knock-on effect across the district with similar intensive effort campaigns, delivering 100% first dose coverage by early October. Work in progress Like these stories, there are many such novel, inspirational efforts that can be found in the case studies we have helped to collate (https://bit.ly/2YJ6VpG and https://bit.ly/3c8VECj). Our idea has always been to capture a broad canvas of learnings that could inform policy at the highest level, through critical vignettes showing what is working best (or not). But we are just getting started. It is essential that we keep working toward expanding the scope of our case studies, making them a reservoir of accurate information and inspiration. If we can effectively share and disseminate learnings and highlight the best interventions from across different domestic geographies, we can take a step towards being better equipped to tackle health crises in the future. (India COVID SOS is an international non-profit volunteer group of scientists, clinicians, engineers, policy-makers, community organisers, and industrial partners. Exemplars in Global Health brings together researchers, funders, and collaborators around the globe with the mission of identifying countries that are positive outliers in global health. Their analyses of best practices strive to be a template that can be potentially replicated by others at a country/regional-level.) Purnima Menon is a senior research fellow at the International Food Policy Research Institute, New Delhi. Madhukar Pai is a professor of epidemiology and global health at McGill University, Canada. They are volunteers with India COVID SOS||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/learning-from-the-best-in-indias-covid-19-fight/article37496549.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Creating safe digital spaces||Recognising that school-related violence is an infringement of children’s right to education and to health and well-being, UNESCO Member States have declared the first Thursday of November as the International Day against Violence and Bullying at School, including cyberbullying. The aim is to raise awareness among students, parents, members of the school community, education authorities and others about the problem of online violence and cyberbullying. In India, an estimated 71 million children aged 5-11 years access the Internet on the devices of their family members, constituting about 14% of the country’s active Internet user base of over 500 million. It should also be noted that two-thirds of Internet users in India are in the age group of 12-29 years. Tackling all kinds of bullying School closures as a response to the COVID-19 lockdowns have led to an unprecedented rise in unsupervised screen time for children and young people, which in turn exposed them to a greater risk of online violence. Various reports have indicated increased incidence of cyberbullying and online child sexual exploitation by adults. In the same vein, there is growing scientific evidence which suggests that cyberbullying has negative consequences on the education, health and well-being of children and young people. Published in 2019 and drawing on data from 144 countries, UNESCO’s report ‘Behind the numbers: Ending school violence and bullying’ highlighted the extent of the problem, with almost one in three students worldwide reporting being bullied at least once in the preceding month. Therefore, cyberbullying prevention interventions should aim at tackling all types of bullying and victimisation experiences at the same time, as opposed to each in silo. Effective interventions also require gender-sensitive and targeted approaches that respond to needs of learners who are most likely to be the victims of online violence. A 2020 study by Plan International, involving 14,000 women aged 15-25 from across 22 countries, revealed that 58% of girls in the Asia-Pacific region reported online harassment. Globally, of the girls who were harassed, 14% who self-identified as having a disability and 37% who identified themselves as from an ethnic minority said they get harassed because of it. The impact of online sexual harassment could have long-term negative impacts on mental health and well-being. Data on school bullying demonstrates its harmful impacts on students’ educational outcomes, mental health, and quality of life. Children who are frequently bullied are nearly three times more likely to feel left out at school than those who are not. They are also twice more likely to miss out on school and have a higher tendency to leave formal education after finishing secondary school. Tackling the menace Although online violence is not limited to school premises, the education system plays a crucial role in addressing online safety. Concerted efforts must be made to provide children and young people with the knowledge and skills to identify online violence so that they can protect themselves from its different forms, whether perpetrated by peers or adults. Teachers also play a critical role by teaching students about online safety, and thus supporting parental involvement. For those looking to prevent and counter cyberbullying, the information booklet brought out by UNESCO in partnership with NCERT on Safe Online Learning in Times of COVID-19 can be a useful reference. It supports the creation of safe digital spaces and addresses the nuances of security. Similarly, to prevent the adverse effect of online gaming and the psycho-emotional stress that children could be undergoing, the Department of School Education and Literacy has circulated exhaustive guidelines to raise children and parental awareness. At a time when COVID-19 lockdowns have resulted in online bullying, we must redouble our efforts to tackle this menace. Cyberbullying may take place in a virtual world, but it has a very real impact on children’s health. The Union Ministry of Education and UNESCO are committed to ensuring access to safe, inclusive and health-promoting learning environments for all children. It is imperative that digital and social media platforms are free of cyberbullying, if learners have to access quality education. More importantly, confidential reporting and redress services must be established. We encourage students, parents, schools, education authorities, members of the education community and its partners to take part in preventing online violence and promoting the safety and well-being of young people.  Santosh Sarangi is Additional Secretary, Ministry of Education, Government of India, and Eric Falt is Director, UNESCO New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/creating-safe-digital-spaces/article37496557.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Badvel, still a YSRCP bastion||Before the recent Assembly bypoll to the Badvel constituency, the ruling Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) seemed to be in control. Therefore, it is no surprise that the party, which had introduced a range of welfare measures and which was pitted against a weak Opposition, won by a majority. Triangular contest Badvel is a Scheduled Caste-reserved segment in Kadapa, which is the home district of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The bypoll was necessitated by the death of the sitting YSRCP MLA, Gunthoti Venkata Subbaiah. The YSRCP fielded Dasari Sudha, a practising doctor and Subbaiah’s wife, thus adding a sympathy factor to the poll. She won by a majority of over 90,000 votes. The candidates of both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress lost deposits in the triangular contest. Interestingly, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) preferred to stay away from the contest on what it termed humanitarian grounds. Initially, the party had named a candidate to contest the seat but later withdrew from the election stating that it was following a tradition of the party of not contesting an election where a family member of a deceased candidate was in the fray. The actor-turned-politician Pawan Kalyan’s Jana Sena Party also did not contest the bypoll. During its campaign, the BJP said there was underdevelopment in Badvel and accused the YSRCP of giving VIP treatment to Pulivendla, the native constituency of the Chief Minister. This strategy did not do the party any good. The YSRCP saw this as a matter of prestige and deployed a team to campaign for the polls. The team included Deputy Chief Ministers Amjad Bhasha and Narayana Swamy, Kadapa district in-charge and education minister Adimulapu Suresh and senior minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy. Besides BJP president for Andhra Pradesh, Somu Veerraju, the party also had MP G.V.L. Narasimha Rao, BJP National Secretary Sunil Deodhar and others campaigning for the bypoll. Not to be left behind, Pradesh Congress president S. Sailaja Nath campaigned with his 24-member team. The Congress has lost ground in the State after the bifurcation of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh. This was a bypoll, but given the campaign, it was evidently treated as a high-stakes election. An emotional victory For Ms. Sudha, Badvel was an emotional victory. She thanked the voters and the Chief Minister for giving her the opportunity to contest the seat that her husband had won by a majority. Commenting on the victory, YSRCP Chief Whip Gadikota Srikanth Reddy said the poll result is the victory of the Dalits and the common man. He said it indicates that people are happy with the welfare schemes and other people-friendly initiatives of the party. He said, “Though the TDP and Jana Sena Party were not in the fray, they were indirectly involved [in the election] and worked with the BJP. The TDP said it would not contest and then did all the background work for the BJP. The TDP’s misleading tactics did not work. And people have rejected the BJP, which failed in fulfilling the promises made to Andhra Pradesh during bifurcation, chief among them being [granting] of Special Category Status.” As part of the poll promise, the YSRCP is implementing ‘Navaratnalu’ – nine welfare schemes aimed at providing health and financial support to farmers, women, students, among others. Broadly, the benefits planned for each family are to the tune of Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh per annum. The party largely attributes its grand success in Badvel, its bastion, to its welfare measures. appaji.r@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/badvel-still-a-ysrcp-bastion/article37496552.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||A lost cause||With the deaths of 26 rebels in a police operation in Gadchiroli on Saturday, the proscribed Communist Party of India (Maoist) has faced yet another setback in its “protracted armed struggle” against the Indian state. Gadchiroli, a largely forested and tribal-dominated district, is among Maharashtra’s poorest and the Maoists have sought to expand their presence extending from neighbouring Chhattisgarh. There have been major encounters in the district, with recent ones involving the deaths of 40 Maoists in two separate operations in April 2018 and a landmine blast claiming 15 police personnel and a driver in May 2019. Gadchiroli remains one of the few districts “severely affected” by left-wing extremism. Despite suffering significant losses to its leadership either in military operations or due to physical infirmities and a shrinking of the areas of influence, the Maoists have refused to withdraw from their pursuit of armed struggle. In cycles of violence, they have managed their own strikes against security forces, but such attacks have not provided them any heft in expanding their presence or increasing their support base. The conflict has fallen into a pattern — violence begets violence as insurgents and the security forces continually lose combatants, but equally disturbing, this also affects the poor tribal people whose lives are caught in a prolonged crossfire. The Maoists’ inability, not just to expand but also to entrench themselves, is to some extent to the credit of the Indian state apparatus, both its security establishment and its work, through development schemes, in weaning away support for the Maoists among the poorest and marginalised sections, especially in remote areas. At the same time, this is also a reflection of the incongruence of the Indian Maoists’ programme which bases itself on replicating the Chinese Revolution of the previous century, and its quixotic pursuit of armed struggle as the means to achieve its aims. Neither are the conditions in India remotely closer to that of China in the 1920s, nor are the peasantry — whose support the Maoists deem as crucial to their project — enamoured of the Maoist programme or its reliance on guerilla struggle. The Maoists’ refusal to acknowledge the diverse industrial base in the country, their rejection of liberal democratic instruments in the Indian state and the faith of the poor in the robust electoral system have blinded them to pursue a futile cause. Yet, despite the futility, the Maoists retain the capability to strike in isolated skirmishes. Maharashtra must not rest on its success in militarily diminishing the Maoist threat in Gadchiroli. It must act continually in winning over the support of tribals in the region and retaining their faith in the liberal democratic institutions of the state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-lost-cause/article37496541.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||History lessons||Following a meeting of its Central Committee last week, China’s Communist Party passed what it called a “Resolution on the Major Achievements and Historical Experience of the Party over the Past Century”. Ostensibly about the past, it still holds enormous significance for China’s future. This is only the third such resolution on history passed by the party in its 100-year history. The previous two resolutions, passed by Mao Zedong in 1945 and Deng Xiaoping in 1981, marked important inflection points in China’s politics, and established them as the dominant leaders of their respective generations. The full text of the latest resolution has not been made public, but a 5,000 word communiqué issued after the closure of the four-day plenum gives a flavour. It heaps praise on the contributions of Mao, Deng and current leader Xi Jinping. It differs in one key aspect from the previous resolution of 1981, which acknowledged Mao’s mistakes that led to the Cultural Revolution (1966-1976), by describing the history of the party as one without flaws. “Looking back on the party’s endeavours over the past century,” it surmises, “we can see why we were successful in the past and how we can continue to succeed in the future.” Explaining why the party saw the need for a new historical resolution, the communiqué said the party wanted to “strengthen our consciousness of the need to maintain political integrity, think in big-picture terms, follow the leadership core, and keep in alignment with the central party leadership”. The latest communiqué implicitly criticised the collective leadership model that Deng bequeathed his successors and enabled three peaceful transfers of power, praising Mr. Xi’s “core” leadership for having “solved many tough problems... never resolved and accomplished many things that were wanted but never got done”. It also called for “resolutely upholding Xi Jinping’s core position on the Central Committee and in the Party... and upholding the Central Committee’s authority... to ensure that all Party members act in unison”. The significance of the 1945 and 1981 resolutions lay not in their reflections on the past but in how they would change the exercise of power, bringing dramatic consequences for China’s future. The first established Mao’s ideology as the party’s guiding ideology. By doing so, it made it heresy to question Mao and paved the way for the creation of his disastrous personality cult. In 1981, Deng too established his dominance, but used his power to bring an end to rule by ideology, instead turning the party’s attention to development and bringing China to its era of reform and opening up. Now, 40 years after Deng, as China’s current leader looks to write his place in the party’s history, the past might be held in reverence, but it will not be allowed to dictate the contours of the future when the country prepares to take yet another political turn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/history-lessons/article37496542.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The Mariner-9 spacecraft’s orbit||The United States rocketed its Mariner-9 spacecraft into orbit around Mars yesterday [Pasadena, Nov. 14]. Mariner-9, looking like a plump pear with four sticks protruding from the side, became the first spacecraft to orbit another planet in the solar system. It apparently arrived at Mars ahead of two Soviet space probes,Mars-2 and 3, which Western scientists speculate will attempt unmanned landings. The spacecraft ended its five-and-a-half-month, 400 million-kilometre-journey at 7-17 p.m. (5-34 a.m. IST to-day) when a 15-minute burn of the Mariner-9 retrorocket slowed an 17,700 kilometre-per hour plunge so that Martian gravity could swing it into orbit. Thirteen minutes after its retrorocket firing with the power of 10 automobile engines — shut down the spacecraft passed behind Mars and out of communication with earth. While behind the planet, Mariner-9 completed a critical manoeuvre in which solar panels supplying electricity moved back into the view of the sun and battery operation of the spacecraft ended. Mariner-9 re-appeared at 8-16 p.m. (6-46 a.m. IST) and ground controllers received first signals six minutes later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-mariner-9-spacecrafts-orbit/article37496550.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||digital divide||“Your phone is your wallet,” said Bill Gates in 1996. It sounded right out of the soon-to-be launched Harry Potter fantasy-fiction series! In just a couple of decades, it’s an everyday reality, and how! Not an elitist, exclusive or luxe technology. I just paid the milkman with my UPI app and so, I am sure, do you. Mr. Anand Mahindra just tweeted a photo of a ceremonial cow, like our own boom-boom maadu down South, on whose forehead is pasted a QR code to scan and make a donation. UPI, the payment method at the basis of this, has cut across the Indian socio-economic digital divide quite well and amazingly fast. However, it is a different type of digital divide that we should watch out for, namely, the chances of being defrauded when we use our phones to pay. What is UPI First came Internet banking, more than 15 years ago, relieving us of physical cheques, exchanging them in person or through post, presenting them at a bank, and waiting for funds to be realised. All of this could take up to 15 days depending on the location of the two banks, banking holidays and postal delays. It was magical to sit at your computer and make these NEFT (National Electronic Funds Transfer) payments, which would be realised in just two or three days. Soon, the service segmented itself into near instant payment for large amounts (RTGS or Real-Time Gross Settlement) and instant payments without waiting to enable a payer account (IMPS or Immediate Payment Service), handy for one-time payments. When smartphones and apps took over, Internet banking moved to apps and IMPS transformed into mobile wallets, which was one step removed from your bank account. You had to put money from your bank account into the wallet and know information about my wallet to pay me, more complicated if you and I dealt with different banks. This struggling step that saw lukewarm response evolved in 2018 into United Payments Interface or UPI-based payments. UPI is the clearing house for payments across almost every bank. Pick an app, download and install it on your smartphone, authenticate your SIM through an OTP process, enable your (same) mobile number-linked bank account, and you are good to go. You can make or receive payments and also check your balance. You can feed a bank account number and IFSC (Indian Financial System Code) as for NEFT and start paying! In the far simpler world that we live in, your vendor’s VPA or virtual payment address, is sufficient. This will be vegetableshop@bankname or even mobilenumber@bankname which makes it easier to share! Going a step further, on some apps, if you and the vendor use the same app, just his mobile number is enough for you to make the payment. The easiest method is to scan the QR code of the payer and make payment. This cuts across language barriers and misspelling and mishearing errors. You can link more than one of your bank accounts to the app and make a specific payment from a specific bank account. The top UPI apps today include PhonePe, Paytm, Google Pay, Amazon Pay and BHIM, the latter being the Government offering. There are dozens of others and their collective use is growing phenomenally. Demonetisation and the pandemic may have been the triggers, but the sheer ease of use and accessibility of the technology surely laid the foundation. Trouble points The rose always has thorns. Technology easy enough to use by the mass of people will be susceptible to fraud. We need not go as far as hacking or high-tech methods, but simple confidence tricks are enough to cheat people using UPI apps. For example, writing down your password or pin can land you in trouble if it gets into the wrong hands. Sharing them with strangers and allowing them to use your phone and app are equally risky. Some common frauds take advantage of the fact that we may be unclear how the app works and dos and don’ts of online transactions. For example, when you initiate a payment, you have to key in your PIN to complete the transaction. However, to receive payments you don’t need a PIN. This can be grounds for confusion. Let us say you are selling your used furniture online. A fraudulent buyer would, instead of paying you, generate a request for money from you through the UPI app and ask you to approve the request saying that you have to enter your PIN to receive the money. Do that and, in effect, you have paid them! To ensure you are flustered and confused they would put pressure on you smoothly, not allowing you the time to think or get suspicious. Some UPI apps have an online/ real-time chat and its easy for users to mistake the chat as being official instructions from the app itself. So, if the fraudster asks for your PIN on the chat you may wall believe your app is prompting to enter the PIN. You just have to be alert always. Another fraud is based on your registered mobile number (RMN). The SIM card of your phone/ your RMN is at the heart of your account, its authentication and operations. Fraudsters try to replicate your SIM by cloning it or simply conning you to cooperate so that they can get a replacement SIM! Then its theirs to get OTPs (one-time passwords) and make digital transactions on your accounts. For example, you may get a call from somebody posing as staff of your mobile phone company offering anything from upgrade of SIM to requiring a KYC verification. They will offer to do this for you online/ on their end if you just give them the OTP. The process can even be initiated by an SMS that sounds alarming or threatening. Something along the lines of your bank account or credit card being deactivated, or your SIM. Of course, you won’t respond to the Nigerian prince offering you a fortune if you help him access his super fortune. But when you get an SMS saying your bank account will be deactivated, wouldn’t you get anxious and want to respond? On the contrary, your antennae should perk up if anything like this happens as you should never share any OTP with anybody and certainly not something pertaining to your SIM card or bank account. Your bank will never ask you for it and neither will your mobile service provider. Another widely prevalent fraud is through fake apps. Once downloaded and installed, these apps can steal much of your personal information. Bottomline, never download apps except from authorised sources. A basic precaution would be to keep a low balance in the bank account linked to your UPI app. That way you minimise the risk should you fall prey to some scam. Recourse Should something happen, what should you do. Call your bank immediately and lodge a complaint. Your UPI app itself has a link to raise a complaint. You can complain to the cybercrime cell as well. As with cash, being alert and being circumspect, even a little paranoid, will go a long way in keeping you safe!  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)   Technology easy enough to use by the mass of people will be susceptible to fraud. Simple confidence tricks are enough to cheat people using UPI apps||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/digital-divide/article37496531.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Investments are prone to market risks, ensure they aren’t dud||Discussion between three colleagues:  Niti: Where did you get these chocolates from, they are excellent.   Ramesh: Made by my niece, she is good at it.   Niti: How much did they cost?   Ramesh: She doesn’t sell them. This is only for family and friends.   Niti: Oh, I thought I could order them. My neighbour makes nice chocolates as well; she sells them @ Rs. 450 per kg.   Ramesh: Do you want to consider purchasing from Mrs. Mehta, she sells them for Rs. 385 a kg and home-delivers it too.   Niti: Yeah, sure, give me her number, I’ll try them out.   Peter: I like the ones made by Mrs Fernandes. She charges Rs. 525 a kg but they are amazing. Worth the extra amount.  Let us examine what has happened here. Ramesh’s niece does not sell chocolates; they are not in the market. She does not face any competition. On the other hand, Mrs. Mehta and Mrs. Fernandes sell them, they are in the market place and hence subject to market risks. Similarly, when we invest, we enter the market place. The investment could be in the equity market, bullion market, or real estate market. Even when we invest in fixed income securities or bonds, we are exposed to the debt market and are subject to interest rate variations. The value of our investment can go up or down based on market conditions. This is called market risk. Mrs. Bhattacharya always believed in investing in stock market from a long-term perspective. She had learnt about this from her late husband. She would invest in stocks of good companies and not monitor their price movement regularly. Only once in a year she would review the overall situation. Since after purchasing the stocks she was not in the market place, the market risk to her portfolio was only notional. Similarly, Manoj Jain had purchased a Government of India tax-free bond, which had a maturity of 10 years. He was clear from the beginning that the investment was for post retirement and he would hold it till maturity and not trade in it. Mr. Jain had decided that after making the investment he would move away from the (debt) market and hence, movement of interest rate in market place would have no impact on him. As investors, we need to be clear while investing. Once we invest in any kind of instrument, we are subject to market risks. Based on the movement of those investments in the market, the value of our investment will change. However, after investment, if we decide not to sell or buy more, we technically move out of the market and there will be no impact of market risk. Need for strategy If we are clear about our strategy, we will know whether we are subject to market risk or not and can take appropriate action. There is a need for a caveat here. Please ensure there is a market for your investments. This means, if you have to liquidate for some reason, there should be an option to sell. Investing in something that is not liquid and cannot be bought or sold in the market is a much bigger risk. Many of our investments are those that are not traded or thinly traded. In reality, they are not assets but liabilities. They are dud investments in our overall wealth, which is of no use. A few of my clients have made some exotic investments. One such client has invested in an instrument, whose ‘fund manager’ had deployed that money in the film industry. I used to pull his leg asking whether he was getting at least movie tickets. The last time we met, his wife said: “Now we watch everything on OTT, so even if we get a movie ticket that may not be of much use.”  (The author is a financial planner and the author of ‘Yogic Wealth’)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/investments-are-prone-to-market-risks-ensure-they-arent-dud/article37496538.ece
15 November 2021||DUBAI,||Marsh, Warner light up Dubai night as Australia wins maiden title||Despite the coin landing in Aaron Finch’s favour, Kane Williamson (85, 48b, 10x4, 3x6) played a blinder to nearly buck the trend of ‘win the toss, chase the target, and win the game’ in the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup. However, the Black Caps captain’s heroics weren’t enough to lead his team to a victory. Rollicking stand Thanks to a 92-run partnership between David Warner (53, 38b, 4x4, 3x6) and Mitchell Marsh (77 n.o., 50b, 6x4, 4x6) Australia coasted to the target of 173 to end its prolonged drought of a T20 World Cup triumph. It was the second time this week that Australia chased down a 170-plus total at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium. While Finch and Co. left it for the lower-order to make a comeback into the semifinal versus Pakistan on Thursday, Sunday night saw Warner and Marsh setting alight the Ring of Fire right from the word go in Australia’s reply. Even though Finch continued his forgettable run in the UAE, top-edging Trent Boult in the third over, Marsh whacked 14 runs off the first three balls — 6, 4, 4 — off Adam Milne in the next over. After that, the scoreboard pressure never piled on Australia, with Warner carrying on his amazing run in the tournament. Even before the dew started making spinners’ life miserable — Mitchell Santner and Ish Sodhi offered freebies as consistently as they had been stifling the oppositions thus far in the tournament — Marsh and Warner were at their marauding best. While Warner’s short-arm jab off Tim Southee in the fifth over was breathtaking, Marsh’s six over long-on off Sodhi would have pleased even the old-timers. Glenn Maxwell joined the party after Boult got through Warner’s defence. It was a Maxwell reverse-lap off Southee in the penultimate over that completed the formalities, with fireworks lighting up the Dubai skies adding to Australia’s celebrations. Had it not been for Josh Hazlewood’s terrific spell — and a chance to Williamson in the 11th over — Australia would not have been chasing a stiff target. Slow start Thanks to Hazlewood’s 14 dot balls in the three overs he bowled in the PowerPlay, Martin Guptill and Williamson could only manage 32/1 after six overs and 57/1 at the halfway mark. In the next over, Williamson, on 21, whipped Mitchell Starc off his pads and Hazlewood made a mess of a regulation catch at deep fine-leg. In the next 25 balls he faced, Williamson made the Australians pay a hefty price by pounding 59 runs before being caught at deep midwicket by Maxwell off Hazlewood. The total was not enough, though. Williamson was severe on Starc, scoring 32 runs off the nine balls, including six fours and a six, he faced off the left-arm pacer after the dropped catch. The pick of his strokes were the straight-drive in the 11th over and the flick off his pads for a six in the 16th, the over that fetched 22 runs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/marsh-warner-light-up-dubai-night-australia-wins-maiden-title/article37496758.ece
15 November 2021||Paris,||France, Belgium through to Qatar with easy victories||While Kylian Mbappe’s four goals in an 8-0 rout of Kazakhstan ensured defending champion France reached next year’s World Cup along with victorious Belgium, the Netherlands failed to join them after conceding two late goals. Belgium was less spectacular beating Estonia 3-1 at home but has an unassailable five point-lead over second-place Wales, which beat Belarus 5-1 in Cardiff and has a three-point lead over the Czech Republic for a playoff spot. After missing out on the last World Cup, the Dutch looked set to go through after leading 2-0 at Montenegro with goals from Memphis Depay. Yet Montenegro struck twice in the last eight minutes to make it 2-2, and that gives Turkey and Norway a chance for top spot since they are two points behind with one game left. Turkey has a narrow +1 advantage over Norway on goal difference heading into their final group games on Tuesday, where scoring could prove crucial. Norway travels to the Netherlands without the prolific Haaland and Montenegro hosts Turkey. Emulating Fontaine  Mbappe became the first France player since Just Fontaine at the 1958 World Cup to score four times in one game. After 32 minutes he had his first international hat trick. The second-place finisher enters the playoffs and Finland has a chance, although it next hosts rampant France. The Finns won 3-1 at Bosnia and Herzegovina despite playing more than 50 minutes with a player less to move above Ukraine and into second place. There was no Romelu Lukaku up front for Belgium as he recovers from a minor injury, so Christian Benteke stepped in and put his side ahead against Estonia after 11 minutes. Aaron Ramsey was even quicker, taking three minutes to put Wales 1-0 up and Liverpool defender Neco Williams doubled the lead in the 20th. Ramsey ‘s penalty made it 3-0 shortly after the break. Yannick Carrasco and Thorgan Hazard netted second-half goals for Belgium, while goals from Ben Davies and Conner Roberts capped a fine night for Wales — which next hosts Belgium.  The results: Group D: Bosnia-Herzegovina 1 (Menalo 69) lost to Finland 3 (Forss 29, Lod 51, O’Shaughnessy 73); France 8 (Mbappe 6, 12, 32, 87, Benzema 55, 59, Rabiot 75, Griezmann 84-pen) bt Kazakhstan 0.   Group E: Wales 5 (Ramsey 3, 50-pen, N. Williams 20, B. Davies 77, C. Roberts 89) bt Belarus 1 (Kontsevoi 87); Belgium 3 (Benteke 11, Carrasco 53, T. Hazard 74) bt Estonia 1 (Sorga 70).   Group G: Norway 0 drew with Latvia 0; Turkey 6 (Kerem Akturkoglu 11, Dervisoglu 38, 41, Demiral 65, Dursun 81, Mert Muldur 84) bt Gibraltar 0; Montenegro 2 (Vukotic 82, Vujnovic 86) drew with the Netherlands 2 (Depay 25-pen, 54) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/france-belgium-through-to-qatar-with-easy-victories/article37496861.ece
15 November 2021||Kollam,||Thrissur men take State hockey honours||Thrissur defeated Ernakulam 1-0 and won the sixth Kerala Hockey State senior men's championship here on Sunday. Ajeesh Reji scored the match-winner through a penalty stroke a couple of minutes before the end. “We were expecting the title this time. And this is the first time we are winning the State title after Kerala Hockey began conducting the State championships,” said K.S. Rejith, the Thrissur team coach. “But we had won the title 12 years ago (under a different State body). Most of our players, nearly half the team, are from Christ College (Irinjalakuda). We also had some three players from St. Thomas College. “Being a three-day event, it was tougher time this time because we had to play two matches on one day (Saturday, when the team played the semifinal too). ..” Earlier, Kozhikode defeated host Kollam 2-1 and finished third. Mayor of Kollam Prasanna Earnest gave away the prizes. Probables for Nationals The Kerala Hockey announced a list of 22 probables for the State coaching camp for the 11th Hockey India National senior championship which begins in Pune on December 11.  The State camp will be held here, said Kerala Hockey's general secretary R. Ayyappan in Kochi.  The probables: Goalkeepers: M. Gopakumar (Tvm), Aksay K. Unnikrishnan (Tsr), Irshad Mohammed (Ekm). Defenders: S. Shijin (Klm), Sree Sabari (Tvm), Abhijith (Ktm), M. Nishanth (Knr).   Midfielders: P. Premkumar (Klm), Ajeesh Reji (Tsr), K.K. Shuaib Axeer (Koz), Jinoy Varghees (Ekm), K.R. Regin (Ekm), Athul Shaju (Tsr).   Forwards: R. Regil (Klm), J.J.A. Anu, S.L. Nandakumar (both Tvm), K. Muhammed Siyas (Mlp), K.V. Shahanul Shafas, K.C. Sanal (both Koz), Sudeesh Ponnambath (Knr), Christo Sebastian (Tsr), Samuel Yeshadas (Ekm) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/thrissur-men-take-state-hockey-honours/article37497248.ece
15 November 2021||DUBAI,||David Warner spectacle, Mitchell Marsh special put Australia on top of the world||David Warner came into the ICC T20 World Cup after being dropped from his IPL side Sunrisers Hyderabad, but finished with 289 runs and walked away with the player-of-the-tournament award. The swashbuckling opener had scores of 89 not out (in the final group game against West Indies), 49 (in the semifinal vs Pakistan) and his third half-century in the title clash. “Always pumped, wanted to put on a spectacle,” Warner said after Australia’s first T20 World Cup title triumph that took its tally to six (five ODI World Cup trophies). “There were some nerves around as always in a final, but great to see the guys deliver,” he added. “Always felt really well. Didn’t get much time in the middle in the two practice matches obviously,” said Warner. “But for me it was about going back to basics. Going to hard, synthetic wickets and try to hit some balls.” Australia had hammered New Zealand in the 2015 50-over World Cup final as well. But its previous best in the T20 World Cup was a loss against England in the final of the 2010 edition. Warner said the latest triumph will be up there with the last of the five ODI World Cup victories. “Definitely up there with 2015 (World Cup),” said Warner. “Losing to England a decade ago (2010) really hurt. These are a great bunch of guys, great support staff, and great support around the world, especially back home.” Skipper Aaron Finch lauded his star performer and revealed he predicted Warner’s heroics to coach Justin Langer ahead of the tournament. “You didn’t expect that? I certainly did,” said Finch in response to a question on who backed Warner after his disappointing IPL. “I promise you I called Justin Langer a few months ago and I said, ‘don't worry about Warner, he will be man-of-the-tournament’. “He is a great player. He is one of the all-time great batters and he is a fighter. He is someone when he has his back to the wall... that's when you get the very, very best of David Warner. Special finish to the tournament for him.” Warner has now scored 2,554 runs in 88 T20 matches since his debut in 2009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/david-warner-spectacle-mitchell-marsh-special-put-australia-on-top-of-the-world/article37496790.ece
15 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ishaque beats Ajay||Ishaque Eqbal beat Ajay Malik in the first qualifying round of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the DLTA Complex on Sunday. Ishaque led 7-5, 4-0 when Ajay retired. Top seed Adil Kalyanpur beat Shivank Bhatnagar 6-3, 6-2, and will face Rohan Mehra in the second qualifying round.  The results (qualifying, first round): Adil Kalyanpur bt Shivank Bhatnagar 6-3, 6-2; Rohan Mehra bt Ricky Chaudhary 6-2, 6-1; B.R. Nikshep bt Anand Prakash Gupta 6-3, 6-2; Kunal Anand bt Shahbaaz Khan 7-5, 7-5; Paras Dahiya bt Mohit Bhardwaj 6-2, 6-4; Lakshya Gupta bt Ankit Chopra 6-2, 6-4; Fardeen Qamar bt Anuj Malik 6-1, 6-4; Digvijay Pratap Singh bt Varnit Arora 6-4 6-2; Chandril Sood bt Yash Yadav 7-5, 6-2; Vishnu Vardhan bt Pranash Babu 6-1, 6-0; Yugal Bansal bt Gunjar Jadhav 6-2, 6-3; Madhwin Kamath bt Ajay Pruthvi Nemakal 7-5, 6-2; Faisal Qamar bt Lakshit Sood 6-4, 6-4; Dheeraj Srinivasan bt Raghav Jaisinghani 7-5, 6-3; Chinmaya Dev Chauhan bt Neeraj Yashpaul 6-3, 6-3; Ishaque Eqbal bt Ajay Malik 7-5, 4-0 (retired); Sidharth Vishwakarma bt Shashank Theertha 6-2, 6-4; Bharath Kumaran bt Arjun Mahadevan 6-2, 6-1; Anurag Nenwani bt Vinay Kumar 6-1, 6-2; Lohithaksha Bathrinath bt C. Tarun Anirudh 6-3, 6-3; Rishi Reddy bt Jatin Dahiya 6-2, 6-4; A. Babji Siva bt Arjun Phogaat 6-0, 6-0; Parikshit Somani bt Tushar Madan 6-3, 6-2; V.M. Ranjeet bt Jagmeet Singh 6-3, 6-1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ishaque-beats-ajay/article37497287.ece
15 November 2021||INDORE,||Manish Sureshkumar claims second title||Second seed Manish Sureshkumar won the title with a 6-4, 4-6, 6-2 victory over Philip Sekulic of Australia in the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the Indore Tennis Club on Sunday. It was the second title in the professional circuit for the 22-year-old Chennai lad who had won his maiden title in Sri Lanka in 2018. Better prepared Manish had competed in a series of tournaments in Germany and Spain in the last three months and was thus better prepared to capitalise on the event at home. Incidentally, Sekulic was the only foreigner that Manish faced in the tournament. He was stretched to three sets by Madhwin Kamath in the first round, but won in straight sets thereafter till the final. Sekulic served 10 double faults in the match and converted four of 10 breakpoints, whereas Manish served six aces and converted six of nine breakpoints.  The results (final): Manish Sureshkumar bt Philip Sekulic (Aus) 6-4, 4-6, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manish-sureshkumar-claims-second-title/article37497289.ece
15 November 2021||DHAKA,||Indians fare well in Dhaka||India, featuring several young faces, did well to place second behind Korea in all six team events in recurve and compound divisions after the qualification rounds of the Asian archery championships here on Sunday. In recurve, the men’s team of Kapil, Pravin Jadhav and Parth Salunkhe totaled 2015 against Korea’s 2039. Interestingly, the Indians shot 100 10s against the Koreans’ 96. Kapil (675), Pravin Jadhav (670) and Parth Salunkhe (670) took fifth, sixth and seventh spots respectively in individual rankings. Sukhchain Singh (658) was 11th. Ankita Bhakat, Ridhi and Madhu Vedwan gathered 1964 points against Korea’s 2045 in the women’s team competition. Individually, Ankita (657), Madhu (657), Ridhi (650) and Komalika Bari (644) were fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth respectively. Kapil, Ankita shine Kapil and Ankita combined to collect 1332 behind Korea (1367). In compound, the Indian men’s trio of Aman Saini, Abhishek Verma and Rishabh Yadav picked up 2113 points against Korea’s 2131. Rishabh (708), Abhishek (707), Aman (698) and Mohit (695) were third, fourth, 13th and 16th individually. V. Jyothi Surekha, Priya Gurjar and Parneet Kaur got together to claim the second spot for the country with 2101 points. Korea had 2131. Jyothi (701), Parneet (700), Priya (700) and Muskan Kirar (697) placed fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh respectively in individual rankings. India, comprising Jyothi and Rishabh, got 1409 points, while Korea accumulated 1424 in the compound mixed team event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indians-fare-well-in-dhaka/article37496855.ece
15 November 2021||Canberra,||I am very lucky to be alive: Chris Cairns||Wheelchair-bound former New Zealand all-rounder Chris Cairns says he is “very lucky to be alive”, three months after a medical emergency left him on life support. The 51-year-old is currently recovering from a spinal stroke that left him paralysed waist down, following several complicated surgeries. “We don’t know what happens going forward. I don’t know if I’ll walk, I don’t know if I’ll stand. But I may stand. I may walk. The only option is to keep going. The thing is I’m not even just lucky to be (alive). I’m very lucky,” Cairns was quoted as saying by Canberra Times. As he opened up on his life post the scare, Cairns’ wife Melanie was with him. Medical emergency Son of Lance Cairns, who was also an all-rounder for the New Zealand team in the 1970s and 80s, Cairns junior had suffered a major medical emergency -- an aortic dissection -- in August and was transferred to a specialist hospital in Sydney, where he had undergone a life-saving emergency heart surgery before facing more complications in the wake of the spinal stroke. Aortic dissection is a serious medical condition in which a tear happens in the inner layer of the body’s main artery (aorta). He has been cleared to start “using his chest and arms for the first time in three months as he continues his recovery”. “The amazing thing going through this is just the perseverance to keep going in case it comes back. You’ve got to be prepared,” Cairns said. One of the best all-rounders of his time, Cairns played 62 Tests, 215 ODIs and two T20Is for New Zealand between 1989 and 2006. His wife Melanie said, “Chris didn’t just have a stroke one day and (was gone), he had two weeks of being so close to (death). So we start from a place of gratefulness, and every bit we get back after that is just an extra. “He’s here, he’s still him. Yes there are physically challenges, but in the gym he said (to the staff) you show me the bar and I’m going to smash it down. “He’s super motivated to get back out on the tennis court with our daughter, whether that’s running around or in a wheelchair.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-am-very-lucky-to-be-alive-cairns/article37496856.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI,||V.S. Raahul is an International Master||V.S. Raahul of Chennai became an International Master by crossing the Elo rating-threshold of 2400 points in the 6th Memorijalni Turnir 'Bozidar Kicovic-Kica' Open chess tournament, which concluded in Suncana Reka, Serbia on Sunday. The 18-year-old had already completed five IM norms and on Sunday finished the Elo-rating requirements, and emerged second in the tournament after being tied with six points apiece with Audi Ameya. Ameya, however, won the tournament based on Buchholz method. Raahul is trained by Grandmaster R. B. Ramesh for the last 11 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vs-raahul-is-an-international-master/article37496851.ece
15 November 2021||Guadalajara (Mexico),||Badosa secures a spot in semifinals||Spain’s Paula Badosa fired 10 aces in a 7-6(4), 6-4 round-robin win over Maria Sakkari on Saturday and secured a semifinal spot at the season-ending WTA Finals. With one round-robin match remaining, Badosa was assured of top spot in her group when top seed Aryna Sabalenka of Belarus defeated Iga Swiatek 2-6, 6-2, 7-5. Poland’s Swiatek was eliminated from semifinal contention, and Monday’s match between Sabalenka and Sakkari will determine the second semifinalist from the group.   Badosa needed just over two hours to stretch her current WTA winning streak to eight matches. After eking out the first-set tiebreaker, she grabbed an early break on the way to a 3-1 lead in the second set. Unable to capitalise on a string of chances to break in the fifth game, Badosa was broken herself as Sakkari levelled the set 4-4. Badosa responded immediately with a break for 5-4 and a chance to serve out the match, sealing it with a backhand winner on her third match point.   Sabalenka overcame 16 double faults to keep her hopes alive in the elite season finale. She surrendered the opening set with a double fault on set point, but stepped up her service game in the second set in which she broke Swiatek twice without dropping her own serve — levelling the match with a service winner on set point. After breaking Swiatek for a 2-1 lead in the third set, Sabalenka was broken back on another double fault. But Swiatek couldn’t capitalise on Sabalenka’s inconsistency.  The results (round-robin): Paula Badosa bt Maria Sakkari 7-6(4), 6-4; Aryna Sabalenka bt Iga Swiatek 2-6, 6-2, 7-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/badosa-defeats-sakkari-secures-a-spot-in-the-semifinals/article37496862.ece
15 November 2021||Pune:,||Presidential claims main event||Trainer Pesi Shroff’s Presidential piloted by P.S. Chouhan won the Villoo C. Poonawalla Million, the main attraction of Sunday’s (Nov. 14) races here. The winner is owned by Mr. Pallon S. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt Ltd, Mr. Raj H. Shroff rep. Stride Livestock Pvt Ltd, Mr. Dinesh G. Vazirani, Miss. Soonu J. Davar, Darashaw Bloodstock Pvt Ltd & Mr. Chetan Shah. Trainer P. Shroff saddled three winners.  1. POLISHED CHROME PLATE (DIV. II) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: LAMBRETTA (Bhawani) 1, Fortune Cookie (Neeraj) 2, Kardashian (P. Vinod) 3 and Arabian Storm (Dashrath) 4. 2, 1/2 and 1-3/4. 1m 10.55s. Rs. 37 (w), 14, 15 and 13 (p). SHP: 28, FP: 103, Q: 38, Tanala: 427 and 418. Favourite: Fortune Cookie. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Karthik Ganapathy.  2. COWAS NAZIR TROPHY (DIV. II) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: SOVEREIGN MASTER (T.S. Jodha) 1, El Capitan (Kaviraj) 2, La Peregrina (Dashrath) 3 and Historic (Zeeshan) 4. 1-1/2, 4-1/4 and 1-1/2. 58.45s. Rs. 35 (w), 13, 12 and 17 (p). SHP: 24, FP: 78, Q: 18, Tanala: 151 and 124. Favourite: El Capitan. Owners: Ms. Nazzak B. Chenoy & Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt Ltd. Trainer: Nazzak B. Chenoy.  3. DR. P.K. SARDESHMUKH MAHARAJ TROPHY (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only: DEAR LADY (Parmar) 1, Hawk Of The Wind (Yash Narredu) 2, O Hansini (C. Umesh) 3 and Indian Patriot (P. Dhebe) 4. 2-1/4, 2-3/4 and 2-3/4. 1m 11.32s. Rs. 17 (w), 12 and 17 (p). SHP: 24, FP: 27, Q: 14, Tanala: 93 and 76. Favourite: Dear Lady. Owner: Equs Racing (PF). Trainer: Altamash A. Ahmed.  4. MOOSA M. HOOSEIN TROPHY (1,200m), Cl. III, rated 40 to 66: ENIGMA (Kirtish) 1, Red Merlot (Dashrath) 2, Cellini (T.S. Jodha) 3 and Rambler (Yash Narredu) 4. 3-1/2, 1-1/4 and Hd. 1m 8.65s. Rs. 11 (w), 10 and 22 (p). SHP: 27, FP: 24, Q: 35, Tanala: 75 and 31. Favourite: Enigma. Owners: Mr. Mehernosh H. Deboo, Mrs. Auzita M. Deboo & Mr. Sultan Singh. Trainer: P. Shroff.  5. D.N. ZODGE PLATE (1,800m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: ZARAK (Dashrath) 1, Aah Bella (Sandesh) 2, Hela (Bhawani) 3 and Sky Storm (Parmar) 4. 3-3/4, 3 and 1/2. 1m 53.56s. Rs. 97 (w), 12, 15 and 23 (p). SHP: 28, FP: 459, Q: 263, Tanala: 2,162. Favourite: Lord Byron. Owners: Mrs. Sandhya Sumar, M/s. Yogesh Jain & Kishore C. Punjabi. Trainer: S. Waheed.  6. COWAS NAZIR TROPHY (Div. I) (1,000m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: ENDEAVOUR (Kirtish) 1, Perfect Perfecto (A. Prakash) 2, Fuhrer (Kaviraj) 3 and Enlightened (P. Shinde) 4. 6-1/2, Nose and 2-3/4. 57.61s. Rs. 17 (w), 13, 21 and 10 (p). SHP: 73, FP: 128, Q: 104, Tanala: 244 and 71. Favourite: Endeavour. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt Ltd, Mr. & Mrs. Homi Mehta, Mr. Jehangir Mehta, Mrs. Liame Luthria & Mr. Milan Luthria. Trainer: Imtiaz A. Sait.  7. VILLOO C. POONAWALLA MILLION (1,200m), (Terms) Maiden, 3-y-o only: PRESIDENTIAL (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Fast Rain (Parmar) 2, Mystical Rose (Yash Narredu) 3 and Pure (Sandesh) 4. 1-1/4, 2-1/4 and 1-1/2. 1m 9.15s. Rs. 56 (w), 13, 19 and 15 (p). SHP: 70, FP: 438, Q: 144, Tanala: 1,099 and 471. Favourite: Key To The Mint. Owners: Mr. Pallon S. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt Ltd, Mr. Raj H. Shroff rep. Stride Livestock Pvt Ltd, Mr. Dinesh G. Vazirani, Miss. Soonu J. Davar, Darashaw Bloodstock Pvt Ltd & Mr. Chetan Shah. Trainer: P. Shroff.  8. ISMAIL KHAN PLATE (1,400m), Cl. IV, rated 20 to 46: NORTHERN LIGHTS (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Vincenzo (Sandesh) 2, Fassbinder (Akshay) 3 and Rubik Star (Bhawani) 4. 4-1/4, Sh and 1. 1m 26.07s. Rs. 34 (w), 13, 13 and 135 (p). SHP: 32, FP: 90, Q: 78, Tanala: 755 and 809. Favourite: Vincenzo. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Vijay B. Shirke, Mr. Jay V. Shirke, Mr. Dara K. Mehta rep. Darashaw Bloodstock Pvt Ltd & Mr. Bhupinder Singh. Trainer: P. Shroff.  9. POLISHED CHROME PLATE (DIV.I) (1,200m), Cl. V, rated 4 to 30: TRINKET (P. Vinod) 1, Accenture (Kirtish) 2, Cognosco (Ayyar) 3 and Hellbent (Parmar) 4. 1/2, 3/4 and 1/2. 1m 11.19s. Rs. 33 (w), 18, 38 and 36 (p). SHP: 99, FP: 507, Q: 124, Tanala: 3,429 and 1,469. Favourite: Hellbent. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Karthik Ganapathy. Note: In this race Well Speaking (Nazil up), turned around after jumping out and dislodged the rider. Nazil escaped unhurt. Jackpot: (i) 70%: Rs. 3,787 (3 tkts.), 30%: 348 (14 tkts.); (ii) 70%: 9,814 (3 tkts.), 30%: 1,147 (11 tkts.). Treble: (i) 478 (8 tkts.), (ii) 427 (15 tkts.), (iii) 1,643 (3 tkts). Super Jackpot: 70%: 14,827 (C/O), 30%: 1,271 (5 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/presidential-claims-main-event/article37497273.ece
15 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Laxman will be next NCA head, says BCCI official||Former India batter V.V.S. Laxman will be the next head of the National Cricket Academy (NCA), a senior BCCI official confirmed on Sunday. Laxman will take over from his former batting colleague Rahul Dravid, who was recently appointed as chief coach of the Indian team following the end of Ravi Shastri’s tenure. “V.V.S. Laxman will be the new head of NCA,” the Board official told PTI on the condition of anonymity. Laxman has already quit from his role as mentor of IPL team Sunrisers Hyderabad and will also not be part of any commentary panel or write columns for newspapers to avoid conflict of interest clause violation. It is understood that Laxman’s appointment will come into effect before the BCCI’s Annual General Meeting, scheduled in Kolkata on December 4. Laxman had initially declined the BCCI’s offer as he was reluctant to shift base from Hyderabad as the NCA job will require him to stay in Bengaluru for a minimum of 200 days. The two stalwarts of Indian cricket — Laxman and Dravid — will now work in tandem as the BCCI wants a smooth co-ordination between the chief coach and the NCA head. As part of his job, Laxman will also oversee preparations of the India U-19 and ‘A’ teams which are pathways to the senior level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/laxman-will-be-next-nca-head-says-bcci-official/article37496761.ece
15 November 2021||Hyderabad:,||N R I Valley should make amends||Trainer R.H. Sequeira’s mare N R I Valley, who ran second in her last start, should make amends in the Totaram’s Cup, the main event of Monday’s (Nov. 15) races.  ELUSIVE HERO PLATE (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only (Cat. II) — 12.50 p.m.: 1. China Town (10) A.A. Vikrant 56, 2. Everglades (7) N.B. Kuldeep 56, 3. High Reward (4) Kuldeep Singh 56, 4. Milton Keynes (6) Md. Ismail 56, 5. Neglect Me Not (8) Ashad Asbar 56, 6. Sergeant Reckless (5) Ajit Singh 56, 7. Sunday Picnic (9) B. Nikhil 56, 8. Wind Sprite (1) Nikhil Naidu 56, 9. Galway Bay (2) C.S. Jodha 54.5 and 10. Lights On (3) Nakhat Singh 54.5.  1. WIND SPRITE, 2. GALWAY BAY, 3. CHINA TOWN   BHONGIR PLATE (Div. I) (1,100m) Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 1.20: 1. Gregor Clegane (13) R. Ajinkya 60, 2. N R I Touch (3) Akshay Kumar 59, 3. Blue Label (5) R.S. Jodha 58, 4. Sea Of Class (14) Aneel 57.5, 5. Alba (6) C.S. Jodha 57, 6. Open Affair (11) Md. Ismail 57, 7. Precious Gift (1) Kiran Naidu 57, 8. One More Time (12) Nakhat Singh 56.5, 9. Artemis Arrow (8) Rafique Sk. 56, 10. Despang (4) Nikhil Naidu 56, 11. Magic Mark (9) Gaurav Singh 56, 12. Tales Of A Legend (10) G. Naresh 56, 13. City Queen (2) A.A. Vikrant 54 and 14. Exotic Dancer (7) Kuldeep Singh 54.  1. GREGOR CLEGANE, 2. DESPANG, 3. N R I TOUCH   BLOOMER PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 1.55: 1. Bedford (3) Kiran Naidu 60, 2. Moonlight Ruby (2) Ajeeth Kumar 58.5, 3. Stunning Force (4) A.A. Vikrant 58.5, 4. N R I Heights (5) Koushik 57, 5. Indian Glory (7) Md. Ismail 56, 6. Buckley (8) C.S. Jodha 53.5, 7. Farrell (1) Akshay Kumar 53.5, 8. Flamingo Fame (6) Santosh Raj 52.5, 9. Malaala (9) Ajit Singh 52 and 10. Plethora (---).  1. FARRELL, 2. BEDFORD, 3. MOONLIGHT RUBY   GOLCONDA CUP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II) — 2.30: 1. One Wish (9) C.S. Jodha 60, 2. Cosmic Run (3) Kiran Naidu 58, 3. Knotty Dancer (7) A.A. Vikrant 58, 4. Mark My Day (5) Gaurav Singh 57.5, 5. Max (2) Afroz Khan 56.5, 6. Siyavash (4) Ashad Asbar 55.5, 7. Super Angel (1) Akshay Kumar 55.5, 8. The Special One (8) B. Nikhil 55, 9. Jean Lafette (6) R. Ajinkya 54.5 and 10. Red Snaper (10) Nikhil Naidu 54.5.  1. ONE WISH, 2. KNOTTY DANCER, 3. MARK MY DAY   KINNERASANI PLATE (DIV. I) (1,400m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III) — 3.05: 1. Isra (3) Aneel 62, 2. Salisbury (8) Nikhil Naidu 62, 3. Solo Winner (4) R.S. Jodha 62, 4. Southern Act (9) Rohit Kumar 62, 5. Star Cruise (7) R. Ajinkya 62, 6. Sye Ra (10) Ajeeth Kumar 62, 7. Tenth Attraction (12) S. Amit 62, 8. Lorena (13) Gaurav Singh 61.5, 9. Theo’s Choice (11) Santosh Raj 58.5, 10. Racing Rani (1) Afroz Khan 58, 11. Royal Girl (6) Ajit Singh 58, 12. Big Day (2) C.P. Bopanna 56.5 and 13. Turf Monarch (5) Surya Prakash 50.  1. LORENA, 2. SOUTHERN ACT, 3. SALISBURY   BHONGIR PLATE (DIV. II) (1,100m) Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III) — 3.40: 1. Beauty Flame (10) B. Nikhil 60, 2. Dizizdtymtowin (7) Koushik 59, 3. Briar Ridge (4) Kiran Naidu 58.5, 4. Visionary (9) Neeraj 58, 5. Hot Seat (13) Md. Ismail 57.5, 6. Pink Splendor (1) Rohit Kumar 57.5, 7. Reining Queen (5) Ajeeth Kumar 57.5, 8. Cabello (12) P.S. Chouhan 57, 9. Garnet (11) A.A. Vikrant 57, 10. Sally (6) G. Naresh 57, 11. Choice Of Diamond (2) Aneel 56.5, 12. Princess Daniale (8) Khurshad Alam 56.5 and 13. Challenger (3) Nakhat Singh 54.5.  1. VISIONARY, 2. BEAUTY FLAME, 3. CABELLO   TOTARAM’S CUP (1,400m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II) — 4.15: 1. Titus (10) Gaurav Singh 62, 2. N R I Valley (1) Akshay Kumar 58, 3. Agni (5) Kuldeep Singh 56.5, 4. Lagos (8) A.A. Vikrant 55, 5. Skipton (9) C.S. Jodha 55, 6. Scramjet (4) P.S. Chouhan 54, 7. Staridar (3) B. Nikhil 53.5, 8. Her Legacy (2) Santosh Raj 52.5, 9. Saffron Art (7) S.S. Tanwar 52.5 and 10. Balius (6) Rafique Sk. 50.  1. N R I VALLEY, 2. SCRAMJET, 3. LAGOS   KINNERASANI PLATE (DIV. II) (1,400m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III) — 4.50: 1. Over Joy (3) Ashad Asbar 62, 2. Siri (12) Rohit Kumar 62, 3. Starwalt (7) Surya Prakash 62, 4. Wild Card (11) Aneel 62, 5. Lightning Fairy (1) Ajeeth Kumar 59.5, 6. Ahanu (2) Deepak Singh 59, 7. Divine Chakram (5) R. Ajinkya 59, 8. N R I Gift (9) Santosh Raj 59, 9. Epsom (13) Nikhil Naidu 58.5, 10. Hip Hop (10) P. Gaddam 58.5, 11. Red River (8) R.S. Jodha 58.5, 12. Good Tidings (4) N.B. Kuldeep 54.5 and 13. Royal Avenger (6) Afroz Khan 50.  1. LIGHTNING FAIRY, 2. OVER JOY, 3. N R I GIFT  Day’s Best: ONE WISH  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5. (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3, (ii) 3, 4 & 5, (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/n-r-i-valley-should-make-amends/article37496858.ece
15 November 2021||Hyderabad:,||Ashwa Bravo bags feature||Ashwa Bravo (Ashad Asbar up) claimed the H.P. Mistry Memorial Cup, the main event of Sunday’s (Nov. 14) races. The winner is owned by Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Yohan Z. Poonawalla, Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla & Mrs. Simone Z. Poonawalla & Mr. Ravinder Pal Singh Chauhan. M. Srinivas Reddy trains the winner. Trainer S.K. Sunderji and jockey C.S. Jodha won three races each.  1. DEMOCRACY PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): TOMORROWS DREAMS (C.S. Jodha) 1, Aerial Combat (Akshay Kumar) 2, Sacred Lamp (B Nikhil) 3 and Angel Tesoro (A.A. Vikrant) 4. Nk, 2 and 1/2. 1m 13.50s. Rs. 35 (w), 13, 14 and 108 (p). SHP: 39, THP: 153, SHW: 14 and 17, FP: 76, Q: 32, Tanala: 1,388. Favourite: Aerial Combat. Owner: Mr. Jatin L. Trivedi. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  2. CH. V. LAKSHMI PRASAD RAO ‘SIRDESAI’ SIRCILLA MEMORIAL CUP (1,600m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): SUMMER NIGHT (C.S. Jodha) 1, Kesariya Balam (Ashad Asbar) 2, Mirana (Gaurav Singh) 3 and Crazy Horse (A.A. Vikrant) 4. Not run: Knotty Dancer. Hd, 1/2 and 1/2. 1m 40.15s. Rs. 34 (w), 15, 24 and 18 (p). SHP: 86, THP: 46, SHW: 27 and 37, FP: 356, Q: 166, Tanala: 1,188. Favourite: Ashwa Raudee. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders Farm Pvt Ltd, Mr. Vikram Bachhawat rep. Bachhawat Farms Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Ponkumaran Dhanasekar. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  3. DEMOCRACY PLATE (DIV. II) (1,200m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): GUSTY NOTE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Mind Reader (R.S. Jodha) 2, Curcumin (R. Ajinkya) 3 and Aibak (Aneel) 4. 1/2, 2 and 1/2. 1m 13.37s. Rs. 37 (w), 17, 27 and 22 (p). SHP: 82, THP: 50, SHW: 25 and 29, FP: 322, Q: 161, Tanala: 3,267. Favourite: Intense Approach. Owner: Wing Commander D.S. Gill, Mr. Rajesh Sanghani & Mr. T. Amarender Reddy. Trainer: D. Netto.  4. SOVIET STAR PLATE (1,100m), 4-y-o & upward, rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): XFINITY (Akshay Kumar) 1, Different (Md. Ismail) 2, Blissful (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Incredulous (A.A. Vikrant) 4. 1/2, 2 and Hd. 1m 6.27s. Rs. 28 (w), 19, 35 and 24 (p). SHP: 94, THP: 79, SHW: 21 and 61, FP: 333, Q: 296, Tanala: 3,171. Favourite: Menilly. Owner: Mr. Akshay Karan. Trainer: Ananta Vatsalya.  5. H.P. MISTRY MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), rated 80 and above (Cat. I): ASHWA BRAVO (Ashad Asbar) 1, Smashing Blue (Akshay Kumar) 2, Havelock Cruise (G. Naresh) 3 and Corfe Castle (Nikhil Naidu) 4. 2-1/2, Hd and 1/2. 1m 11.38s. Rs. 21 (w), 13, 11 and 36 (p). SHP: 26, THP: 81, SHW: 11 and 14, FP: 44, Q: 25, Tanala: 365. Favourite: Ashwa Bravo. Owners: Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Yohan Z. Poonawalla, Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla & Mrs. Simone Z. Poonawalla & Mr. Ravinder Pal Singh Chauhan. Trainer: M. Srinivas Reddy.  6. RECOMMENDER PLATE (1,600m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): COUNT OF SAVOY (C.S. Jodha) 1, Dream Station (Gaurav Singh) 2, Philanthropist (N.B. Kuldeep) 3 and Moringa (Nakhat Singh) 4. 5-3/4, Nk and 3/4. 1m 39.88s. Rs. 26 (w), 17, 10 and 97 (p). SHP: 53, THP: 192, SHW: 13 and 46, FP: 133, Q: 99, Tanala: 5,433. Favourite: Count Of Savoy. Owners: Mrs. M.B. Dubash & Ms. Farida B. Dubash. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 1,027 (230 tkts.), (ii) 143 (704 tkts.). Treble: (i) 546 (49 tkts.), (ii) 150 (294 tkts.). Mini Jackpot: 611 (72 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashwa-bravo-bags-feature/article37496859.ece
15 November 2021||Sydney,||2024 T20 WC likely to be hosted by USA||The USA is likely to host the T20 World Cup in 2024, which could serve as a launch pad in the ICC’s bid for cricket’s inclusion in the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics. The ICC is expected to award a joint bid by USA Cricket and Cricket West Indies to host the 2024 T20 showpiece. The ICC has been for a long time looking to give emerging countries the hosting rights for the mega events. The 2024 T20 World Cup is expected to have 20 teams and 55 matches as compared to the 2021 and 2022 editions which have seen 16 teams playing 45 matches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/2024-t20-wc-likely-to-be-hosted-by-usa/article37496765.ece
15 November 2021||CHENNAI:,||Chennai races cancelled||The Stewards of the Madras Race Club have decided to cancel the fourth day races scheduled to be held on Thursday (Nov. 18), due to consistent heavy rainfall rendering the underfoot conditions of the race track not conducive for racing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chennai-races-cancelled/article37496906.ece
15 November 2021||Sao Paulo,||Stunning win for Hamilton||Mercedes driver Valtteri Bottas won the sprint race to take pole position for the Brazilian Grand Prix as a dramatic day at Interlagos accelerated championship leader Max Verstappen's quest for his first Formula One title. Verstappen finished the sprint race in second position and added two points in the standings on Saturday. The Red Bull driver also saw his rival, seven-time world champion Lewis Hamilton, hit by another punishment and set to start from 10th on Sunday despite an impressive run from last to fifth. Ferrari's Carlos Sainz finished third, with Red Bull's Sergio Perez in fourth. McLaren's Lando Norris will inherit Hamilton's fifth position on the grid. Ferrari's Charles Leclerc starts from sixth place. “Starting Sunday's race from front row gives us all to play for,” Verstappen said. “Let's try again tomorrow.” Earlier, Hamilton was forced to start the sprint race from last after being disqualified from Friday's qualifying session — where he was fastest — due to a technical infringement by Mercedes. Mercedes did not appeal the decision. Despite Hamilton's fifth-place finish in the sprint race, a separate five-place penalty means the defending champion will start 10th after Mercedes decided to change his car's engine in Sao Paulo. It wasn't all good news for Verstappen. The Dutch driver was fined after being seen touching the rear wing of the Mercedes car. He leads Hamilton by 21 points in the standings, including the two from the sprint race, with four races left this season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bottas-takes-pole-hamilton-to-start-10th/article37496767.ece
15 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||National shooting from November 18||The National shooting championship, with pistol events being staged at the Dr. Karni Singh Range in Tughlakabad, will start on November 18. However, the first set of finals will only be on November 27. The men’s air pistol title clash, including the youth and junior events, will be staged on the same day. The men’s 25m rapid fire pistol finals will be on Nov. 28, to be followed by mixed air pistol finals on Nov. 29. The non-Olympic 50m free pistol event is scheduled for Nov. 24 and 25. The centre fire pistol event for men is slated for Dec. 2 and 3 and the women’s air pistol finals will be on Dec. 4. The championship will wind up with the women’s 25m sports pistol final on Dec. 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-shooting-from-november-18/article37496852.ece
15 November 2021||Aqaba (Jordan),||Gokulam signs off with a win||Indian club Gokulam Kerala FC claimed a 3-1 victory over Uzbek side FC Bunyodkor in its final AFC Women’s Club Championship group stage game. The win notwithstanding, Gokulam Kerala is out of the tournament as it lost its first two games to Amman SC and Shahrdari Sirjan. The Malabarians started on an attacking note with Ghanaian striker Elshaddai Acheampong giving the side its first goal in the 33rd minute off Soumya Guguloth’s header. The team went on the defence shortly after the goal and went into half time with a 1-0 lead. Doubling the lead Bunyodkor’s captain Luiza Sadirova was sent off for her challenge on Elshaddai in the box. And then, Manisha Kalyan doubled the lead in the 62nd minute. Gokulam extended its domination with a fine finish from Columbian Steffany. The Uzbekistan side came close to taking the lead in the 18th minute when Nozimova forced a save from Shreya, who also stopped Ergasheva’s follow-up from close range. Bunyodkor’s Umida Zoirova went past the Gokulam defence before slotting home to reduce the deficit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gokulam-signs-off-with-a-win/article37496857.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Manish wins ITF title in Indore||Second seed Manish Sureshkumar beat Philip Sekulic of Australia 6-4, 4-6, 6-2 in the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis final at the Indore Tennis Club on Sunday. It was the second title in the professional circuit for the 22-year-old Chennai lad who had won his maiden title in Sri Lanka in 2018. Manish had competed in a series of tournaments in Germany and Spain in the last three months and was thus better prepared to capitalise on the event at home.     Dhyan Chand Sports Academy (Chennai) did well in the 14th Tamil Nadu archery championships, organised by The Archery Association of Tamil Nadu (TAAT), with a total haul of 95 medals in various categories — 27 gold, 40 silver and 28 bronze medals — here recently. Shihan Hussaini, general secretary of TAAT, gave away the prizes.     B. Vaibhav and Thanuja won the boys’ and girls’ under-17 singles title respectively in the Tamizhaga Table Tennis Association State-level tournament organised by RAM Table Tennis Club.  The results: Boys: U-17: B. Vaibhav (Msk) bt Sidharth (Theni) (3-1) 11-8, 7-11, 11-9,11-7; U-15: Sathya Narayanan (Theni) bt S. Megan (Achievers) (3-1) 11-6, 11-4, 9-11, 11-7; U-13: Sathya Narayanan (Theni) bt Sanjay Aravind (SSA, Erode) (3-1) 9-11, 11-7, 11-5, 11-7; U-11: Akshay Bhusan (ITTC) bt P.V. Ragav (PSBB) (3-1) 11-9, 9-11, 11-8, 11-2.   Girls: U-17: Thanuja (KTTC) bt M. Ananya (Achievers) (3-2) 8-11, 8-11, 11-8, 13-11, 11-7; U-15: Buvanitha (MDU) bt Jaya Bharathi (ITTC) (3-0) 11-7, 11-7, 11-9; U-13: Donniya (MDU) bt Dharshini (KTTC) (3-0) 11-6, 11-6, 11-9; U-11: K. Ananya (ITTC) bt Amritha (PSPB) (1-3) 5-11, 11-5, 11-9, 11-8 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manish-wins-itf-title-in-indore/article37496909.ece
15 November 2021||ELURU:,||Kadapa triumphs||Kadapa defeated Guntur 5-4 in penalty shoot-out in the final of the state senior inter-district women’s football championship here on Sunday. Guntur finished second, Anantapur third and Visakhapatnam fourth.  The results (final):   Kadapa bt Guntur 5-4 (penalty shoot-out).   Final round: Kadapa bt Chittoor 4-0; Guntur bt Prakasam 3-0; Anantapur bt Visakhapatnam 3-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kadapa-triumphs/article37497298.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||The Tirumalai hills||Of the many Divya Desams that Azhwars have sung about, Tiruvengadam, also known as Tirumalai, is very dear to most of them. Among the Azhwars, the Mudal Azhwars, comprising Poigai, Bhootha and Pey Azhwars, have conveyed their experience of the deity along with the descriptions of the natural beauty of the hills in many of their hymns, pointed out Sri A. K. Sundarrajan in a discourse. They affirm with great faith that a visit to Tirumalai to seek His grace is sure to be most beneficial. The Lord at Tirumalai is worshipped not only by the people of this earth but by the Nityasuris of Vaikunta and other celestial beings, says Poigai Azhwar. He describes the many waterfalls, the animals, birds, plants, trees, etc, and other residents of the hills such as the kuravars who worship the Lord with love and devotion. This sacred shrine has the power to rid the sins of all the people. Many kinds of people seek the Lord for various reasons based on their aims of life and individual temperaments. Some of them are staunch devotees who long for eternal service at His feet. They will not bear any separation from Him. As Andal says, they wish to serve Him at all times, no matter how many births they are destined to take owing to their karma. Azhwar says that even if their past sins lead them to repeated births, and thereby continue to be a hurdle, a visit to this place to worship the Lord is capable of removing this great obstacle to moksha. There may be many others who wish for the material comforts of this world. God grants their wishes. But even such people will gradually give up their laukika desires owing to the subtle power of His grace. Instead, their attention is diverted to the Lord and they begin to nurture the longing for Moksha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/the-tirumalai-hills/article37496594.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 07:03 IST,||Sudoku — November 15, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-15-2021/article37497400.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Why Dwayne Johnson’s still The Rock||There are few things that are worth a 4 a.m. wake-up call. Speaking to one of the biggest movie stars in the world (even if it is on Zoom) is one of them. When Dwayne Johnson appears on my screen, he’s three hours late. It’s been a mad rush, with the LA premiere of his new film Red Notice followed by a day packed with interviews (organised by Netflix to promote the film) — mine being the last for the day. But his trademark smile is at the ready. It’s this sense of warmth that draws people in and which, with a keen business sense, has made the 49-year-old either the highest or second-highest paid actor for the last five years, according to Forbes ’ annual list — with an estimated total earning of $430.4 million. “I think the reason why he’s adored is because he is adoring of other people,” Oprah Winfrey recently told Vanity Fair magazine. “He really is what he appears to be. And people know that.” We can see this, for instance, in how he works social media to his advantage. His feed is peppered with his workouts and famous pancake cheat meals, brand endorsements and film promotions. There are photos, too, of him giving his five-year-old daughter, Jasmine, a manicure. After the perfectly-curated Instagram profiles of influencers, this comes across as a busy, joyful mess. But it’s one that you want to be a part of. In a clip that has 6.6 million views, Johnson pulls up in his pickup truck next to a tour bus driving through his Hollywood neighbourhood. “Can you tell me where I can find The Rock?” he asks, as the tourists go wild. In the same Vanity Fair story, he explains, “There was a time when no one knew who I was... I roll the windows down as a reminder. What an incredible position to be in. You got a chance to make somebody’s day.”  Thinking about tutus  As he settles down for our chat — his casual grey T-shirt a nice contrast to the previous day’s purple Ralph Lauren jacket on the red carpet — we begin with The Game Plan (2007). One of my go-to feel-good films, it is the last one where he is credited with his WWE stage name, ‘The Rock’. “I had a lot of fun doing that movie,” Johnson says. “It was a seminal moment in my career.” It not only marked a departure from being identified as a former wrestling star to being acknowledged as an actor in his own right, but the movie, produced by Disney, also showcased his versatility. As star quarterback Joe Kingman, he plays a typical jock, but by the end of the family comedy, he’s in a tutu, prancing about in a ballet recital. As it turns out,all that dancing was good practice for Red Notice . In a press conference earlier in the day, co-star Gal Gadot playfully recalls a scene where they dance. “I was quite afraid for my feet,” she laughs, as he adds, “she thought she was dancing with a Velociraptor.” Despite his 6’4” muscled frame “he is light on his feet, like a ballerina”, she says.  Art for art’s sake  Johnson plays FBI profiler John Hartley in the art heist film directed by Rawson Marshall Thurber. This is the third time he is collaborating with Thurber, after Central Intelligence and Skyscraper, and their camaraderie on set is well-documented. As is the cutting-edge technology they both enjoy working with. In a recent interview with comicbook.com, Thurber refers to the Komodo, a 6K camera that they attached to a race drone to shoot immersive sequences — like the opening shot where he ‘flies’ the audience over a bridge to Johnson standing at the door of a museum, and the subsequent chase — where the camera never appears to cut. It brings to mind that Johnson is often surrounded by relics and artefacts in his films (think the Jumanji films or the more recentJungle Cruise ). The actor says, “I’ve always had a keen interest in history, and was curious about art. While I’ve been lucky enough to travel and see some interesting places... [Red Notice] really opened my eyes to the world’s greatest museums, and the art they hold.” So there’s tech, art, and action at every turn — as Agent Hartley teams up with art thief Nolan Booth (Ryan Reynolds) to bring down his rival, The Bishop (Gadot). Throw in some rudely-interrupted car chases, moped getaways and a narrow shave with a yacht, and you get a film that doesn’t claim to be intellectual, but is great fun.  Netflix x action  Netflix has a penchant for big, bold action movies. Think 2019’s 6 Underground , also starring Reynolds. The Michael Bay film had a $150 million budget. Or last year’s Extraction, directed by Sam Hargrave, at $65 million. On a set visit of the Chris Hemsworth-starrer, I had a front-row seat to just how large scale these productions can get. The crew had recreated the bylanes of Bangladesh on the outskirts of Bangkok, and even imported bags of garbage from Kolkata to make the litter on the streets look authentic! Netflix acquired the distribution rights for Red Notice in 2019. Much of the film was shot before the pandemic lockdowns (shooting started in January 2020) across Atlanta, Rome and Sardinia, with an initial budget of $160 million. By the end, it was closer to $200 million, making it the most expensive Netflix movie ever. At the film’s press conference, Johnson makes a reference to the 1,000+ crew. So one can just imagine the production scale.  There’s something about DJ  While Johnson, DJ to friends and fans, is quite capable of carrying a movie on his own, he also excels in ensemble casts. In his 43-plus film career, Pain & Gain , the Jumanji movies, as well as the Hobbs & Shaw spin-off come to mind, as does his rapport with his co-stars, from Emily Blunt to Liam Hemsworth. While he and Gadot have acted in the Fast and Furious franchise, this is his first with Reynolds. “I’ve known Gal for 10 years, and Ryan for 20,” he says. “The chemistry we share comes with experience and time, and with trust.” And with ‘keeping it real’ off screen. On November 5, he captioned a red carpet Instagram post from the premiere: “Two of the biggest movie stars in the world. And a guy who’s famous for wearing a fanny pack.” He’s referring, of course, to the iconic image of him wearing a black turtleneck with jeans and a belt bag that he just can’t outrun. The bankable star — whose fans cut across all ages — has been nominated for multiple People’s Choice Awards for Jungle Cruise and Young Rock. There’s even talk about him running for president of the United States; 46% of Americans polled last month stated they would support his candidacy. Perhaps it’s the family-friendly films like Tooth Fairy and Moana that make him relatable, or it’s his take-charge attitude in disaster movies like Rampage and San Andreas. Perhaps it’s because he’s such a rock! “I don’t think our Founding Fathers ever envisioned a six-four, bald, tattooed, half-Black, half-Samoan, tequila drinking, pickup truck driving, fanny pack-wearing guy joining their club — but if it ever happens it’d be my honor to serve you, the people,” he’d said back in February. Then last month, he admitted on Instagram, “I’m humbled... but at the end of the day, I don’t know the first thing about politics. I may have some leadership qualities but that doesn’t necessarily make me a great presidential candidate. And that’s where I am today.” For now, there’s enough DJ to keep us going this weekend — a double bill of Red Notice and Jungle Cruise (both premiered online on Friday), the former on Netflix and the Emily Blunt-starrer on Disney+Hotstar. Continued on page 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/why-dwayne-johnsons-still-the-rock/article37497210.ece
15 November 2021||November 15 2021 00:00 IST,||Why Dwayne Johnson’s still The Rock||There are few things that are worth a 4 a.m. wake-up call. Speaking to one of the biggest movie stars in the world (even if it is on Zoom) is one of them. When Dwayne Johnson appears on my screen, he’s three hours late. It’s been a mad rush, with the LA premiere of his new film Red Notice followed by a day packed with interviews (organised by Netflix to promote the film) — mine being the last for the day. But his trademark smile is at the ready. It’s this sense of warmth that draws people in and which, with a keen business sense, has made the 49-year-old either the highest or second-highest paid actor for the last five years, according to Forbes ’ annual list — with an estimated total earning of $430.4 million. “I think the reason why he’s adored is because he is adoring of other people,” Oprah Winfrey recently told Vanity Fair magazine. “He really is what he appears to be. And people know that.” We can see this, for instance, in how he works social media to his advantage. His feed is peppered with his workouts and famous pancake cheat meals, brand endorsements and film promotions. There are photos, too, of him giving his five-year-old daughter, Jasmine, a manicure. After the perfectly-curated Instagram profiles of influencers, this comes across as a busy, joyful mess. But it’s one that you want to be a part of. In a clip that has 6.6 million views, Johnson pulls up in his pickup truck next to a tour bus driving through his Hollywood neighbourhood. “Can you tell me where I can find The Rock?” he asks, as the tourists go wild. In the same Vanity Fair story, he explains, “There was a time when no one knew who I was... I roll the windows down as a reminder. What an incredible position to be in. You got a chance to make somebody’s day.”  Thinking about tutus  As he settles down for our chat — his casual grey T-shirt a nice contrast to the previous day’s purple Ralph Lauren jacket on the red carpet — we begin with The Game Plan (2007). One of my go-to feel-good films, it is the last one where he is credited with his WWE stage name, ‘The Rock’. “I had a lot of fun doing that movie,” Johnson says. “It was a seminal moment in my career.” It not only marked a departure from being identified as a former wrestling star to being acknowledged as an actor in his own right, but the movie, produced by Disney, also showcased his versatility. As star quarterback Joe Kingman, he plays a typical jock, but by the end of the family comedy, he’s in a tutu, prancing about in a ballet recital. As it turns out,all that dancing was good practice for Red Notice . In a press conference earlier in the day, co-star Gal Gadot playfully recalls a scene where they dance. “I was quite afraid for my feet,” she laughs, as he adds, “she thought she was dancing with a Velociraptor.” Despite his 6’4” muscled frame “he is light on his feet, like a ballerina”, she says.  Art for art’s sake  Johnson plays FBI profiler John Hartley in the art heist film directed by Rawson Marshall Thurber. This is the third time he is collaborating with Thurber, after Central Intelligence and Skyscraper, and their camaraderie on set is well-documented. As is the cutting-edge technology they both enjoy working with. In a recent interview with comicbook.com, Thurber refers to the Komodo, a 6K camera that they attached to a race drone to shoot immersive sequences — like the opening shot where he ‘flies’ the audience over a bridge to Johnson standing at the door of a museum, and the subsequent chase — where the camera never appears to cut. It brings to mind that Johnson is often surrounded by relics and artefacts in his films (think the Jumanji films or the more recentJungle Cruise ). The actor says, “I’ve always had a keen interest in history, and was curious about art. While I’ve been lucky enough to travel and see some interesting places... [Red Notice] really opened my eyes to the world’s greatest museums, and the art they hold.” So there’s tech, art, and action at every turn — as Agent Hartley teams up with art thief Nolan Booth (Ryan Reynolds) to bring down his rival, The Bishop (Gadot). Throw in some rudely-interrupted car chases, moped getaways and a narrow shave with a yacht, and you get a film that doesn’t claim to be intellectual, but is great fun.  Netflix x action  Netflix has a penchant for big, bold action movies. Think 2019’s 6 Underground , also starring Reynolds. The Michael Bay film had a $150 million budget. Or last year’s Extraction, directed by Sam Hargrave, at $65 million. On a set visit of the Chris Hemsworth-starrer, I had a front-row seat to just how large scale these productions can get. The crew had recreated the bylanes of Bangladesh on the outskirts of Bangkok, and even imported bags of garbage from Kolkata to make the litter on the streets look authentic! Netflix acquired the distribution rights for Red Notice in 2019. Much of the film was shot before the pandemic lockdowns (shooting started in January 2020) across Atlanta, Rome and Sardinia, with an initial budget of $160 million. By the end, it was closer to $200 million, making it the most expensive Netflix movie ever. At the film’s press conference, Johnson makes a reference to the 1,000+ crew. So one can just imagine the production scale.  There’s something about DJ  While Johnson, DJ to friends and fans, is quite capable of carrying a movie on his own, he also excels in ensemble casts. In his 43-plus film career, Pain & Gain , the Jumanji movies, as well as the Hobbs & Shaw spin-off come to mind, as does his rapport with his co-stars, from Emily Blunt to Liam Hemsworth. While he and Gadot have acted in the Fast and Furious franchise, this is his first with Reynolds. “I’ve known Gal for 10 years, and Ryan for 20,” he says. “The chemistry we share comes with experience and time, and with trust.” And with ‘keeping it real’ off screen. On November 5, he captioned a red carpet Instagram post from the premiere: “Two of the biggest movie stars in the world. And a guy who’s famous for wearing a fanny pack.” He’s referring, of course, to the iconic image of him wearing a black turtleneck with jeans and a belt bag that he just can’t outrun. The bankable star — whose fans cut across all ages — has been nominated for multiple People’s Choice Awards for Jungle Cruise and Young Rock. There’s even talk about him running for president of the United States; 46% of Americans polled last month stated they would support his candidacy. Perhaps it’s the family-friendly films like Tooth Fairy and Moana that make him relatable, or it’s his take-charge attitude in disaster movies like Rampage and San Andreas. Perhaps it’s because he’s such a rock! “I don’t think our Founding Fathers ever envisioned a six-four, bald, tattooed, half-Black, half-Samoan, tequila drinking, pickup truck driving, fanny pack-wearing guy joining their club — but if it ever happens it’d be my honor to serve you, the people,” he’d said back in February. Then last month, he admitted on Instagram, “I’m humbled... but at the end of the day, I don’t know the first thing about politics. I may have some leadership qualities but that doesn’t necessarily make me a great presidential candidate. And that’s where I am today.” For now, there’s enough DJ to keep us going this weekend — a double bill of Red Notice and Jungle Cruise (both premiered online on Friday), the former on Netflix and the Emily Blunt-starrer on Disney+Hotstar. Continued on page 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/why-dwayne-johnsons-still-the-rock/article37497209.ece
