16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre to disburse Rs. 95,082 cr. to States to sustain recovery||The Centre will remit Rs. 95,082 crore to States next week, double the funds due to them from the shareable pool of taxes this month to enable them to deploy more money on capital spending, Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said late on Monday after a six-hour meeting with State Chief Ministers and Finance Ministers. About 15 Chief Ministers, mostly from the NDA-ruled States, attended what Ms. Sitharaman described as a ‘rare, one-off’ meeting between the Centre and States, held to figure out ways to sustain the economic recovery after the second COVID-19 wave and understand States’ concerns and plans. Three States were represented by deputy CMs while the Finance Ministers of the rest were present, along with the Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, she said. “The context of the meeting was that after the second wave, we are seeing a robust growth. However, it’s also a time where we are looking at ways to sustain the growth, take it as close as possible to a double-digit growth for which the Centre and States have to work together,” Ms. Sitharaman said. She urged States to help India become the fastest growing economy in coming years, through facilitating investment attractiveness and expediting ease of doing business measures and undertake power sector reforms. States were also nudged to smoothen land acquisition and create land banks for investors as land is one of the major bottlenecks for investment projects. Moreover, with the Centre taking up monetisation of public assets, States were asked to consider doing the same. “Unless States and the Centre put up money for building, the ripple effects for speedier and better growth would not be as desirable as we wish to have it and therefore, that expenditure is absolutely necessary,” the Minister pointed out and said she has directed the Finance Secretary to concede to States’ request as ‘this is an exceptional year’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-to-disburse-rs-95082-cr-to-states-to-sustain-recovery/article37514278.ece
16 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Legal battle over 3 capitals held up State’s growth: CJ||Andhra Pradesh High Court Chief Justice Prashant Kumar Mishra has observed that the development of the State has come to a standstill due to the legal battle over the government’s proposal to have three capital cities and that he would therefore like to settle the dispute expeditiously. The Chief Justice made that comment in the context of an affirmation by senior advocate Dushyant Dave, who was appearing for the State, that it would be a waste of judicial time if a petition for the recusal of Justices M. Satyanarayana Murthy and D.V.S.S. Somayajulu was not taken up immediately. Mr. Mishra then replied that he indeed wanted to right away resume hearing the writ petitions which questioned the validity of the AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts of 2020 as because of them, development of the entire State appeared to be held up. The plea for recusal of Justices Satyanarayana Murthy and Somayajulu from the ‘three capitals’ cases was made by Sarath Kumar, a former government pleader of Telangana, on the ground that the judges had pecuniary interest by virtue of having been allotted plots in Amaravati but the Chief Justice rejected it by insisting that a request to that effect was turned down by a Division Bench earlier and the non-recusal was not challenged then. However, Mr. Mishra said he would examine the plea for recusal of the two judges at the time of giving the final judgement. As far as the arguments against the impugned legislations are concerned, senior advocate Shyam Divan (representing Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi) said what is supposed to be a ‘throbbing capital’ had been completely emasculated in terms of the lost value of the reconstituted plots. ‘Consequences for country’ He observed that there would be a cyclical change of governments but the State remains constant, implying that such controversial proposals as the ‘three capitals’ would have serious consequences for the entire country as at stake was the fundamental issue of governance which ought to be a continuous process, and the constitutional assurances on the basis of which Amaravati farmers took an informed decision to give their arable lands for the construction of the capital city of A.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fight-over-capitals-halted-growth-ap-cj/article37514186.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM reaches out to tribal people, unveils schemes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday reached out to tribal people, inaugurating the Birsa Munda museum in Ranchi as well as a slew of welfare schemes in Bhopal on what was the first-ever ‘Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas’ or tribal pride day. Addressing the event in Bhopal, he said, “After Independence, for the first time in the country, on such a large scale, the art-culture of the entire country’s tribal society, their contribution to the freedom movement and nation-building is being remembered and honoured with pride.” Some people were surprised when the contribution of tribal society in nation-building was discussed as these details were not told to the country. “This happened because those who ran the government in the country for decades after Independence gave priority to their selfish politics,” he stated. Mr. Modi dedicated several railway projects to the nation, including the redeveloped Rani Kamalpati Railway Station in Bhopal. Earlier, he inaugurated the first of 10 new museums dedicated to tribal culture and contribution to the freedom movement and also marking the birth anniversary of tribal freedom fighter Birsa Munda in Ranchi. Mr. Modi inaugurated the Bhagwan Birsa Munda memorial-cum-freedom fighter museum on what was the first ‘Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas’ or tribal pride day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-reaches-out-to-tribal-people-launches-schemes/article37514241.ece
16 November 2021||Vijayawada,||Skirmishes over alleged fake votes mar ULB polls||Mutual accusations of casting of bogus votes by the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) cadres led to skirmishes at several places, with police resorting to using force to quell unruly mobs during the elections to Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) on Monday. TDP national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu alleged that a large number of bogus votes were cast and that the YSRCP leaders facilitated the entry of outsiders into municipalities that went to polls as the police remained mute spectators. On the other hand, YSRCP MLC Lella Appireddy and MLA M. Jagan Mohan Rao met State Election Commissioner Nilam Sawhney and complained against the TDP and its supporters for allegedly trying to influence voters in Kuppam municipality. Polls to the Nellore Municipal Corporation was marred by minor clashes between YSRCP and TDP activists. Elections to 24 wards in Kuppam municipality witnessed 76.49% polling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minor-clashes-mar-ap-local-body-polls/article37514234.ece
16 November 2021||Pune,||Ex-BJP Minister arrested for Amravati violence||The Maharashtra police on Monday arrested BJP leader and former State Minister Anil Bonde, along with a few other party members, in connection with the rioting in Amravati last week. Authorities said they are also on the lookout for BJP MLC from Amravati Praveen Pote, who is apparently “missing” since the violence of November 12 and 13. Maharashtra Minority Development Minister and senior NCP leader Nawab Malik accused the BJP of hatching a “pre-planned conspiracy” to foment riots across the State. More than 70 persons have been arrested thus far and over 25 FIRs registered at four police stations in Amravati in connection with the violence. Officials said Mr. Bonde — the State Agriculture Minister under the erstwhile BJP regime — and Mr. Pote were instrumental in organising the BJP’s shutdown on November 13. Stressing that there had been no “communal clashes” in Amravati district, Mr. Malik said that Mr. Bonde had “conspired” to start riots by distributing money and liquor to miscreants. ‘Money transferred’ “…It was a pre-planned conspiracy to foment riots across Maharashtra but the public ensured that it never spilled outside Amravati city. It is also emerging now that a large sum of money for the purpose of spreading the riots was transferred from Mumbai to Amravati but the police had the situation well under control when the violence started,” he said. On November 12, violence erupted in at least three cities in Maharashtra — Amravati, Malegaon (in Nashik district) and Nanded — after some minority groups reportedly called for a day-long shutdown in protest against incidents of mosques being vandalised in Tripura. A ‘counter-bandh’ was called by the BJP in Amravati as a challenge on November 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ex-bjp-minister-arrested-for-amravati-violence/article37514457.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||Siddipet Collector quits service, may join politics||District Collector of Siddipet P. Venkatarami Reddy resigned as an IAS officer by opting for voluntary retirement from service on Monday. His resignation was accepted by the government and orders relieving him from service were were issued within a couple of hours of his submission of resignation. The 59-year-old civil servant, who was selected to IAS under the State Civil Services (SCS) category and allocated 2006 batch, is due for regular retirement from service at the end of September next year. He is a native of Odela village in Peddapalli district. Mr. Reddy is expected to join the ruling TRS soon and is also tipped to be sent to the Legislative Council (as MLC) under the MLAs’ or Local Authorities Constituencies, 18 of which are being filled soon. Polling for six MLC seats in the MLAs’ quota is scheduled on November 29 and for 12 MLC seats in the LAC quota on December 10. He joined the Group-I service of the SCS in combined Andhra Pradesh in 1991 and worked as Revenue Divisional Officer at Machilipatnam, Chittoor and Tirupati. He also worked as the Project Director of District Water Management Authority (DWMA) in erstwhile Medaks district. He also held the posts of Secretary of HUDA, and Zonal Commissioner in GHMC during his service. After being selected to IAS, Mr. Venkatarami Reddy worked as the Collector of Sangareddy and Siddipet districts. His tenure as the District Collector of Siddipet was also dotted with controversies in the matter of land acquisition for Mallannasagar reservoir of the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project, where a section of displaced people who moved the High Court alleged that they were evicted forcibly, including with coercive measures. More recently, his action of touching the feet of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on the dais of an official event in Siddipet district had also invited large-scale criticism. His resignation submitted to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Monday was processed on a fast-track and orders relieving him from the service were also issued without a few hours of his putting in papers. Speaking to reporters after submitting papers for his VRS, Mr. Reddy said the K. Chandrasekhar Rao government in Telangana was working for betterment of lives of all sections of people and he was transforming the State into a model with other States looking at it for emulation in implementing development and welfare schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/siddipet-collector-quits-service-may-join-politics/article37514547.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.P. accepts SC proposal for probe by ex-judge||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday agreed to the Supreme Court’s suggestion to appoint a retired judge to monitor the investigation into the Lakhimpur Kheri murders and violence. The cases concern a convoy, allegedly belonging to Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra, ploughing into a group of farmers and civilians protesting the controversial agricultural laws and the ensuing violence at Lakhimpur Kheri district. Minister’s son Ashish Mishra is a prime accused in the case concerning the farmers’ deaths. “We leave it to Your Lordships... You may appoint whoever you want,” senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for U.P., submitted before a three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana. The Bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, after conferring among themselves, said it needed a day to zero in on the judge. “We are considering former Punjab and Haryana HC Judge Rakesh Kumar Jain or others. We have to consult them,” it said. Mr. Salve stated that the government had left it to the wisdom of the court. However, he made a suggestion. He made a point that the court’s choice of a retired judge should not rest on whether he or she was from the State or outside. “You mean it can be from any State...” the court sought to clarify from him. Mr. Salve explained that the focus should be on the person, the judge, whether or not from or outside the State. “It should be just that Your Lordships are appointing a person...” he offered. The Bench indicated that it may consider either a retired Supreme Court or High Court judge willing to take up the assignment. The court further asked the government to provide it with a list of names of direct IPS officers of U.P. cadre, but who were not native to the State to be considered for inclusion in the task force.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-accepts-sc-counsel-for-probe-by-ex-judge/article37514243.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Chennai-Bengaluru road project set for green nod||The Expert Appraisal Committee of the Environment Ministry has recommended phase-III of the eight-lane expressway between Chennai and Bengaluru for environment clearance. The project, implemented by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), passes through Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh and Vellore, Ranipet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts of Tamil Nadu. The stretch falls in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The total length of the alignment is 106.10 km, starting from Ramapuram in Chittoor to Irungattukottai in Sriperumbudur taluk. Improved connectivity The project is meant to improve connectivity between Bengaluru and Chennai and act as a link between the major commercial and industrial centres of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The road proposed under phase-III will have 31 major bridges, 25 minor bridges, 137 culverts, 13 vehicular underpasses, 5 vehicular overpasses, 3 light vehicle underpasses, 50 pedestrian underpasses, 7 interchanges, 3 road over-bridges and 6 toll plazas. Animal underpass One animal underpass has also been proposed on the Forest Department’s recommendation. There is also a provision for 3 truck laybys, 4 rest areas and high mast lights. The NHAI had informed the committee that there are about 16,954 non-forest trees and 2,058 forest trees in the proposed right of way and committed itself to cutting trees within formation width so as to minimise losses. “About 1,69,540 trees will be planted within the available space in the right of way... The balance will be planted in consultation with the Forest Department,” it had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chennai-bengaluru-road-project-set-for-green-nod/article37514330.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||In harmony||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-harmony/article37514866.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Now, autopsy can be done after sunset||The Union Health Ministry on Monday revised the post-mortem protocols to allow for conducting the procedure after sunset. Apart from aiding the family of the deceased, the revision was also aimed at promoting organ donation and transplant as organs could be harvested in the stipulated time window after the procedure, said the Ministry in a release. It noted that the change followed multiple references received from various sources and in line with the government’s commitment to promoting ease of living by reducing the burden imposed due to compliance of government processes. In view of the rapid advancement, especially the availability of required lighting and infrastructure, performing night-time post-mortem was now feasible, it pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/now-autopsy-can-be-done-after-sunset/article37514239.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||In harmony||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-harmony/article37514816.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Heavy rain wreaks havoc||Heavy rain and thunderstorms lashed several parts of the city on Monday, with water entering residences and shops in many places, including Kaval Byrasandra, Nelamangala, Chikkabanavara, Nagawara, HBR Layout, and Varthur. In the East zone, one of the rajakaluves overflowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-wreaks-havoc/article37514276.ece
16 November 2021||JAIPUR,||No liquor here, say two village panchayats||Two villages in Rajsamand district of Rajasthan have voted overwhelmingly for permanent closure of liquor shops, following a prolonged campaign launched by women against liquor consumption in the region. Over 90% of the villagers voted in support of enforcing liquor prohibition in the polling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-liquor-here-say-two-village-panchayats/article37514437.ece
16 November 2021||Pune,||Historian Babasaheb Purandare passes away||Eminent historian and Padma Vibhushan awardee Balwant Moreshwar Purandare, popularly known as Babasaheb Purandare, passed away aged 99 on Monday. Purandare, an authority on Maratha king Chhatrapati Shivaji, was undergoing treatment for pneumonia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/historian-babasaheb-purandare-passes-away/article37514645.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||Salman Khurshid’s house in Nainital vandalised||Former Law Minister Salman Khurshid’s house in Uttarakhand’s Nainital was vandalised on Monday by a mob protesting against his remarks in a recent book drawing a parallel between Hindutva and terror outfits like ISIS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/salman-khurshids-house-in-nainital-vandalised/article37514438.ece
16 November 2021||Mangaluru,||You’re accountable to society, get vaccinated’||Lokayukta P. Vishwanatha Shetty on Monday said an individual was accountable not just to his family, but to society and hence it was the responsibility of everyone to get vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination prevents further spread of the pandemic, he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/youre-accountable-to-society-get-vaccinated/article37514692.ece
16 November 2021||Chennai,||T.N. Govt. plans to monetise temple assets||The Tamil Nadu Government is planning to monetise the assets of religious institutions managed by the Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments by putting them to productive utilisation. A tender was also floated to select an agency to prepare a road map.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-govt-plans-to-monetise-temple-assets/article37514329.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||Centre amends rules to clear tenure extension||A day after promulgating two ordinances that would allow the Centre to extend the tenures of the Directors of the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate from two years to up to five years, the Personnel Ministry issued an order to amend the Fundamental Rules, 1922 adding the two posts to the list whose services can be extended by up to two years beyond the two-year fixed tenure in “public interest”. The previous list comprised Defence Secretary, Foreign Secretary, Home Secretary, Director, Intelligence Bureau and Secretary, Research and Analysis Wing. Though Director, CBI, was also mentioned in the previous order, the Monday notification adds the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (25 of 1946) under which the investigation agency’s head is appointed. The notification amended fifth proviso of Clause (d) of Rule 56 of the Fundamental Rules, 1922. It said, “Provided also that the Central Government may, if it considers necessary in public interest so to do, give extension in service to the Defence Secretary, Home Secretary, Director of Intelligence Bureau, Secretary of Research and Analysis Wing and Director of Central Bureau of Investigation appointed under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (25 of 1946) and Director of Enforcement in the Directorate of Enforcement appointed under the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003 (45 of 2003) in the Central Government for such period or periods as it may deem proper on a case-to-case basis for reasons to be recorded in writing, subject to the condition that the total term of such Secretaries or Directors, as the case may be, who are given such extension in service under this rule, does not exceed two years or the period provided in the respective Act or rules made there under, under which their appointments are made.” Retrospective move The Centre had retrospectively extended the tenure of Sanjay Kumar Mishra as the Director of the ED in 2020. The Finance Ministry said a November 19, 2018 order through which Mr. Mishra, a 1984-batch Indian Revenue Service official, was appointed has been modified with approval from the President and it would now be read for three years. He is to retire on November 17. The NGO Common Cause, represented by advocate Prashant Bhushan, had challenged the retrospective extension in the Supreme Court. The SC on September 8 said Mr. Mishra should not be given any further extension. On August 12, the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) gave a one-year extension to Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, beyond his two-year fixed tenure that was to end on August 22. On May 28, one-year extension in service was granted to Intelligence Bureau Director Arvinda Kumar and R&AW Secretary Samant Kumar Goel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-amends-rules-to-clear-tenure-extension/article37514033.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian student strength in U.S. dropped to 5-year low last year||The number of Indian students in the United States dropped 13.2% in 2020-21 to a five-year low of 1.67 lakh, according to data released on Monday from a study funded by the U.S. Government. However, India remains the second highest country of origin among international students in American universities, and the U.S. consulate officials say a record number of student visas were issued to Indians over the past summer, signalling a likely revival as vaccinations grew and global travel restrictions are eased. “Despite the global pandemic, Indian students were able to apply for visas and travel to the United States. We issued over 62,000 student visas [to Indian students] this summer alone, more than in any previous year,” said the U.S. Consular Affairs official Don Heflin, at the release of the report. Open Doors 2021 Overall, the number of international students in the U.S. dropped 15% to 9.14 lakh in 2020-21, according to Open Doors 2021, an annual survey conducted by the International Institute of Education in partnership with the State Department. More strikingly, new international student enrolment plunged more than 45% last year. A Fall 2021 snapshot of enrolment for the new academic year indicated a partial recovery with 68% growth from last year’s low base. However, 99% of higher education institutions are holding in-person classes this semester and at least 65% of the international students are present on campus in the U.S. for the 2021-22 academic year. Among students from India, the large contingent of graduate students dropped almost 20% from 85,160 students in 2019-20 to 68,869 in 2020-21. The number of Indians pursuing optional practical training programmes also fell 9.3%, while there was a 5.2% drop in the number of undergraduate students and a 27% fall among the small fraction travelling to the U.S. for non-degree programmes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indian-student-strength-in-us-dropped-to-5-year-low-last-year/article37514045.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Urban factors, not farm fires, cause of pollution’||The Supreme Court on Monday said the “cat is out of the bag” to prove that urban factors such as construction activities, industry, vehicular exhaust and road dust were actually the major causes of pollution in Delhi and not farmers’ stubble burning. A special Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana gleaned the fact from the affidavits filed by the Centre and the Delhi Government. The Centre, for one, said farm fires in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh contributed to only 10% of the pollution. In the previous hearing, the court had questioned the narrow focus of the Centre and the Delhi Government on farmers. “You say 76% of the pollution is caused by industry, dust, vehicles and construction and not due to stubble burning... So the cat is out of the bag... You are now trying to target pollution that is insignificant?” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, on the Bench, asked both Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta and senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Centre and Delhi respectively. Justice Surya Kant asked, “Are you agreeing in principle that farm fires are not the major cause? So all that hue and cry had no scientific or actual basis?” Chief Justice Ramana said the court had been insisting that stubble burning was not the major cause. “Pollution is caused by city-related issues... You first take care of them and then we will come to stubble burning,” he said, nudging the Centre, Delhi and the States towards a firm commitment to act against pollution. The court was shocked to realise that Delhi had only 69 mechanised road sweepers to cover all the streets of the Capital. The municipal corporations in Delhi were autonomous bodies and the court should ask the mayors to file “specific” affidavits, Mr. Mehra said. Justice Kant lashed out at the Delhi Government for coming up with “lame excuses”. If this went on, the court would be constrained to order an audit inquiry into the money the Government spent on “popularity slogans” seen across the capital. The Delhi counsel said the Government had been doing everything the Union of India had asked to quell the pollution. “Everything that needs to be done further, will be done in 24 to 48 hours.” During the hearing, the court found that the Centre’s Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region (NCR) and Adjoining Areas Act had not, over the weekend, “precisely” chalked out a plan to immediately control pollution caused by construction, vehicles, power plants and industries. In fact, Mr. Mehta said, “drastic steps” like the odd-even vehicles’ scheme, ban on entry and plying of trucks in the capital, complete lockdown had been “deferred” for now. “The severest step would be a lockdown.” But Delhi said it was willing to initiate a lockdown, provided it was “cohesive arrangement” involving the NCR. The court directed the Centre to call an urgent meeting in 24 hours with Punjab, Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to craft urgent and effective anti-pollution measures and their implementation. The court also asked the Centre, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to introduce work from home for now. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, for the petitioners, said the Centre had made a “wrong statement in court today on stubble burning as their high-powered meeting last night has recorded that stubble burning even now is responsible for 35-40% of Delhi’s air pollution”. The court scheduled the next hearing for November 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/urban-factors-not-farm-fires-cause-of-pollution/article37514180.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||‘The future of an entire generation is at risk’||The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) is committed to supporting Indian children who missed out on learning in schools during the COVID-19 pandemic, said its India representative,Yasumasa Kimura. Speaking to The Hindu , he said nearly 247 million children could not go to school for more than a year and approximately 1.5 million schools and 1.4 million educational institutions/anganwadi centres were closed during this period.  How has the pandemic hit children vis-a-vis learning, mental, emotional and social growth with the closure of schools and limited access to classrooms via e-learning?  Children in India are facing a learning crisis and the future of an entire generation is at risk. We are advocating ‘learning recovery and learning loss’ for children in India. Children have been the biggest sufferers during the pandemic as more than 286 million children lost the opportunity of learning. We have worked with the Union and State Governments during the pandemic. We have worked with the Ministry of Education to come up with guidelines for the safe reopening of schools. UNICEF has worked towards providing assistance to children in online learning in many States. Our mobile learning centres visited the communities where students did not have mobile phones for online education and provided them support. There is evidence that children are less likely to become a cluster of COVID-19 infection. It has also been proved that they recover quickly if they get infected. We can’t wait until children are vaccinated to open the schools. What will be the new normal for schools going forward?  Safe reopening of schools is important, as children learn best when they connect with teachers in person... Schools need to be safe for children, so they need ensure adequate ventilation, social distancing, hand washing and other safety measures to prevent COVID-19 transmission. Children have lost considerable learning due to school closure. Many have regressed in basic counting and other skills. So, we need to help children regain the lost ground in learning with remedial measures. Assessing children on basic numeracy, reading and writing skills will help. As per UNICEF’s rapid assessment conducted in October 2020, 76% of parents of children between the ages of five and 13 years, and 80% of adolescents between 14 and 18 reported learning less than when physically at school. Do you think students and teachers will need tailored and sustained support to help them readjust and catch up after the pandemic?  Yes, students and teachers do need support. We need to tailor teaching to help children to readjust to their new environment. We must orient teachers to address learning losses without putting additional stress on children. Learning recovery programmes of longer duration need to be planned for, to better address children’s learning recovery, especially for those in early primary grades. How are you supporting parents regarding reported vaccine hesitancy for children?  UNICEF has been working closely with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare since the launch of the COVID-19 immunisation drive, to provide communication support for increased vaccine uptake. Social listening and research activities are conducted regularly to understand vaccine hesitancy and develop evidence-based communication interventions. As and when children will be made eligible for the COVID-19 immunisation, UNICEF is prepared to support the Ministry in conducting child vaccine-focussed campaigns, by supporting community engagement and promoting messages addressing the concerns of parents and caregivers.  Full interview at: https://bit.ly/UNICEFschools   We can’t wait until children are vaccinated to open the schools||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-future-of-an-entire-generation-is-at-risk/article37514183.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Ordinances disrespect SC order’||The Congress on Monday claimed that the two ordinances brought by the Narendra Modi government that allows the Centre to extend the two-year fixed tenures of CBI Director and Enforcement Directorate chief not only takes away the independence of these agencies, but also disrespects a recent Supreme Court order. Addressing a press conference, Congress spokesperson and senior Supreme Court advocate Abhishek Singhvi argued that instead of ensuring the independence of tenure, “the ordinance just does the opposite”. ‘Tight leash’ “This ordinance says that I will keep you on probation, I will keep you on a tight leash, I will keep you on a master-servant relationship, I will ask you every 6 months, 9 months, look, your next extension is due next January or next March, have you behaved? Have you done his master’s voice? Have you done the master’s bidding? If you have, I may consider an extension,” Mr Singhvi said. “The crucial word in this ordinance, is the word extension. The attempt is to substitute servility and subordination to political masters in place of independence. It is to substitute subjectivity in place of objectivity,” he added. On Sunday, President Ram Nath Kovind promulgated two ordinances that would allow the Centre to extend the tenures of the CBI Director and ED Director chief from two years to up to five years. While the move will not immediately benefit the incumbent CBI Director Subodh Kumar Jaiswal, appointed in May this year, it has come just days before the incumbent ED Director Sanjay Kumar Mishra is to retire. Hearing a case that had challenged a one-year retrospective extension to Mr. Mishra in November 2020, a Supreme Court bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and B.R. Gavai had directed the government not to give any more extensions to the incumbent ED chief. “So, Supreme Court’s order with the deepest respect is not worth the paper on which it is written, in the way you have reacted to it. Is it contumacious? Is it disrespectful? Is it completely subverting a hallowed institution of Indian democracy?” said Mr. Singhvi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ordinances-disrespect-sc-order/article37514029.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Hope to jolt Govt. into action on rising prices’||The issues facing the Congress are no different from those facing other parties but we face greater media scrutiny, according to party General Secretary (Organisation) K.C. Venugopal . Excerpts:    The Congress is running a 15-day campaign against price rise - Jan Jagran Abhiyan, that began on November 14. What exactly is the motivation behind this agitation? The people of our country are suffering because of the policies of the Narendra Modi Government. Our campaign is to highlight their concerns and hopefully jolt this government into action. The edible oil prices have doubled in the last one year. Prices of seasonal vegetables have gone up by 40-50% in the last one month alone. The cost of subsidised LPG cylinder has gone up by 50% to Rs. 900-1,000 in the last one year. Petrol and diesel prices have gone up by Rs. 34.38 and Rs. 24.38 to Rs. 103.97 and Rs. 86.67 per litre respectively in the last 18 months. Our leaders will conduct padyatras across the country and will go to each district. This will include night halts at villages and then prabhat pheris . The Congress concentrated all its efforts on Pegasus in the last Parliament session ignoring price rise. Your comments. That is not true. Our leader Rahul Gandhi led a cycle rally to Parliament to highlight the spiralling fuel prices. Yes, we raised Pegasus, but at the same time we also spoke about inflation. The government was not willing to let the house run or have any discussion. They want to pass all the bills in a hurry, without any credible debate. The Congress President Sonia Gandhi had recently said that there is lack of clarity and cohesion even among State level leaders on important issues. How is the party addressing this? As per her vision, we have already decided to have a permanent training programme in place. Even as part of our Jan Jagran Mission from 12-15 November we had training in Wardha, Maharashtra. By December we will have training modules in every State; by January this will be taken to the districts and by February we will have block-level training modules which will also be attended by our booth presidents. In the last few months, the internal tussle in Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan has kept the party in the news. When will the Congress put the house in order? I don’t think there is any infighting. In Rajasthan, all issues have been amicably resolved. In Punjab, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is doing a splendid job. In Chhattisgarh, also there are no issues. It is unfortunate that the media attention which should be trained on the government, seeking accountability for them, is far more focused on the Congress. In Uttarakhand, three Chief Ministers were changed but the media largely sought to ignore it. We have a Governor of a State who has been openly criticising the BJP Government in Uttar Pradesh, but again the media ignores it. This is not to deny our problems, but if you put in context, they are not any larger than what other parties, especially the BJP has. So will we see a Cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan? Maybe. Will there be a change of guard in Chhattisgarh I do not want to comment on it.  Yes, we raised Pegasus, but at the same time we also spoke about inflation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hope-to-jolt-govt-into-action-on-rising-prices/article37514047.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC nod for elevation of Kirpal as Delhi HC judge||The Supreme Court Collegium led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana has approved the proposal for elevating senior advocate Saurabh Kirpal as a judge in the Delhi High Court. Mr. Kirpal, one of the lawyers whose efforts in the Supreme Court has led to the decriminalisation of homosexuality, is gay. The recommendation is a recognition of his prowess as a lawyer adept in constitutional and business laws. The stamp of approval is a historic turning point for the LGBTQ community in their fight to be seen and treated as equal citizens. The Delhi High Court Collegium had reportedly recommended Mr. Kirpal’s name for High Court judgeship on October 13, 2017. His file was received by the apex court collegium on July 2, 2018. The collegium had considered and deferred its decision on September 4 of 2018, January 16 and April 1 in 2019, and March 2 this year. Several objections The Government had raised several objections. In an interview to a news website, Mr. Kirpal had voiced his doubts whether his elevation may have been stalled because of his sexual orientation. Earlier this year, Chief Justice Ramana’s predecessor, Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, had reportedly asked the Government to clarify its stand on Mr. Kirpal. The Supreme Court Collegium seems to have finally decided to take the initiative in favour of Mr. Kirpal. “The Supreme Court Collegium in its meeting held on November 11, 2021 has approved the proposal for elevation of Shri Saurabh Kirpal, advocate, as judge in the Delhi High Court,” the short note said. Mr. Kirpal is a graduate of St. Stephen’s College in Delhi and had read law at Oxford University and done his Masters in Law from the Cambridge University. He began his practice in the Supreme Court after a stint with the United Nations. The collegium has also made a series of reiterations of its earlier recommendations to the Government. These include recommendations to elevate four more advocates —Tara Vitasta Ganju, Anish Dayal, Amit Sharma and Mini Pushkarna — as Delhi High Court judges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-nod-for-elevation-of-kirpal-as-delhi-hc-judge/article37514231.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. mulls reopening Kartarpur Corridor||The government is considering reopening the Kartarpur Sahib Gurudwara corridor to Pakistan this week to allow Sikh pilgrims to cross over, more than 20 months after it was shut down due to the Coronavirus pandemic. According to government sources, the Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of Home Affairs have cleared the proposal, and are awaiting a final clearance from the Prime Minister’s office, with a view to opening the route by November 19, the birth anniversary of the Sikh founder Guru Nanak, known as Gurpurab or “Prakash Parv”. Speculation over the likelihood of the proposal going through grew after a delegation of BJP MLAs from Punjab met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, followed by a meeting with Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday, requesting the reopening. Other parties in the State had also called for the Kartarpur corridor reopening, that leads to the Gurudwara just 4.7 kilometres across the border from the Indian town of Baba Dera Nanak. Ahead of Gurpurab, Pakistan’s government had already issued around 3,000 visas to Sikh pilgrims to visit gurudwaras in Pakistan including to Guru Nanak’s birth place Nankana Sahib, and the Gurudwara at Kartarpur where he died. Pakistani officials could not confirm whether the Indian government had already communicated its desire to reopen the corridor. The officials told The Hindu that the Kartarpur Corridor was “not closed on the Pakistani side, and groups of Indian Sikh pilgrims were already being facilitated to visit the Gurudwara through the Atari-Wagah border crossing”. Travel from Baba Dera Nanak to Kartarpur through the regular border crossing means a circuitous route of approximately 200 kms. In contrast the Kartarpur corridor agreement allows pilgrims to travel visa free through the corridor. “Land travel between India and Pakistan is being conducted on a limited scale through the Atari-Wagah Integrated Check Post in coordination with Pakistan,” said Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-mulls-reopening-kartarpur-corridor/article37514225.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||In Jhansi event, PM to hand over indigenous LCH to IAF||Later this week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi would hand over the indigenous Light Combat Helicopter (LCH) to the Indian Air Force (IAF), drones built by start-ups to the Army and electronic warfare suites to the Navy at a three-day celebration titled Rashtriya Raksha Samarpan Parv in Jhansi, Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar said on Monday. The Ministry of Defence (MoD) would formally dedicate a number of schemes to the nation from November 17-19 in events that were part of “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” celebrations,” Mr. Kumar told the media. The twin-engine LCH, designed and developed by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), is a 5-8 tonne class dedicated combat helicopter. It is the only attack helicopter in the world which can land and take off at an altitude of 5,000 m with considerable load of weapons and fuel, significantly augmenting the firepower of the IAF and the Army in high-altitude areas. It will eventually be deployed along the Line of Actual Control with China in addition to the AH-64E Apache helicopters in service. The Prime Minister would also hand over the DRDO-designed and Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL)-made advanced electronic warfare suites to the Navy for installation on all front line warships, including aircraft carrier Vikrant, which is undergoing trials, Mr. Kumar said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh would inaugurate the event on November 17 and Mr. Modi would launch the initiatives in a grand ceremony being organised in the precincts of the Jhansi Fort on November 19, which is the birth anniversary of Rani Lakshmi Bai, Mr. Kumar noted. The Rashtra Raksha Samparpan Parv was being organised by the MoD along with the Uttar Pradesh Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-jhansi-event-pm-to-hand-over-indigenous-lch-to-iaf/article37514039.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Quarantine norms lifted for travellers from 99 countries||Travellers from 99 countries, who are fully-vaccinated against coronavirus, have now been exempted from mandatory quarantine on arrival in India, according to revised guidelines from the Centre. Passengers from the United States, Great Britain, Israel, France, Germany, Spain, Australia, Belgium, Bangladesh, Finland, Croatia, Hungary, Russia, the Philippines, Qatar, Singapore, Sri Lanka, United Arab Emirates (UAE), Turkey and Nepal are some of the countries that feature on the exempted list. The exemption follows India’s agreement with some of the 99 nations on “mutual recognition of [COVID-19] vaccination certificates” of nationally recognised or the World Health Organisation (WHO) recognised vaccines. On the other hand, some countries in the ‘Category A’ list while not having a mutual recognition of vaccine agreement with India, permit quarantine-free entry of fully vaccinated Indian nationals. “The decision to offer some relaxations to COVID-19 protocols for international travellers coming from the 99 countries has been made “on the basis of reciprocity”, the notification explained. Travellers from the 99 nations must submit a self-declaration of their fully vaccinated status on the Air Suvidha portal, and also produce a negative RT-PCR test report conducted within 72 hours before travel. Though exempted from mandatory quarantine these passengers will need to self-monitor their health for 14 days and if they develop symptoms of COVID-19 or test positive for the infection on re-testing, “they will immediately self-isolate and report to their nearest health facility or call National helpline number (1075)/State Helpline Number,” the government notification said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/quarantine-norms-lifted-for-travellers-from-99-countries/article37514227.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||ICMR moots change in cattle rearing practices, shift from coal||Senior scientists at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have recommended that India shift from “traditional animal husbandry practices” and “urgently wean away from coal as its main source of energy”. This is to combat the challenges of climate change that is posing a global threat, the scientists argued in a policy brief that accompanies the 2021 Global Lancet Countdown report focussing on premature mortality due to ambient air pollution by sector; emissions from agricultural production and consumption; and detection, preparedness and response to health emergencies. “The combustion of coal, mainly in power plants followed by industrial and household settings, has resulted in an increase in premature mortality. Therefore, India needs to urgently wean away from coal as its main source of energy and needs to invest more on renewable, cleaner and sustainable sources such as solar, wind or hydro energy,” the brief noted. The recommendations come a day after India defended its right at Glasgow, Scotland, to use coal even as it would continue to increase its reliance on renewable sources of energy. India intervened hours before the text of the agreement was finalised to insist that it read that coal would be “phased down” as opposed to “phased out”. India was also among the countries that did not sign on a methane pledge. The U.S. and the European Union have jointly pledged to cut emissions of the greenhouse gas methane by 2030 by 30% compared with the 2020 levels. India is the third largest emitter of methane, primarily because of the size of its rural economy and by virtue of having the largest cattle population. “Since 46% of all agricultural emissions in India are contributed by ruminants such as goats, sheep and cattle, India needs to move away from the traditional animal husbandry practices and invest in newer technologies that will improve animal breeding and rearing practices, use of good livestock feeds and implement proper manure management, all of which will contribute to the reduction of the GHG emissions,” said the policy brief authored by Leyanna Susan George and Samiran Panda of the Division of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases, ICMR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/icmr-moots-change-in-cattle-rearing-practices-shift-from-coal/article37514228.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will examine validity of special courts for MPs, MLAs, says SC||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to examine questions regarding the legal jurisdiction of the special courts set up to exclusively prosecute Members of Parliament and State Legislative Assemblies for various offences. The Madras High Court, in a report on October 13 last year through a three-judge Criminal Rules Committee, had raised the issue of the “constitutional validity” of the special courts for MPs/MLAs. The committee had even said it was not “legally permissible” to create such special courts. It had said special courts “can only be offence-centric and not offender-centric”. The High Court committee had flagged how a special court to try an MP/MLA could override the jurisdiction of a special court already in existence under an Act. The court would also examine whether these special courts deprive the accused of their right to a rung of appeal. Here, the argument raised is that some of these cases are triable by magistrates. In the normal course, if an accused has failed before the magistrate, he or she could file an appeal against the decision before the sessions court. In such cases, the trial judge is the magistrate. The sessions court is the first appellate court and the High Court the second appellate court. Petitioners have argued that a special court would have the powers of a sessions court. If the case of an MLA or MP whose offence can be tried by a magistrate is directly placed before a special court, the accused would lose his right to defend his case before a magistrate and also is stripped of his right to make his first appeal before a sessions court. A special Bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana, Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Surya Kant have agreed to hear the issues on November 24. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal said the issue raises a “major problem and will affect the right to appeal”. He said an administrative order would force a case triable by a magistrate to be prosecuted by a sessions court. Among the suggestions was whether there should be special magistrate courts along with special sessions court in every jurisdiction.  Amicus curiae , senior advocate Vijay Hansaria, assisted by advocate Sneha Kalita, said the special courts were meant to speedily dispose of cases pending for long.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-examine-validity-of-special-courts-for-mps-mlas-says-sc/article37514178.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Chennai-Bengaluru expressway gets environment clearance||The Expert Appraisal Committee of the Environment Ministry has recommended phase-III of the eight-lane expressway between Chennai and Bengaluru for environment clearance. The project, implemented by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), passes through Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh and Vellore, Ranipet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts of Tamil Nadu. The stretch falls in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The total length of the alignment is 106.10 km, starting from Ramapuram in Chittoor to Irungattukottai in Sriperumbudur taluk. Improved connectivity The project is meant to improve connectivity between Bengaluru and Chennai and act as a link between the major commercial and industrial centres of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. 31 major bridges The road proposed under phase-III will have 31 major bridges, 25 minor bridges, 137 culverts, 13 vehicular underpasses, 5 vehicular overpasses, 3 light vehicle underpasses, 50 pedestrian underpasses, 7 interchanges, 3 road over-bridges and 6 toll plazas. One animal underpass has also been proposed on the Forest Department’s recommendation. There is also a provision for 3 truck laybys, 4 rest areas and high mast lights. Minimal losses The NHAI had informed the committee that there are about 16,954 non-forest trees and 2,058 forest trees in the proposed right of way and committed itself to cutting trees within formation width so as to minimise losses. “About 1,69,540 trees will be planted within the available space in the right of way... The balance will be planted in consultation with the Forest Department,” it had said. Panel conditions The Expert Appraisal Committee laid down certain conditions for the NHAI to execute the project. It said the green belt development (tree plantation) in lieu of the trees being felled in non-forest land should be carried out by the State Forest Department as deposit work and not by a private contractor. It directed that the alignment be managed in such a manner as to save old or heritage trees. It said all the major and minor bridges and culverts should not affect the drainage systems. The floodplains of the rivers and the drainage systems should not be disturbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chennai-bengaluru-expressway-gets-environment-clearance/article37514439.ece
16 November 2021||Narayanpur,||Naxal rebel killed in Chhattisgarh||A Naxal commander was killed in an encounter with security personnel at Narayanpur district in Chhattisgarh on Monday, a senior police official said. The gunfight took place at around 11.30 a.m. in the Bahker forest under the Chhotedongar police station limits when a team of the District Reserve Guard (DRG) was out on an area domination operation, Narayanpur Superintendent of Police Girija Shankar Jaiswal said. When the patrolling team was cordoning off the forest in Bahker, a group of Naxals, positioned on a hill, opened fire at the security personnel, which led to the gunfight, he said. However, the ultras soon fled the spot on finding the security personnel zeroing in on them, he said. “During a search of the encounter site, the body of a Naxal clad in uniform was recovered, along with an AK-47 rifle,” the official said. The slain rebel has been identified as Saket, a commander of the outlawed Peoples’ Liberation Guerilla Army (PLGA) company no. 6 of the Maoists, he said. Narayanpur shares the border with Gadchiroli district in neighbouring Maharashtra, where 26 Naxals, including top rebel leader Milind Teltumbde, were killed in an encounter with the police on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/naxal-rebel-killed-in-chhattisgarh/article37514181.ece
16 November 2021||Pune,||Historian Babasaheb Purandare passes away||Eminent historian and Padma Vibhushan awardee Balwant Moreshwar Purandare, popularly known as Babasaheb Purandare, passed away aged 99 on Monday. Mr. Purandare, an authority on the 17th century Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji, was diagnosed with pneumonia a week ago and was undergoing treatment at the city’s Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital. His health rapidly deteriorated since Sunday evening and he was in an extremely critical condition after having been put on ventilator in the intensive care unit. He passed away a little after 5 a.m. On Monday, said medical sources. He was given a state funeral and his final rites were performed at the city’s Vaikunth crematorium, which saw the attendance of the ‘who’s who’ of Maharashtra’s political and cultural fields. Known by his moniker ‘Shivsahir’ (literally Shivaji’s bard), Mr. Purandare is considered one of the pre-eminent authorities on Chhatrapati Shivaji. Tributes flowed in from the political spectrum with Prime Minister Narendra Modi being one of the first to express his condolences. Tributes paid “I am pained beyond words. The demise of Shivshahir Babasaheb Purandare leaves a major void in the world of history and culture. It is thanks to him that the coming generations will get further connected to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. His other works will also be remembered,” Mr. Modi tweeted, remarking, “Shivshahir Babasaheb Purandare was witty, wise and had rich knowledge of Indian history. I had the honour of interacting with him very closely over the years. A few months back, had addressed his centenary year programme.” Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who announced a state funeral for the historian, said that Mr. Purandare’s eternal adoration of Chhatrapati Shivaji and his dedication to studying the life of the Maratha warrior king had been his greatest source of energy and inspiration throughout his life. “There was no fort, structure or historical area pertaining to Chhatrapati Shivaji that Babasaheb had not studied… He gathered every possible reference to the great King’s life and studied and researched him with an awe-inspiring sincerity as Babasaheb considered this to be the work of his life…his demise will leave an unfillable void in Maharashtra's cultural, literary and artistic heritage,” Mr. Thackeray said in a heartfelt statement.  Raja Shivchhatrapati , Mr. Purandare’s widely popular two-part, 900-page magnum opus on Shivaji in Marathi, was first published in the late 1950s. Noted Pune-based historian Uday S. Kulkarni said that Babasaheb Purandare had single-handedly brought alive the epoch of Chhatrapati Shivaji like no other historian. “His place as a great historian is assured. Apart from discovering several original letters and other valuable documents pertaining to the epoch of Chhatrapati Shivaji, he took the warrior king’s history to the masses of not only Maharashtra, but India and abroad as well,” said Mr. Kulkarni, the author of such popular works as Solstice at Panipat and The Maratha Century .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/historian-babasaheb-purandare-passes-away/article37514031.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||India lifts quarantine norms for 99 countries||The passengers also need to submit a declaration related to the authenticity of the RT-PCR report and “will be liable to criminal prosecution, if found otherwise,” the notification stated. Though exempted from mandatory quarantine these passengers will need to self-monitor their health for the 14 days starting from the date of arrival in India and if they develop signs and symptoms of COVID-19 or test positive for the infection on re-testing, “they will immediately self-isolate and report to their nearest health facility or call National helpline number (1075)/State Helpline Number,” the government notification said . Travellers, who are partially vaccinated or not vaccinated against COVID-19, must submit their sample for testing on arrival in India and undergo home quarantine for seven days, take a COVID-19 test again on the eighth day, and if found negative, “further self-monitor” their health for the next seven days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-lifts-quarantine-norms-for-99-countries/article37514017.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Now, autopsy can be done after sunset||The protocol stipulated that post-mortem for organ donation be taken up on priority and conducted even after sunset at the hospitals that have the infrastructure for conducting such procedure on a regular basis. Video recording The fitness and adequacy of infrastructure etc. shall be assessed by the hospital in charge to ensure that there was no dilution of evidentiary value. It was also to be ensured by the facility that video recording shall be done for all such post-mortem at night to rule out any suspicion and preserved for future reference for legal purposes, it stated. However, cases under categories such as homicide, suicide, rape, decomposed bodies and suspected foul play should not be subjected for post-mortem during night unless there was a law and order situation. All Ministries/departments concerned and all State governments and Union Territories have been notified of the change in protocol, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/now-autopsy-can-be-done-after-sunset/article37514018.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||PM reaches out to tribal people, unveils schemes||Addressing the gathering virtually, he said that as the country celebrated 75 years of Independence next year, it had been decided to honour the contributions of tribal people. “For this, a historic decision has been taken that from today, every year the country will celebrate November 15 i.e. the birth anniversary of Bhagwan Birsa Munda as ‘Janjatiya Gaurav Diwas,” he stated. Nine other tribal museums — one each in Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, Manipur, Mizoram and Goa — would be opened soon, he stated. “This museum [Birsa Munda museum] will become a living venue of our tribal culture full of diversity, depicting the contribution of tribal heroes and heroines in the freedom struggle,” he noted. Birsa Munda knew that social welfare could not be achieved by eschewing India’s diversity, ancient identity and nature in the name of modernity. He believed in modern education and speaking out against societal ills. Mahatma Gandhi was fighting against racial discrimination in South Africa and Birsa Munda was fighting against British rule in India. Vajpayee’s role Mr. Modi pointed out that former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s strong will was behind the formation of Jharkhand on November 15, 2000. “It was Atal ji who was the first to form a separate Tribal Ministry in the government of the country and linked the tribal interests with the policies of the country,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-reaches-out-to-tribal-people-launches-schemes/article37514020.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||U.P. accepts SC proposal for probe by ex-judge||It noted that some of the members of the present task force were of sub-inspector level or drawn from the Lakhimpur Kheri police station itself. Mr. Salve interjected that a senior police officer had been recently appointed to the task force. But the court said the task force needed to be upgraded. It asked the government to provide the list by November 16. It posted the case next for November 17. The suggestion from the court to have a retired judge at the helm came after it expressed its waning confidence about the fate of the investigation at the hands of the State police. It observed that such a step may be necessary to “infuse fairness and impartiality” in the probe. In an earlier hearing, the CJI stated, “The investigation is not going the way we expected... We are here to see that a proper investigation takes place. There is a need to appoint a retired High Court judge to monitor it (investigation) without bias”. The court had refused to entertain suggestions from lawyers to order the CBI to take over from the police. “The CBI is not the solution to everything,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-accepts-sc-counsel-for-probe-by-ex-judge/article37514021.ece
16 November 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Heroin worth Rs. 600 cr. seized in Gujarat village||The Gujarat Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) has seized 120 kg of heroin worth Rs. 600 crore from Zinzuda village in Morbi district and arrested three people, who reportedly received the consignment via sea route from Pakistan. The three arrested are Mukhtar Hussein alias Jabbar Jodiya, Shamsuddin Hussein Saiyyed and Ghulam Hussein Umar Bhagad. The ATS carried out the operation along with the local police. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the consignment was brought by Mukhtar Hussein and Ghulam Bhagad after receiving the delivery from a Pakistani boat,” the ATS stated in a release. “This drug consignment was sent by Zahid Bashir Baloch, a resident of Pakistan, who is absconding in an earlier case pertaining to the seizure of 227 kg of heroin in 2019.” This contraband was reportedly delivered in October last week and it was initially hidden in the coastal region near Salaya in Devbhumi Dwarka district. It was subsequently moved, say officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/heroin-worth-rs-600-cr-seized-in-gujarat-village-3-arrested/article37514023.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||Salman Khurshid’s house in Nainital vandalised||Former Law Minister Salman Khurshid’s house in Uttarakhand’s Nainital was vandalised on Monday by a mob to protest against his remarks in a recent book drawing a parallel between Hindutva and terror outfits like the ISIS. News agency PTI quoted Nainital (City) Superintendent of Police (SP) Jagdish Chandra as saying that a group of people damaged windowpanes and set fire to a door at the house. The officer said none was hurt in the house that is looked after by caretakers. Mr. Khurshid posted several clips of the incident on his Facebook page, in which the caretakers can be seen trying to douse the fire. In some of these clips, the protesters could heard using derogatory comments against Muslims and words like “traitors” were used. “I hoped to open these doors to my friends who have left this calling card. Am I still wrong to say this cannot be Hinduism,” Mr Khurshid asked on Facebook. Rallying behind Mr. Khurshid, Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor tweeted, “This is disgraceful. Salman Khurshid is a statesman who has done India proud in international forums and always articulated a moderate, centrist, inclusive vision of the country domestically. The mounting levels of intolerance in our politics should be denounced by those in power”.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/salman-khurshids-house-in-nainital-vandalised/article37514027.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre to disburse Rs. 95,082 cr. to States||“In most issues related to investment, development and manufacturing activities, it is the States who are doing work at the forefront. The support from the Centre is always there. But we also wanted to make sure that the States’ understanding and the issues they want to discuss must be heard and that’s the reason this meeting was called,” she added. Several States requested the Centre for early release of funds to speed up capital spending just as it had front-loaded the remittance of their GST compensation dues for this year. Cash flow Accordingly, on November 22, instead of the normal monthly instalment of devolution amount which is normally Rs. 47,541 crore, the Centre will release another Rs. 47,541 crore, so a total of Rs. 95,082 crore will be given to the States. Normally, the Centre shares States’ 41% share of revenues over 14 instalments during the year, with one instalment falling due this month on November 20. Finance Secretary T.V. Somanathan emphasised that States had a positive cash balance of Rs. 2.66 lakh crore at the end of October and just four States had negative balances. “So, it is not as if most of the States are in cash trouble, but this will enable to them to frontload their spending,” he said. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said he requested the Finance Minister to review the North East Industrial & Investment Promotion Policy and highlighted the need for timely release of central sector scheme funds, and early approval of externally aided projects worth Rs. 15,000 crore to Assam. His Karnataka counterpart Basavaraj Bommai sought a transparent mechanism to share leads about potential investors and a clear policy on forest and environmental clearances. The Finance Ministry dismissed States’ concerns that the recent excise duty cuts on petrol and diesel will be from the shareable pool of taxes. “The entire reduction of Rs. 10 and Rs. 5 per litre of diesel and petrol, is from the non-shareable portion of excise which means the entire reduction is borne by the central government. There is no revenue loss to the States because of this,” Mr. Somanathan said. Ms. Sitharaman said if some States had not followed up with value-added taxes on petroleum products, “it is for their citizens who voted for their government to ask”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-to-disburse-rs-95082-cr-to-states/article37514226.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||CJI urged to list key cases before Constitution Benches||Eminent citizens and members of the public have written to Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana requesting the top judge to list several cases of national importance pending before Constitution Benches. The letter written by people from a cross-section of society, including Admiral L. Ramdas, activist Medha Patkar, and retired IPS officer Julio Ribeiro along with lawyers, academics, etc, said the recent welcome appointment of nine new judges should facilitate the hearing of these cases which have not been listed for long. Some of the “urgent” cases mentioned in the letter include petitions challenging the abrogation of Article 370 without due parliamentary process, continuing misuse of the UAPA which is already under challenge, the Citizenship Amendment Act, farm laws, sedition and the electoral bonds scheme. “These cases affect the daily lives of very large sections of the populace, in addition to being issues of national importance. Early disposal of these cases will restore the faith that we as citizens repose in the judiciary and the Supreme Court,” the letter noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cji-urged-to-list-key-cases-before-benches/article37514041.ece
16 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||Prime Minister to inaugurate Purvanchal Expressway today||With three months left for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday inaugurate the 341-km six-lane Purvanchal Expressway that would connect the State capital to the eastern regions of the State. Since the leading Opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) has built a formidable caste alliance against the ruling BJP in the region and claimed credit for the project, the new expressway has come under the political spotlight much like the Agra-Lucknow Expressway built under Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav. SP re-schedules rath yatra Politics over the expressway intensified after the Ghazipur administration denied permission to the SP to hold a roadshow to Azamgarh citing that no traffic would be allowed on the expressway on November 16 due to Mr. Modi’s launch of the highway on the same day. In response, Mr. Yadav on Monday at a press conference said his party would shower petals at different places on the highway and mark a “symbolic” launch of the highway the foundation stone of which, he said, was laid during his tenure. The SP also re-scheduled its rath yatra to November 17 and changed the route to Lucknow from Ghazipur. Mr. Modi will inaugurate the expressway at Karwal Kheri in Sultanpur where he will also witness an air show by the IAF on the 3.2-km long airstrip constructed on the expressway to enable landing and take-off of fighter planes in cases of emergency. The project was built at a cost of Rs. 22,497 crores, said the Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority. It starts from village Chaudsarai in Lucknow and ends at village Hydaria on National Highway 31, 18 km east of UP-Bihar border. It would pass through Lucknow, Barabanki, Amethi, Ayodhya, Sultanpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur districts. ‘Compromised quality’ Mr. Yadav accused the BJP of trying to steal credit for the project. He also said the BJP Government had not only removed the word “Samajwadi” from the original name of the project but also “compromised” on the quality to cut costs and launched an incomplete highway, putting commuters at risk. Riders would have to face back pain, he said. In contrast, “If you are drinking tea in a car on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway, you will not spill it even at the speed of 100 kmph,” Mr. Yadav said. The UPEIDA in a statement said the SP Government had also opened the Expressway in 2016 when it was incomplete and that the BJP Government had to finish several portions of it after 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-purvanchal-expressway-today/article37514043.ece
16 November 2021||Patna,||Six held in journalist murder case in Bihar||After the charred body of a young journalist and Right to Information (RTI) activist Buddhinath Jha, alias Avinash Jha, was found by the side of State Highway 52 in Benipatti area of Madhubani district in Bihar on November 12, the local police on Monday said they were investigating the case from a love affair angle, along with the alleged involvement of an illegal private clinic, nursing homes and pathological lab owners named in the case. Six persons, including a woman who was a nursing staff in the clinic, have been arrested, the police said. Buddhinath Jha had gone missing from his home at Lohia Chowk on November 9 and a missing case was lodged by his elder brother, Chandrashekhar Jha, on November 11. The case was converted into a murder case after the recovery of his body. “The police so far have arrested six persons, including a woman, in the case. And we are investigating the case from a love angle as well as looking at the alleged involvement of an illegal medical clinic, nursing homes and pathological lab owners,” said police office Kumar Singh. Those arrested were Roshan Kumar Sah, (23), Bittu Kumar Pandit (20), Deepak Kumar Pandit (24), Manish Kumar (21), Pawan Kumar (22) and Jaijai Ram Paswan’s wife Purnakala Devi (24), with whom Buddhinath Jha was reportedly speaking on his phone while coming out of his residence on November 9. The police said Purnakala Devi confessed that she was in love with Buddhinath Jha and one Pawan Kumar was also in love with her. “Pawan Kumar used to put pressure on Purnakala Devi for not being in relationship with Buddhinath Jha,” the police said. “But, we are also investigating the alleged involvement of the clinic and nursing home owners who are named in the First Information Report [FIR] lodged by Chandrashekhar Jha,” Mr. Singh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-arrested-in-journalists-murder-case-in-bihar/article37514175.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will talk with States to curb pollution: Centre||The Environment Ministry will hold a meeting on Tuesday with officials of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to review the steps taken to address air pollution. “The Minister [Bhupender Yadav] already had meetings with officials from the Central Pollution Control Board [CPCB] and will also have a meeting tomorrow [on Tuesday],” a Ministry spokesperson said. When wind speeds are over 10-15 kmph and temperatures are warm, fine particulate matter rises and is easily flushed out to the higher recesses of the atmosphere, but with the reduction of this so-called mixing height post monsoon, pollutants take much longer to disperse. The entire Indo-Gangetic plain, which traverses large parts of Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and eastern Uttar Pradesh, constitutes an air shed, meaning that roughly the same atmospheric conditions prevail. Therefore, when adverse weather prevails, the effect of key sources of particulate matter pollution — road dust, vehicle exhaust from transportation, from the burning of wood for heat and cooking and from heavy industry — that are ever present through the year become amplified. During this Deepavali, however, a change in wind direction also increased the contribution of particulate matter from stubble fires and a new variable, crackers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-talk-with-states-to-curb-pollution-centre/article37514176.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||Centre notifies transfer of Madras HC Chief Justice||The Law Ministry on Monday notified the transfer of Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee to the Meghalaya High Court after President Ram Nath Kovind accepted the Supreme Court Collegium’s recommendation of transfer. “In exercise of the power conferred by clause (1) of Article 222 of the Constitution of India, the President, after consultation with the Chief Justice of India, is pleased to transfer Shri Justice Sanjib Banerjee, Chief Justice of the Madras High Court, as the Chief Justice of the Meghalaya High Court,” read the notification by the Ministry of Law and Justice. The notification said Mr. Kovind had directed Justice Banerjee to assume the office of the Chief Justice of the Meghalaya High Court. The Supreme Court Collegium recommended the transfer of Justice Banerjee from the Madras High Court with a sanctioned strength of 75 judges to a High Court whose current strength is two judges. Though the decision was taken on September 16, it was made public earlier this week. Justice Banerjee is the second Chief Justice of the Madras High Court to have been recommended for a transfer to Meghalaya in the past two years. In 2019, the then Chief Justice V.K. Tahilramani resigned in protest after she was transferred to Meghalaya. Justice Banerjee’s transfer within 10 months of his assuming office had prompted 31 senior advocates of the Madras High Court to submit a representation to the collegium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-notifies-transfer-of-madras-hc-chief-justice/article37514233.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||RSS-affiliated scholar to chair panel on languages||Chamu Krishna Shastry, a founding member of the RSS-affiliated Samskrita Bharati whose mission is to revive Sanskrit as a spoken language, has been chosen to chair a new High Powered Committee for the Promotion of Indian Languages, according to a circular issued on Monday by the Education Ministry. The member-secretary of the committee will be the Vice-Chancellor of the Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University, an institution that will also provide secretarial assistance, appoint experts, conduct workshops and house the panel for its two-year tenure. The panel is also expected to advise the Ministry on revitalising languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rss-affiliated-scholar-to-chair-panel-on-languages/article37514223.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Journalists’ unions flay Tripura arrests||The Delhi Union of Journalists (DUJ) and the Brihanmumbai Union of Journalists (BUJ) on Monday condemned the arrest of two journalists by Tripura Police and demanded the withdrawal of all cases lodged against journalists covering the recent violence in that State. The unions condemned the arrest of Samriddhi Sakunia and Swarna Jha, two journalists with HW News Network, on Sunday. “We welcome the grant of bail to the two women journalists but demand that all cases foisted on journalists and civil society activists for their reportage or social media posts be withdrawn forthwith. The intimidatory tactics by Tripura police must stop,” the unions said in a joint statement. They said the arrests were carried out in irregular, legally questionable manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/journalists-unions-flay-tripura-arrests/article37514019.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi’s ration scheme under progress||The Supreme Court on Monday noted that the Delhi Government’s preparation for the doorstep delivery ration scheme was still “under progress” and asked it and the Centre to place their arguments before the Delhi High Court on November 22 without seeking an adjournment. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao was dealing with an appeal filed by the Centre against the High Court decision clearing the way for the scheme. The court recorded the submissions made by the parties that the scheme could not anyway be implemented before November 22 and the High Court would continue to hear it in the meanwhile. The High Court had directed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Government to issue communication to fair price shop dealers informing them of the particulars of cardholders who have opted for the delivery. ‘Issue communication’ “The Delhi Government shall first issue communication to each of the fair price shop holders informing them of the particulars of the ration cardholders who have opted to receive their rations at their doorstep and, only thereafter, the rations, to the extent that they are being supplied to such beneficiaries, need not be supplied to the fair price shop holders,” a Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh of the High Court had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhis-ration-scheme-under-progress/article37514037.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Project SIREN Award for The Hindu||The Hindu has been awarded the Project SIREN Award for Newspapers 2021 for “its consistent high performance on Project SIREN’s scorecards measuring responsible reporting on suicide between June 2020 and June 2021.” Project SIREN is an initiative of the India Mental Health Observatory (IMHO) under the Centre for Mental Health Law and Policy (CMHLP), which systematically tracks and scores media reports on suicides from major English newspapers and online news publications to promote responsible reporting on suicide among the media. “While we applaud the consistent performance by The Hindu , we encourage The Hindu to further prioritise sensitive and responsible reporting on suicides,” said Soumitra Pathare, director, Centre for Mental Health Law and Policy, Indian Law Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/project-siren-award-for-the-hindu/article37514025.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||Trinamool moves notice for resolution||The Trinamool Congress on Monday moved a notice for statutory resolutions in the Rajya Sabha objecting to the ordinances by the government to extend the tenure of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) chiefs, sources said. On Monday, the party moved two separate statutory resolutions for the two laws the government has amended through the ordinances to extend the tenure. “Two brazen Ordinances extend ED and CBI Director terms from 2 to 5 years #Parliament Winter Session begins two weeks from now. Be rest assured, Opposition parties will do all it takes to stop India from turning into an elected autocracy,” tweeted Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-moves-notice-for-resolution/article37514015.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||Regulate crypto market: stakeholders||The Standing Committee on Finance in its first meeting on cryptocurrency on Monday met stakeholders to understand the essential question on how this will impact the existing financial order. The CII, Internet Mobile Association of India, Lakshmi Coin and other crypto firms were present at the meeting. The stakeholders argued that the crypto market must be regulated but they could not answer many of the questions raised by panel members. The currency is so far the sovereign’s domain but the cryptocurrency has already mounted a huge challenge. The market cap on worldwide currency is $80 trillion while the crypto market, in just the last 12-years has grown to $3 trillion. Sources said the members asked several questions including the definition of cryptocurrency, the blockchain technology, what is the distributed ledger. “One of the key questions is that the cryptocurrency has no intrinsic value. But even then why are the people putting in their physical money in it,” one of the members said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/regulate-crypto-market-stakeholders/article37514169.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Singapore’s quarantine rules eased||Singapore has announced that it will allow quarantine-free travel for travellers from India November 29. It will open ‘Vaccinated Travel Lanes (VTL)’ also for Finland, Indonesia, Malaysia and Sweden. “We also intend to launch a VTL for India for entry into Singapore from November 29 and will open VTP applications from the next day,” as per an official statement. It said it will launch the VTLs for Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates from December 6 and will open for VTP applications from November 29. The Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL) allows quarantine-free travel to Singapore. Currently, there are 13 countries, including Canada, Australia and Germany, under the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/singapores-quarantine-rules-eased/article37514170.ece
16 November 2021||Bhopal,||Summons to Amazon over marijuana delivery||The Bhind Police in Madhya Pradesh issued summons to Amazon.com Inc’s local officials after it arrested two men with 20 kg of marijuana. The two were using Amazon India platform to order, smuggle and deliver marijuana to various States. They were doing this by listing it as curry leaves  said the police. A police team raided a dhaba on Sunday and arrested Suraj Pawaiya resident of Gwalior, and Bijendra Singh Tomar, resident of Gohad in Bhind district for possessing nearly 20 kg of marijuana, Manoj Singh, Superintendent of Police, Bhind, told mediapersons. During the investigations, they two said they were using Amazon India’s shopping website to order and smuggle marijuana to deliver them to various States, he added. Police said a Vishakhapatnam-based company, BABU TEX, had supplied the marijuana through Amazon. A payment of more than Rs. 1.10 crore was made, the investigators said. It was found that 66.66 per cent of the total sale goes to Amazon and the rest to manufacturers or producers, Mr. Singh said. Based on this information, a Bhind Police team also visited Amazon’s delivery hubs in Gwalior to get details and track the marijuana consignments. Legal experts from Amazon are likely to respond to the summons issued by the Bhind Police, said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/summons-to-amazon-over-marijuana-delivery/article37514222.ece
16 November 2021||Srinagar,||2 militants killed in Srinagar encounter||Two militants and a civilian were killed in an encounter in Srinagar on Monday evening. The encounter was triggered off when a joint team of the police and the Army launched a search operation in Srinagar’s Hyderpora area “following a tip off”. “A cordon was laid (in the area). Militants fired on the security forces that (was) retaliated,” an Army spokesman said. The owner of the house were militants were hiding was also killed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2-militants-killed-in-srinagar-encounter/article37514024.ece
16 November 2021||MUMBAI,||Anil Deshmukh sent to judicial custody||A special court under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act on Monday remanded former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, 72, in judicial custody. He was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on November 2. Advocate Aniket Nikam, appearing for Mr. Deshmukh, filed an application for home food and medicines for him. He said it was a harmless request considering his age and post-COVID-19 health. The court allowed him a bed from home and medicines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anil-deshmukh-sent-to-judicial-custody/article37514035.ece
16 November 2021||BENGALURU,TAMIL NADU||File response in link canal project: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday asked Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to file their responses in six weeks in the case pertaining to Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar link canal project in Tamil Nadu, which has been questioned by Karnataka, said Lakshmikanth Joshi, Officer on Special Duty in the office of Karnataka Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol. Surplus water The project is being implemented by Tamil Nadu in Pudukottai district to transfer surplus water in the Cauvery from Mayanur reservoir in Karur district. Karnataka approached the Supreme Court against the 262-km link canal project in February 2021. Karnataka is arguing that the surplus water available in the Cauvery belongs to it after releasing 177.25 tmcft that is measured at Biligundlu station as per the verdict of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal. The Supreme Court would continue the hearing in this case after nine weeks, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/link-canal-project-sc-asks-tn-puducherry-to-file-responses-in-6-weeks/article37514310.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to bring more stretches under Bus Route Roads Dept.||Greater Chennai Corporation is set to include more roads under Bus Route Roads Department to improve the standards of the stretches to carry heavy traffic. The civic body is planning to do a study of traffic along many of the 40,000 interior roads and identify those that are frequently damaged. Roads that record more passenger car units per hour and high pedestrian movement will also be brought under Bus Route Roads Department. Roads such as Taylors Road and Harrington Road have already been identified for inclusion in the category of bus route roads. A few roads in Madhavaram have been identified for inclusion in bus routes. Once classified as bus routes, getting permission for digging of the stretches for infrastructure projects or service connection will be a challenge for line agencies. The number of roads maintained by the Bus Routes Roads Department is expected to increase significantly after the inclusion of more interior roads. At present, 471 bus routes have been maintained by the Corporation. Repair taken up The civic body has identified at least 48 bus route roads for temporary repair work this week. Work has started in 22 of the damaged bus routes. Roads such as Usman Road and Mahalingapuram Main Road that have been affected by flooding have been cleaned and repair work taken up. Thirumalai Pillai Road and R.K. Mutt Road have been damaged because of the steps taken to resolve the issue of flooding in T. Nagar and Mylapore respectively. The civic officials had to damage some civic infrastructure to mitigate flooding in T. Nagar. The civic body has resolved more than 15,311 complaints received on helpline 1913. Work to mitigate flooding at 778 locations was taken up. Over 1,400 tonnes of additional garbage had been removed from the roads of 15 zones in the city. Workers have been brought from places such as Vellore to clean the roads after the rain. Mass cleaning will be taken up in all the 778 flood-affected areas this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-bring-more-stretches-under-bus-route-roads-dept/article37514358.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||We’re taking all precautions on Mullaperiyar, T.N. tells Kerala||Tamil Nadu has assured Kerala that it is taking all precautionary measures while regulating the flows into the Mullaperiyar dam. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, in a letter sent last week to his Kerala counterpart V.P. Joy, said the concern over the safety of people living downstream of the dam, as expressed in the latter’s communication of October 23, “has been taken care of, and there is no cause for any apprehension”. The dam “is being regulated” as per the Supreme Court’s judgment of May 2014 and “considering the directions” given by the court in its interim order of October 28, 2021, wherein the parties were told to abide, for the time being, by the water level notified by the expert committee. Mr. Irai Anbu reiterated the State’s position that the dam “has been found to be safe hydrologically, seismically and structurally”, a fact that had been stated in the 2014 judgment. The dam was “performing well, and it is also being monitored by the Supervisory Committee” [comprising one representative each of the Central Water Commission and the Governments of Tamil Nadu and Kerala], which had been constituted on the direction of the court. On Monday morning, the water level stood at 140.35 feet, with the storage being 7.221 thousand million cubic feet. The dam recorded an inflow of 3,378 cubic feet per second (cusecs) and the outflow through the tunnel was 2,300 cusecs. According to the present regulations, the level can touch the 141-foot mark on November 20 and the 142-foot mark on November 30. Tamil Nadu’s top official informed Mr. Joy that the discharge of excess water, through two spillways during October 29-November 7, was around 2,600 cusecs, “which is very minimum when compared with the historical flood flows”. The officials of Tamil Nadu, Mr. Irai Anbu added, had been “adequately instructed” to keep the level as per the court’s direction, follow the protocol and give information in advance to the Kerala officials concerned.  The Chief Secretary reiterated the State’s position that the dam has been found to be safe hydrologically, seismically and structurally||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/were-taking-all-precautions-on-mullaperiyar-tn-tells-kerala/article37514340.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||802 test positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu||Of the 1,00,764 persons tested on Monday, 802 were positive for COVID-19, taking the total case tally to 27,15,632. Among them were a passenger each from the United Kingdom and the United Arab Emirates. The State reported 12 deaths — seven at private hospitals and five at government hospitals — pushing the toll to 36,296. As many as 9,488 persons are under treatment. Most cases Chennai and Coimbatore reported the most number of fresh infections, at 122 and 123 respectively, followed by Erode with 77 cases and Chengalpattu with 62 cases. No fresh case was reported in Perambalur and Tenkasi. In all other districts, the number was below 50. Mayiladuthurai, Ranipet, Tirupattur and Virudhunagar reported one case each and Ariyalur and Ramanathapuram reported two infections each. In Chennai district, 1,255 persons are under treatment. So far, 5,56,408 persons have tested positive and 5,46,575 have been discharged. And the toll stood at 8,578. As many as 918 persons were discharged in the State and the total number of recovered patients went up to 26,69,848. In Chengalpattu, 2,521 persons were discharged, and in Coimbatore, 2,439 persons walked out of hospitals. A 63-year-old man from Coimbatore died of COVID-19 pneumonia on Monday. He was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on November 13 after testing positive the previous day. He was the only person to have lost his life to infection. The 11 others had pre-existing health issues. The youngest person to die was a 38-year-old woman from Salem with type 2 diabetes. She was admitted to Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, Salem, on November 10 after testing positive the same day. She died of COVID-19 pneumonia on November 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/802-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu/article37514342.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Legal notice issued to makers of Jai Bhim||The Vanniyar Sangam has issued a legal notice to the makers of the Suriya-starrer Jai Bhim accusing them of having included highly defamatory scenes against the community in the movie. The president of the Sangam has demanded an unconditional apology, apart from paying damages of Rs. 5 crore. The notice issued by advocate K. Balu, on behalf of his client Pu. Tha. Arulmozhi, said the Sangam was founded by Pattali Makkal Katchi leader S. Ramadoss in 1980. It had been fighting for long to ensure social empowerment of those who belong to Vanniyakula Kshatriya community. Claiming that the antagonist in the movie had been projected to be a person belonging to Vanniyar community, the notice accused the makers of the movie of having deliberately maligned the image of the community and lowered its image in the eyes of the people belonging to other communities. Following through Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) spokesperson K. Balu on Monday said that the party was determined to follow through with the defamation case against actor Suriya, for insulting the Vanniyar community and its sacred symbol of ‘Agni Kalasam’. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Balu said the party leadership was not convinced and satisfied with actor Suriya’s response to the PMK youthwing leader Anbumani Ramadoss. “We are determined to fight this. Our next course of action will be based on actor Suriya’s response to our legal notice. While the film had a lot of redeeming qualities, it needlessly criminalises Vanniyar community. It could not have been an oversight as the calendar was prepared for the film shoot,” he said. Mr. Balu claimed that many in the audience were misled into thinking that the main accused was indeed from the Vanniyar community. Meanwhile, PMK partymen forced a cinema owner in Mayiladuthurai town to halt the screening of Suriya-starrerVeland threatened the actor with physical harm, in protest against the purported ‘negative depiction’ of Vanniyar community. Suriya thanks VCK chief Actor Suriya on Monday thanked Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) founder Thol. Thirumavalavan for appreciating his recently released film Jai Bhim . In a letter to Mr. Thirumavalavan, Mr. Suriya said he was happy that the VCK was continuously fighting for tribals, who are a minority in Tamil Nadu. “As you have said, we are happy that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has taken immediate action on the long-term problems faced by tribals,” the actor added in his letter.  inur next course of action will be based on actor Suriya’s response to our legal notice. While the film had a lot of redeeming qualities, it needlessly criminalises Vanniyar community. K. Balu PMK spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vanniyar-sangam-issues-legal-notice-to-makers-of-jai-bhim/article37514365.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temple assets to be monetised||The Tamil Nadu Government is planning to monetise the assets of religious institutions managed by the Department of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments by putting them to productive utilisation. A tender was floated recently for selecting an agency to prepare a road map. “The assets are not productively utilised and there are also instances of encroachments. In order to monetise the assets through productive utilisation, the Department has decided to take up projects with funding from temples or by involving private developers,” the tender document read. The document said the Government was “involved in the administration of Hindu religious institutions and charitable endowments so as to facilitate their religious autonomy, financial viability and sustained development”. A total of 38,652 Hindu and Jain religious institutions are under the control of the Department. These temples own large parcels of commercial, residential, mixed residential and agricultural land, among other assets. They are spread out across municipal corporations, municipalities, town panchayats and village panchayats. Under the proposal, the ownership of the assets will rest with the temples, while the development rights will be offered to the developers for a specific period. The income from monetisation will be used for the development of the respective temples. Arulmigu Dhandeeshwarar Thirukovil at Velachery in Chennai under the Department has proposed to appoint a consultancy for preparing a road map for the monetisation process for all 38,652 institutions. The chosen company will suggest activities to be taken up on the land parcels through the temples’ own funds or lease or public-private partnership or joint venture. Or, it will come out with a suitable development model.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-assets-to-be-monetised/article37514346.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna varsity cautious on in-person classes||While self-financing engineering colleges have started conducting offline classes, their peers in Anna University’s four departments are attending online classes. This has led to concerns among parents who fear that their wards could be losing out on valuable exposure to campus environment. Parents say their wards have not been to college for 18 months. They had only been called in batches for practical sessions. “Schoolchildren are not vaccinated, yet schools have started functioning with full strength. The government has started running trains to full capacity. Even temples have been opened up. Yet, these are young adults over the age of 18. They are vaccinated with both doses. Still they are not permitted to return to normal college routine. The colleges should be bold and start calling back students,” said a parent. Parents have had informal discussion with the university faculty and were told that the institution was only following the State government’s standard operating procedure as the safety of students was paramount. Since the university hostel rooms had to accommodate four students per room, the university was hesitant, said a faculty. A parent said students had been told to attend in person classes for engineering design classes. “The classes would be staggered and essentially students will be in classrooms only for one month,” he said. ‘Decision soon’ University sources said the decision on having the students back on campus should be made by the institution head. “Now that the issue has been raised, a decision would be made by the institution head,” said an official. Senior professors, however, said institutions had to take a call on conducting in-person class based on their ability to observe COVID safety protocols. Students had been called to institutions as practical sessions had been pending for three semesters. A lecturer explained, “The university has around 10,000 students. The norms have to be followed. For the first year, physical classes have been advocated after they complete their induction programme. The university has announced that for second year students, the practical exams would be through the regular mode. It is only a matter of time before normalcy returns.” Classes for some Vice-Chancellor R. Velraj said from Thursday classes would be conducted for third and fifth semester students. “If hostel facilities were available, we plan to call final year students,” he said and added that the first year students would be called later. At present, one college hostel at A.C. Tech College campus was being used to accommodate COVID-19 patients by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anna-varsity-cautious-on-resuming-in-person-classes/article37514385.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. receives 53.40 lakh Covishield doses by road||For the first time since Tamil Nadu began vaccination, it received a consignment of 53.40 lakh doses of Covishield by road from Pune on Monday. “Until now, we have received the vaccines from Pune and Hyderabad only by air,” Health Minister Ma Subramanian said after inspecting the vaccine storage station on the premises of the Directorate of Medical Services at Teynampet. At Sunday’s mega vaccination camp, around 16.40 lakh people were inoculated. “The door-to-door vaccination programme is going on well, and the Union Government is happy with our efforts. As a result, it has made us a generous allocation,” he told reporters. The Minister said he, along with the Director of Public Health and the Health Secretary, held a videoconference with district health officials and impressed on them the need to administer 7-8 lakh doses a day as against the current average of three lakh doses. The officials had been instructed to identify those requiring the first dose and administer the vaccine to the 70 lakh persons due for the second dose. He said 50,000 centres would be put up for the ninth mega vaccine camp to be conducted next week. So far, 6,00,60,291 persons have been vaccinated in the State. At 2,041 sessions held on Monday, 48,274 persons were inoculated. Among them were 45 healthcare workers; 37 frontline workers; 30,294 people aged 18-44; 12,262 persons aged 45-59; and 5,636 senior citizens. Since May 1, 26,96,183 persons have been vaccinated at private centres.  The door-to-door vaccination programme is going on well, and the Union Government is happy with our efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-receives-5340-lakh-covishield-doses-by-road/article37514343.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on robotic surgery tomorrow||A webinar on robotic colorectal surgery procedures will be organised by The Hindu and Apollo Hospitals at 11.30 a.m on Wednesday. The webinar is being organised as part of The Hindu’s Wellness Series. This edition of the series on Wednesday will have Venkatesh Munikrishnan, Lead and Consultant Colorectal and Robotic Surgeon, Apollo Hospital, Greams Road, in conversation with Sujatha R., Deputy Editor, The Hindu . Those interested in watching the discussion robotic colorectal surgery can register athttps://bit.ly- /321RWsmor scan the accompanying QR code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-robotic-surgery-tomorrow/article37514377.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HCC-KEC bags Puzhithivakkam-Sholinganallur Metro line||The Hindustan Construction Company and KEC International Limited joint venture has once again become the lowest bidder for construction of one of the important stretches in the phase II project of Chennai Metro Rail. This joint venture already got a contract and the team has been building the 8-km elevated stretch from Poonamallee to Porur for a few months now. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), HCC-KEC will be responsible for building 11.6-km stretch from Puzhithivakkam to Shollinganallur, that comprises a part of the line from Madhavaram to Sholinganallur (Line 5) in the phase II project. This 11.6-km stretch will have stations at Puzhuthivakkam, Kilkattalai, Echangadu, Kovilambakkam, Vellakal, Medavakkam Koot Road, Kamaraj Garden Street, Medavakkam Junction, Perumbakkam, Global Hospital and Elcot. ‘No monopoly’ The other two lines in the Rs. 61,843-crore phase II project include Madhavaram to SIPCOT (Line 3) and Light House to Poonamallee (Line 4). To make sure no single firm gets a one full line for construction, CMRL has divided the construction work into different tender packages last year and awarded contracts since early this year. So far, Larsen and Toubro got contracts for building Porur to Power House stretch ( in the Light House to Poonamallee Line) and tunnelling work for Kellys to Taramani (in the Madhavaram to SIPCOT Line). Tata Projects has bagged the contract for tunnelling work from Madhavaram to Kellys. “We did not want any single contractor to have a monopoly and hence we have several contracts. This will ensure that, if at some point, a contractor fails to finish the work or the work gets affected because of the financial crunch of the firm, the whole project doesn’t have to suffer,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hcc-kec-bags-puzhithivakkam-sholinganallur-metro-line/article37514356.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramdas Nagar residents protest against water stagnation||A group of residents from Ramdas Nagar in Old Washermenpet area blocked the busy road near Metro Station on Monday demanding quick steps to drain the water that had stagnated in the area for more than a week. The protesters, who included many women, said their locality had been inundated since the first spell of intense rain in the first week of November. “In the past few days, sewage water seems to have got mixed as well, making it difficult for us to be in our houses. Water has entered many homes,” a woman said. Another woman said they were struggling to get clean water for the past one week. “Electricity supply has been very intermittent as well,” she said. The residents said that although Greater Chennai Corporation officials tried to dewater the area a few times, the flow of water did not stop in the locality. “A majority of it is coming from the crematorium in Kathbada Road that was fully flooded,” the woman said. MLA’s assurance The protesters blocked the road for more than 30 minutes, demanding immediate attention of Royapuram MLA IDream R. Murthy belonging to the DMK. The MLA, who came to the spot, assured the protesters that the locality would be dewatered in a day and efforts would be made to find permanent solution to the problem of flooding in the area. On his assurance, the residents gave up the protest. Saravanan Tamizhan, a functionary of Democratic Youth Federation of India, who took part in the protest, said the MLA said steps would be taken to expedite allocation of houses for the people in the locality in the apartment constructed by Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board nearby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramdas-nagar-residents-protest-against-water-stagnation/article37514359.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police search for two men who abused woman traffic constable in Pulianthope||The police are searching for two persons for threatening and disallowing a policewoman from doing her duty. The two persons had abused the policewoman. Umamaheshwari was a constable posted in the Pulianthope traffic wing and was regulating traffic on Sunday near the Strahans Road signal when two persons, who claimed to be advocates, rode a two-wheeler on the wrong side of the road and removed the traffic barricades to go to Pulianthope High Road. When Ms. Umamaheshwari stopped them from removing the barricades, Sathish and Vivekbabu reportedly abused her and threatened her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-search-for-two-men-who-abused-woman-traffic-constable-in-pulianthope/article37514387.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HR&CE Dept. restrained from setting up colleges using temple funds||The Madras High Court on Monday restrained the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department from establishing any more arts and science colleges, other than the four which had already been planned to be instituted using temple funds, without obtaining the express leave of the court. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P.D. Audikesavalu also ordered that further functioning of even the four colleges at Kolathur in Chennai, Paramathi Velur in Namakkal district, Thoppampatti in Dindigul district and Vilathikulam in Thoothukudi district would be subject to the result of a case filed in court. T.R. Ramesh of Indic Collective Trust and Hindu Worshippers Society had filed the case questioning the use of temple funds to establish educational institutions, especially when most temples in the State did not have trustees and were being administered by fit persons (interim administrators appointed by HR&CE Department). Concurring with him, prima facie , the judges said it was an undisputed position that steps were not taken for the last 10 years to fill the vacancies of trustees in many temples. It was only recently that the current State Government initiated steps to first constitute district-level committees which, in turn, would help appoint trustees to temples. Pointing out that the HR&CE Act provides only for voluntary transfer of surplus funds of revenue-rich temples to a “common good fund”, the judges said: “With respect, the 'voluntary' aspect of the transfer of funds is robbed if the transfer is at the behest of a fit person who is appointed by the HR&CE Commissioner or the government. “A fit person temporarily discharges the duties of administration and the transfer of funds would be a much larger policy decision that a fit person ought not to take. The mere fact that a fit person may have continued for years and even a decade in the absence of government endeavor to install the rightful administration by the appointment of trustees, will not confer any greater right on a fit person than a mere caretaker.” The court also noted that the four colleges, which are ready to open, offered only B.B.A., B.Com. and other similar courses without there being any regular course in religious instructions in Hindu religion. “It will be a condition precedent to the four colleges that a stream of religious instructions in Hindu religion be introduced. If such a course is not introduced within a month of the college starting, the further functioning of the college cannot continue,” it said. It observed that however pious the intention might be to use perceived surplus temple funds for the purpose of education, it must be appreciated that these funds are out of offerings made by devotees for a particular cause and, ordinarily, the cause must not be forgotten and the same must be espoused with a part of the funds, even though the larger sphere of education might also be addressed. After directing the HR&CE Department to file its counter to the PIL in three weeks and granting a week thereafter for the petitioner to file his rejoinder, the judges adjourned the case to December 20 for further hearing.  Petitioner questioned the use of temple funds to establish educational institutions, especially when most temples did not have trustees and were being administered by fit persons||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-new-colleges-from-temple-funds-court-tells-hrce-dept/article37514367.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No heavy vehicles on R.K. Mutt Road||The traffic police have banned heavy vehicles from entering R.K. Mutt Road because of the heavy damages caused by the rains on Monday. With the Greater Chennai Corporation taking up repair of the road, the traffic police are allowing only two-wheelers and light vehicles on the road and have announced diversion for heavy vehicles, including the Metropolitan Transort Corporation (MTC) buses. The MTC buses and heavy vehicles bound for Mandaveli have been diverted at Luz junction through Kutcheri Road. The vehicles proceeding on G.N. Chetty Road towards Bazullah Road are being diverted through Habibullah Road at the Vani Mahal junction. A portion of G.N. Chetty Road has been blocked to enable the civic body to drain the stagnant water. Earlier in the day, the Ashtabujam Road leading to Perambur High Road was blocked because of water stagnation causing traffic bottlenecks. However, the civic authorities drained out rainwater by noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-heavy-vehicles-on-rk-mutt-road/article37514361.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||G.O. issued for fee waiver||The Higher Education Department has released the Government Order providing details of fee waiver for government school students admitted to engineering courses under 7.5% special quota. The government has allocated Rs. 74.28 crore, including Rs. 45.61 crore towards tuition fee; Rs. 25.32 crore towards hostel fee and Rs. 33.50 crore towards transport expenses. The G.O. says that no fee or deposit may be collected from the beneficiaries. Colleges must establish a redress cell for the students, the G.O. said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/go-issued-for-fee-waiver/article37514386.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Petrochemical cluster ad withdrawn; ryots hail move||Amid protests staged by farmers in the Cauvery delta districts against the proposal for petrochemical cluster being planned in Nagapattinam, the MSME Trade and Investment Promotion Bureau (M-TIPB) has withdrawn the request for proposal for the cluster. An advertisement issued by the M-TIPB said that the advertisement issued earlier towards the detailed project report (DPR) for establishing the petrochemical cluster was withdrawn ‘due to administrative reasons.’ The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Department’s announcement of suspending all actions relating to the proposal of establishing a Petrochemical Cluster in Tamil Nadu was hailed by the Thamizhaga All Farmers’ Organisations Coordination Committee.In a statement issued here on November 15, the Committee president, P.R.Pandian, said that Narimanam Oil Refinery in Nagapattinam district has obtained clearance from the Central Government recently for its expansion project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petrochemical-cluster-ad-withdrawn-ryots-hail-move/article37514500.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Suriya thanks VCK founder for praise||Actor Suriya on Monday thanked Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) founder Thol. Thirumavalavan for appreciating his recently released film Jai Bhim . In a letter to Mr. Thirumavalavan, Mr. Suriya said he was happy that the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi was continuously fighting for tribals, who are a minority in Tamil Nadu. “As you have said, we are happy that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has taken immediate action on the long-term problems faced by tribals. The reason for making Jai Bhim is to shed light on their problem and bringing them under the spotlight is possible only through art. Only government and political movements can create actual social change,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suriya-thanks-vck-founder-for-appreciating-jai-bhim/article37514499.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala’s plea on crop insurance||V.K. Sasikala, former interim general secretary of the AIADMK, on Monday called for the extension of time for the enrolment of farmers under the Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme (Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana - PMFBY) by at least two weeks, for the paddy crop being raised during the samba season. She said the extension was required in the light of continuing rain in the southern districts and the Cauvery delta. Referring to reports that food was being served at Amma Unavagams only on collecting charges, she recalled the Chief Minister’s statement that free food would be served till the end of the rainy season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikalas-plea-on-crop-insurance/article37514485.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online K-Pop contest winners announced||The Consulate-General of the Republic of Korea in Chennai had organised “Korean Night” finale as part of its “Korean Cultural Week : Celebrations of Korean Arts” on Saturday. As part of the 2021 South India Online K-Pop contest, passionate K-Pop fans had participated and showcased their vocal and dancing talents. Owing to the pandemic, the events were conducted online and the prizes given on Saturday. Maria Mize won the first place followed by Arshitha and the LDC dance group in the “Dance” category. In the vocal category, Gauri Girish Nair won the first place, Anunyaa and Aishwaria were placed second and Oorja Saxena won the third place. The winners were given special awards which included electronic gadgets . The Consulate will host the Korean Film Festival in Chennai in December 2021. They hope that the weekend programmes, which include K-Pop singing, dancing, music tutorials, K-Food and culinary arts, will showcase an amalgamation of the Korean Culture in South India and India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-k-pop-contest-winners-announced/article37514355.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Investment app under CB-CID probe||The Crime Branch-CID (CB-CID) has filed a case against the Power Bank Investment app on charge of cheating hundreds of customers. The Cyber Crime Cell of the CB-CID has advised any customers who had fallen victim to this money app to register their complaints with the investigating officer on phone: 9444128512. A CB-CID official said several complaints were received stating that an app in the Google Play Store had been cheating customers by claiming to double investments in a short span of time. Customers cheated by the app can mail their complaints to cbcyber@nic.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/investment-app-under-cb-cid-probe/article37514814.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Treat obesity to prevent diabetes’||The importance of reducing fat in a person’s body and thereby addressing obesity and diabetes was stressed at a webinar titled “Obesity and diabetes — is there an actual cure?” organised by GEM Hospital and The Hindu on Sunday. High fat level P. Praveen Raj, head, Department of Obesity and Diabetes Surgery at GEM Hospital, said it was necessary for patients to understand that obesity and diabetes occurred due to high levels of fat in the body, which could trigger insulin or metabolic resistance. Dr. Raj said that frequent monitoring of fat levels could be a simple way of preventing diabetes. Weight reduction Palaniappan Manickam, a medical gastroenterologist practising in the U.S., said people often took weight reduction seriously only after they faced some health issues. “The awareness came to me only after I went through a heart rate event. Then I realised the importance of taking proper care of my health. I went on a diet, took correct nutrition and ensured a proper sleep cycle,” he said. Sandeep Sabnis, a surgical gastroenterologist, who himself underwent bariatric surgery, said his blood pressure and cholesterol levels had come down after the surgery. “My stamina and energy levels are high. Food craving, which was very difficult to deal with, is not there,” he said. Surgery Stressing on the need for seeking help from a multidisciplinary team, the panelists said the doctors can suggest bariatric surgery if dieting and exercise were not proving helpful. “This is not a new procedure. It’s been there for 25 years. It is just a part of surgical intervention like hernia or gallbladder surgery,” Dr. Raj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/treat-obesity-to-prevent-diabetes/article37514370.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Door-to-door health camp launched||The health department has launched a new initiative to reach out to people at their doorstep to identify and treat them for monsoon-related ailments. On Monday, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian inspected the department’s efforts at Sengeniamman Koil Street in Perungudi. “We went to houses in localities where water stagnation occurred for the past four days and checked for cases of fever, cold, diarrhoea and foot sores. We have given them medicines,” he said. Under the State’s ‘Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam’ scheme, 37,43,015 persons have benefited so far. Health camps would be held at 500 places every day, the minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/door-to-door-health-camp-launched/article37514345.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wednesdays to be ECOmmute day for TNPCB employees||Starting this Wednesday, personnel at the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board office in Guindy will avoid use of personal vehicles. As part of ECOmmute Day, a weekly pollution-free office commute day, they will commute to office by public transport or by walk or cycle or opt for electric vehicles. In a press release here, Board chairman A. Udhayan said the idea for this initiative came up during a meeting of senior officers and staff. Carbon footprint This was expected to reduce the air pollution load by office commute in TNPCB by nearly 20%. Around 250 employees and contract staff work at the office, which is the statutory body in the State for pollution control. Visitors to the office on Wednesdays would be encouraged to avoid motorised transport, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wednesdays-to-be-ecommute-day-for-tnpcb-employees/article37514364.ece
16 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CMCH conducts medical camps in view of North-East Monsoon||The Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) has started medical camps in view of the North-East Monsoon in the district. Officials said that mobile medical camps will be conducted in all the five zones of the Coimbatore Corporation and rural areas. They said that the Health Minister and the Director of Medical Education gave a series of instructions to all the medical colleges, instructing them to conduct camps to keep people safe from monsoon-related illnesses and conditions such as diarrhoea, fever and fever rash jaundice, injury, snake bite, dog bite and other ailments. The services provided in these camps include treatment of monsoon-related minor ailments, distribution of ORS packets and antibiotics and dressing of minor injuries. The camps are conducted by medical teams consisting of assistant professors from the Community Medicine Department, medical entomologist, staff nurses, and post-graduates and house surgeons. A release issued by the CMCH said that diarrhoea and fever cases will be treated on the spot by giving drugs and ORS packets at the camps. Severe cases will be referred to CMCH. Fever and diarrhoeal cluster will be identified with help of health inspectors in each area. Daily statistics of 25 camp places and water chlorination status will be sent to the Directorate of Medical Education. The camps are organised and coordinated by A. Nirmala, dean of the CMCH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmch-conducts-medical-camps-in-view-of-north-east-monsoon/article37514405.ece
16 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for murdering three persons on Deepavali day||The death of three men from Pazhaiyur in Coimbatore on Deepavali day took a new turn on Monday after the city police found that a 63-year-old man from the same area murdered them by giving them liquor mixed with cyanide. N. Rajasekar from Pazhaiyur at Papanaickenpalayam was arrested for the deaths of M. Parthiban (35), and S. Sakthivel (61) from Arunthathiyar Street and A. Muruganandam (57) from Mariamman Kovil Street at Pazhaiyur on November 4. Preliminary investigation by the police found that the trio fainted and died after consuming an imported whiskey in an abandoned old house in their locality. The police team headed by Assistant Commissioners of Police R. Vincent and Satheesh Kumar were doubtful that the trio could have died of alcohol overdose as they had consumed only half of the one litre whiskey bottle. The examination of the visceral samples revealed the presence of cyanide, based on which the two ACPs intensified investigation . “During further investigation, we found out that Rajasekar gave the trio liquor mixed with cyanide. “Though Rajasekar had personal enmity with Muruganandam and targeted him, the latter’s two friends also became victims of the plot,” said Mr. Vincent. Rajaskar was arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-murdering-three-persons-on-deepavali-day/article37514408.ece
16 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Form complaints committees in educational institutions’||In the wake of the death of a Class XII girl student here, former youth wing secretary of MDMK and founder of Marumalarchi Makkal Iyakkam V. Eswaran on Monday urged the State government to form internal complaints committees (ICC) in all the educational institutions to redress complaints of sexual offences. Letter to Chief Minister Mr. Eswaran wrote in a letter to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday that information pertaining to the sexual assault of the victim by a teacher came to the fore only after her suicide on November 11 and that many such cases might possibly remain unreported. The ICCs in schools must include women social workers along with representatives of students and should not be led by the head of the respective educational institutions. The proceedings of these ICCs must be sent to the Department of Social Welfare periodically and this must be ensured by the District Collectors, he added. He recalled the allegation made by a woman research scholar of Bharathiar University regarding sexual harassment by the Head of Department in 2015 and accused the district administration of not forming such committees in educational institutions following that incident. Mr. Eswaran said that he submitted a petition in this regard to the Coimbatore Collector G.S. Sameeran on Monday, who assured of action based on discussions with the Chief Educational Officer. Demonstrations held Meanwhile, college students in Tiruppur district organised demonstrations on Monday condemning the alleged sexual assault of the student. Hundreds of students participated in the demonstration held in Tiruppur city and in Dharapuram.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/form-complaints-committees-in-educational-institutions/article37514398.ece
16 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Minister distributes laptops to school students||School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi distributed laptops to school students at a corporate social responsibility (CSR) event organised at the Government Higher Secondary School, Kalapatti in Coimbatore district on Monday evening. District Collector G.S. Sameeran, Chief Educational Officer N. Geetha and other officials were present at the event. Earlier in the day, Mr. Poyyamozhi inaugurated a digital model library constructed at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh at Udumalpet in Tiruppur district. He inaugurated the building in the presence of Ministers M.P. Saminathan and N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj and District Collector S. Vineeth. A release said that the library contains 1.15 lakh books and that it is the third model library in the State after model libraries in Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts. The School Education Minister also inspected Sainik School in Amaravathinagar along with Ms. Kayalvizhi and Pollachi MP K. Shanmugasundaram. Inspected He inspected the administrative block, classrooms and hostels on the school premises and interacted with the cadets who are being prepared to enter the National Defence Academy, according to a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-distributes-laptops-to-school-students/article37514412.ece
16 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Women allege cheating by YouTube channels||Dozens of women staged a demonstration outside the District Collectorate on Monday alleging that they have been cheated by YouTube channels and had lost money by paying for an allegedly fraudulent business plan. According to the petition submitted at the grievance redress meeting, the women alleged that they had paid money to a scheme named CWDS based on videos from two channels on YouTube. The petition alleged that thousands of women from Coimbatore district had lost cash to the tune of Rs. 5 crore and requested Collector G.S. Sameeran to conduct an investigation into the two channels to retrieve their money. SFI stages demonstration Members of Students Federation of India staged a demonstration outside the BSNL office near the Collectorate on Monday condemning the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 and National Eligibilty-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). Tension prevailed for a while as the members attempted to burn copies of the documents during the demonstration, following which they were physically restrained by the police personnel. Action sought Students from various colleges in Coimbatore petitioned the Collector demanding strict action against those involved in sexual offences against students in schools.  ‘Awareness needed’ Following the death of a Class XII girl, who was allegedly subjected to sexual assault by her teacher, the students demanded in their petition that awareness among students to redress their grievances must be increased in all the schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-allege-cheating-by-youtube-channels/article37514401.ece
16 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||School’s answers not satisfactory: Minister||The answers given by the management of a private school here during an inquiry into the alleged sexual assault of a 17-year-old girl who ended her life were not satisfactory, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said on Monday. He told journalists that Chief Educational Officer N. Geetha conducted the inquiry at the school and found the answers “evasive”. The Government would launch an awareness programme for the safety of students at all schools on November 19. It would soon open a portal for corporate social responsibility activities to help government schools to make such initiatives transparent, he said.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-answers-not-satisfactory-minister/article37514344.ece
16 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Four of a family killed in accident||Four members of a family were killed in a road accident at Udumalpet in Tiruppur district on Sunday. According to the police, S. Kavya (25), a doctor practising in Krishnagiri district, had come to Udumalpet to attend a family event. She was in the driver’s seat and her father Sakthivel (61), mother Vijayarani (54) and grandparents Ponvel (75) and Paapu (71) were the other occupants of the car. At around 3.30 p.m., the car lost control and hit the side wall of a mini bridge on Udumalpet-Tiruppur Road, the police said. Kavya died on the spot and the others suffered severe injuries. Sakthivel, Ponvel and Paapu died at the hospital. Vijayarani was hospitalised in Madurai and her condition was stable, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-of-a-family-killed-in-accident/article37514402.ece
16 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police to register case against media houses||The City Police have decided to register a case against media houses that revealed the identity of a Class XII student who ended her life on November 11, allegedly after she was sexually assaulted by a teacher. The move comes after the police faced criticism from the judiciary over reports appeared in a section of print, broadcast and online media that exposed the identity of the girl. The police were collecting details of such reports to take action for offence under Section 23 (procedure for media) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-to-register-case-against-media-houses/article37514409.ece
16 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two women test positive for A(H1N1) in Coimbatore||Two women have tested positive for A (H1N1) influenza in Coimbatore district. Deputy Director of Health Services P. Aruna said that the women were undergoing treatment for the disease in a private hospital at Peelamedu. The patients, aged 63 and 68, hail from corporation limits. The health wing of the civic body has started control measures to prevent the spread of the disease. A. Nirmala, Dean of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, said that the tertiary care centre did not receive any case of A(H1N1) influenza in the recent past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-women-test-positive-for-ah1n1-in-coimbatore/article37514410.ece
16 November 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Hogenakkal out of bounds for tourists||The inflow into Hogenakkal touched 45,000 cusecs on Monday, as River Cauvery is in spate due to continuing rain in Karnataka. Water level The water level at Hogenakkal increased from 30,000 cusecs on Sunday to 45,000 cusecs on Monday morning. However by the end of Monday, the water level fell to 35,000 cusecs. In the wake of sudden rise in water level, all the main attractions in Hogenakkal were closed down. Coracle operations that had briefly resumed over the weekend after a long hiatus were once again closed down on Monday. With the rain continuing in Karnataka and the filling up of its reservoirs, the outflow from Kabini and Krishnaraja Sagar reservoirs had increased to 8700 cusecs. With the increase in inflow in Hogenakkal, flood alert has been sounded to people living in the low-lying areas along River Cauvery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hogenakkal-out-of-bounds-for-tourists/article37514516.ece
16 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Low-lying areas along River Cauvery being monitored||With over 40,000 cusecs of water being discharged from Stanley Reservoir in Mettur into River Cauvery, officials are monitoring the the river banks and low-lying areas here on Monday. The river from Salem enters the district at Nerinjipettai and flows through Ammapettai, Bhavani, Karungalpalayam, Kodumudi and enters Karur district. With the dam attaining its full reservoir level of 120 feet and the discharge from the dams in Karnataka expected to increase, the inflow to the river might increase. Hence, officials are monitoring the water flow in the district. Officials said that the people living along the banks of River Cauvery were being warned using tom-toms and asked to be prepared to deal with emergencies. Schools and marriage halls that would serve as relief centres were kept ready to accommodate flood-hit people. Meanwhile, the water level at Bhavanisagar dam stood at 103.46 feet against the full reservoir level of 105 feet. At 8 a.m. Monday, the inflow into the dam was 3,229 cusecs and the discharge was 1,800 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal and 300 cusecs into Arakkankottai – Thadapalli canals. The storage was 31.51 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) against the capacity of 32.80 tmcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/low-lying-areas-along-river-cauvery-being-monitored/article37514507.ece
16 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Rain triggers another landslip on Bargur ghat road||A day after a landslip at Chettinodi on Bargur ghat road, another landslip occurred near the same spot affecting the movement of vehicles to 32 hamlets in the hill area and to Karnataka on Monday. At 11.10 a.m., a landslip occurred on the Bargur – Kollegal national highway forcing officials to ban vehicle movement on the stretch. Vehicles were stopped at the check post in the foothills and also at Bargur. This is the fifth landslip in the last three weeks on the ghat road, due to incessant rain. On Sunday, boulders fell on the road at Chettinodi at 6 a.m. and vehicle movement was disrupted. The national highway connects Anthiyur with Kollegal in Karnataka and vehicle movement to 32 hamlets in the Bargur Hills was disrupted. Since trees fell on the electric lines, power supply to the hamlets was snapped. Restoration works were carried out and the boulders were removed and movement of vehicles resumed from 8 a.m. Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-triggers-another-landslip-on-bargur-ghat-road/article37514510.ece
16 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Deputy tahsildar, VAO placed under suspension in graft case||A deputy tahsildar and a village administrative officer (VAO), who were arrested for receiving bribe from a farmer, were placed under suspension by the district administration here on Monday. Rathinasamy of Koodakarai in Nambiyur submitted an application for land valuation certificate at the Nambiyur taluk office. Elathur VAO Ramji (50) demanded a bribe of Rs. 50,000 for issuing the certificate. Unwilling to pay, Rathinasamy complained to the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) officials, who laid a trap. Middleman held On November 13, Rathinasamy handed over Rs. 20,000 to Muthukumar, a middleman, as per the instructions of the VAO. Officials nabbed Muthukumar and he confessed to them that he had received the money on behalf of the VAO. Inquiries revealed that deputy tahsildar Azhagesan directed the VAO to demand money from Rathinasamy. Officials searched the house of Azhagesan at A.S.M. Colony in Anthiyur and seized Rs. 5,33,900 in unaccounted money. Azhagesan and Ramji were arrested. Based on the recommendation of Gobichettipalayam Revenue Divisional Officer Palanidevi, Collector H. Krishnanunni placed Azhagesan and Ramji under suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deputy-tahsildar-vao-placed-under-suspension-in-graft-case/article37514512.ece
16 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable price continues to remain high in Erode wholesale market||The price of vegetables continues to remain high at the wholesale market here. Incessant rain in the last one month had damaged most of the standing crops, affecting the harvest of vegetables. On an average, 5,000 boxes of tomatoes, each box weighing 15 kg, arrive from Karnataka, Maharashtra and Talavadi to the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market. Due to rain, only less than 2,000 boxes are arriving everyday pushing up the wholesale price of fine quality tomatoes to Rs. 80 a kg. Likewise, other vegetables arrive from The Nilgiris, Mettupalayam, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Oddanchatram to the wholesale market regularly. On an average 30 to 35 tonnes of vegetables arrive everyday to the wholesale market and it has now dropped to 15 tonnes a day. Drop in arrival had pushed up the price of most of the vegetables. While beans and beetroots are sold at Rs. 85 a kg each, ladies finger is sold for Rs. 80 a kg. “The price of vegetables have gone up by Rs. 10 to Rs. 40 a kg,” said P.P.K. Palanisamy, president, Nethaji Wholesale Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market Association. “The upward price trend will continue for one more month, as the rain-hit crops need to grow,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-price-continues-to-remain-high-in-erode-wholesale-market/article37514514.ece
16 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 77 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Monday reported 77 new COVID-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 1,05,274. While 68 persons were discharged after treatment, the district had 788 active cases on the day. Salem district reported 39 fresh cases and one death on Monday. According to health officials, 23 cases were indigenous and 13 were reported in the Corporation limits. Namakkal district reported 35 new cases, all indigenous. Krishnagiri recorded seven fresh cases and the overall tally rose to 43,730. While 12 persons were discharged, the district had 125 active cases on the day. Dharmapuri recorded 17 fresh cases on Monday. While 14 persons were discharged after treatment, the district had 170 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-77-new-covid-19-cases/article37514508.ece
16 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man gets life term for murder||The Fast Track Mahila Court on Monday sentenced a 37-year-old man to undergo life imprisonment for murdering his grandmother in 2011. The prosecution case is that P. Gopinath of R.N. Pudur Amman Nagar, along with his friend Vijayan of Pallipalayam, visited his grandmother Gowri (70) of Perumalmalai on July 6, 2011 and demanded money. When she refused to give money, Gopinath murdered her. He also took away the ornaments she was wearing. Chithode police registered a case and arrested Gopinath and Vijayan. Judge R. Malathi found Gopinath guilty of murder and sentenced him to undergo life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000. He was also sentenced to undergo 10 years of imprisonment and fined Rs. 5,000 for stealing jewellery. The judge ordered the sentences to run concurrently. Vijayan was acquitted from the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-life-term-for-murder/article37514511.ece
16 November 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Over 9,400 seek inclusion in voter list in Kallakurichi||As many as 9,478 persons from Kallakurichi district have applied for inclusion of names in the voter list, during special revision camps held across the district on Saturday and Sunday. According to a release, they had sought the inclusion by submitting Form 6. A total of 214 had sought deletion of names. The district administration said 655 had applied for correction in details and 318 had applied for change of address within a constituency. In total, 10,665 persons had filed applications. In Cuddalore, as many as 8,409 people have filed for inclusion of their names in the electoral roll during the summary revision exercise. Official sources said 1,207 people submitted applications for deleting their names. For correction of entries in the last published voter list, 1,364 persons had filed Form 8 applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-9400-seek-inclusion-in-voter-list-in-kallakurichi/article37514813.ece
16 November 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Aathupalayam dam||Water was released for irrigation for the third consecutive year from Aathupalayam dam, located at Karvazhi village near K. Paramathi in Karur district, on Monday. The reservoir has an ayacut of 19,480 acres. Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji opened the sluices and showered flowers on the water flowing from the reservoir along with Collector T. Prabhu Shankar, MLAs R.Ilango and K. Sivagama Sundari, Rural Development and Revenue officials and farmers. The dam, which was inaugurated in 1992, was constructed to harness surplus flood waters in the Noyyal river and the water draining from the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP). However, down the years, the Aathupalayam dam became a repository of polluted water and sludge carried by the Noyyal river from the dyeing and bleaching factories from Tiruppur and Coimbatore districts. Following a court order, the dam was not opened for 18 years. In 2019, water was released from Aathupalayam dam after a court case was withdrawn and after analyses of samples found that the Total Dissolved Solids level was well within the permitted level. Water has been released from the dam this year too as it reached its full storage capacity of 235.52 million cubic feet (mcft) and was getting an inflow of about 50 cusecs. Farmers in Anjur, Thukkachi, Karvazhi, Thennilai, Munnur, Athipalayam, Kuppam, Punnam, Manmangalam, Vettamangalam, Punjai Pugalur, Punjai Thottakurichi, Athur, Punjai Kadambakurichi, Kuppuchipalayam, Minnampalli, Kathaparai and Panjamadevi would benefit from the water release. The Minister said several major development schemes have been sanctioned for the district within the short duration of five months since the DMK returned to power. These include sanction for establishing a government agricultural college, checks dams across Cauvery and Amaravathi, two barrages and a 200-acre SIPCOT industrial estate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-aathupalayam-dam/article37514467.ece
16 November 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Incessant rain ravages paddy crops, inundates houses in Krishnagiri||The continuing rain inundated several houses, ravaged paddy crops and caused a breach in the bunds of lakes in parts of Krishnagiri. The heavy rain of the last week had wilted paddy crops that had crossed pre-harvest stage. In the town panchayats of Kaveripattinam and surrounding areas around Krishnagiri, many fields have submerged and farmers are attempting to salvage what was left of the crops. Many houses in Kaveripattinam were inundated and a snake was caught inside a house at Thimmapuram. On Sunday, District Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy inspected the bund strengthening works in Nagojanahalli town panchayat after two lakes breached, flooding houses and fields. Minor breach was reported in Kayam lake spread over 16.5 acres and Kambukalapatty lake spread over 19 acres. On Monday, the run-off from Chinneri that had inundated houses and streets was drained off under the supervision of the Collector. Water level in KRP dam The district received an average rainfall of 11.60 mm on Sunday. The water level in KRP dam reached 51 ft against the reservoir’s total capacity of 52 ft. The current water level stood at 1551.76 mcft, against the total water level of 1666.29 mcft. The inflow into the dam was 1073 cusecs and the outflow was 1008 cusecs. The rainfall received by the reservoir was 39.4 mm. The water level in Kelavarapalli dam was 41.33ft, against the total reservoir capacity of 44.28 ft. The current storage was 374.24 mcft. The inflow into the reservoir was 588 cusecs, and the outflow was 588 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/incessant-rain-ravages-paddy-crops-inundates-houses-in-krishnagiri/article37514505.ece
16 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Minnagam’ attended to 8,205 calls since June, says official||Through ‘Minnagam’ 24x7 call centre of Tangedco, launched by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin in June, the Madurai Metro and Madurai district Tangedco together had so far redressed the grievances of 8,205 of the 8,226 callers, said an official here on Monday. The officials of the Department of Information and Public Relations at the Madurai Collectorate said that the call centre could be reached at 94987 94987. The objective of the facility was to swiftly attend to the grievances, complaints or suggestions from the public and electricity consumers. As soon as a call was received at the call centre, the message would be forwarded to the respective authorities and closely monitored by senior officers. For this purpose, WhatsApp groups had been formed. The public and consumers had issues relating to billing, technical aspects and sometimes, there were even complaints of bribery. All these were attended to and in Madurai district, they had settled 8,205 calls till date. Tangedco had proposed to provide one lakh free electricity connections to the farmers in Tamil Nadu during this year. Towards this target, Madurai, which planned to issue 2,560 connections under the scheme, had given orders to 28 farmers across the district. A senior official in Tangedco told The Hindu that the number was achievable as there were applicants willing to make payment for obtaining connection. The procedure had been simplified now and hence the target for the financial year would be achieved, the official added. Likewise, following complaints of overload and low voltage, a survey of the existing transformers were conducted and 122 new ones were replaced, including 30 in Madurai Metro (urban area).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minnagam-attended-to-8205-calls-since-june-says-official/article37514685.ece
16 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||City college students seek semester examinations in online mode||Hundreds of students of The American College staged a protest at the Collectorate here on Monday against the college administration’s decision to conduct semester examinations in offline mode. The students asked when more than 50% of teaching all these days was through online mode and even the internal examinations were conducted in online mode, why should the end of semester examination alone be conducted in offline mode. Even when students were allowed to attend the college physically, the mode of teaching was only through online, they said. “After the State government announced that all semester examination should be conducted in offline mode, we made the announcement. The college cannot take a decision on this issue,” Principal M. Davamani Christober said. The students said they sought online examination only for this semester as transition from online to offline would take more time. After staging a protest on the college premises in the morning, the students marched towards the Collectorate and squatted in front of it. They claimed that some colleges in the city were conducting the examination in online mode. Meanwhile, the Principal announced postponement of the examinations by two weeks. “As of now, we have given them more time to prepare well for the (offline) examination. The final call on the mode of examination will depend on the government’s instructions,” Mr. Christober said. Examinations for second year and third year undergraduate courses and final year postgraduate courses were scheduled to begin on Monday and get over by the first week of December. For the first year UG and PG students, the examinations were scheduled for the first week of December. The students dispersed around noon after the announcement of postponement of examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-college-students-seek-semester-examinations-in-online-mode/article37514691.ece
16 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Alumni associations help build brand, brotherhood’||Lauding the efforts of Vellore Institute of Technology in opening a chapter in Madurai for the alumni, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan said that alumni associations helped in building brand and brotherhood. Speaking at the inaugural function of VIT Alumni Association (VITAA) here on Sunday, Mr. Thiaga Rajansaid that active involvement of the chapter members would facilitate a social impact. Networking played a key role in branding and brotherhood. Sankar Viswanathan, vice-president, VIT, and Kadhambari S. Viswanathan, assistant vice-president, said this was the 56th chapter of VITAA globally and the 20th in India. VIT chancellor G. Viswanathan, in his online address, highlighted the cultural heritage of Madurai and its prominent role in the development of Tamil. He urged the members to be active and contribute their best for the success of the VITAA. Sivaprakash S.C, Sudhagar Dayanidhi, Chockalingam Subramaniam and Jayalalitha Sathiyamoorthy are the office-bearers of the new chapter, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alumni-associations-help-build-brand-brotherhood/article37514687.ece
16 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Cake mixing heralds Christmas season||After a long break, when the pandemic restricted gathering of people, cake mixing ceremony which heralds the Christmas season, was conducted on the lawns of Hotel Amika on Ring Road in Madurai on Monday. Cake mixing is a ritual performed to welcome happiness of Christmas and prosperity in the New Year. Fruits - raisins, glazed red cherries, orange peel, tutti-frutti, black currants, dates, dried apricots, figs and prunes; nuts - walnuts, cashew, almond flakes and pistachio; and spices - ground cardamom, cinnamon and cloves - these all went into a huge cauldron. Bottles and bottles of golden syrup, molasses, honey and vanilla essence were poured into the mix while masked faces with gloved hands kneaded the concoction. The cake mixing ceremony is a community event. The highlight was when Santa Claus arrived to the sound of jingle bells, because the joy of man is the joy of God. Paul Athisayaraj, General Manager, said the event encouraged togetherness, creativity, team spirit and honing hospitality traits. Gajendran, Executive Chef, was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cake-mixing-heralds-christmas-season/article37514681.ece
16 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman says husband shot by SL Navy||A woman from Pudukkottai district has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking conduct of re-postmortem on the body of her husband who died after falling into the sea when his boat collided with a Sri Lankan naval vessel. The petitioner, R. Brundha of Kottaipattinam, said on October 18 her husband R. Raj Kiran and two others – S. Suganthan and A. Xavier – ventured into the sea for fishing in a boat owned by Suresh Kumar. Their boat was intercepted by a Sri Lankan naval vessel. The Sri Lankan authorities told the fishermen that they had crossed the International Maritime Boundary Line and were in Sri Lankan waters. It was said that when the fishermen tried to escape from them, the Sri Lankan naval vessel collided with the boat accidentally. In the impact, Raj Kiran fell into the sea and drowned. The other two fishermen were detained by the authorities. However, Ms. Brundha said a few fishermen who were only two nautical miles away on other boats told them that the Sri Lankan authorities had shot Raj Kiran and he fell unconscious in the boat. It was then that the Sri Lankan vessel collided with the boat wantonly. The body of Raj Kiran was recovered and a postmortem was conducted at Jaffna Medical College Hospital in Sri Lanka. Later, the body was handed over to Indian authorities. But, the postmortem certificate was not handed over to them, she said. The body was brought to Kottaipattinam port by the authorities. It was handed over to the family members. But the authorities did not permit them to take it home. It was taken to a cemetery and buried. The petitioner said she perused some photographs of her husband’s body provided by the authorities and was convinced that there were injuries on the body. She said her husband was killed in mid-sea by the Sri Lankan authorities. She sought conduct of a re-postmortem on the body and a probe into her husband’s death. Justice G.R. Swaminathan sought response from the State and adjourned the hearing till November 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-moves-court-alleging-husband-was-shot-by-sl-navy/article37514368.ece
16 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Retain the child in you to explore the world, says Madhan Karky||The world looks beautiful and exciting only until we remain children, and so it is essential for adults to retain the spirit of childhood in them, popular Tamil lyricist Madhan Karky has said. Launching the audio of ‘Student Anthem’ produced by Abinath Chandran, Managing Director of Queen Mira International School (QMIS) on the school campus here on Sunday, Mr. Karky appealed to all grown-ups to preserve the child in them. “When we become adults, we lose the child in us. Only when we treasure the child within us and harness the spirit of childhood, we can continue to explore the beauty of the universe,” he said. On the Student Anthem for which he penned the lyrics, Mr. Karky said it was different from the anthems he had written for other schools in the sense that it did not confine to one particular educational institution, but to all. It was a gift given to the children of the world, he said, adding the lyrics oozed with positivity and conveyed a strong message that we, human beings, were a tiny speck in the universe and we along with all other things, living and non-living, constituted the world. Speaking on the occasion, music educator Anil Srinivasan said music was like a rough-cut diamond which got polished when one worked with children. “It is a boon for me to work with the children and they are the superstars,” he said. QMIS chairman C. Chandran and Mr. Abinath Chandran said the anthem was in tune with the school’s philosophy, but dedicated to the entire student community. Academics Director Sujatha Guptan welcomed. Joint Director (administration) Josephine Anne Sheeba proposed the vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retain-the-child-in-you-to-explore-the-world-says-madhan-karky/article37514679.ece
16 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Man moves High Court terming brother’s death honour killing||A Scheduled Caste man from Kanniyakumari district has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking re-postmortem on the body of his brother who was allegedly killed in a case of honour killing. The petitioner, S. Suman Anand of Thovalai, said his brother Suresh Kumar and one N. Thanganeela were in a relationship. Since the family members of the woman were looking for a suitable marriage alliance, she asked Suresh Kumar to approach her parents. She, however, apprehended that they would not accept the relationship. When the families met, there was a disagreement as they belonged to different castes. Suresh Kumar was asked not to contact Thanganeela. It was alleged that he was threatened with dire consequences. Under these circumstances, the petitioner said, the family members of Thanganeela lodged a police complaint against his brother. On November 7, Suresh Kumar was called to the police station for an inquiry. The petitioner said Suresh Kumar informed his advocate of the development. The advocate reached the police station at about 5 p.m. but Suresh Kumar did not turn up. Hence, the petitioner went in search of his brother, he said. Later, he found his brother in an unconscious state with blood and injuries all over the body. His mobile phone was broken and the memory card missing. He was taken to a nearby clinic and then to Asaripallam Government Medical College Hospital in Nagercoil, where doctors informed them that Suresh Kumar was dead. The police told the family members that he had committed suicide. The petitioner said his brother was killed by the woman’s family. He said the body was handed over to the family members, but the postmortem certificate was not given to them. He sought a direction to the authorities to conduct a re-postmortem on the body. He also sought a probe into the death of his brother. Justice G.R. Swaminathan directed the authorities to hand over a copy of the postmortem to the petitioner’s counsel. The case was adjourned till November 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/honour-killing-man-moves-hc/article37514688.ece
16 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Husband missing case: HC imposes cost on petitioner||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has imposed cost on a petitioner for filing a habeas corpus petition with frivolous and false details alleging that her Havildar husband was missing. The court imposed a cost of Rs. 15,000 and dismissed the petition. The petitioner, G. Baby Shalini of Kanniyakumari district, alleged that her husband Duraisingh, a Border Security Force Havildar, who was posted in Barmer district in Rajasthan, was missing. Under these circumstances, Nagercoil police investigated the matter and found out that her husband was alive and the couple was frequently contacting each other over phone. She had filed the petition to force him to come down to Tamil Nadu. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran said it was an abuse of the process of law and such an attempt made by the petitioner had to be curbed and curtailed. It directed the petitioner to pay the cost to the High Court Legal Services Authority and dismissed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-imposes-cost-on-petitioner-in-husband-missing-case/article37514487.ece
16 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rajiv Gandhi case: life convict gets 30-day ordinary leave||The State government has granted 30-day ordinary leave to P. Ravichandran, a life convict in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, pursuant to the direction given by the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. Ravichandran was granted ordinary leave with certain conditions. The High Court in its order on September 2 directed the Secretary to the Home Department to consider the representation made by P. Rajeswari, mother of Ravichandran, who sought the grant of ordinary leave for her son. In her plea, she said that she recently underwent eye surgery. She sought ordinary leave for her son so that he could take care of her as there was no one to do so. She said that she was facing health issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/life-convict-gets-30-day-ordinary-leave/article37514488.ece
16 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Change in train services||Southern Railway has made changes in train services following landslide in Kanniyakumari – Nagercoil – Thiruvananthapuram sections. Fully Cancelled Train No 0642/06427 Nagercoil junction - Thiruvananthapuram Central-Nagercoil Junction Special train ommencing journey on November 16 are cancelled. Diversion of Train Services Train No 06336 Nagercoil – Gandhidham special train commencing journey on November 16 is diverted via Nagercoil, Tirunelveli , Erode, Palakkad and Shoranur. Partial cancellation Twenty trains have been partially cancelled between Thiruvananthapuram/Tirunelveli and Nagercoil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/change-in-train-services-today/article37514495.ece
16 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Monday stood at 140.35 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 3,378 cusecs and a discharge of 2,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 69.23 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 1,627 cusecs and a discharge of 1,619 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,533 mcft. Rainfall recorded in various places during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Monday was (in mm): Gudalur 26.3, Mullaperiyar dam 26, Thekkadi 23.8, Uthamapalayam 18.3, Shanmuganadhi dam 14.5 and Sothupparai dam 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37514490.ece
16 November 2021||Mayiladuthurai,TAMIL NADU||PMK men stop screening of Vel||PMK partymen on Sunday forced a cinema theatre in Mayiladuthurai town to halt screening of Suriya-starrer Vel and threatened the actor with physical harm, in protest against the purported ‘negative depiction’ of Vanniyar community in Jai Bhim . The PMK partymen led by the party’s District Unit Secretary Sithamalli Palanichamy also submitted a petition to the Superintendent of Police G. Suguna Singh demanding they book a case against Suriya and the director of Jai Bhim . He added that the district unit would award Rs. 1 lakh to any Vanniyar youth who attacks the actor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pmk-men-stop-screening-of-vel/article37514464.ece
16 November 2021||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||‘Extensive damage in Kanniyakumari’||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday visited the flood-affected areas in Kanniyakumari district. “I inspected the areas, and there is an extensive damage. The government will extend all necessary help,” he told The Hindu . The Chief Minister first inspected a breach on the banks of Periyakulam at Thovalai and looked in on 75 persons kept at a marriage hall. He was accompanied by Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru, Rural Development Minister K.R. Periyakaruppan and Information Technology Minister Manoj Thangaraj. Subsequently, he inspected the Therykal canal, which was damaged in the flood. He handed over a cheque for Rs. 4 lakh to the family of Baskaran, who was washed away in the current. At a review meeting, he advised Collector M. Arvind and other officials to take measures to prevent the outbreak of infectious diseases and water stagnation and ensure the availability of food and other amenities. Mr. Stalin also underscored the need to find a permanent solution to prevent water stagnation during the monsoon in the Municipal Corporation areas. At Melancode, he met banana farmers whose crops were damaged in the rain. At Padmanabhapuram, he inspected the breach in the Puthanar canal and urged officials to complete restoration as early as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extensive-damage-in-kanniyakumari/article37514351.ece
16 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. reports 18 fresh cases, one death||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death and 18 new cases as active cases crossed the 300 mark for the first time in over a week. The death was reported from Puducherry, taking the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,866. Region-wise, Puducherry has 1,459 deaths, Karaikal 250, Yanam 108 and Mahe 49. Puducherry logged 12 of the new cases reported, detected from 1,109 tests, followed by Karaikal, which reported two Yanam reported one case and Mahe reported three. With nine recoveries in the last 24 hours, the active COVID-19 cases stood at 305. Of this, 95 patients were in hospital and 210 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.62%, case fatality rate, 1.45% and recovery rate, 98.31%. The Union Territory has so far registered an aggregate of 1,28,462 cases against 1,26,291 recoveries. Of an estimated 19.55 lakh tests conducted to date, over 16.51 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 869 persons took the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. The total vaccine doses administered in the Union Territory stood at 11,56,130. Other districts Cuddalore recorded zero COVID-19 deaths on Monday. As many as 10 persons tested positive, taking the total cases to 64,294 of which 63,276 have recovered. The number of active cases stood at 148. In Villupuram, three persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking the tally of cases to 45,960. Kallakurichi reported nine cases, taking its total cases to 31,502.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-reports-18-fresh-cases-one-death/article37514807.ece
16 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Obtaining Statehood is critical to Puducherry’s survival: CM||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy has silenced his critics on the demand of Statehood for Puducherry by making a statement at the 29th meeting of the Southern Zonal Council in Tirupati two days ago, saying that upgrading the status of the Union Territory was critical to its survival. Since Mr. Rangasamy, as head of the All India N.R. Congress, allied with the Bharatiya Janata Party, to assume office as Chief Minister of the first National Democratic Alliance-led government in the Union Territory, he has been under fire on the Statehood subject as the NDA government at the Centre had turned down the same demand made by the previous Congress government. Breaking silence The silence of Mr. Rangasamy and his refusal to call on the Prime Minister after assuming office had given ammunition for his critics in Puducherry, who said the AINRC chief had made a compromise on the Statehood subject. But at the meeting held in Tirupati, the Chief Minister, in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, made it clear that Puducherry could not make any progress unless it was granted Statehood. Pending issue “The demand for Statehood is a long pending issue. We are unable to exercise any powers for creating employment potential by inviting more industries to Puducherry and also create infrastructure facilities for tourism,” the Chief Minister said at the meeting. According to a top AINRC functionary, the statement was “bold” as he made the statement while heading a coalition government. “There is no question of diluting the stand on Statehood. The Chief Minister made the demand in the presence of none other than the Home Minister. He made the demand knowing very well that the alliance party has a different view point. It is a very bold statement and also sends a political message,” he said. Founding objective According to another leader, Statehood was one of the stated objectives of forming the party. “There could be no second choice on the subject of Statehood. The Chief Minister has silenced his critics on the subject by making the demand in the presence of the Home Minister,” he added.  The Chief Minister made the demand in the presence of none other than the Home Minister. He made the demand knowing very well that the alliance party [BJP] has a different view point AINRC Functionary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/obtaining-statehood-is-critical-to-puducherrys-survival-cm/article37514808.ece
16 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Proposal mooted for infectious diseases hospital in U.T.||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy said on Monday that the government would propose the establishment of an infectious diseases hospital in Puducherry soon. Addressing a function to mark the National Voluntary Blood Donation Month, he said the project would be undertaken with Central assistance. According to the Chief Minister, the challenge posed by the COVID-19 pandemic had also brought out the pivotal role for an institution like the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute (IGMCRI). At the same time, during the period it was a designated a COVID-19 hospital, the IGMCRI had been unable to provide treatment to patients with other infections. The event was hosted by the blood bank of the IGMCRI and the Pondicherry Council of Blood Transfusion, Pondicherry AIDS Control Society. The Chief Minister, who commissioned a Rs. 6 crore MRI machine at the hospital, said efforts were underway to further develop the IGMCRI, and that filling of all vacancies had also been proposed. He presented mementos and certificates to the organisations that conducted the best blood donation camps between October 2019 and September 2021 and to the volunteers who donated blood between two and eight times. Mr. Rangasamy also urged people to get vaccinated against COVID-19 and make Puducherry a 100% vaccinated Union Territory. Inoculation offered the only available protection from the severity of the infection and cutting its spread in the community. K.S.P. Ramesh, MLA; Health Director G. Sriramulu; C. Udayashankar, IGMCRI director; I. Joseph Rajesh, medical superintendent, IGMCRI; Ramachandra V. Bhat, dean; S.P. Sinhasan, chief of pathology; and S. Chitra Devi, AIDS Control Association project director, participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/proposal-mooted-for-infectious-diseases-hospital-in-ut/article37514810.ece
16 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘BJP is controlling the govt. in U.T.’||CPI(M) Central council member and former MP T.K. Rangarajan on Monday alleged that the BJP was controlling the alliance government in Puducherry. Addressing the media, Mr. Rangarajan said an AINRC-led NDA government existed only in name and that the BJP was pushing its agenda in the Union Territory. Because of this, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy was hamstrung in implementing election promises, he said. Pointing to high unemployment rate in Puducherry, Mr. Rangarajan said as on April 2020, there was a 47% unemployment in Puducherry alone. Job security is non-existent, even in the government sector amid several industrial units from textiles to sugar mills shutting down, he added. The upcoming CPI(M) State conference would discuss these issues, including Statehood for Puducherry, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-is-controlling-the-govt-in-ut/article37514812.ece
16 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||National Achievement Survey 2021 gets underway||A total of 14,749 students in classes III, V, VIII and X took the National Achievement Survey (NAS 2021), which was initiated nation-wide recently. Significantly, NAS 2021 is the first achievement survey conducted after the release of the National Education Policy 2020 (NEP), and after a pandemic year that saw educational institutions shut for months on end. According to the School Education Department, the NAS 2021 was held in all management schools, including government, private aided and unaided institutions. The NAS, which is conceptualised and driven by the National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT), aims to collate qualitative data sets on what students know, understand and can do with their knowledge as a result of their educational experiences. “Based on the assessment, the NCERT will identify gaps in learning and recommend remedial measures,” said P.T. Rudra Goud, Director of School Education. The results of NAS 2021 will be prepared in the form of District Report Cards, State/U.T. reports and national reports to enable the States and Union Territories in capacity building for teachers and education officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/national-achievement-survey-2021-gets-underway/article37514811.ece
16 November 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Man gets life term for sexually assaulting minor girl||The Mahila Court here on Monday convicted and sentenced a 27-year-old man to undergo life imprisonment for sexually assaulting a minor girl at Viralimalai in the district in June. The Court while awarding the sentence to S. Madhavan of Bikshandarkoil in Tiruchi ordered the State to provide Rs. 4 lakh as compensation to the victim. Prosecution said Madhavan trespassed into the house of the 12-year-old girl when her family was away. On hearing her scream, locals broke open the door and caught Madhavan and handed him over to the police. On a complaint from the victim’s mother, the Keeranur All Women Police registered a case under different sections of the Indian Penal Code and the POCSO (Amendment) Act, 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-gets-life-term-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girl/article37514479.ece
16 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami denies irregularities||AIADMK co-coordinator and Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami said here on Monday that no irregularities had occurred when his party was in power. “No irregularities had occurred. When we complained about the Government’s handling of the floods, the Chief Minister, who could not counter the criticism, is speaking in a tone meant to intimidate the Opposition,” he said in response to a question from journalists on Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s announcement that a commission would be constituted to probe “irregularities” under the AIADMK’s rule. He said the Opposition would continue to play a constructive role and it was the AIADMK government that had implemented more projects. He did not know of any project introduced by the DMK in the six months of its rule and said the Chief Minister was opening or laying the foundation for the projects announced by the AIADMK Government. As for the Mettur surplus scheme, he said 60% of the work was completed when he was in power and the rest was delayed in the past six months. Farmers would be happy if the Government completed the project and pumped the surplus water into 100 lakes in the region during this monsoon itself. Mr. Palaniswami, who visited the rain-affected places in his Edappadi constituency, said people living in low-level areas were severely affected. He accused the Government of lacking in proper planning and demanded that it take precautionary measures in future. The former Chief Minister said he and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam would visit the Cauvery delta districts to assess the damage. Once the State Government requested the Union Government for funds to take relief measures, the Opposition would press the Centre to release the sum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-denies-irregularities/article37514353.ece
16 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam increased to 40,000 cusecs||The discharge from Mettur dam was increased to 40,000 cusecs on Monday morning. According to officials from the Public Works Department, the water level at the dam was 120.10 ft at 4 p.m. Sunday and the dam received an inflow of 40,000 cusecs. Equal amount of water was discharged from the dam into River Cauvery. However, at 10.30 p.m. Sunday, the outflow was reduced to 33,000 cusecs -- 22,000 cusecs was discharged through power houses and 11,000 cusecs released through 16 vents of Ellis Saddle surplus gates. At 8 a.m Monday, the water level at the dam remained at 120.10ft and the stored capacity was 93,630 mcft. The dam received an inflow of 34,000 cusecs and the outflow to River Cauvery was 33,000 cusecs. At 4 p.m, the inflow to the dam increased to 40,000 cusecs and discharge through canal was increased to 300 cusecs. About 40,000 cusecs was released through power house and surplus gates to River Cauvery . PWD officials conducted a trial run of Mettur Surplus Water Scheme at Thippampatti power house. Water Resources Minister Duraimurugan is expected to visit the dam on Tuesday and review works under the surplus scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outflow-from-mettur-dam-increased-to-40000-cusecs/article37514517.ece
16 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||College students stage protest||Students from various engineering and arts colleges staged a protest in front of the Collectorate demanding the State government to conduct the forthcoming semester examinations in online mode. Though the government had permitted colleges to resume offline classes, several institutions were yet to do so. The students wanted the authorities to conduct examinations online, as it was done last year. Later, the students petitioned the District Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-students-stage-protest/article37514518.ece
16 November 2021||SIVAKASI,TAMIL NADU||2 injured in explosion at cracker tube-making unit||Two workers sustained burn injuries and four others are feared trapped under the debris of a concrete building that collapsed following an explosion of stocked crackers at a paper tube manufacturing unit here on Monday evening. “After a prolonged struggle to put out the blaze, three earthmovers have been deployed to remove the debris,” said Deputy Inspector General of Police (Madurai Range) N. Kamini, who was supervising the search and rescue operation at the spot. The police said the explosion was heard at the unit located at Nehruji Nagar under Sivakasi Town police station limits at around 3.30 p.m. The entire concrete building, comprising basement, ground floor and the first floor, came crashing down in the impact of the explosion. Police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel rescued two workers – G. Velmurugan, 38, and M. Manoj Kumar, 23. They have been admitted to the Sivakasi Government Hospital with 60 per cent and 30 per cent burns respectively. Huge stock “Initial information reveals that the unit was supplying paper tubes, meant for aerial crackers, to cracker units. They had a huge stock of crackers, which they had got from cracker units to which they had been supplying tubes. They had also sold crackers (during Deepavali),” the DIG said. The police suspect that an electric short-circuit while operating the machinery meant for making paper tubes could have triggered the fire that led to the explosion. Over 35 firemen, led by Virudhunagar District Fire Officer K. Ganesan, rushed to the spot. Fire tenders from Sivakasi, Srivilliputtur and emergency rescue tender from Virudhunagar were deployed to put out the fire that continued even after sunset. The unit was run by R. Panchavarnam, 40, and her husband Ramanathan. Along with the couple, two women workers, Karthikeswarai and Hameeda, were said to be working in the building. With all the four missing, the police suspected that they could have been trapped under the debris. The police are yet to ascertain whether crackers from outside had been stocked or illegal manufacturing of crackers was going on in the unit. Senior police officials, including Superintendent of Police M. Manohar, were overseeing the rescue operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-injured-in-explosion-at-cracker-tube-making-unit/article37514473.ece
16 November 2021||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||H. Raja appears in special court||Bharatiya Janata Party leader H. Raja appeared before a special court here on Monday after Judge V. Paramveer had issued an arrest warrant against him for not appearing in the court in connection with a case. The court recalled the arrest warrant issued in October for his non-appearance in a case filed against him for making derogatory statement against officials of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department and their family members. The special court for trying cases against MPs and MLAs also granted him bail and posted the case to December 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/h-raja-appears-in-special-court/article37514496.ece
16 November 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||India’s first food museum opens in Thanjavur||A Food Museum, said to be the first of its kind in the country, opened in Thanjavur on Monday. The museum has been established by Food Corporation of India (FCI), in association with Visvesvaraya Industrial and Technological Museum (VITM), Bengaluru, at an investment of about Rs. 1.1 crore. Thanjavur is the birthplace of FCI as its first office was opened in the town 56 years ago on January 14, 1965 and hence the museum has been established here. Piyush Goyal, Union Minister of Consumer Affairs., Food and Public Distribution System, inaugurated the museum through video conference in the presence of Atish Chandra, Chairman and Managing Director, FCI. Spread over an area of 1,860 square feet, the museum showcases the evolution process – the transformation of the nomadic hunter gatherers’ to settled agriculture producers leading to the beginning of civilizations. Models of various ancient grain storage methods, both global and indigenous, are displayed at the museum. It depicts the foodgrain production scenario in India and across the globe and the challenges in storage. The journey of the foodgrain from the farm to the consumers’ plate through the FCI is digitally presented. The museum features state-of-the-art exhibits leveraging various technologies such as projection mapping, Radio Frequency Identification (RFID), touch screen kiosk, proximity and touch sensors and virtual reality system. “Live models of foodgrains and farm produce of various countries and maps of States showing their most famous food items along with the recipes are among the attractions. Visitors can also take a quiz at the end to answer 20 questions on the information that they had gleaned at the museum,” a FCI official said. The museum at the FCI Divisional Office at Nirmala Nagar in Thanjavur will be open from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. on all working days. Entry is free. Daljit Singh, Executive Director (South), Sanjeev Kumar Gautam, Chief General Manager, P.N.Singh, General Manager (TN), and K.A.Sadhana, Director, VITM, Devendra Singh Martolia, Divisional Manager, FCI, were present at the museum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indias-first-food-museum-opens-in-thanjavur/article37514472.ece
16 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Villagers seek reopening of Sterlite plant||A group of fishermen from coastal hamlets and a few other villages in the district submitted separate petitions during the weekly grievances redress meeting seeking the early reopening of Sterlite Copper unit. The petitioners, including Squid Catchers’ Welfare Association, Terespuram, fishermen from Lions Town, Mini Sahayapuram, Conch Divers’ Welfare Association and villagers from Sorispuram, Madathur, Therkku Veerapandiapuram and Vadakku Silukkanpatti, appealed to the State government seeking reopening of Sterlite plant that remained closed ever since the anti-Sterlite protest claimed the lives of 13 persons in police firing. “Since the plant was giving employment to our children, it should be opened considering the interest of the families,” they said. ‘Extend deadline’ A group of farmers submitted petition seeking extension of deadline for paying the crop insurance premium. In the petition, the farmers attached to Tamil Nadu Vivasaayigal Sangam said the farmers of the district, through an announcement made by the Joint Director of Agriculture on November 9 last, mandated the farmers to pay the crop insurance premium for sorghum, corn, black gram, green gram, groundnut, sesame, groundnut, cotton, paddy and sugarcane to be raised in Kovilpatti, Ottapidaaram, Vilaathikulam, Pudur, Kayathar, Ettaiyapuram, Karungulam, Alwarthirunagari, Srivaikundam, Sattankulam, Tiruchendur, Udangudi and Thoothukudi taluks during the northeast monsoon. The last date for payment of crop insurance premium for black gram was set as November 15 – just five days from the date of announcement. “Since the offices of village administrative officers across the district are crowded with the petitioners applying for ‘adangal’, they could not pay the premium by submitting the necessary documents. Hence, the district administration should take steps for extending the last date for paying the premium for insuring black gram,” said K.P. Arumugam, district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasaayigal Sangam. Fertilizer supply Mr. Arumugam also appealed to the district administration to ensure the unhindered supply of chemical fertilizers, especially Di-Ammonium-Phosphate, in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopen-sterlite-plant/article37514491.ece
16 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Imported urea arrives at Karaikal||Against the backdrop of acute shortage of urea faced by farmers at the time of samba paddy cultivation, a consignment of urea landed at the Marg Port in Karaikal on Monday. The consignment of 30,000 tonnes of urea imported by the State Government has arrived in two ships at the private port in the initial phase. The State Government had so far distributed 1,500 metric tonnes of urea across the State through the agricultural cooperative societies. Over the last month, the shortage of urea had forced farmers to utilise higher quantities of another fertilizer, which is a chemical blend of 40 parts of Ammonium phosphate and 60 parts of ammonium sulphate. The grain and straw yields as well as nutrient uptake by rice increases significantly with urea application, paddy cultivators say. “Urea being a must for paddy crop for ensuring higher yield, we have been running from pillar to post for urea. Farmers who had availed agricultural loans have been left high and dry and those willing to spend more are at the mercy of private sellers who club the sale of urea with a higher proportion of micronutrients,” Parthiban, who has raised paddy crop in Pullambadi, said. The input costs has risen drastically and the cost of labour has also gone up by twenty to thirty percent. But the procurement price has remained stagnant. It is in such a situation that the shortage of urea had caused desperation among farmers, Rajkumar, a farmer in Vengur said. According to official sources, the shortage will be set right at the agricultural cooperative societies and private sales outlets over the next week or so. Accompanied by Deputy Director of Agriculture (Fertilizers) S. Shoba; Assistant Director of Agriculture Quality Control N. Kumaran and other senior officials, Collector of Nagapattinam district A. Arun Thamburaj inspected the unloaded urea consignment at the Marg Port. The urea will be transported in time for use by farmers in all the districts by road and rail, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/imported-urea-arrives-at-karaikal/article37514476.ece
16 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Railway Division issues notification to hire ex-servicemen as gatekeepers||Amid persistent demands from rail travellers for deployment of gatekeepers on the Tiruvarur - Karaikudi broad gauge section where regular train services are yet to resume for over two years, the Tiruchi Railway Division has issued a notification inviting applications from ex-servicemen to work as gatemen on contract basis. The notification stipulating the eligibility and other conditions, working hours and their duties was issued recently. The move has brightened the prospects of resumption of regular trains in a phased manner on the stretch Although gauge conversion works on this stretch was completed in portions: from Pattukottai to Karaikudi via Aranthangi at first and thereafter from Tiruvarur to Pattukottai via Thiruthuraipoondi more than two-and-half years ago, regular train services are yet to resume due to non-deployment of regular gatekeepers to man the 72 level crossing gates on the nearly 150-km section which covers parts of Tiruvarur, Thanjavur, Pudukottai and Sivaganga districts. Following repeated demands from rail users for resumption of regular services, the Tiruchi Railway Division began to operate Diesel Electric Multiple Unit (DEMU) trains with minimum coaches by deploying mobile gatekeepers on board. However, this did not go down well with travellers due to time duration taken. The lengthy time duration was because the train had to halt ahead of every level crossing gate for the mobile gatekeepers to alight and shut the gate for the train to pass through it only to halt again for the mobile gatekeeper to board the train after opening the gate again. The demand for posting gatekeepers along the stretch was taken up by some Members of Parliament of this region with the Railway Board and to restart regular train services at the earliest. The railway official said the plan was to engage 100 ex-servicemen as gateman initially on the Tiruvarur - Karaikudi stretch and seek more depending on the requirement. Training would be imparted to the selected ex-servicemen, the official said exuding hope that the deployment would be done by December last week. “This is the first positive step towards resumption of express train services on this section after several years”, said A. Abdul Razak, secretary, United Foundation, Adirampattinam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-railway-division-issues-notification-to-hire-ex-servicemen-as-gatekeepers/article37514480.ece
16 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Puthur Weir becomes a popular hang-out in city||With Koraiyar and Kudamuritti seeing heavy inflows, the Puthur Weir in the city has turned out to be a popular hang-out for many city residents. However there is no proper viewing point, or facilities such as restrooms. The Puthur Weir is the confluence point of the Koraiyar river and the Uyyakondan canal. The Kudamuritti canal originates from here and drains into the Cauvery near Karur Highway. People living in nearby residential areas have easy access to this location through concrete roads laid on either side of the Uyyakondan canal, and choose to spend some time amidst the lush green surroundings. The crowd is especially high on weekends. Citizens for Uyyakondan (CFU- a citizens action group working to conserve the Uyyakondan) and other activists urge authorities to create recreational facilities keeping in mind the safety of the public. Police personnel who have been posted to patrol the area also seek some arrangements. At least 100 people come to the weir daily, and at least 200-300 on weekends, the policeman said. Speaking to The Hindu , Manoj Dharmar of CFU said that while a large section of the people travelling to the spot are youth, some who visit the Kuzhumayi Amman Temple also like to bathe in the water. There are no toilets or even seating areas near the location. The authorities must take up development of the area, a bathing enclosure and also ensure that the public enjoy safely. Many youth jump over the parapet wall and are susceptible to injuries. A senior official of the Public Works Department said that while a scheme was being planned to renovate the Uyyakondan canal, there was no proposal for taking up any other amenities for visitors. “We need to study the safety aspect in detail before making any such proposals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puthur-weir-becomes-a-popular-hang-out-in-city/article37514858.ece
16 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Plea to resume passenger train services||The former member of the Zonal Railway Users Consultative Committee, Southern Railway, N. Jayaprakash has appealed to the Railway Minister to restore the Cuddalore Port - Tiruchi - Cuddalore Port passenger services with earlier fare. In a representation to the Railway Minister, Mr. Jayaprakash said the Cuddalore Port - Tiruchi - Cuddalore Port passenger services stopped due to COVID-19 pandemic were yet to be restored. Mr. Jayaprakash requested the Railway Minister to issue suitable instruction for the restoration of the passenger trains keeping in mind the interests of the general passengers, farmers and farm labourers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-resume-passenger-train-services/article37514478.ece
16 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||108 fresh COVID-19 cases reported||The central region reported 108 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday. Four patients succumbed to the viral infection- one each from Karur, Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Tiruchi districts. A total of 37 patients reported COVID-19 positive cases in Tiruchi on Monday. In Thanjavur, 27 patients tested positive. While 17 people tested positive for the viral infection in Tiruvarur, 13 were reported in Karur. Pudukottai registered six fresh cases and Nagapattinam five. Ariyalur reported two, Mayiladuthurai one case and in Perambalur, no fresh cases were registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/108-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported/article37514484.ece
16 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Gold rods smuggled by passenger seized||Officials of the Customs Air Intelligence Unit seized cylindrical shaped gold rods that were being smuggled by an air passenger who arrived here from Sharjah by an Air India Express flight on Saturday. The male passenger was intercepted by the Customs officers at the exit gate. The officers found eight cylindrical shaped gold rods ingeniously concealed in the metal portions of two sand clocks and one double punch stapler machine. The quantity of the seized gold rods of 24 carat purity was 158 grams valued at Rs. 7.88 lakh, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-rods-smuggled-by-passenger-seized/article37514477.ece
16 November 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Display phone numbers of officials in schools, colleges’||The Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) has appealed to the district administration to display the phone numbers of the Collector and the District Child Protection Officer in all schools and colleges to save girl children from being sexually harassed and abused. In a petition submitted during the weekly grievance redressal meet held at the Collectorate here on Monday, TMMK district vice-president A.M. Maideen said instances of female school and college students being sexually harassed and abused were on the rise in the recent past and the victims, at times, were taking the extreme decision of committing suicide. Hence, school and college managements should be instructed to install within a deadline CCTV cameras in all classrooms and at vantage points of the premises. Besides, the phone numbers of the Collector and the District Child Protection Officer should be displayed at all schools and colleges so that the victims could alert them if they were getting abused physically or sexually by anyone, the petition said. The petitioners also appealed to the Collector to ensure dignified dress code for all students. A group of contract labourers, who were involved in anti-COVID-19 operations, submitted a petition appealing to the State government to recognise them as ‘frontline workers’ and give them monetary benefits. They said the contract labourers were involved in anti-COVID and anti-dengue operations in the local bodies. However, they were not recognised as ‘frontline workers’. They also said they were being given only Rs. 320 a day even though the government had fixed the wages as Rs. 388 a day. A 17-year-old girl from a place near Tirunelveli Town staged a dharna in front of the Collectorate for a while on Monday. She said her father, a former railway employee, died in harness and she lost her mother to COVID-19 recently. “After I was orphaned, my maternal relatives forcibly took all our property. Though I filed complaints with the police on a few occasions, no action was taken on my petition. Hence, the Collector should intervene to ensure my safety and the return of our properties so that I can continue my studies,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/display-phone-numbers-of-officials-in-schools-colleges/article37514834.ece
16 November 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Stray cattle a threat to road users||A large number of stray cattle that roam the roads and even sleep on busy strecthes in the nights have made the roads unsafe for vehicle users, especially two-wheeler riders, women, children and the elderly in Tirunelveli city. Almost all roads traversing Tirunelveli, including the arterial Madurai–Kanniyakumari four-lane national highway, are witnessing accidents caused by stray cattle in the nights. Since the soil is wet after the recent rain, the cattle, which have been abandoned by their owners, occupy the dry roads to rest or sleep. An Assistant Engineer attached to the Department of Public Works (Buildings) was killed in a road accident at Perumalpuram in 2019 when his two-wheeler hit a stray bull standing on the middle of the road during rain in the night. As power went off in that area, the victim hit the bull and fell down on the road and sustained a serious head injury. The Assistant Engineer, hailing from Nagercoil, died in a private hospital in Kulavanigarpuram. Since stray cattle have caused several accidents in the past, Tirunelveli Corporation started impounding them and released them only after their owners paid the fine. The unclaimed animals were handed over to goshala and then to women from below poverty line families by ‘Mahalir Thittam’ to start their livelihood. This practice has apparently been given up now. Corporation officials said 30 cattle heads were impounded in Melapalayam Zone last week and each cattle head could be released in the presence of two witnesses and only after the payment of a fine Rs. 5,000. “However, we are being threatened by members of caste outfits, politicians and former councillors of Tirunelveli Corporation to release the animals at the instance of the cattle owners, who do not have cowsheds. Since these people are about to face the voters for the upcoming urban local body election, the Corporation employees are forced to release the cattle,” a senior official said. Collector V. Vishnu said the Corporation carried out a drive last week to clear stray cattle from the roads. “We will step up the drive.” Tirunelveli City Police Commissioner N.K. Senthamarai Kannan too promised to carry out a sustained drive against the menace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stray-cattle-a-threat-to-road-users/article37514838.ece
16 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||One more dies of asphyxiation in Tiruppur, toll rises to 3||Following the death of two persons on Sunday due to asphyxiation inside an effluent tank of a private dyeing unit in Tiruppur, another person, who was hospitalised after being rescued from the tank, died in the early hours of Monday. Sources in the Tiruppur City Police said that Rajendran, 55, who was employed as a fitter in the dyeing unit, died during treatment at Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruppur around 2.50 a.m. on Monday. On Sunday afternoon, he along with the unit’s manager Dinesh Pandian, 28, entered the effluent tank to rescue two workers, Vadivel, 32, and Nagaraj, 48, who were allegedly engaged by the dyeing unit to clean its effluent tanks and had fallen unconscious after inhaling the noxious fumes inside the tank. While Vadivel and Dinesh Pandian were found dead, Rajendran and Nagaraj were rescued by the fire and rescue services personnel and hospitalised on Sunday evening. Meanwhile, Joint Director – II (Tiruppur), Industrial Safety and Health V. Pugazhenthi, inspected the dyeing unit at Kothukaduthottam in Veerapandi on Monday. SOP not followed “As per our preliminary findings, they had engaged five persons from outside to clean [the effluent tank] and did not follow the necessary standard operating procedure,” he said. A detailed report on this incident will be submitted to the Director of Industrial Safety and Health, Chennai, Mr. Pugazhenthi added. On Sunday evening, the Veerapandi police arrested R. Dhanalakshmi, 48, owner of the dyeing unit. She was booked under Sections 284 (Negligent conduct with respect to poisonous substance), 337 (Causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304(2) (Punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code along with provisions of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act.  As per our preliminary findings, they had engaged five persons to clean [the effluent tank] and did not follow the necessary standard operating procedure||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-more-dies-of-asphyxiation-in-tiruppur-toll-rises-to-3/article37514354.ece
16 November 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||MSME Dept.’s decision to suspend operations in delta hailed||The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Department’s announcement of suspending all actions relating to the proposal of establishing a Petrochemical Cluster in Tamil Nadu was hailed by the Thamizhaga All Farmers Organisations Coordination Committee (TAFOCC). In a statement issued here on Monday, the Committee president, P. R. Pandian has said that recently the Narimanam Oil Refinery in Nagapattinam district had obtained clearance from the Central Government for its expansion project. As a fall out of this, the MSME Trade and Investment Promotion Bureau of the Department decided to establish a Petrochemical Cluster at Thirumarugal block in Nagapattinam district. Shocked by the Department’s move, farmers registered their objections with the District Administration. At this juncture, the Department has announced that the Rs. 50 lakh tender invite for preparing the DPR has been withdrawn and all the actions relating to the proposal for establishing the Petrochemical Cluster taken already were suspended/cancelled/withdrawn, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msme-depts-decision-to-suspend-operations-in-delta-hailed/article37514482.ece
16 November 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) seeks relief for rain-hit farmers||The Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam (TVS) affiliated with the Communist Party of India (Marxists) has demanded Rs. 30,000 per acre as relief assistance for farmers who have lost their crop in the recent rains. Talking to reporters at Kavanur after inspecting the inundated agriculture fields in the hamlet recently, the TVS State General Secretary, Shanmugam, said the samba crop raised in about 2 lakh acres had been affected in the rain. Hence, the State government should extend relief assistance of Rs. 30,000 per acre to the affected farmers he said and added that the last date for insuring the samba crop should be extended to November 30 in view of the inclement weather conditions and the difficulties faced by the farmers in insuring their crop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-seeks-relief-for-rain-hit-farmers/article37514465.ece
16 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Committee questions order urging Collector to de-seal illegal property||The Chairman of the Segur Plateau Elephant Corridor Inquiry Committee has written to the Housing and Urban Development Department Secretary, Hitesh Kumar S. Makwana, questioning orders he had passed urging the District Collector to de-seal one of the illegal resorts that was sealed in the Segur plateau in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve buffer zone. Mr. Makwana is believed to have written to the Collector, urging her to de-seal one of the 36 illegal resorts that was sealed in August 2018, following Supreme Court orders. The owner of the property, M.P. Cherian (Cottanad Plantation), produced a de-sealing order passed by the Housing and Urban Development Department Secretary, as the department had accepted Mr. Cherian’s contention that his property was only being used for residential purposes. The Chairman of the Committee, retired Judge, Justice K. Venkatraman, is said to have stated in his letter that the Supreme Court had appointed the inquiry committee to inquire into the objections raised by the resort owners in the Segur plateau. The committee has also questioned why the issue was not referred to the inquiry committee, which has been appointed to listen and record the grievances of the property owners. The Collector too cannot intervene in de-sealing the building as the issue was in the purview of the inquiry committee, sources close to the committee members said. In October, the committee is said to have inspected more than 20 properties that were sealed , along the notified elephant corridor. Many of the resorts were found to have broken the seals and evidence of use was found. Justice K. Venkatraman, refused to comment on the allegations and told The Hindu, “It would be improper for me or for any of the committee members to comment on these allegations when the inquiry is yet to be completed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/committee-questions-order-urging-collector-to-de-seal-illegal-property/article37514503.ece
16 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports seven fresh COVID-19 infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,033 with seven new cases reported on November 15. With a total of 48,776 having been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 123. The district's toll is 1134. Other districts In Ranipet district, one positive case was reported and the total stood at 43,505. In Tirupattur district, one new case was reported on Monday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,358. In Tiruvannamalai district, five new cases were reported, which took the total number of cases to 55,099. Out of this, 54,345 have been discharged. The number of active cases in the district stood at 86.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-reports-seven-fresh-covid-19-infections/article37514805.ece
16 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Farmers complain of acute shortage of fertilizers||Farmers of Virudhunagar district have complained that acute shortage of fertilizer is hampering farming operation and staged a protest in front of the Collectorate on Monday. The protest was led by Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam State vice-president A. Vijayamurugan and Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam president N.A. Ramachandra Raja. Mr. Vijayamurugan said that while all types of fertilizers were in short supply, Urea and DAP were particularly not available since October. “Northeast monsoon has not been very good in the district but helped only rain-fed cultivation in most parts. Besides, lift irrigation has also helped in farming on over 4.5 lakh acres of ayacut,” he said. Stating that Urea and DAP were essential for all the hybrid crops, Mr. Ramachandra Raja said that non-availability had affected farmers even after the monsoon had set in. Private fertilizer shops were selling the fertilizers for a premium and were also forcing the farmers to buy unwanted fertilizers which pinch the poor farmers badly. Even after complaints against such malpractice had been lodged with officials in the Department of Agriculture, no deterrent action had been taken so far, both the leaders complained. Virudhunagar is one of the worst-hit districts as it had not got its quota of fertilizer, the farmers complained. The farmers handed over a petition to Collector, J. Meghanath Reddy. Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam district secretary P. Murugan was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-complain-of-acute-shortage-of-fertilizers/article37514493.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||123 new cases in Coimbatore district||A total of 123 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Monday. The Health Department said that 116 persons recovered from COVID-19 in the district on Monday and active cases stood at 1,175. Two COVID-19 patients, aged 52 and 63, died on Saturday and Monday, taking the overall death toll to 2,439. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1.4 % when 8,656 swab samples were subjected to tests and 125 persons tested positive. Tiruppur district reported 49 fresh cases, which took the tally to 96,318. The overall toll went up to 987 as one new death was reported by the Health Department. The district had 623 active cases and 61 patients from the district recovered on Monday. In the Nilgiris, 21 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 33,830. The number of deaths from COVID-19 in the district stood at 213 while 193 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/123-new-cases-in-coimbatore-district/article37514407.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In harmony||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-harmony/article37514204.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Jansons Institute of Technology: Innovative App Development using flutter, 3 p.m.: Format meet, 3 p.m.  New Century Book House: National Book expo, Nehru Stadium, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37514403.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CITY ENGAGEMENTS||General  Jamal Mohamed College: Inauguration of Economics Association, talk on Cyber Security by N. Kala, Assistant Professor, Centre for Cyber Forensics and Information Security, University of Madras, 11.30 a.m.  M.A.M. B-School: Interface with The Icons of Tiruchi, talk by R. Senthil Nathan, Managing Director, RIBO, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-engagements/article37514856.ece
16 November 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Govt. should discuss National Education Policy with teachers’||The Federation of University and College Teachers’ Association has demanded that the State Government implement the New Education Policy only after discussing it with teachers and other stakeholders. “It seems the Government is hurriedly implementing the policy. This is not right,” honorary president S.B. Sangapur said in a release. “The Government should have implemented it only after discussing it with teachers and other stakeholders like students, management, and non-teaching staff, education experts, and associations of teachers. Still there is time. The Government should discuss the policy and its plans as per the policy’s directions with teachers and other stakeholders and then go ahead with the implementation,” he said. “There is a lot of confusion about the policy among teachers and students now. Such deliberations could clear the confusions,” he said. He said the Government should provide similar facilities to students of government and private college students. The federation has urged all political parties to select teachers as their candidates for the coming Legislative Council polls, as “only a teacher can understand the problems of teachers”. Other demands The federation has also sought fulfilment of long-pending demands like reintroduction of the old pension scheme, filling of vacant posts, releasing salary arrears under the Sixth and Seventh Pay Commissions, appointment of full-time principals, and other benefits. Members like D.S. Chougale, B.V. Belavatagi, M.M. Budakatti, N.S. Galagali, and others have signed the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-should-discuss-national-education-policy-with-teachers/article37514526.ece
16 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Eight held on charge of selling country-made guns||The Belagavi district police arrested eight persons on the charge of selling country-made pistols in Khanapur recently. They have recovered two pistols and three bullets and are on the look out for another accused who is absconding. Umesh Belegeri, a rowdysheeter from Annigeri in Gadag district, who wanted to buy the gun and the sellers, Tulasidas Joshi and Narayan Patil from Maharashtra, were arrested when they were waiting near Uchagaon Cross between Khanapur and Belagavi. As many as five of their associates have also been arrested. The alleged gun runners face charges of procuring country-made guns in Madhya Pradesh and selling them in Goa, Karnataka, and Maharashtra. As part of the investigation, the Khanapur police are trying to contact the police in bordering States, a senior police officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eight-held-on-charge-of-selling-country-made-guns/article37514529.ece
16 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Temple elephant dies||It was an emotional farewell for Lakshmi, a female elephant that resided in the Sri Lakshmi Devi temple in Chippalakatti village near Ramdurg in Belagavi district, which died on Monday. The 60-year-old cow elephant had served the temple and various religious organisations in northern Karnataka for 45 years. Devotees paid their last respects to the departed animal. It was buried near the temple premises.    The Department of Health and Family Welfare and some NGOs organised various activities like walkathon, special talks, distribution of glucometers, free eye check-up and health check-up camps on the occasion of World Diabetes Day in Dharwad on Sunday.    Belagavi-based Academy of Comparative Philosophy and Religion at the Gurudev Ranade Mandir will organise a lecture on ‘Concept of God in the Teachings of Prophet Mohammed’ by Mohammad Kunhi, manager of Mangaluru-based Shanti Prakashana publishers, in the mandir on November 17.    The birth anniversary of Maharshi Yajnavalkya was celebrated in Yadgir. Anil Deshpande, district president of Akhila Bharat Shukla Yajurveda Kanva Parishad, has said that Yajnavalkya was a Chadurved pandit and his contributions to the Bharatiya Vaidik heritage was immense. The committee also organised several ritual pujas during the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temple-elephant-dies/article37514523.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Stem cells from Puneeth’s eyes to help many regain vision||Kannada actor Puneeth Rajkumar’s eye donation has not just given the gift of sight to four people, but may also help many others regain their vision in the future. Doctors at Narayana Nethralaya, who had collected the late actor’s corneas, said the corneal epithelial stem cells are being cultured to treat people who may lose vision due to eye injuries such as cracker burns, chemical and acid injuries. Following in the footsteps of his father Dr. Rajkumar, the family of Puneeth Rajkumar donated his eyes on October 29. Soon after he was declared dead, Puneeth Rajkumar’s brother Raghavendra called Dr. Rajkumar Eye Bank, which is run by Narayana Nethralaya, to collect the actor’s eyes. Dr. Rajkumar had pledged the eyes of his entire family during the inaugural function of the eye bank in 1994. Doctors, who sliced the corneas and transplanted them in four corneal blind patients, said each eye was used to treat two patients by separating the superior and deeper layers of the cornea. K. Bhujang Shetty, chairman and managing director of Narayana Nethralaya, said the superior layer was transplanted to two patients, who had superficial corneal disease, and only the deeper layer was transplanted to patients with endothelial or deep corneal layer disease. “Besides this, the limbal rim (white part of the eye near the circumference of the cornea), which was not used for the transplants, is being cultured in our laboratory to generate ‘Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells’ for potential use in patients with Limbal Stem Cell deficiency, cracker burns, chemical injuries, acid burns and other serious disorders,” the doctor told The Hindu on Monday. “The process will take another three weeks. Although the exact number of people who can be treated using the stem cells cannot be specified as of now, we are hoping it may help at least ten others. Usually, two corneas from a deceased individual are transplanted into two corneal blind patients. But, we are going out of our way to use Puneeth's corneal tissues to the maximum to honour the contributions made by his family,” the doctor said. Spike in eye donations The late actor’s eye donation has inspired many resulting in a huge spike in eye pledges in the last fortnight. Dr. Shetty said the Dr. Rajkumar Eye Bank has received nearly 8,000 eye pledges in the last fortnight. “Every day we have been witnessing a rush of people at the hospital filling eye-pledge declarations. We received 3,100 pledges at the Palace Ground event organised by his family to mark the 11th day ritual. In the last fortnight, families of 20 deceased persons donated a total of 40 corneas. The late actor’s eye donation has reignited the spirit of eye donation in Karnataka,” said Dr Shetty. Pointing out that eye donations had literally come to a halt during the first four months of the pandemic, Dr Shetty said: “Although donations were picking up this year, we had not managed to reach even 40% of collections that happened during the pre-COVID-19 era. This is the first time we are seeing a huge response after donation from one deceased donor,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stem-cells-from-puneeths-eyes-to-help-many-regain-vision/article37514294.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Road restoration to begin soon in 110 villages||An unusually wet October and heavy rains over the last few days is proving to be a nightmare for residents in many outlying areas of the city, where stretches of roads dug up by the Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) to lay new drinking water and underground drainage pipelines have not been restored. Though restoration work has begun only in one division, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is likely to take up remaining works in the 110 villages soon. Tenders for the road restoration pertaining to a few wards in the outer zones will be finalised soon, while some have been sent to the government for clarification, said Gaurav Gupta, BBMP Chief Commissioner. Zonal commissioners and joint commissioners had been directed to monitor the progress of work, besides take up surface correction on a war footing. The State Government had granted the BBMP Rs. 1,000 crore to take up road restoration works in the newly added areas. Work has already begun in Horamavu and Ramamurthy Nagar wards, coming under K.R. Puram division in Mahadevapura zone. According to Parameshwaraiah, zonal chief engineer, more than 350 km of roads in the 11 villages in K.R. Puram division and over 300 km in 31 villages in Mahadevapura division will be restored at Rs. 190 crore. “Work - surface correction and some civil work - has already been taken up under 17 packages in K.R. Puram division. While nine villages come under Horamavu ward, two come under Ramamurthy Nagar ward. Road restoration is likely to be completed within 10 weeks,” he said and added that due to intermittent rains, work progress had been impacted. In the Mahadevapura division, roads in 31 villages coming under Bellandur, Hoodi, Varthur, Hagadur, Kadugodi and Doddanekundi wards were in a poor condition. The 11 packages will be finalised in another 15 days, he added. Residents of Horamavu and Ramamurthy Nagar are heaving a sigh of relief now that work on restoring several roads in the many localities has been taken up. Kane Road in Kalkere, Vinayaka Layout in K. Channasandra, Green Garden Main Road, Hoysalanagar and many others were crying for attention for more than two years. Shyam Rao, founder of Residents’ Welfare Trust, said that following the rains, even walking is difficult on many roads in Hoysalanagar. “Citizens have purchased sites and constructed houses. We are only demanding basic facilities, such as good roads, drinking water and power. These areas were added to BBMP limits in 2007 and are yet to get basic amenities. What will happen to the new areas that are likely to be added when the number of wards are increased to 243?” he asked. The main problem, apart from civic agencies passing the buck on road restoration, is that laying of the pipelines was not done in a phased manner. P. Arunagiri, president of Kanaka Sarovara Raste Nivasigala Sangha, said that though surface correction was taken up on some roads, they had not been asphalted for years. Kochi Sankar, president of Trinity Enclave Residents’ Association, told The Hindu that Mr. Gupta and senior officials from the zone chaired two meetings with residents’ welfare associations from Mahadevapura and K.R. Puram divisions recently. “We have been struggling with poor roads since 2018. Following our meeting last week, there is some progress on ground,” he said.  These areas were added to BBMP limits in 2007 and are yet to get basic amenities. What will happen to the new areas that are likely to be added when the number of wards goes up to 243? Shyam Rao, founder, Residents’ Welfare Trust   Though surface correction was taken up on some roads, they had not been asphalted for years. P. Arunagiri president, Kanaka Sarovara Raste Nivasigala Sangha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/road-restoration-to-begin-soon-in-110-villages/article37514289.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Heavy rains wreak havoc in city||Heavy rains and thunderstorms lashed several parts of the city on Monday, with water entering residences and shops in many places including Kaval Byrasandra, Nelamangala, Chikkabanavara, Nagawara, HBR Layout and Varthur. In the East zone, one of the rajakaluves overflowed. As the rain intensified in the evening, motorists had a tough time. Major roads were flooded at Majestic, Malleswaram, Rajajinagar and Mahalakshmi Layout resulting in traffic snarls. There were reports of vehicles breaking down. Potholes and craters made the situation worse. Traffic was disrupted in Central Business District Area too. According to the IMD, city received 40.2 mm of rainfall, and HAL 29 mm till 8.30 p.m. This is the highest rainfall recorded over the past 10 days. “One downpour and Bangalorean streets are flooded... ankle deep... but it counts. It’s not because of the rains, but the weeping sewers and manholes,” said one Twitter user. “Roads in #Bengaluru has turned into rivers now at many places. Avoid traveling for some more time please. It’s pelting down heavily across the city,” said@Bnglrweatherman. Rain / thundershowers are forecast for the next two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rains-wreak-havoc-in-city/article37514283.ece
16 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Council polls: Filing of papers from today||As the Election Commission’s notification on polls to the Legislative Council from 25 Local Authorities constituencies comes into effect on Tuesday, parties are still in the process of candidate selection and drawing up election strategies. While November 23 is the last date for filing nomination, the elections will be held on December 10 and results announced on December 14. As many as 25 members — 14 of the Congress, six of the BJP, four of the Janata Dal (Secular), and an Independent member — are completing their tenure on January 5, 2022. Currently,in the Upper House, the BJP is the largest party with 32 members followed by the Congress with 29 and JD(S) with 12. Congress sources said the party leaders were expected to complete their consultations with district-level leaders in a day or two and finalise the candidates before sending the list to the AICC. “Sources said the party was yet to decide whether it has to field two candidates in dual constituencies or focus on results by fielding one candidate. “Being in the Opposition, it is tough to fight though the Congress did well in the gram panchayat polls. Some incumbent members are not inclined to contest because they are not confident.” In Vijayapura, Dharwad, Belagavi, Dakshina Kannada, and Mysuru districts, two seats each are going for polls. Normally, since the elections are held on a preferential voting system, parties avoid setting up competition between their own candidates by fielding only one candidate instead of a possible two. Sources in the Janata Dal (Secular) said the party was unlikely to announce candidates in many constituencies in north Karnataka region, where it is unlikely to secure a seat. “The party is trying to focus on areas in south Karnataka where it has done well in the gram panchayat elections,” sources said, adding that it may take a couple of days for finalising the candidates. Three of the four members of the party who are retiring are from south Karnataka region, and have already announced their intent to leave the party. The ruling BJP, which is eyeing to secure a majority in the 75-member House for the first time, has already discussed the strategies in a meeting of its State Core Committee. It may take more than a couple of days to finalise the candidates, party sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/council-polls-filing-of-papers-from-today/article37514308.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Ensure RTOs follow parameters fixed for tests for driving licence’||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday directed the State Government to ensure that officers of the Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) maintain proper register on assessing the applicants for the motor vehicle driving licence as per the parameters prescribed in the law. ‘Ensure action’ Also, the court asked the Government to ensure that the higher authorities take action against the officials concerned in case of complaints on not following theparameters/checklist prescribed under the Rule 15 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules,1989, by the officers authorised to conduct driving test. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the directions while disposing of a PIL petition filed by Gowrishankar S., a resident of Bengaluru. Register of checklist Earlier, the Government made it clear to the court that directions had been issued to the RTOs to maintain register of checklist as per the CMV Rules and guidelines had been issued for ensuring that the tests were conducted as per the norms prescribed in the Rules. The Government also told the court that RTOs were maintaining the register of checklist. Observing that there was no reason to disbelieve the Government’s assurance that the norms prescribed in the Rules were being complied with, the Bench said that higher authorities were required to take appropriate action on receipt of complaint about violation of norms prescribed in the rules. The petitioner had complained that driving tests were conducted without following the prescribed parameters while contending that it would not be possible to conduct 50 to 70 tests every day in an RTO by adhering to all the 24 parameters prescribed in Rule 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensure-rtos-follow-parameters-fixed-for-tests-for-driving-licence/article37514305.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress raising bitcoin scam to keep a dead issue alive: CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has accused the Congress of raking up the alleged bitcoin scam to keep a dead issue alive. “I have already asked them to provide documentary evidence to the Enforcement Directorate, or to our police. If there is anything substantial, investigations will be taken up,” the Chief Minister told reporters here on Monday. “The Congress wants to keep a dead issue alive. It is political. There is no question of setting a narrative. There is no story in the bitcoin issue,” he said. The Chief Minister said a decision on the Peripheral Ring Road project in Bengaluru would be taken up soon since many changes had been incorporated over the past few years. ‘Provide SriKi security’ Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah has urged Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to provide security to Sri Krishna, the main accused in the alleged bitcoin scam. “Security to Sri Krishna is necessary since the case attracted global attention and it is suspected that many powerful people are involved,” Mr. Siddaramaiah tweeted on Monday. “The dramatic arrest on a small charge and similarly dramatic release on bail of Sri Krishna after the bitcoin scam came to light, and subsequent behaviour of the police raises suspicion,” he said. He said, “The bitcoin scam is a technology-dependent white collar crime. Several information, including passwords are in SriKi’s memory. In the light of this there could be threat to his life.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-raising-bitcoin-scam-to-keep-a-dead-issue-alive-cm/article37514311.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka seeks transparent mechanism to share leads about investors||Karnataka on Monday sought a transparent mechanism to share leads about investors and a clear policy on forest and environmental clearance from the Union Government. Stating that despite COVID-19 Karnataka managed to maintain lead in economic development, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai sought such a mechanism. A note from the Chief Minister’s office said that Mr. Bommai, who holds the Finance portfolio, said that he sought special incentives for special sectors during the meeting of Chief Ministers, chaired by the Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday. “Townships are being developed in SEZs, which require amendments to the laws of urban local bodies and rural local bodies to have better infrastructure in these areas. Banks have to be directed to finance new business sectors such as electric vehicles, med-tech and LOT,” Mr. Bommai said. He also said that dispute resolution mechanisms needed to be devised to quickly resolve disputes outside the court. The note also said that the Centre was requested to facilitate economic activities in the coastal area by relaxing the coastal regulation zone. In Kalyana Karnataka region, he said to attract investments additional incentives were needed, and that included a portion of the district mining fund to be handed over to the State Government to take up repair work of the damaged road due to transporting of ore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-seeks-transparent-mechanism-to-share-leads-about-investors/article37514299.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Digital archive of school books launched||Azim Premji University on Monday launched an open access digital archive of over 5,600 school books and related material from India and other countries in South Asia. The Schoolbooks Archive, as the platform is called, has material in multiple languages including Kannada, Malayalam, Bengali, Arabic, and other languages apart from English that span a period of more than 200 years. The archives have textbooks, works of reference such as atlases, dictionaries, conversion tables and encyclopedias, workbooks, charts, question banks and guides, as well as teaching-learning and audio-visual materials. “The Schoolbooks Archive provides a window to all knowledge seekers to explore what our evolving society over two hundred years considers important knowledge to be passed on over generations of young learners in schools. The diversity of language, history and culture within the Indian subcontinent, as captured through the lens of codified knowledge transmitted through schoolbooks, allows us to engage with deeper questions about the content and aims of education,” said Reshmi Mitra, Head – Knowledge Resource Centre, Azim Premji University, in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/digital-archive-of-school-books-launched/article37514296.ece
16 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||JD(S) likely to field a HDD family member in Hassan||The Janata Dal (Secular) is likely to field a family member of its national president H.D. Deve Gowda from Hassan Local Authorities seat. Sources in the party said though Sooraj Revanna, son of the former Minister H.D. Revanna, was being tipped to be the party candidate, it is most likely that the former Minister’s wife, Bhavani, would get the nod. The former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy had recently said Mr. Gowda would decide the candidature for Hassan. Incidentally, incumbent Congress member representing Hassan seat M.A. Gopalaswamy is learnt to have developed cold feet from contesting. Congress sources said the gram panchayat results in December 2020 changed the voting equation, and the Congress leader was not confident of winning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jds-likely-to-field-a-hdd-family-member-in-hassan/article37514312.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 2.7 cr. contribution to kin of police who died of COVID-19||Karnataka DG&IGP Praveen Sood on Monday presented each of the families of 90 police personnel who lost their lives to COVID-19 while on duty with a cheque of Rs. 3 lakh. The total value of the issued cheques is estimated to be around Rs. 2.7 crore, and was a gift by pharmaceutical firm Mankind Pharma Ltd. Manish Arora, senior divisional manager of Mankind Pharma said it was a small contribution for families of the police personnel. Mr. Sood said that the government has already issued Rs. 30 lakh to each of the families. Apart from this, the State has also assured government jobs to dependent family members of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-27-cr-contribution-to-kin-of-police-who-died-of-covid-19/article37514285.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man killed||A labourer was stabbed to death by a group of five men in Byappanahalli on Sunday night. The victim, Bhoopat Singh, 25, hailed from Madhya Pradesh and worked as a drill operator at an under-construction house. According to the police, Singh and other labourers were living in a shed next to the construction site. On a Sunday, after dinner, he and his friends stopped at a shop. “While returning, he got into an argument with the others. One of the accused stabbed Bhoopat in his chest and stomach. He was taken to hospital where he succumbed later,” said the police. The police have registered a case of murder and efforts are on track down the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-killed/article37514284.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bank robbers kill security guard, make off with Rs. 2.6L||An armed gang killed a security guard before robbing Tumakuru District Cooperative Central Bank in Tumakuru early on Monday. The accused strangled the guard with his muffler after which they broke into the bank. The victim, Siddappa, 55, had been working with the bank for seven months. According to the police, they gained entry using a gas cutter, ransacked the bank and escaped with Rs. 2.6 lakh in cash and some documents. They damaged the CCTVs installed to destroy the evidence, a police officer said . Going by the modus operandi, the police suspect that it was a professional gang. “It was discovered only when housekeeping staff reported to work the next morning and saw Siddappa’s body,” said the police officer. The Hebbur police who arrived at the spot roped the dog squad into service. Superintendent of Police Rahulkumar Shahpurwad visited the spot. The police are yet to determine how many people broke into the bank, but suspect the gang comprised more than two people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bank-robbers-kill-security-guard-make-off-with-rs-26l/article37514290.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Venkaiah Naidu’s appeal||Vice-President of India M. Venkaiah Naidu urged educational institutions to implement the National Education Policy in ‘letter and spirit’, and encourage teaching in local languages. He was addressing students at the sixth annual convocation of PES University on Monday. In his convocation address, Mr. Naidu, who was the chief guest, spoke about the role that higher education institutions play in equipping students with skills. “Today, the fourth industrial revolution is knocking at our door and it is driven by the knowledge economy and cutting-edge technological innovations. We cannot afford to miss this opportunity and our higher education institutions must equip our youth with 21st-century skills,” said Mr. Naidu. The Vice-President said there was an urgent need to align our university classrooms to the emerging global trends such as 5G-based technologies that find applications in a wide range of areas including agriculture, medical, administrative, commerce and industrial management. He commended the university on its initiative to impart knowledge in areas such as AI, machine learning, 5G technology, robotics, and biotechnology, and for launching two satellites with the help of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/institutions-must-equip-youth-with-21st-century-skills/article37514281.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 171 new cases, one death||Karnataka on Monday reported 171 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,92,021. Bengaluru Urban reported 118 cases and zero deaths. With one death, the toll rose to 38,146. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 255 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries to 29,45,934.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-171-new-cases-one-death/article37514282.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deadline extended||The last date for submission of applications to PG courses at Bengaluru City University departments has been extended till November 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/deadline-extended/article37514708.ece
16 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Notification for elections to be out today||The notification to the elections to two seats of local authorities’ constituency of the Legislative Council having jurisdiction over the erstwhile undivided Dharwad district (Dharwad, Gadag, and Haveri) will be issued on Tuesday and the nomination process will begin the same day. Briefing presspersons in Dharwad on Monday, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad and Returning Officer Nitesh Patil said that the candidates could file their nomination papers from Tuesday at the Deputy Commisioner’s office after the issue of election notification. The last date for filing of nomination papers is November 23 . Scrutiny of papers will be held on November 24 and those who want to withdraw from the contest will have time till evening of November 26. Mr. Patil said that the polling would be held on December 10 from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. through ballot papers and the counting of votes would be held on December 14 at University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad. The entire election process would be completed before December 16, he said. He said there were 7,503 eligible voters from three districts. He said that although the newly-elected council members of municipal corporations had been administered oath, their names had been included in the draft voters’ list draft and the final list would be announced on November 21. Elaborating on the guidelines from the Election Commission, five persons could accompany the candidate while filing the nomination papers and no procession could be taken out. Mr. Patil said that 17 teams of officials had been formed to check election malpractices and for strict implementation of model code of conduct. The Additional Deputy Commissioners of Dharwad, Gadag, and Haveri will be Assistant Returning Officers. In all, 504 polling stations booths will be set up, of which 144 will be in Dharwad, 130 in Gadag, and 230 in Haveri district, he said. Dharwad has 2,165 voters, Gadag has 1,969. and Haveri 3,369 voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/notification-for-elections-to-be-out-today/article37514520.ece
16 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||India will emerge as global food supply hub in coming days, says Piyush Goyal||Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal has said that India which, at present, was the fifth biggest nation in the export of food supply, would emerge as the “global foodgrains supply hub’ in the coming days. He was speaking via a video link after participating in the virtual inauguration of the new divisional office building of the Food Corporation of India at Bhairidevarakoppa in Hubballi on Monday. He also inaugurated via video link the food museum at Thanjavur in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Goyal said that under the Prime Minister’s Garib Kalyan Yojna, 80 crore people of the country were given 5 kilograms of foodgrains for free for 15 months. “The country has implemented the Food Security Act with the objective of ensuring that no one suffered from hunger. Compared to previous government, the procurement of food grains and storage has doubled. Efforts are on to double the farmers’ income,” he said. The Union Minister said that in recognition of the contribution of tribal people in the freedom struggle, November 15, being the birth anniversary of tribal freedom fighter Birsa Munda, was being obsereved as Jan Jati Gourav Diwas. “After Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power, the reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes has been increased. From Rs. 21,000 crore it has been increased to Rs. 78,000 crore,” he said, listing out various initiatives taken by the Union Government for the welfare of the tribals. He said that number of deaths owing to hunger were more than the number of COVID-19 deaths and India had extended a helping hand to poor nations in the world. India’s Food Security Act was being discussed across the globe and was being implemented in several nations, he said. Union Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti said that pilferage in the public distribution system had been plugged and lacunae rectified to ensure that the needy people received the required quantity of foodgrains. Advanced technology was being used for the storage of foodgrains. Efforts were on to establish warehouses at block (taluk) level to check pilferage in supply, she said. Union Minister of State for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Ashwini Kumar Choubey listed out various measures taken by the Union Government towards food security and assistance extended to public during pandemic. Chairman and Managing Director of Food Corporation of India Atishchandra, Executive Director Ravindra Agarwal, State General Manager G. Narasimharaju and others were present. The divisional office of FCI started operating from a rented premises in Hubballi in 1971. The bhoomi puja for the new building of the divisional office at a cost of Rs. 1.8 crore was performed on June 18, 2020, and was completed within the stipulated period. The divisional office has jurisdiction over seven districts of North Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/india-will-emerge-as-global-food-supply-hub-in-coming-days-says-piyush-goyal/article37514525.ece
16 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Adopt people-friendly policing’||Additional Director-General of Police (Training) P. Harishekaran has called on policemen to adopt people-friendly policing to win trust. He was speaking after receiving the guard of honour and distributing prizes at the seventh passing out parade of civil police at the Police Training School in Dharwad on Monday. Mr. Harishekaran felt that the power bestowed upon a police officer would be wasted if he or she did not respond to the problems of the people and fail to mingle with them to address their grievances. “Every police officer has to use the power vested in them as an opportunity to serve the people and not misuse them. An officer can be successful when he wins the trust of the people,” he said. Mr. Harishekaran said that tussles between the officials and people broke out only when there was lack of coordination and lack of trust. He said that young graduates with engineering and PG degrees were being recruited in the department and they would get requisite facilities and timely promotions. New subjects like cyber crime, mobile technology among other technical subjects were being included in the syllabus, he said. Principal of Police Training School P. Umesh administered the oath to the trainees. A total of 351 civil police personnel from Kalaburagi, Bengaluru, Uttara Kannada, Bidar, Tumakuru, Udupi, Dharwad, Shivamogga, and Hassan took part in the parade. Nagaraj C. from Chickballapur district bagged the best outgoing trainee. Nagaraj C., Gurukiran M.J., and Yaseen Moula bagged the prizes in the indoor games, while Basavaraj, Mahadevswamy V., and Guruswamy H. secured prizes in outdoor games. In shooting, Guruswamy H., Shravan Kumar, and Ravikiran Koli bagged first three prizes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/adopt-people-friendly-policing/article37514534.ece
16 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KVG Bank bags award for digitalisation||In recognition of its initiatives in Digital Financial Services, KVG Bank was adjudged Best Regional Rural Bank under ‘Regional Rural Banks Category’ by ASSOCHAM, Mumbai. According to a release, RBI regional director R. Gurumurthy handed over the award to KVG Bank chairman P. Gopi Krishna in Bengaluru on Monday. Mr. Gurumurthy said that the country was moving towards cashless economy and any effort towards digitalisation would help keep pace with the fast-changing world. Executive director, Canara Bank, Brij Mohan Sharma said creating a digital environment was now a priority for RRBs. Digitalisation would soon change the face of the rural economy, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kvg-bank-bags-award-for-digitalisation/article37514532.ece
16 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Work under MGNREGA is our right and not your charity’||After being denied their rightful work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), hundreds of rural labourers from different villages across the district staged a demonstration outside the zilla panchayat office here on Monday. The labourers alleged that the Panchayat Development Officers (PDOs) in several gram panchayats had denied work to them even after submitting applications and completing all the procedures as per the Act. They demanded that Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Dileesh Sasi take action against delinquent PDOs. Some of the protesting women even complained that the PDOs simply did not accept their applications for jobs. “Getting work under MNREGA is our lawful right and not your charity. It is your responsibility to give work to the people who seek job under the Act within 15 days of receiving the application and make payment within 15 days of completion of work,” Abhay Kumar, a leader of Grameena Koolikaarmikara Sanghatane (GRAKOOS), an organisation of rural labourers, that led the agitation, told the ZP officers at the protest site. Mr. Sasi called a few representatives of the labourers to his chamber and discussed the issues in detail for about an hour. He later sent some of his officers, including Zilla Panchayat Deputy Secretary Mohammad Ismail, Kalaburagi Taluk Panchayat Executive Officer Manappa Kattimani and Assistant Director of Pundit Sindhe, to the protest site to address the grievances on the spot. As the officers sat with the protestors, the women began pouring out their problems related to the job scheme and complained against the PDOs who, they said, denied their work. The officers in question immediately summoned some of the PDOs and put them across the protesting people to address issues. When Mr. Kattimani pointed out a couple of minor errors in the application and asked the protest leaders to educate them on the procedure, Mr. Abhay countered by asking the officer to first sensitise the PDOs and other officers in the gram panchayat on MNREGA provisions. “Your local officers are denying work to the people in need. When PDO is not in his office, other functionaries in the gram panchayat are not even accepting applications for jobs. The local officers are not giving work even several weeks after submitting the applications. Most of the PDOs have not even read the provisions of MNREGA even 14 years after the Act was enacted. First, sensitise your officers on the Act before educating the poor labourers,” Mr. Abhay told the officer. Mr. Abyay also demanded the officers to allow rural labours to raise their MNREGA-related issues in the PDO meetings that were regularly held so that the problems would be addressed in the presence of higher officers. The labourers later submitted a list of gram panchayats in the district that denied the work under the job scheme to the ZP officers for their perusal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-under-mgnrega-is-our-right-and-not-your-charity/article37514528.ece
16 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi administration ready to hold Legislative Council polls, says Jyothsna||Detailing the preparations for holding elections in the rural local authority constituency of the Legislative Council, Deputy Commissioner of Kalaburagi Vijaya Jyothsna appealed to all stakeholders to cooperate with her administration to hold free, fair, and peaceful elections. Addressing a press conference at her office on Monday, the officer said that Council polls will be conducted as strictly as the Assembly polls. “A complaint counter has been opened and people can submit their grievances and complaints there. Teams are formed to enforce the model code of conduct and legal action would be taken against the violators. I appealed to all stakeholders, including the candidates, political parties, activists and the voters, to cooperate with the administration to hold the elections peacefully,” Ms. Jyothsna said. Warning against violations of the model code of conduct, Ms. Jyothsna said that the candidates would be allowed to campaign with 20 vehicles. “If the number of vehicles crossed the permitted limit, the additional vehicles would be seized. The Government has recently issued revised COVID-19 guidelines and everybody need to adhere to them,” Ms. Jyothsna said. Kalaburagi Police Commissioner Y.S. Ravikumar, Superintendent of Police Isha Pant, Additional Deputy Commissioner Shankarappa Vanikyal and other senior officers were present. The notification for the election to the Kalaburagi-Yadgir Rural Local Authorities constituency of the Legislative Council was already issued. As per the calendar of events, candidates can file their nomination papers from November 16 to November 23. The scrutiny of nomination papers will be done on November 24. The last date for withdrawal of candidature is November 26. The polls will be held on December 10 between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. The vote counting will be held on December 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kalaburagi-administration-ready-to-hold-legislative-council-polls-says-jyothsna/article37514522.ece
16 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘You’re accountable to society too, get vaccinated’||Lokayukta P. Vishwanatha Shetty on Monday said an individual was accountable not just to his family, but to society and hence it was the responsibility of everyone to get vaccinated against COVID-19. Vaccination prevents further spread of the pandemic, he noted. Chairing a meeting on COVID-19 management and Lokayukta cases here, Justice Shetty said he too has been vaccinated and there were no adverse effects. The district administration should work on the war footing for the next two-three months to ensure every eligible individual in the district was vaccinated, he said. Justice Shetty noted while 90% eligible persons had received the first dose, 59% had received both the doses in the district. Efforts should be made to cover the remaining 10% with the first dose in the next fortnight and the 41% with both the doses in the coming days. There was no dearth for vaccines in the district with 1.75 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin readily available. With physical classes resuming in educational institutions, the Education Department should ensure students and staff follow COVID-19 protocol strictly by periodical visits. Zilla Panchayat CEO should submit regular reports in this regard. Deputy Director of Public Instructions Malleswamy informed the meeting that 3,20,980 students were enrolled in 1,508 schools, including 1,071 government, 315 grant-in-aid, 400 unaided, 11 under Social Welfare Department, 14 for Scheduled Tribes, 11 Navodaya, two Kendriya Vidyalaya, and one Jawahar Navodaya schools in the district. The attendance had been 51% in primary, 69% in higher primary, and 81% in high schools, he said. When Mr. Malleswamy informed that 210 children have lost either of the parent and five both the parents due to COVID-19, Justice Shetty asked the officials concerned to arrange distribution of compensation to the families immediately. The Lokayukta warned of initiating action against two staff members of the Mangaluru City Corporation against whom many public complaints were received. ZP CEO Kumara, MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar, Lokayukta S.P. Kumaraswamy, and others were present. Earlier, Justice Shetty visited the government primary school at Gandhinagar to verify the COVID-19 protocol implementation. Later, he visited the COVID-19 vaccination centre at the Ayush Block of District Government Wenlock Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/youre-accountable-to-society-too-get-vaccinated/article37514701.ece
16 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘BJP will not support any Independent candidates’||The BJP is likely to field only one candidate in the ensuing elections to the Legislative Council from the local bodies constituency of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi and it will not support any Independent candidates like M. N. Rajendra Kumar, according to Udupi district BJP president Kuyilady Suresh Nayak. Addressing presspersons in Udupi on Monday, he said that elections on December 10 will be conducted for two seats of the constituency. The BJP has 3,708 votes which is enough to win one seat. Of its votes, 2,136 votes are in Dakshina Kannada and 1,572 are in Udupi. The party’s second candidate might fall short of votes to win another seat. The incumbent member of the council and Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary is likely to be the party candidate, he said. ‘Highest margin’ “We want to make sure that the additional votes in the party's kitty will not be cast on any other Independent candidate. Our candidate should win the seat with highest margin,” he said adding that there is no question of supporting Independent candidates. Mr. Nayak said that the party will conduct ‘Jana Swaraj’ convention at Udupi Town Hall on November 19 at 11 a.m. Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa and others will participate in it. Meanwhile, addressing presspersons in Mangaluru, president of Dakshina Kannada unit of the BJP Sudarshan Moodbidri said that a total of 3,557 gram panchayat and urban local body members are eligible to vote in Dakshina Kannada. Mr. Moodbidri also added that the party has nominated two senior party workers for each gram panchayat as in-charge to ensure the victory of party candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-will-not-support-any-independent-candidates/article37514702.ece
16 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||KVGB gets ASSOCHAM award||The Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank (KVGB) was adjudged the best regional rural bank (RRB) under the ‘Regional Rural Banks’ category, in recognition of its initiatives in the sphere of digital financial services by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM), Mumbai. Bank chairman P. Gopikrishna received the award from Reserve Bank of India Regional Director R. Gurumurthy in Bengaluru on Friday, said a release. Congratulating the bank, Mr. Gurumurthy urged villagers to make use of digitised banking products for speedy and safe transaction. Canara Bank Executive Director Brij Mohan Sharma said creating digital environment is now a priority for regional rural banks. Niraj Kumar Verma, Chief General Manager, NABARD, said the bank is keenly watching the progress and involvement of RRBs and extending timely guidance and support. Mr. Gopikrishna said nearly 40 villages under KVGB’s jurisdiction are converted to 100% digital villages because of the bank’s efforts. Those villages have round-the-clock access to Internet banking, mobile banking, micro ATMs, AEPS (Aadhar Enabled Payment Systems), IMPS, and UPI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kvgb-gets-assocham-award/article37514696.ece
16 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Pradeep Kumar succeeds Jayarama Bhat as new chairman of Karnataka Bank||P. Pradeep Kumar assumed charge as the chairman of Karnataka Bank on Monday at Bengaluru for a period of three years from November 14, 2021, succeeding P. Jayarama Bhat. Assuming the charge as the part-time non-executive chairman, Mr. Kumar said, “I am privileged to assume the post of chairman of Karnataka Bank, a legacy institution of having more than 97 years of successful banking history. I seek the whole-hearted support of all the staff members in taking the bank to still greater heights as we approach the centenary year of the bank”. Welcoming the new chairman, Managing Director and CEO M.S. Mahabaleshwara said, “A seasoned banker with nearly four decades of banking experience at the largest bank of the country, SBI, I am sure Karnataka Bank will script a new chapter in its growth journey under the guidance of Mr. Kumar and set new standards in corporate governance in the days to come”. Mr. Kumar, who retired as the Managing Director and Group Executive (Corporate Banking) of State Bank of India, was an independent director on the board of Karnataka Bank so far. Born on October 2, 1955, he has a Master’s degree in Statistics from Madras University. Joining SBI as a probationary officer in 1976, Mr. Kumar was the Managing Director of State Bank of Travancore during 2010-11.  Karnataka Bank on Monday launched CASA (current accounts and savings accounts) campaign of FY 2021-22 and introduced a new current account scheme ‘KBL Current Account – Premium’, specifically designed to meet the needs of small and medium entrepreneurs. With this campaign, the bank aims to introduce attractive and superior line of digitally powered savings account products to its prospective customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pradeep-kumar-succeeds-jayarama-bhat-as-new-chairman-of-karnataka-bank/article37514698.ece
16 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MRPL handles 500th vessel at Single Point Mooring||Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. created a milestone on Monday when its Single Point Mooring (SPM) off Mangaluru coast handled the 500th crude oil vessel. MT Euroglory from Saudi Arabia with 1.35 million tonnes of crude became the 500th vessel to unload the crude at the SPM. The SPM was commissioned in August 2013, with MT Ratna Puja being the first vessel to unload the crude. Since then Team MRPL has successfully unloaded 75.5 million tonnes through 500 vessels in three different categories, namely, Afra Max (below 1 lakh tonne), Suez Max (1.5 lakh tonnes) and VLCC – Very Large Crude Carriers (upto 2.8 lakh tonnes). MRPL at the SPM has unloaded vessels from countries including Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Kuwait and also the USA. Team MRPL has bravely withstood various challenges in achieving the incredible feat. Till 2012, MRPL unloaded crude through Vessels at Jetty 11 and 12 of New Mangalore Port. Only smaller Vessels with less than 245 metres in length 14 metres in draught could be unloaded at the Jetty. At the SPM however the company is able to attend vessels with 330 metres in length and 22 metres in draught, said a release from MRPL. MRPL Managing Director M. Venkatesh congratulated Team MRPL on achieving the feat and thanked teams from operations and maintenance and also service provider M/s Underwater Service Ltd. Directors Pomila Jaspal (Finance) and Sanjay Varma (Refinery) congratulated the teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mrpl-handles-500th-vessel-at-single-point-mooring/article37514712.ece
16 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Three arrested on charge of abusing masjid head||The Konaje police arrested three persons for allegedly abusing the religious head of a masjid and attempting to assault him in Kurnad in Konaje police station limits on Monday. The police gave the names of the arrested persons as Sharan, 24, Vignesh, 23, and Harshit, 22. According to the complaint registered at the Konaje police station, the three came on a scooter to the masjid around 12.15 a.m. and allegedly abused the head of the masjid. As they attempted to assault him, people nearby raised their voices and the accused fled from the spot. The three are accused of offences punishable under Sections 447 (criminal trespass), 295 (destroying, damaging or defiling a place of worship) and 504 (insult intended to provoke breach of peace) of Indian Penal Code. Windshield stoned A driver and a conductor of a private bus have been accused of throwing stone at the windshield of a private bus near Kottara Chowki here on Monday. According to a complaint filed at the Urwa Police, Shashi and Akshay, the driver and conductor of Mookambika private bus, allegedly came down J.B. Lobo Road on a scooter around 12.30 p.m. and blocked the AKMS bus that was bound to Udupi. Abusing the driver and the conductor of AKMS bus, a stone was thrown at the windshield and they fled from the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-arrested-on-charge-of-abusing-masjid-head/article37514705.ece
16 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Defilement of Nagabana: Kodical observes bandh||Shops and business establishments, except medical ones, in Kodical remained closed on Monday in response to the bandh call demanding arrest of the accused in the defilement of the nagabana in Kodical on Saturday. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal called for the bandh on Monday as the city police had not traced the persons involved. City buses did not operate to Kodical. In a public meeting held at a ground in Kodical, VHP Mangaluru divisional secretary Sharan Pumpwell said the VHP has asked police to take drastic step against the accused, which will pre-empt future acts of defiling places of worship. Seer of Vajradehi Mutt Rajashekharananada said that the police should make good use of their ground intelligence and other networks to trace the accused. “If no arrests are made within the next 24 days, then a district bandh will be called,” he said. The district administration should view acts of defilement of religious places seriously and prevent the likely communal trouble. Following the public meeting, the activists went in a procession to the nagabana and offered prayers. Special police teams have been formed to trace the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/defilement-of-nagabana-kodical-observes-bandh/article37514704.ece
16 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||12 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported eight new COVID-19 cases on Monday. With 18 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 123. Test positivity rate was put at 0.21%. A fine totalling Rs. 1,07,65,770 has so far been collected in 88,728 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported four new cases of which three are from Kundapur taluk and one from outside the district. Three patients are under home isolation and one is in the designated government healthcare facility. With four patients discharged, there are 41 active cases in the district. With 7,514 people vaccinated on Monday, the total number of people covered in Dakshina Kannada reached 24,49,381. In Udupi, 5,527 people were vaccinated taking the total number to 15,03,609.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/12-new-cases-in-dk-udupi/article37514707.ece
16 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Newborn dies after over 40 days of hospitalisation||A newborn male child died following over 40 days of treatment at Government Lady Goshen hospital on Monday. Hospital Superintendent Durgaprasad M.R. said the child was under treatment in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) of the hospital. Apart from respiratory distress syndrome, the child had gastroenteritis problem and had neonatal sepsis. The child had multiorgan failure and died on Monday morning, he said. Mustafa Hamza from Kundapur taluk of Udupi, father of the child, had filed a complaint against the staff of the hospital accusing them of kidnapping and alleged that a different child has been handed over to them on October 14. Denying the allegation, Dr. Durgaprasad had said premature cesarean section was done on September 28 on the mother Amreen as her condition was critical and then child was shifted to NICU. Inadvertently it was mentioned in the hospital records as a female child. The parents took away the child against doctor’s advice on October 14 and readmitted the child in the evening to the hospital following complications. The Mangaluru North police registered the complaint. After taking permission of the court, the police collected blood samples of the child and parents and send them to Bengaluru on October 19 for DNA test to confirm the parentage of the child. The result of the DNA test is awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/newborn-dies-after-over-40-days-of-hospitalisation/article37514706.ece
16 November 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||MESCOM will organise a meeting of its consumers at its sub-division office in Kundapur, Udupi district on November 18 from 10.30 a.m. to noon. It will be on the virtual mode. The link is https://meet.google.com /kvw-xzia-sbi. Phone 08254-230490.    Power supply to some areas in the city will be stopped on November 16 from 10 a.m. to 4.30 p.m. The areas are Besant Women’s College, Sharada Vidyalaya, Bhagavathi Nagar, Dongarakery, Navbharat Circle, PVS Circle, Car Street, New Field Street, Mahammai Temple Road, Gayathri Temple Road, and Prabhu Lane.    There will be no power supply to some areas in the city on November 17 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The areas are Government Lady Goschen Hospital, Central Market, P M Rao Road, Thokkottu, Kallapu, Ullal, Kapikkad, Someshwara, Uchila, Kolya, Kumpala, Kotekar, Beeri, K C Road, Talapady, Natekal, Mangalanagara, Montepadavu, Kinya, Asaigoli, Deralakatte, Paneer, Derebail, Konchady, Kuntitakana, Prashanthnagara, Mullakadu, Malemar, Lohitnagara, Malady and Jalligudda.    Karnataka Border Area Development Authority has postponed Karnataka Gadinadu Samskritika Sammelan scheduled at Edneer Mutt in Kasaragod District (Kerala) on November 18. It is because of model code of conduct, an official release said.    Mangalore University has postponed the job fair scheduled for two days from November 16. It is in view of model conduct of conduct in force for the elections to the Legislative Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37514703.ece
16 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Normal services resume as doctors call off strike||Healthcare services, including outpatient services and elective surgeries, returned to normal at the hospitals attached to the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) on Monday after the resident doctors of the institute who were on an indefinite strike in support of their demands, mainly payment of stipend without any deductions and COVID-19 allowances, withdrew their agitation. On the assurance from local MLA L. Nagendra, the resident doctors, interns and PGs, who had suspended services barring the emergencies, called off their strike on Sunday. Their demands remained unfulfilled despite a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner. The resident doctors, however, have warned of resuming their strike if their demands were not fulfilled in a span of 10 days, as they said the strike was withdrawn temporarily with the MLA meeting them andpromising to speak to the authorities on their demands. The doctors, who had launched an indefinite strike on Thursday, had claimed that they got salary for the month of September now but with a deduction of Rs. 15,000. The PGs’ monthly salary is Rs. 50,000 but Rs. 35,000 was credited into their accounts, cutting Rs. 15,000, which was given as a part of allowance for discharging COVID-19 duties. The protesting doctors, citing the order issued on May 5, 2021 by the government, maintained that the government had promised to provide a sum of Rs. 10,000 every month along with the stipend of Rs. 50,000 to the resident doctors until the COVID-19 situation becomes normal. While claiming that the resident doctors were promised orally that the allowance would be paid at least for a period of six months, the doctors said they sacrificed their academics for combating the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/normal-services-resume-as-doctors-call-off-strike/article37514733.ece
16 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Row over death of man after COVID-19 jab||Health officials in Mysuru described as ‘coincidence’ the death of a 39-year-old manon Sunday evening two days after receiving the COVID-19 vaccination. However, relatives and friends of the deceased held a demonstration outside K.R. Hospital mortuary in Mysuru on Monday demanding compensation. Suresh, a resident of Ashokapuram and a painter by profession, received his first jab of COVID-19 vaccination from the Health Department personnel during their door-to-door vaccination campaign on November 12. But, he soon fell unconscious and was rushed to K.R. Hospital by the department personnel for treatment. He died on Sunday evening. His friends and relatives, who gathered in front of the mortuary on Monday under the leadership of former Mayor Purushotham, held the Health Department responsible for the death. They said Mr. Suresh was the sole breadwinner of the family, and demanded that compensation be paid to the next of kin of the deceased. Health Department officials said the death of Mr. Suresh was a “coincidence”. He was not only irregular in treatment of his hypertension, but also suffered from a heart ailment, according to doctors at the K.R. Hospital. “He was also an alcoholic. The cardiac disease he was suffering from had precipitated matters”, they said. “The vaccine’s adverse reactions will not manifest like this,” said an official, adding that a total of 35 lakh doses had been administered successfully so far and the death cannot be attributed to an adverse reaction. Nine others had been vaccinated from the same vial that was used to jab Mr. Suresh. The same batch of vials had been used to vaccinate more than 10,000 others on November 12. No such outcome was seen in any other case. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham, who met the protesters, said doctors had provided him the best of treatment. Reacting to the representation he had received from the protesters of payment of compensation, Mr. Gautham said he will verify if any relief can be provided from the government on humanitarian grounds. The family members agreed for a post-mortem of the body only after the Deputy Commissioner arrived at the spot and spoke to the protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/row-over-death-of-man-after-covid-19-jab/article37514739.ece
16 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rainwater in UGD system led to sewage overflow, flooding: MCC||The overflowing UGD manholes noticed in the recent rain devastation has been attributed to the entry of rainwater collected on the rooftop of households across Mysuru city directly into the UGD lines, causing run-off of sewage on the roads and deluging many localities. The issue has been taken seriously as the Mysuru City Corporation has come across damage to UGD network as the UGD pipelines are designed to carry a maximum load of 200-220 MLD but they handled the load of 8,000 to 10,000 MLD with large amounts of rainwater entering into the UGD system instead of open drainage, from the households. MCC Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy told The Hindu that the MCC staff have begun cutting the connections wherever such acts have been noticed and where the manholes overspill in the recent rain damage. “In case of normal rains, there are no issues but when the rain situation escalates we come across such a problem. It was seen in the past but it aggravated this time as the city recorded very heavy rains,” he said. Arguing that the release of rainwater collected on the rooftop directly to the UGD network was illegal, he said the residents must take immediate steps for delinking the connections and warned of imposing fines on them, if they failed to do so. “How could the UGD network take the load that sometimes exceeds up to 10,000 MLD in a short span of time?” the Commissioner asked. He said the MCC staff have launched the drive in some areas on Monday and they would continue with their drive in the coming days, imposing a fine of Rs. 2,000, with problems being rampant in some parts of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rainwater-in-ugd-system-led-to-sewage-overflow-flooding-mcc/article37514743.ece
16 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||COVID compensation: 890 applications received so far||While the families of all persons who died due to COVID-19 are entitled to an ex-gratia of Rs. 50,000 from the Centre, besides the Rs. 1 lakh compensation announced by the Government of Karnataka to Below Poverty Line (BPL) families, the Mysuru district administration had received only 890 applications so far. The media bulletin issued by the Mysuru district surveillance unit on Monday said a total of 2,428 persons had died due to COVID-19. But, the number of applications received by the district administration was only 890, according to a statement issued by the Office of the Deputy Commissioner. The statement has called upon the legal heirs of victims to submit the necessary documents in their respective nada kacheris or taluk offices in their respective hoblis after verification by the taluk health officer or district health officer. The documents include the COVID-19 positive report issued by an authorised laboratory. In the case of persons who had been treated for COVID-19 even after the test had showed negative, a report issued by clinical radiologists and other laboratories should be submitted after verification by the taluk or district health officer. The other documents to accompany the application include a copy of the Aadhar card of the deceased and the death certificate. The applicant should include a copy of her or his ration card, copy of Aadhar card, copy of bank pass book, declaration by the applicant, and a no objection letter from all the members of the family to receive the compensation. Families of victims can approach their nearest taluk office for details. Families which had not submitted their applications have been urged to immediately do so.  Legal heirs of victims of persons, who had died due to COVID-19 in Mysuru district, asked to submit necessary documents at taluk offices in their respective hoblis No objection letter from all the members of the victim’s family needed to receive compensation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-compensation-890-applications-received-so-far/article37514737.ece
16 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Study shows heart diseases on the rise among BPL families||Are coronary heart diseases on the rise among below poverty line (BPL) families in Karnataka? A study by researchers of the University of Mysore says the diseases are indeed increasing and the worrying trend needs to be studied in detail, finding out reasons for the rise and helping families prevent them. The study was done by the Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy (CSSEIP) based on the 10-year data sourced from the Karnataka Suvarna Suraksha Arogya Trust (R), Bengaluru. Between 2010 and 2020, about 1,25,574 people belonging to BPL families were treated for various heart-related ailments with about 1,12,018 treated for coronary heart diseases. Myocardial infarction and valvotomy were the second and third common heart-related issues faced by BPL families, as per the data from the Suraksha Arogya Trust. Treatment was available under the government scheme. D.C. Nanjunda, associate professor, CSSEIP, and his team conducted the study with support from Dr. Amith Kumar Mishra from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Chhattisgarh, and Dr. K.C. Srivatsa, Mysuru-based physician, in 2020-21. “We had to interpret and compile the government data as per our requirement to find out how many of them had heart problems. The study showed 53% men and 37% women suffered from coronary heart diseases. Bengaluru urban showed the highest cases of coronary heart diseases in the district category, while Kalaburagi taluk had the highest cases of coronary diseases in the taluk category,” said Mr. Nanjunda. The study showed no significant variance among men and women on the occurrence of cardiac arrest as 47% women and 53% men suffered cardiac arrest during the period. Data showed Kalaburagi had the highest cases of cardiac arrest, based on treatment availed. “The socio-economic status, health exclusion, health inequalities, food habits, and poverty-related stress have been commonly noticed among most BPL families and they could be attributed to the rise in heart ailments. Patients from rural areas with low socio-economic status face more hurdles for cardiac care than their counterparts in urban areas,” claimed Mr. Nanjunda. The research team is also studying the occurrence of other high-risk diseases among BPL families and it is expected to bring out a complete report by June next year. “We have done the study on heart ailments and are now studying cancer, kidney ailments, neurological disorders, and congenital diseases. The findings will be compiled and submitted to the government next year after publishing it in a journal, for early interventions,” he told The Hindu.  The study aims at throwing light on why the diseases are increasing among the BPL families and the contributing factors so that the government could help them take preventive measures, improving their health standards, he added. The study was coordinated by Ramachandra Murthy, Prema Kumar, Lancy D’Souza, V.G Siddarajau, Ramesh Ranagappa, and H.S Yogesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/study-shows-heart-diseases-on-the-rise-among-bpl-families/article37514531.ece
16 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Hamsalekha apologises for remarks on Vishwesha Tirtha||Well-known music director Hamsalekha has apologised for his recent remarks on the late Pejawar seer Sri Vishwesha Tirtha’s visits to Dalit colonies, sparking off a raging debate on the social media platforms. The music director, while participating in an award ceremony in Mysuru as the chief guest recently, questioned the purpose of the seer’s visits to Dalit houses by citing differences in food habits, and the observations soon snowballed into a controversy. Amidst the raging arguments on the statement, mostly on social media platforms, Mr. Hamsalekha, appearing in a video, apologised for the remarks and said he did not wish to hurt anybody.  Social evil However, he described untouchability as a curse afflicting the country and said he respected the efforts of all the people including the late Pejawar seer, who tried to eliminate the social evil. He said his wife also did not like a few words he spoke at the event and apologised to her also publicly. Mr. Hamsalekha said he would like to give comfort to the people with his words and conduct just like his music did. In Mysuru, BJP MP Pratap Simha took serious objection to Hamsalekha’s remarks and claimed that the apology sought by the music director did not appear genuine. He said the followers of the late seer were hurt as well as angry over the remarks made by the music director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hamsalekha-apologises-for-remarks-on-vishwesha-tirtha/article37514302.ece
16 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Film crew violates norms at Melkote kalyani in Mandya||A heavy duty crane deployed during film shooting at the historic kalyani at Melkote in Mandya district got stuck in the slush endangering the monument, on Monday. Sources in the State Archaeology Department, who confirmed the incident, said the film crew was from Andhra Pradesh and they had sought permission by paying the deposit. However, there was no permission for deployment or use of heavy duty equipment and machinery including cranes that could damage the monument. But it transpired that the crew violated the norms and used a crane. However, incessant rain in the region since the last few days had resulted in oversaturation of the soil on land meant for landscaping. The crane sank and the personnel had to struggle to move it. Expressing ire over the development, N.S. Rangaraju, convener, INTACH, Mysuru chapter, said the foundation or the flooring could be displaced due to the use of equipment like cranes etc. Melkote is a popular spot for film shooting but the crew tend to throw all norms to wind. Hence, it is time to ban shooting in places of historical importance and monuments for which monetary value cannot be affixed and are part of the heritage of the state, he added. Melkote is dotted with monuments dating from the period of the Hoysalas and embellished by the rulers of Vijayanagar and subsequently by the Wadiyars. The kalyani is the biggest of the tanks in the temple town overlooking which is the Yadugiri Hills and the famous Yoga Narasimhaswamy temple. The kalyani was in a dilapidated state but was recently restored with funding from Infosys Foundation. Sources said peeved by the development, the department may consider ban on film shooting in monuments in future. “The terms and conditions on what can be used are clear. But once the permission is issued, the film crew tend to be reckless and the department does not have staff to monitor their activities,” sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/film-crew-violates-norms-at-melkote-kalyani/article37514535.ece
16 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru farmers meet Chief Minister||A delegation of farmers from Mysuru on Monday met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and urged him to take immediate measures for establishing paddy procurement centres in the State after announcing the minimum support price for the crop. The farmers led by Federation of Farmers’ Organisations and the State Sugarcane Growers’ Association President Kurubur Shanthakumar met the Chief Minister in Bengaluru and presented a memorandum to him for saving the paddy growers. Before the prices fall, the government must take steps to establish procurement centres as the harvesting season has commenced, he said. In the wake of heavy rains reported in most parts of the State recently, the crop yield may come down and therefore the government must announce the MSP to save farmers from distress. He also urged the Chief Minister to take measures for procuring the produce of farmers at the support price wherever there has been rain damage. The farmer leader suggested that the farmers’ producer companies in the State can be permitted to open paddy procurement centres to prevent injustice to farmers. He had earlier, in a letter to the MCC, sought loans at subsidised rates to such farmer producer companies so that they could buy the produce directly from farmers. This will benefit farmers and put an end to merchants’ ploy of buying the produce at lesser rates, he had argued. The delegation also urged the Chief Minister to reconsider the price fixed for sugarcane.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-farmers-meet-chief-minister/article37514740.ece
16 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||7% of newborns at risk of hearing, speech disorders||The All India Institute of Speech and Hearing (AIISH), Mysuru, has taken up a campaign of spreading awareness among the parents with regard to early identification and intervention in babies at risk of developing communication disorders. The data available at the country’s premier institute in the field of speech and hearing here shows that about 7 per cent of babies are at risk of developing communication disorders based on the screening tests done earlier in hospitals during the neonatal period. ‘Urgent need’ In a developing country like India where the infant mortality rate and neonatal infections are high, there is an urgent need for public education on newborn care. And, it is the responsibility of the parents to ensure that their babies are screened for communication disorders within a few days of their birth. This is as important as the babies’ vaccination, according to the AIISH. In this regard, the AIISH has organised a free newborn hearing screening from November 16 to 18. “Bring the babies and get their hearing tested,” said the institute, which is observing the newborn care week. If the newborn is identified with hearing loss, the rehabilitation should happen within three months as early intervention helps in developing normal speech in such infants. Therefore, audiologists and speech language pathologists from the AIISH visit various hospitals in and around Mysuru to provide free screening for communication disorders. Also, the AIISH has set up several outreach service centres and its services are available at several places across the country even in rural areas, a release from the institute said. Prevention By taking appropriate care and improving the healthcare conditions, many communication disorders (disorders relating to speech and hearing) can be prevented. For instance, viral infections, neonatal jaundice and bacterial meningitis can lead to hearing loss in infants. Research shows that babies kept in NICU are at high risk of hearing loss. Premature babies should also be given special care after birth as they are more vulnerable for developing hearing loss. In addition to this, many children are born with hearing loss since birth due to various intrauterine harmful conditions, the experts at the AIISH explained. “Neonatal is a very vulnerable period having the highest risk for infections and proper care is essential to ensure a normal and healthy development of the baby. It is at this time that the brain development occurs at a rapid rate and the child bonds most with the parents. One should remember that for a child to start speaking normally, it is essential that the child has normal hearing,” according to the institute. Repercussions Therefore, it is key to screen all newborn babies for helping their normal growth. With the latest technologies available, hearing loss can be identified on the day of birth itself. It is important as hearing loss is a hidden condition and parents may identify it late. In such instances the child does not start speaking like other children of the same age group. This will have serious consequences on the quality of life of the child and the parents, they warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/7-of-newborns-at-risk-of-hearing-speech-disorders/article37514735.ece
16 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Christ statue to be relocated from deemed forest land||The authorities in Hoogyam Gram Panchayat limits in Chamarajanagar are trying to prevail upon the community members to relocate a statue of Jesus Christ which has been in stalled on a deemed forest land. Deputy Conservator of Forests V.Yedukondalu said that the statue has been installed on a rock on Survey Number 239 in Gajanoor village coming under Hoogyam. Though it is not forest land and belongs to the Revenue Department it is deemed forest. Besides, the installation is illegal and hence the community members will be prevailed upon to relocate it at an alternative site. The authorities will conduct an inquiry as to how and who installed the statue and get the place cleared. The official said there was an attempt during the beginning of the second wave to install the statue but it was foiled by the Forest Department. The authorities suspect the statue may have been installed during the peak of second wave when the patrolling was lax.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/christ-statue-to-be-relocated-from-deemed-forest-land/article37514741.ece
16 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Incessant rain damages Jayalakshmi Vilas Mansion||Incessant rain in Mysuru since the last few days has damaged the Jayalakshmi Vilas Mansion at Mansagangotri campus. There is seepage inside and the wooden beams of the roof have been dislodged, endangering the terrace. Though there was a proposal for its restoration and experts had warned of danger to the structure, no work has been initiated. The Tourism Department came forward to fund the restoration and set aside Rs. 5 crore for the purpose. But the DPR was not finalised and the damage to the structure is now extensive. The dancing hall has huge beams and they have been dislocated and the stained glasses at the Kalyana Mantapa have been damaged. The varsity workers manually removed the accumulated water and scrubbed the floor but there was no respite from water dripping from the roof. Senior officials from the University of Mysore and INTACH convener N.S. Rangaraju visited the mansion on Monday to take stock of the damage. The mansion has 123 rooms and houses nearly 1000 artefacts of archaeological importance, apart from nearly 4,000 collections pertaining to folklore. Jayalakshmi Vilas Mansion was built in 1905 during the regime of Krishnaraja Wadiyar IV for princess Jayalakshmi Ammani, eldest daughter of Maharaja Chamaraja Wodeyar. It is estimated to have cost nearly Rs. 7 lakh, and was later acquired by the University of Mysore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/incessant-rain-damages-jayalakshmi-vilas-mansion/article37514744.ece
16 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||National Chicken Day today||As part of the National Chicken Day on November 16, Karnataka Poultry Farmers and Breeders Association (KPFBA) will be organising campaigns to create awareness about the benefits of chicken consumption. President of KPFBA Sushan Rai, in a statement here, said that the per capita consumption of poultry meat in India was an abysmal 3.1 kg per annum whereas the world average consumption was 17 kg per annum. “This means a vast majority of the population is going without proper nutrition…”, he said while adding that India was one of the top five producers of poultry meat and eggs in the world, but the country ranked poorly when it comes to consumption of the same. Emphasising the need for taking up campaigns to create awareness about benefits of consuming chicken, Mr. Rai claimed that chicken and eggs were rich in proteins and their consumption gives a boost to an individual’s immunity level. The KPFBA, which will be running awareness campaigns through various channels, will also be involving retail outlets across the State in spreading awareness on maintaining hygiene in the retail outlets along with the benefits of chicken consumption.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/national-chicken-day-today/article37514736.ece
16 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KARNATAKA||A norovirus outbreak that went unnoticed||The recent norovirus outbreak at the College of Veterinary Sciences in Wayanad hit even national headlines and raised apprehensions that a new infectious pathogen was establishing itself in the State. It now emerges that the Wayanad outbreak was the second documented norovirus outbreak in Kerala. The first documented norovirus outbreak was in June in Alappuzha this year. The 950 cases, possibly more, of acute diarrhoeal diseases reported from Alappuzha municipality and nearby panchayats were linked to norovirus. “Cases of acute gastroenteritis, especially among children, were first clustered in coastal wards. Then it began to spread to nearby panchayats. The outbreak lasted one-and-a-half months and is the first documented norovirus outbreak in the State,” says S. Shaji, district surveillance officer, who led the investigation. Between June 26 and 30, 256 cases of acute gastroenteritis with vomiting and diarrhoea as predominant symptoms were reported. Though the outbreak was spreading rapidly, the disease was self-limiting and over 92% of the patients required just outpatient care. It emerged during the investigation that the outbreak had begun some 10 days after a pipe burst in the Alappuzha municipal area that disrupted public water supply. During this period, people were being supplied water from external sources such as RO (reverse osmosis) plants. Samples of stored drinking water from public supply collected from the house of a patient revealed the presence of coliform bacteria (180/100 ml/mpn), while some samples from the municipal area did not even have the presence of chlorine. In the infected areas, most homes had septic tanks but there were also houses without a sanitary latrine or even a pit latrine. Stool samples from patients did not reveal the presence of any bacterial pathogens and were negative for hepatitis A, rota virus and enteroviruses. Following this, 11 stool samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology in Alappuzha and RT-q PCR confirmed the presence of norovirus. The presence of coliform in drinking water clearly indicated faecal contamination and noroviruses are spread through the consumption of contaminated food or water or surfaces contaminated by an infected person. Previous outbreaks “We do not know if there have been previous norovirus outbreaks in the State because unless detailed laboratory investigations are conducted into a diarrhoeal outbreak, the virus is not easily identified. It was the rapid pace at which it was spreading and the fact that lab investigations did not yield any pathogens which led us to a detailed investigation,” Dr. Shaji says. Though it was evident that contaminated water was the source of infection, authorities were unable to pinpoint the source of infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/a-norovirus-outbreak-that-went-unnoticed/article37514539.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Positive outcome from southern zonal meet’||On efforts to amicably resolve the river water sharing dispute with Tamil Nadu, Mr. Bommai said, “The Cauvery water dispute dates back to pre-Independence days. They have maintained their stance since then. There is always politics over the issue in Tamil Nadu. We have objected to their project downstream, and they have objected to our project (Mekedatu). There needs to be a fair and just decision.” Referring to other discussions at the meeting, the Chief Minister said he raised the issue of handing over railway land for metro rail projects and presence of antibiotics in fish catch that has hurt exports. During his stay in Tirupati, the Chief Minister visited the site on Tirumala where a Karnataka Bhavan is being built at a cost of around Rs. 200 crore for the benefit of pilgrims from the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/southern-zonal-meeting-outcome-positive-cm/article37514315.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||In one voice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-one-voice/article37514292.ece
16 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||GSI to do earthquake study in Idukki dam||The Geological Survey of India (GSI) will conduct a micro-earthquake zone study in the Idukki dam, one of the largest in Asia. The expert team is scheduled to visit the dam next week and a report will be submitted to the Union Government in four months, sources in the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) said. The visit is in the wake of a number of aftershocks reported in the area since February 2020. The study was delayed due to various reasons, including the pandemic. A senior dam safety official said on Monday that it was part of an earthquake-zone study across the country and the features of rock formation and existence of any active fault zone would be probed. The study assumes significance considering the vast catchment area of the reservoir and the presence of 10 small dams within a radius of 40 km. The team comprises experts in earthquake science and engineers. Field survey A two-member team will reach the district next week. The report will be based on a field survey using modern equipment. The dam safety wing of the KSEB will provide support to the team. An expert committee with Samir Kumar Shukla, Director, Foundation Engineering and Special Analysis, Central Water Authority, as chairman and Preetha R., Deputy Chief Engineer, Dam Safety Organisation, as convener was formed earlier. The other members of the panel are C.V.R. Murty of Chennai IIT; Ishwer Datt Gupt, former director, Central Water and Power Research Station; Sandip Kumar Som, Deputy Director General, GSI, Western Region; and Aloushy Paul, former Executive Engineer, KSEB. Earlier, seismologist Harsh K. Gupta reported that the Idukki dam was one of the nine main dams in the world in consideration of earthquake possibilities. A report of the Building Materials Promotion and Technology Council under the Union Government reported that the possibility of earthquake was above 50% in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gsi-to-do-earthquake-study-in-idukki-dam/article37514658.ece
16 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Mullaperiyar, Idukki water levels inch up||The water levels at the Mullaperiyar and Idukki dams were rising slowly on Monday despite Tamil Nadu increasing the tunnel discharge from Mullaperiyar and the opening of a shutter of the Cheruthoni dam of the Idukki reservoir on Sunday. The water level at the Idukki dam was 2,399.16 ft at 5 p.m. on Monday. The red alert level is 2,399.03 ft and the upper rule curve at 2,400.03 ft. Gate 3 of the Cheruthoni dam remained raised to 40 cm, releasing 40 to 50 cusecs of water. Power generation The shutter was opened to regulate the water level when it was nearing the red alert level on Sunday. The power generation at the Moolamattom power plant was at a high of 16.418 million units on Sunday. The water level in Mullaperiyar at 6 p.m. was 140.40 ft on Monday. The rule curve level till November 20 is 141 ft and the maximum storage level is 142 ft. Tamil Nadu drew more water from Mullaperiyar on Monday to maintain the water level for some time. At 6 p.m., the tunnel discharge was 2,300 cusecs while the average inflow was 2,612 cusecs. When the water level reached 140 ft on Sunday, Tamil Nadu issued the first flood warning. Idukki Collector Sheeba George said the spillway shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam could be opened and water released to the Periyar. She said those living near the banks should take precautionary measures.  Water level at Mullaperiyar at 140.4 ft despite T.N. drawing more water||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mullaperiyar-idukki-water-levels-inch-up/article37514665.ece
16 November 2021||KALADY,KERALA||Sanskrit varsity honours PhD scholars||The PhD scholars of Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady, who obtained their degrees from March, 2018 to July, 2021, were honoured by the varsity on Monday. Mubarak Pasha P.M., Vice Chancellor of Sree Narayana Guru Open University, was the chief guest. He handed over honorary medals to the PhD holders. Dharmaraj Adat, Vice Chancellor of Sanskrit University, presided over the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sanskrit-varsity-honours-phd-scholars/article37514635.ece
16 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Project to issue Unique Disability Identity Cards in limbo||It was not a pleasant experience for K.N. Anand, a differently abled person with partial blindness, when he approached the authorities for his Unique Disability Identity Card. The delay by the health department in verifying and issuing the cards to 18,000 differently abled applicants in Kannur for the past three years cost him an opportunity to apply for the Ph.D. course this year at Annamalai University, where they demanded the Unique Disability Identity Card after they found the permanent disability card issued by the health department was written in Malayalam. It was in 2019 that he had applied for the card. Initially, the delay came from the Social Security Mission, which waited for collecting all the applications from the differently abled people, said Mr. Anand, who is also the vice president of the Differently Abled Employees’ Association and a teacher at the Narath AUP school. However, the work was pending with the health department, which was supposed to form an expert committee to verify the permanent disability card and issue the Unique Disability Identity Card, he said. It would not be a Herculean task given that they had verified the genuineness of the applicants who had already provided information regarding their disabilities. He said the Unique Disability Identity Card project was implemented to encourage transparency, efficiency, and ensure ease of delivering government benefits to persons with disabilities. Mr. Anand said that differently abled persons had reservations in job, education and enjoyed various benefits such concessions in journey by train. The card would help to ease the problems faced by them in getting their rights, he said. However, the inordinate delay and laxity shown by the government officials in issuing the card was a blatant violation of their rights, he said. T. Jayakumar, Kannur district secretary, Differently Abled Persons’ Welfare Federation, and former member of State Advisory Board, said that though the health department had received 18,000 applications, just over 5,000 cards had been issued in Kannur. He alleged that the Social Security Mission, which collected data and uploaded it, had made many errors in the data. He said the issue was not confined to Kannur, but across the State. Except for Malappuram, where about 10,000 applications were processed, in all other districts, the applications were pending before the health department, he said. K. Aneesh, district coordinator, Social Security Mission, said that they had completed the process of collecting the applications, which started in 2019. The applications were updated through Akshay Kendra and it was submitted to the health department for verification and issuing the identity cards. He said that over 18,000 applications had been processed for approval by the health department. There had been no delay by the Social Security Mission, he said. Dr. Shaj, Kannur Deputy District Medical Officer, said that the COVID outbreak had left them short of doctors. Besides, they were awaiting a reply from the Social Security Mission from which they had requested data entry operators, computers, and also doctors to verify the claims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/project-to-issue-unique-disability-identity-cards-in-limbo/article37514600.ece
16 November 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Second accused in murder case arrested||The police have arrested the second accused in the murder case of 75-year-old Ayesha, who was living alone in Kannur. The police nabbed Nazarul Islam from Assam. He was brought to Kannur by a police team comprising Chakkarakkal Additional SI Aneesh Kumar and civil police officers Sajith V, Nazar C.P. and Vijinesh. CRPF support The accused was nabbed by the Kannur police team with the help of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). Nazarul is an accomplice of Mahibul Islam, the first accused in the case. Ayesha was attacked by the accused when she came out of the house to close the water tap on September 23. She died on September 29 while undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-accused-in-murder-case-arrested/article37514602.ece
16 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KUFOS submits interim report on protection of Chellanam||The Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS) has submitted an interim report on the restoration of Chellanam panchayat and the creation of a model fishing village to the Fisheries Department, identifying agencies to carry out a score of proposals that emerged out of widespread consultations, including interactions with and inputs from stakeholders in the coastal panchayat. The suggestions include immediate measures to be taken up to protect the coast, to improve infrastructure, ensure economic and social security, address livelihood and health issues as well as using the potential for creation of energy from waves and tides using T-shaped groynes. Appointing a special officer for the execution of the projects in Chellanam with all powers, including the authority to evict unauthorised constructions; a real-time monitoring facility for the entire coastal segment; and establishment of a multi-storey complex with a minimum total area of 9,000 sq. m. to rehabilitate people during emergencies are among the suggestions. The facility may be utilised for other purposes when it is not used for rehabilitation, and can be monitored and administered under the Local Self-Government Department and KUFOS, according to the interim report. One of the top priorities is for starting coastal protection measures suggested by the National Centre for Coastal Research and KUFOS under the aegis of the Department of Irrigation and other institutions with similar capabilities. Use of material dredged from the Kochi shipping channel should also be undertaken with the help of agencies such as the Cochin Port Trust and agencies designated by the State Government, said the interim report. It also highlighted the use of bio-shields as a capable line of defence against sea erosion. Encroachments One of the findings of the preliminary survey of Chellanam panchayat, which has a population of around 16,000, is that though the panchayat has the sea on the west and backwaters on the eastern side, there is no proper drainage system for stormwater as well as water coming in from the sea during rough sea conditions. Re-establishment of the canal and drainage systems at Chellanam and nearby areas by evicting encroachments and unauthorised constructions, is a must for the smooth flow of water, the report pointed out. The Local Self-Government Department should be involved in carrying out the tasks. Establishment of a full-fledged government hospital and recreational facilities under the aegis of the Health Department is another key suggestion in the interim report. On the livelihood and income augmentation fronts, the report said that aquaculture, including promotion of pearlspot cultivation and pearlspot seed production, revival of agricultural activities, including pokkali rice, and encouraging small-scale industries using locally available raw materials should be priorities. Developing “water consciousness” among the residents through awareness programmes and preparing students to take competitive examinations in public services are other areas needing attention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kufos-submits-interim-report-on-protection-of-chellanam/article37514637.ece
16 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Court holds invalid nod for swap transplants only between relatives||The Kerala High Court on Monday ruled that that “swap transplants” will be permissible even if each pair of donor-recipients were not near-relatives, provided there existed a special reason for the donor to donate an organ. Justice N. Nagaresh also held inoperative the provisions under the head “swap donation” contained in the Guidelines for Altruistic and Exchange Donation framed by the State Government to the extent it permits swap donations only between near-relatives as it went against the provisions of Section 9(3) of the Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Act, 1994. Authorisation panel  When Section 9(3) permitted transplant of organs to persons not being a near-relative, with the prior approval of the Authorisation Committee, there was no logic or rationale to say those swap transplants would not be allowed when members of each pair were not near-relatives, even if the committee approved such transactions, the court observed. Blood group  According to this law, an unrelated donor could donate his or her kidney to a recipient whose family member would in return donate one kidney to another patient. This method is successful for those whose blood group does not match within the family and requires kidney donation from a stranger. The court made the ruling while allowing a writ petition filed by Moideenkutty of Malappuram, and three others challenging the order of the Authorisation Committee for Transplantation of Human Organs rejecting their plea for swap transplantation. The court observed that the Act contemplated non-near relative organ transplantation and the condition was that the donor should have a special reason for giving authorisation for transplantation and prior approval should be obtained from the committee. The prime purpose of the enactment was to facilitate the transplantation of human organs for therapeutic purpose. The petitioners pointed out that the Authorisation Committee rejected their applications holding that the petitioners did not come under the purview of near-relative as per the Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Act. Urgent transplantation  They required urgent kidney transplantation and rejection of their applications would offend their right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-holds-invalid-nod-for-swap-transplants-only-between-relatives/article37514624.ece
16 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Many vehicles damaged as driver loses control over bus||Over a dozen vehicles, mainly cars and autorickshaws, parked on Foreshore Road in the city were damaged and a few people suffered minor injuries, after the driver of a private bus lost control over the vehicle and it rammed the other vehicles on Monday morning. The Ernakulam Central Police have registered a case. “Prima facie, it appears that the brake pedal of the bus broke and the driver lost control of the bus at a curve. A case has been charged against the driver for rash driving and for causing injury to road users, under Sections 279, 337 and 338 of the Indian Penal Code. The Motor Vehicles Department [MVD] is probing the technical aspects and the road worthiness of the bus to verify whether any such anomaly could have triggered the accident. The damage to the dozen vehicles into which the bus rammed is being assessed,” said police sources. A City Traffic Police official said a probe was on to ascertain whether it was indeed a case of rash driving or whether the brake pedal of the bus had broken as the driver claimed. A team of MVD personnel would inspect the bus and ascertain whether the brake pedal broke in the aftermath of the accident or before, he said. The traffic police would shortly launch a WhatsApp number to which complaints of rash driving could be sent, with video or photo of such vehicles, he added. A senior MVD official said the bus ‘Mariya’ that operated in the Edakochi-Kakkanad route had fitness certificate that would expire on November 24 and valid insurance. There were innumerable complaints pending against the bus regarding rash driving and student concession, he said. Preliminary data gathered after inspection of the bus suggests that the accident was caused after the brake pivot bolt broke. There is proof of recent welding work of brake joints. The accident could have been the result of either a ‘lock nut’ not having been used or of such a nut not having been fastened properly. The bus had halted at a stop nearly 600 m away from the accident spot and there appears to have been no problem with the brake. Such badly-maintained public transport vehicles had become common after the Centre amended the Motor Vehicles Act and made fitness test mandatory once every two years, said the sources. The test was done annually earlier.  A team of MVD personnel will inspect the bus and ascertain whether the brake pedal broke in the aftermath of the accident or before City Traffic Police official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-vehicles-damaged-as-driver-loses-control-over-bus/article37514629.ece
16 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam gets relief from heavy rain||The threat of possible floods receded on Monday in most parts of Ernakulam district as the rain relented, allowing brief spells of sunshine even as the day continued to be cloudy and overcast. There was a long spell of relief between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. on the day in most parts of Kochi after heavy showers from early hours. A heavy spell of rain pounded the city and suburbs after about 3 p.m., the showers lasting about an hour or more. IMD data showed Ernakulam district received much less rain on Monday than on Sunday. According to the reports, Aluva received 21 mm of rain, while the Naval Air Station in Kochi received 6.6 mm of rain. Ernakulam South received 3.3 mm of rain and Nedumbassery airport area received 3.3 mm of rain. Piravom saw 6.4 mm of rain while Perumbavoor has been witness to the highest rainfall at 29 mm on Monday. A yellow alert has been declared in Ernakulam district for Tuesday in view of prediction of heavy rain on the day. Meanwhile, members of the National Disaster Relief Force met District Collector Jafar Malik at the district headquarters on Monday in view of the rain warnings. According to Revenue Department communication, two houses were partially damaged in the district between November 10 and 15 in heavy rain. The total number of houses damaged in the State was 240. Isolated instances of heavy to very heavy rain can be expected in Ernakulam on Tuesday while light to medium rain has been predicted for the following three days. Ernakulam district has received over 560 mm of rain between October 1 and November 15 this year, which is a large excess amount of rain with 106% departure from the average rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-gets-relief-from-heavy-rain/article37514634.ece
16 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Local bodies in district shift focus to post-COVID care||The local bodies in the district have started shifting their focus to post-COVID-19 care and support in view of the dip in the number of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2. The ward-level samithis set up amid the peak in the number of cases have slowed down daily activities, citing the drop in cases and increase in vaccination coverage in Ernakulam. Some of the follow-up measures being initiated include organising post-COVID clinics and centres. “We are planning a post-COVID rehabilitation centre to address the health issues being faced by people. It will come up at the family health centre in Binanipuram using the corporate social responsibility fund of a public sector company,” said Suresh Muttathil, president of Kadungalloor panchayat. “The ward-level samithis are not as active as before in view of the general decline in the number of COVID-19 cases. However, ASHA workers remain active and continue to keep a vigil over the pandemic situation,” he said. Immunity boosters Leeja Thomas, president of Kumbalanghi panchayat, said the post-COVID measures include distribution of immunity boosters from the Government Ayurveda and Homoeopathy hospitals and through sustained interventions by ASHA workers. “The ward-level samithis are not active compared to the months following the second wave. It was not required as about 90% of the target population had received the second dose of vaccination. The number of cases has also gone down considerably,” she said. Paravur block panchayat president Simna Santhosh said they had a help desk to help COVID-19 patients and to co-ordinate with the public on various aspects related to the disease. “We are also offering the services of two psychologists as a post-COVID support mechanism,” she said. Ms. Santhosh pointed out that the block panchayat authorities were also taking stock of the number of positive cases and updating it at the panchayat-level. “The monitoring has been stepped up, especially after schools reopened on November 1,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-bodies-in-district-shift-focus-to-post-covid-care/article37514638.ece
16 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Car accident in city: driver interrogated||The police team that is probing the incident in which Miss Kerala 2019, the runner-up title winner, and a youth died after the car in which they were travelling rammed a tree beside the NH Bypass at Chakkaraparambu on November 1, interrogated Abdul Rahman, 25, of Mala, who was behind the wheels of the ill-fated car and the sole person, who survived the accident. This was after a magistrate court granted custody of the youth who had been charged with causing the accident, to the police for a duration of three hours. The police had sought his custody for three days. Abdul Rahman was later granted bail by the court. His counsel had opposed the request for police custody, citing that he was under severe mental trauma, having been injured in the accident. The beauty pageant winners had died on the spot in the accident, which is said to have been caused by intoxicated and rash driving. Arrested with drugs A youth was arrested on the charge of peddling synthetic drugs among students and youths, from Kadavanthra on Monday. Seth Joseph Varghese, 24, of Athirampuzha, Kottayam, was arrested with 20 “Ecstasy tablets”, that were sold under brand names ‘Bitcoin’ and ‘Red Bull’. Having purchased them at Rs. 600 apiece from Goa, he used to sell them for Rs. 1,500 per pill. The police have sought information from the public to nab drug peddlers. Information can be passed on through WhatsApp number 99959 66666, or the mobile number of the Assistant Commissioner of Police (Narcotics) 94979 90065 or at 94979 80430. Details of the informers would be kept confidential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/car-accident-in-city-driver-interrogated/article37514620.ece
16 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Bail granted to third accused in actor sexual assault case||The Kerala High Court on Monday granted bail to Manikandan, the third accused in the case relating to the sexual assault of an actor, on stringent conditions. Allowing his bail petition, Justice Sunil Thomas said considering that, out of 360 witnesses, 180 witnesses had been examined and an additional 29 witnesses were to be examined, the possibility of the trial taking more time could not be completely ruled out. Besides, the petitioner had been in jail for nearly four-and-a-half years. The court also noted that, on a close evaluation of the allegation of the prosecution, the role played by the petitioner stood on a slightly lesser footing than that of the main act committed by the prime accused. Moreover, the petitioner had no criminal antecedents. Further continuation of the petitioner in jail might not be just. The petitioner contended that he had undergone a substantial period of detention, which is more than half of the maximum punishment that could be granted under the law if found guilty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bail-granted-to-third-accused-in-actor-sexual-assault-case/article37514630.ece
16 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||On offer, affordable and safe sightseeing tours from KSRTC||Close on the heels of providing accommodation in air-conditioned KSRTC buses in locales like Munnar for as low as Rs. 100 per person, the KSRTC has ventured into budget tours, to provide affordable tour packages to hitherto little-explored destinations. What began in Central Kerala with tours in KSRTC buses from bus depots in Kottayam to locales like Malakkapara through pristine forests and Thekkady, has now been extended to many other destinations. Backwater cruise In an interesting turn of events, the KSRTC has tied up with Kochi-based Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) to roll out for guests a tour package which begins from Chalakudy and returns after a Kochi backwater tour in KSINC’s cruise vessel Sagara Rani. The two-hour cruise is apart from a visit to Kuzhipilly beach. The tour envisaged from November 21 on public holidays has been priced Rs. 650 per person, KSINC sources said. For details call 97475 57737. Biju Prabhakar, CMD of KSRTC, said the tours were being organised by Budget Tours, a new vertical that has established in the agency. The aim is to make such tours affordable for commoners. “In the long run, such unexplored destinations have the potential to become tourist hubs, since many people are not any more keen on visiting popular locales like Munnar. For this, the KSRTC will also tie up with tour operators in neighbouring States, to ready tour packages to pristine, exotic locales for the common man. Such affordable, reliable, safe and secure tour packages will provide a push to budget tourism,” he said. In one such budget tour, guests who boarded the KSRTC’s chartered bus from Changanassery called at Kumbalanghi, the first model tourism village in India, on Sunday. They were given a reception at Pazhangad Junction by a team led by president of the Kumbalanghi panchayat, Lija Thomas. They checked out backwater locales, Chinese fishing nets and savoured ethnic lunch from a homestay in the iconic destination. The bus called at Anjuvilakku, Kumarakom, Andhakaranazhi, Arthungal, and Champakulam, before returning to Changanassery. The fare was Rs. 400 per person.  In the long run, such unexplored destinations have the potential to become tourist hubs, since many people are not any more keen on visiting popular locales like Munnar Biju Prabhakar CMD of KSRTC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/good-response-to-budget-tours-organised-by-ksrtc/article37514609.ece
16 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cartoonist files police complaint||Cartoonist Anoop Radhakrishnan has filed a complaint with the cyber cell of the police against “cyberbullying” by persons who claimed that one of his cartoons made in March 2020 brought dishonour to India. He said he had been receiving abusive calls from hundreds of people, who appeared to have even posted his phone number online, over the past two days. Abusive calls He said he was forced to switch off his phone following the torrent of abusive calls. The cartoon by Mr. Radhakrishnan had won honourable mention at the recently announced Kerala Lalithakala Akademi Awards, but the Bharatiya Janata Party had been quick to criticise the Akademi and the cartoonist saying the cartoon brought a bad name to the country. The cartoon depicted a cow draped in a shawl as representing India at a global meeting on COVID-19. Mr. Radhakrishnan said the cartoon was produced in the early phase of the pandemic when cow dung and cow urine were being touted as easy cures for the infection. Meanwhile, the Kerala Cartoon Academy has described as unfortunate the controversy over the cartoon that was posted on social media in March. A critical look In a statement here, the Academy said that cartoon was an art form that took a critical look at society. Both the forces in power and those in the Opposition often come up as themes of cartoons. Being a popular art form, they are always in the public eye. Both criticism and praise of cartoons and cartoonists were welcome but not beyond a certain limit, when it became abusive, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cartoonist-files-complaint-against-cyberbullying/article37514621.ece
16 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Woman dies of burns||A woman, who reportedly set herself ablaze and ran into the road at Patham Mile, Kolenchery, on Monday morning, and was battling for her life at a private hospital in Kolenchery with 95% burns, died at 6.30 p.m. on the day. Valli Subayan, who was residing at Vadayampadi and was aged around 60, was reportedly not keeping sound mental health after her son’s death. Her life could not be saved despite being put on ventilator support. The Puthencruz police have registered a case. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the helplines 104, Maithri - 0484-2540530, Thanal - 0495-2760000 and DISHA – 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-dies-of-burns/article37514632.ece
16 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||616 new cases||Around 616 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Monday. Nearly 601 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in 11 cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 7.5%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 25 included Chendamangalam (29), Thripunithura (27), and Pampakuda (27). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Kizhakkambalam, Thevara, Pallarimangalam, Vyttila, Njarakkal, Elanji, Karumaloor, Ezhikkara, Nayaramablam, Pindimana, and Vazhakulam, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/616-new-cases/article37514633.ece
16 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||VHP alleges lack of facilities at Sabarimala||The State unit of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) has blamed the government for the alleged lack of facilities in Sabarimala as the Mandala puja festival begins on Tuesday. Viji Thampi, State president of the VHP, said that the Government had failed to complete the preparatory works ahead of the pilgrimage season. Not even basic facilities Even the basic facilities like bathrooms for the devotees were not ready, he alleged. Mr. Thampi urged the authorities to carry out the road repair works and enable the smooth movement of pilgrims to Sabarimala. The Mandala puja festival this year is from November 16 to December 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vhp-alleges-lack-of-facilities-at-sabarimala/article37514625.ece
16 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Army help sought for bridge’||The Union Government on Monday told the Kerala High Court that the State Government’s request to construct a Bailey bridge across the Njunangar river at Pampa has been forwarded to the Army headquarters. When a suo motu case initiated by the court came up for hearing, S. Manu, Assistant Solicitor General, submitted that the Army’s decision was awaited. The court initiated suo motu proceedings last week based on the report of Sabarimala Special Commissioner that the Njunangar bridge was recently damaged in the heavy rain. The report had sought an alternative arrangement ahead of the Sabarimala pilgrimage season. The court had directed the Government to request the Army to construct the bridge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/army-help-sought-for-bridge/article37514623.ece
16 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||UDF returns to power in Kottayam municipality||Just over 50 days after its ouster through a vote of no confidence, the United Democratic Front (UDF) on Monday returned to power in the Kottayam municipality. In the election at the municipal council here, previous chairperson Bincy Sebastian got 22 votes while Sheeja Anil of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) got 21 votes. Reeba Varkey, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate, got eight votes. By one vote With none of the candidates obtaining the minimum number of votes required, another round of election was held after excluding the candidate who had received the least number of votes. The UDF candidate, who led by one vote in the second round, was declared the winner. Though the LDF has 22 members in the council, one of its members, T.N. Manoj, could not attend the election due to ill health. The victory on Monday, which comes on the heels of a similar triumph at Erattupetta last month, serves as a morale booster to the UDF. Soon after its ouster from power in both the municipalities, the Congress-led coalition had launched a hard-hitting campaign accusing the LDF of joining forces with communal forces. Caught on the back foot, the Left coalition immediately decided against staking claim to the chairperson’s post in both the civic bodies. Draw of lots After the local body elections last year, the UDF had come to power in the Kottayam municipality through a draw of lots. But in September, the LDF had successfully moved a no-trust motion against Ms. Sebastian, which received the votes of all eight BJP councillors in the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-returns-to-power-in-kottayam-municipality/article37514668.ece
16 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||ANERT to set up vaccine cold storage facility at medical college hospital||The Agency for New and Renewable Energy Research and Technology (ANERT), a nodal agency of the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy, is all set to introduce a hi-tech solar-powered vaccine cold storage facility at Kozhikode Medical College Hospital (KMCH) to support cost-effective and secure preservation of life-saving vaccines maintaining the adequate refrigerated cold chain network. It is claimed to be the first such ANERT initiative in Kerala, where renewable energy is used to power a customised outdoor container with remote temperature monitoring system, closed-circuit television camera surveillance and walk-in option to easily access the stock. Only some flooring works are now remaining at the spot. ANERT technicians and the medical college authorities have been working for the realisation of the unique project for over six months. The trial operation is claimed to be a big success, according to some of the senior officials with the medical college pharmacy. Officials with the Kerala State Medical Supplies Cooperation are also happy with the output of the system, which is expected to be commissioned within a few weeks. “The biggest advantage of the solar-powered cold storage is that it can assure us zero or minimal operational cost. Apart from this, the medical college will have an additional storage space ready to keep the required vaccines on time, noticing the actual requirements and available stock,” said P. Jayachandran, a senior pharmacist with KMCH who proposed the idea and approached the ANERT team for the project. He also recalled the support of KMCH Superintendent M.P. Sreejayan for the quick execution of the idea by clearing all technical hurdles. The system can function on both grid power and alternative power supply in case of insufficient solar energy. If there is a temperature fluctuation, the cold storage room can automatically switch to the available alternative power supply for ensuring an unbroken cold chain. The model is likely to be proposed in other government medical colleges and hospitals as well on completion of the successful commissioning here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anert-to-set-up-vaccine-cold-storage-facility-at-medical-college-hospital/article37514616.ece
16 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Reason behind toddler’s death yet to be confirmed||Health Department staff are yet to figure out what led to the death of two-and-a-half-year-old Yamin from Narikkuni on Saturday, a couple of days after having food from a wedding event though they still suspect it is a case of food poisoning. According to local health workers, the boy had food at both the bride and bridegroom’s places last week. It was served by four separate teams of caterers. Though inspections were conducted by the Food Safety and Health Departments, they are yet to zero in on a specific reason. Kin discharged Meanwhile, Yamin’s mother and 11 other children who sought treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, have returned home. Food Safety officials said that one of the catering units that served chicken dishes at the bridegroom’s place did not have a licence and its premises were found to be unclean. The unit had been sealed. Water samples too were collected from here and the bridegroom’s house. Food was prepared by a cook at the bride’s place, but none seems to have had any problem after eating it. At the same time, some others had symptoms of food poisoning after they ate the snacks distributed during the wedding reception. A bakery from where pastry was procured was found to have unhygienic premises. However, the unit that made chicken rolls was operating in line with the laws. The officials said that since most of those who were affected were children, their statements were contradictory. There are some who reported stomach upset and others who did not have any problem after eating the same food. The Food Safety Department has asked all catering units to keep samples of food sealed in freezers for at least two days and produce them for lab tests, if it is required.  A catering unit that served chicken dishes did not have a licence and its premises were found to be unclean||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reason-behind-toddlers-death-yet-to-be-confirmed/article37514614.ece
16 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||No action against illegal advertisements on allergy||The Health Department is constrained by legal limitations while taking action against the illegal advertisements on allergy testing camps, being carried on front pages of major daily newspapers in the State quite regularly now. These advertisements urge people to give their blood samples at a rate of Rs. 3,600 at designated laboratories in each district. Test results are promised in a month and further treatment to patients will be offered if additional charges are paid. The advertisements are placed by Jerath Path Labs & Allergy Testing Centre, Specialty Diagnostic Laboratories, based in Chennai. ‘A fraud’ An inquiry by the vigilance wing of the department, however, has found that these laboratories are based in Punjab. Though those representing the laboratories claimed that they would provide the results within a month, dermatologists, pulmonologists and general medicine experts have said that it is a fraud. The Academy of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine too said that allergy cannot be detected through blood tests alone. Without licence Meanwhile, the Kerala State Council for Clinical Establishments found that many of these designated laboratories are operating without a licence. The vigilance wing forwarded details of the inquiry conducted by an additional district medical officer, Thiruvananthapuram, to the Director of Health Services on Friday. A senior Health Department official told The Hindu on Sunday that though the council could impose a fine on them after registering a case, it would not prove to be a lasting solution. “We do not have stern laws to deal with this issue. The Government should come up with a legislation,” the official said. The vigilance wing has sought setting up of a panel of expert doctors in subjects such as pulmonology, dermatology, general medicine, and pathology from government medical college hospitals to figure out what can be done. Misleading Earlier, the Consumer Complaints Council of the Advertising Standards Council of India had called the claims in these advertisements “misleading by exaggeration” that “are likely to lead to widespread disappointment in the minds of consumers.” M.P. Anil Kumar, functionary of the Campaign Against Pseudo Science Using Law and Ethics, a wing of the Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad, had filed a complaint with the Health Department as well as the advertising council against these advertisements.  The Academy of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine says allergy cannot be detected through blood tests alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-action-against-illegal-allergy-ads-for-now/article37514610.ece
16 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Labourers hurt in roof collapse||Nine migrant labourers were injured when the concrete roof of an under-construction building collapsed on them at Cherukulathoor near Peruvayal in Kozhikode district on Monday afternoon. They were taken to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. Sources said that their condition is not serious. Two units of fire force personnel reached the spot and pulled out the labourers trapped in the concrete debris. The house belonged to Venmarayil Arun. Eyewitnesses said that the old tiled roof of the house had been concretised. The incident occurred at around 2.30 p.m. when the labourers were plastering the structure. The whole roof collapsed on them. While seven persons were rescued first by local residents, a Herculean task awaited the police and fire force personnel when they tried to help the two others to come out. The ninth labourer lay trapped amid the debris and only his hand could be seen outside. Concrete slabs on top of him were cut and the boulders around him were removed one by one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nine-labourers-injured-as-roof-collapses-on-them-in-kozhikode/article37514613.ece
16 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Campaign against ‘Islamophobia’ begins||The Kerala chapter of the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH) on Monday started a month-long campaign in the State to dispel the perceived Islamophobia in the State. The JIH leaders said that the programme in each district was intended to remove the misunderstandings and perceived notions against Islam that had been surging for quite some time in the State. “Unlike in other parts of the country, the Kerala society has been upholding pluralistic values with the coexistence of all religions. But now, Islamophobia has been spreading aimed at dividing people on religious lines,” P. Mujeeb Rahman, State general secretary, JIH Kerala, said. The focus of the State-wide campaign was to make the public aware of Islam and to create a transparent dialogue among various groups. “The Sangh Parivar organisations have largely contributed to the Islamophobic attitudes in the State. So also, the immature outlook of several Christian groups has led to the situation,” he said. JIH State secretary Shaikh Muhammad Karakunnu said that the CPI(M) was also maintaining a stoic silence for political reasons. “Unfortunately, the State machinery has not dealt with the matter. Our aim is to bridge the gap which has been dividing the social and secular fabric of the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/campaign-against-islamophobia-begins/article37514619.ece
16 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||A special show at art gallery concludes||Walking into the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi Art Gallery in Kozhikode on Monday, it was not the usual artistic brilliance that awaited one, but the peak of imagination from three very special artists, on display. The exhibition of works by Vaishnav Prathyu, Sneha Kailas, and Hatim Hussain that concluded on Monday featured more than 50 paintings by the trio, who are students of Thanal, a centre for empowerment of differently abled people, at Malaparamba. It was Vaishnav’s dedicated efforts to make the lockdown interesting that led to the exhibition, in which a majority of paintings were by him. This 19-year-old had presented a variety of themes and instances from daily life and mythology to come up with these works, which are mostly done in pencil with occasional usage of water colours. A few paintings by Sneha and Hatim are completely in water colour though. Vaishnav and 21-year-old Sneha are involved in a variety of activities, including dance and theatre. They had staged a play in four stages in Bahrain just before the lockdown. Sneha had even been a participant of the Miss Kerala pageant recently and had won prizes in the special category. Hatim, 12, is more inclined to fine arts than performances and is a skilled calligraphy artist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-special-show-at-art-gallery-concludes/article37514605.ece
16 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Man stabs woman bank employee in office||The Balussery police on Monday arrested a 47-year-old man from Nanminda, who allegedly stabbed a woman bank employee while she was at work. M. Biju, the suspect in the case, was charged under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The incident took place at a cooperative bank in Nanminda around 2 p.m. According to the police, the man reached the bank with a knife in search of his former wife working there as a clerk. However, failing to identify her in mask among other employees, he attacked the woman who resembled his former wife, the police said. The woman, who sustained serious injuries on her hand, was admitted to the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-stabs-woman-bank-employee-in-office/article37514607.ece
16 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Panel orders compensation for victim of dog attack||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission on Monday asked the Kozhikode district administration to ensure a reasonable compensation and the required treatment support for a woman, who was seriously injured in the attack by three guard dogs near an estate at Ambayathode on Sunday. The panel came in support of the woman subsequent to the arrest of Roshan, 34, who allegedly owned the dogs and failed to handle them properly. K. Baijunath, judicial member of the commission, who issued the order, also directed the district administration to submit a report in 15 days carrying the details of actions taken on the basis of the latest order. According to the Thamarassery police, the victim, Fousiya, 38, was mauled by the three ferocious dogs while she was on her way to pick her children from a madrasa at Ambayathode. It was a few local people who rescued the woman and took her to the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital. According to police sources, there was a similar incident last month as well in which the victim was an elderly man. “The woman sustained serious injuries on her face and hand. It was a narrow escape for her,” said a police official. He said the youth involved in the incident was charged under Section 289 (punishment for negligent conduct with respect to animals) and 324 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-orders-compensation-for-victim-of-dog-attack/article37514606.ece
16 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Kalpathy fete to conclude today||The Kalpathy festival will culminate on Tuesday evening with the convergence of the chariots carrying the major deities of the heritage village. The Kalpathy chariot festival culminates on the first day of the Malayalam month of Vrishchikam. The finale of the Kalpathy chariot festival will mark the beginning of the temple festivals across the district. The convergence of the deities of New Kalpathy Manthakkara Mahaganapathy Temple, Old Kalpathy Laxminarayana Perumal Temple, Chathapuram Prasanna Mahaganapathy Temple, in front of the Kalpathy Sree Visalakshi Sametha Sree Viswanatha Swamy Temple is considered the most auspicious moment of the chariot festival. Although thousands of people used to witness the annual convergence of chariots, the restrictions imposed on the conduct of the festival this time will take the sheen off the major function. Small chariots were used as the total number of the gathering was restricted to 200. Priest felicitated The chief priest of Manthakkara Mahaganapathy Temple, Ayyu Venkateswara Sharma, was felicitated on Monday in recognition of his completing 50 years of service to the community. A souvenir was also released in honour of Ayyu Sharma. The 112-page book titled Vande Gananayakam was a compendium on Kalpathy, its history, heritage, Vedic and cultural traditions, festival and social life. Those who attended the function held at Mahaganapathy Kalyana Mandapam, New Kalpathy, remembered Ayyu Sharma’s contributions towards Kalpathy’s cultural enrichment. Begun as an Archaka in 1971, Ayyu Sharma rose to the level of an Acharya and became a guide and source of inspiration for the people of Kalpathy. Ayyu Sharma is arguably the only priest in the State who mastered the Sapta-Kanta of Yajurveda Samhita.   Vande Gananayakam , a compendium on Kalpathy, its history, heritage, Vedic and cultural traditions, festival and social life, released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kalpathy-fete-to-conclude-today/article37514652.ece
16 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Sabarimala opens for pilgrim season||Marking the beginning of the two-month-long annual pilgrimage, the doors of the Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala opened for the annual Mandalam-Makaravilakku season on Monday. Outgoing head priest (Melsanthi) V.K. Jayaraj Potti opened the sanctum sanctorum in the presence of chief priest (Tantri) Kandararu Mahesh Mohanararu at 5 p.m. This was followed by the opening of the upadevata temples and transferring of the scared fire to the aazhi . Later in the day, the installation of newly selected Melsanthis for the Ayyappa temple and the Malikappuram Devi temple — N. Parameswaran Namboothiri and Sambhu Namboothiri — was performed. The new Melsanthis will hold charge of their respective temples for the next one year. The devotees who have booked for darshan through the virtual queue system will be permitted entry to the hill shrine from Tuesday morning onwards. As many as 680 police officers have been deployed across the pilgrimage zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-opens-for-pilgrim-season/article37514672.ece
16 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Rain leaves a mark on rivers, roads||With rain showing no signs of abating, several parts of Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha continued to reel under a flood situation on Monday. District Collectors of Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Pathanamthitta have declared holiday for all educational institutions, including professional colleges, in their respective areas on Tuesday too. Inflow to all major rivers, including the Manimala, the Pampa, and the Achencoil, has decreased though the rivers remained above the danger level. Most roads remained waterlogged. Floodwater entered more areas of Upper Kuttanad, necessitating the evacuation of more families to relief camps. As on Monday evening, Pathanamthitta had 69 relief camps accommodating 2,410 persons from 740 families, while in Alappuzha 619 persons were accommodated in 26 camps. Kottayam has seven camps that accommodated 187 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-leaves-a-mark-on-rivers-roads/article37514670.ece
16 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||All steps for medical aid for pilgrims: Minister||Taking into account the start of the annual pilgrimage season at Sabarimala from Tuesday, special arrangements have been put in place for providing better medical aid for pilgrims, Health Minister Veena George has said. An official statement on Monday said 15 basic life support ambulances, one additional life support ambulance and two minibuses were available for the pilgrims, who could also seek medical aid in Alappuzha, Kottayam and Idukki districts, besides the facilities across Pathanamthitta. Centres The designated medical aid centres for the pilgrims are — the Community Health Centre, Erumely, Kozhencherry District Hospital, Ranni Perinad Community Health Centre, Ranni Taluk Headquarters Hospital, Pandalam Valiakoikkal Temple Midway Camp, Adoor District Hospital, Mundakayam Taluk Hospital, Kanjirappally General Hospital, Vandiperiyar Community Health Centre, Kumily Primary Health Centre, Chengannur District Hospital and Pathanamthitta District Hospital. Special aid posts have been set up at the Chengannur railway station as well as at the Mahadeva temple. Doctors supported by paramedical staff have been posted on duty at the Nilackal Primary Health Centre, Charalmedu Dispensary, Erumely Community Centre and Pathanamthitta General Hospital. Special teams are in charge of preventing epidemics and conducting mosquito-eradication drives. Health officials will make sure that the water at the Sannidhanam and nearby places is of the required quality. Antivenin Availability of doxycycline capsules used as preventive medicine for leptospirosis and anti-snake venom had been ensured, the Minister said. For medical aid, pilgrims may call Disha at 104, 1056, 0471- 2552056/2551056.  Special teams are in charge of preventing epidemics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-steps-for-medical-aid-for-pilgrims-minister/article37514651.ece
16 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||LJD factions arrive at an understanding||The warring factions of the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) appear to have finally negotiated their way towards a settlement. The understanding to end all ‘political and organisational differences within the party’ was arrived at a meeting in Kozhikode on Sunday. The reconciliation attempt, initiated by the CPI(M), was attended by LJD State president M.V. Shreyams Kumar, national general secretary Varughese George, senior leaders Sankaran, E.P. Damodaran, V.K. Kunjali and A.K. Premnath. Mr. George said “the meeting decided to send a message to the rank and file emphasising the need for the party to stay united at this crucial juncture.” The infighting between the factions supporting Mr. Shreyams Kumar and Mr. George reached a tipping point in July this year with both sides launching parallel moves to secure majority support within the party. As attempts by the LJD chief Sharad Yadav to mediate a settlement drew a blank, the George faction was counting on a possible merger with the Janata Dal (S) and Samajwadi Party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ljd-factions-arrive-at-an-understanding/article37514666.ece
16 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. tax collection registers major jump||Property tax collections at the city Corporation have witnessed a major jump in the past two months, with the civic body starting the process of cleaning up its online tax collection data and publishing the list of defaulters. Rs. 6 crore in Oct. In the month of October tax collections crossed Rs. 6 crore. According to Corporation officials, it is one of the months during which tax collections are low at around Rs. 3 crore in most years. The possible publication of names in the defaulters list seems to have driven many to clear all pending tax dues. The tax collection figures are showing a similar trend as per the figures till the middle of November. Seeing the response, the Corporation authorities are now planning to implement a system of publishing such lists of defaulters every month at the respective zonal office or main office. “We had expected a decline in tax collection following all the controversies over tax collection recently, but the reverse seems to be happening. Usually, the spike in tax payments is witnessed during the end of the financial year in March. Those who pay tax punctually often do it at the beginning of the financial year in April. But, months like October are often lean months, with a drop in collections compared to the rest of the months. That trend has changed this time,” says a Corporation official. Misappropriation The property tax collection issue came to the fore following a controversy over misappropriation of funds by some officials in zonal offices of the Corporation. The debates over this also revealed the issues concerning the Sanchaya software used for property tax collection. Some of the payments made offline as well as online were not getting reflected in the online system, as these were not being updated on the same day. The system has also been plagued with issues including database discrepancies. These technical issues are being corrected and the database cleaned up for each ward. The Corporation has over the past week been publishing the list of tax defaulters in each ward. This was mainly done to identify those who have already paid their taxes, but the details of which were not captured in the online system. But the exercise has led to some of the long-time defaulters paying their taxes. On Monday, the civic body published the defaulters' lists for Kanjirampara, Vazhuthacaud, Pangode, Jagathy, PTP Nagar, Thirumala, Valiyavila, Mudavanmugal and Punnakkamugal wards. Similar lists have already been published for the Pattom, Medical College and Thiruvallam zones, consisting of several wards. The lists for all the zones will be published before November 20. The adalats for sorting out the issues faced by those whose tax payments have not been recorded will be held from November 22. The lists are available in the Corporation's website, the Sanchaya website and at the zonal office. Those who have objections to the list can submit the same in an application form, available at the zonal offices, main office and the Corporation website, within 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-tax-collection-registers-major-jump/article37514855.ece
16 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KPCC slams Pinarayi for foiling anti-BJP alliance||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran on Monday accused Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of scuttling the CPI(M) Central committee’s gambit to move closer to the Congress fold to counter the fascist BJP-led Central government. He termed the Kerala CPI(M)’s anti-Congress stance ultimately beneficial to Hindu majoritarian forces. It was unwise and wrong of historic proportions. The Kerala faction’s stance in the CPI(M) Central committee against a compact with the Congress belied Mr. Vijayan’s soft Hindutva line. It has also thrown light on the clandestine relation the CPI(M) in Kerala has maintained with the BJP at the Centre, he said. Mr. Sudhakaran said non-BJP ruled States were aligning closer with the Congress to resist the Narendra Modi Government’s infringement of federalism and growing fascist and revanchist tendencies. At the crucial juncture, the CPI(M) in Kerala has back-stabbed secular and democratic forces’ mustering against the BJP. The Kerala CPI(M)’s Faustian pact with the BJP was evident in the Centre’s decision to soft-pedal the SNC-Lavalin corruption case against Mr. Vijayan. Mr. Sudhakaran pointed out that the multiple probes by Central agencies in the UAE gold smuggling case had come to nought as part of Mr. Vijayan’s tacit understanding with the BJP at the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kpcc-slams-pinarayi-for-foiling-anti-bjp-alliance/article37514640.ece
16 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MCH gets new casualty wing||The casualty wing of the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) commenced functioning from a new block on Monday. Located close to the main entrance of the hospital, the casualty wing integrates various speciality and super-speciality services and also enforces a system of triaging patients in red, yellow and green zones to classify medical urgency. While 12 patients can be treated at once in the red zone, the yellow zone can accommodate as many as 40 patients. Two ICUs Two intensive care units (ICU) have also been set up in the casualty wing. The unit that was set up at a cost of Rs. 35 crore will also have an emergency medicine wing and a Level 1 trauma care system. An operation theatre, digital X-ray, ultrasound scanners, Doppler machine, three CT scanners and MRI are among the other facilities. Full-fledged treatment will also be provided for stroke patients at the wing. Health Minister Veena George, who took stock of the new casualty wing, said 108 employees had been appointed for the facility. Advanced training will be imparted among the staff, she added. Medical College principal Sara Varghese and hospital superintendent A. Nizarudeen were present during the visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mch-gets-new-casualty-wing/article37514842.ece
16 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fisherfolk demand rehabilitation||Tense scenes unfolded at the regional office of the Kerala State Maritime Board in Valiyathura on Monday when numerous fisher families including those who have been languishing in relief camps for several years protested against the delay in their rehabilitation. Nearly 60 families who hailed from places including Valiythura, Puthenthope and Beemapally have been residing in four camps that have been functioning in various schools and godowns in the region since 2016. Hollow promises Such displaced families along with many others who were rendered homeless in the sea erosions that ravaged the coast during the last few years attempted to barge into the office. Accusing the government of abandoning them by making hollow promises, the agitators refused to disperse until they were provided a concrete assurance of plans to rehabilitate them by the authorities. Narrating their woes, the aggrieved families claimed they lived in pitiable and insecure conditions. A section of such dwellers who had been accommodated at the St. Roch’s High School, Thope, were also peeved at the authorities’ request to shift to a warehouse that, they alleged, lacked basic amenities. The situation threatened to take a turn for the worse when a group of the protestors attempted to jump into the sea from the Valiyathura pier. The protesters later called off their demonstration following a meeting that was convened by the Thiruvananthapuram Tahsildar S. Shaji. Mr. Shaji said the families who have been residing in relief camps would be provided priority in the Fisheries Department’s housing project that will soon get under way in Valiyathura. The construction of the new flat complex meant to accommodate 192 families will commence in January, he pointed out. To be identified He added the other beneficiaries will be identified by the Fisheries Department in accordance with government norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fisherfolk-demand-rehabilitation/article37514847.ece
16 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF demands inquiry into KIIFB||The CAG’s damning special audit of KIIFB has left the LDF government defenceless, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has said. Mr. Satheesan, who demanded an investigation into the CAG’s findings, said the report was an indictment of the opaque and corrupt functioning of the State-owned body corporate. The CAG had questioned KIIFB raising funds from the foreign financial market to fund mega public work projects. It had also pointed out the callous manner in which KIIFB withdrew deposits from banks, costing the exchequer crores in terms of interest on deposits. The special audit report had also flagged backdoor appointments in KIIFB and unjustifiably high salaries for some employees. The CAG also found anomalies in the auditing of daily spending. Sat on report Mr. Satheesan said the government had sat on the special audit report to avoid embarrassment during the Assembly session. However, the findings were trickling out into the open, and the government owed the people an explanation. Mr. Satheesan said KIIFB would sink the State in debt. Many KIIFB funded projects had floundered due to poor execution. Schemes such as ‘SilverLine’ was impractical and economically and environmentally unviable. He said everything about KIIFB and, by extension, SilverLine was opaque. The government had not conducted any study to assess the adverse environmental, financial, and social impact of SilverLine. It merely had pushed ahead with land acquisition using funds borrowed by KIIFB from the foreign market. The government had roped inexpensive and complaint consultancies to give reports that would justify SilverLine. Bifurcate State The 300-km steep railway embankment required for SilverLine would bifurcate the State and act as a barrier to natural drainage. It would exacerbate rain, flood and mud-slip damage. Moreover, SilverLine would ensnare Kerala in an irredeemable debt trap. Mr. Satheesan said Kerala should abandon SilverLine and augment the State’s current railway network.  The special audit report had also flagged backdoor appointments in KIIFB and unjustifiably high salaries for some employees||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-seeks-inquiry-into-cag-findings-on-kiifb/article37514456.ece
16 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Devaswom board chief takes charge||K.Ananthagopan was sworn in as president, Travancore Devaswom Board and Manoj Charalel as member at a function held at the TDB headquarters here on Tuesday. Devaswom secretary S.Gayatri Devi administered the oath of office. Mr. Ananthagopan said he would strive to maximise the efficiency of the Board and ensure transparency in its functioning. He said the activities of the board would be taken forward after assessing the financial situation. Mr. Ananthagopan said his first priority was to ensure the smooth conduct of the annual Sabarimala pilgrimage. The TDB president and member have been appointed for a period of two years each. Food Minister G.R.Anil, MLAs Mathew T.Thomas and Jineeshkumar, TDB member P.M.Thankappan, former TDB presidents N.Vasu and A.Padmakumar and Devaswom Commissioner B.S.Prakash were among those present. The first meeting of the new board took place after the swearing- in ceremony.  The TDB president and member have been appointed for a period of two years each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/devaswom-board-chief-takes-charge/article37514654.ece
16 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM asks MPs to back SilverLine||Kerala’s proposed semi-high-speed railway, SilverLine, topped the wish list of projects Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wanted MPs from the State to lobby with the Central Government when the Lok Sabha convenes for the winter session on November 29. However, 19 of the United Democratic Front (UDF) MPs from the State are unlikely to find common ground with the Government on SilverLine, given the coalition’s vehement opposition to the project. On the same page At the customary MPs’ conference ahead of the Parliament session, Mr. Vijayan and Opposition MPs reportedly found themselves on the same page on a host of other issues. These included the need for more doppler radars and cyclone warning systems for microlevel weather forecasting. The Centre's alleged infringements on federalism were on the table. Mr. Vijayan said the MPs should resist attempts to whittle down States’ share in the Centre’s divisible tax revenue pool. Mr. Vijayan opposed the draft Indian Ports Bill because it diluted State’s control over ports and harbours. He also asked the MPs to resist the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill which paved the way for the entry of profit-motivated private players into the power distribution sector. Kerala needed its MPs to prop up rubber prices, lobby for funds for seashore protection and rehabilitation of Non-Resident Keralites. The MPs should facilitate Centre-State synergy for basic infrastructure creation. They should insist that the GST compensation for States should be extended till 2027. Mr. Vijayan asked the MPs to ensure that the State got sectoral and State-specific grants amounting to Rs. 3,500 crore as per the recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission. The Centre should allow the States to spend more freely from disaster relief funds. Central aid Mr. Vijayan also requested the MPs to seek Central aid for light metro projects in Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode. He also demanded Central support for the expansion of the Calicut international airport, execution of the Paripally-Vizhinjam outer-ring road, setting up an All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Kinaroor and city gas distribution scheme for more municipalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-asks-mps-to-back-silverline/article37514673.ece
16 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mayor chairs meeting on flood damage in Vizhinjam||City Corporation Mayor Arya Rajendran on Monday chaired a special meeting at Vizhinjam, where damage was reported due to rains and floods. The overflowing of the Gangayar Canal had led to the flooding in recent days in the area, as per the assessment at the meeting. The Mayor directed the Irrigation Department officials to immediately begin works on the canal, that have already been tendered. Standing Committee Chairpersons, councillors, officials of the Harbour Engineering and Irrigation Departments, Corporation officials and residents of the area were present. Later, an all party meeting at the Corporation lauded the efforts of the civic body as well as the various departments which had prevented flooding in the low-lying areas of Thampanoor and East Fort, despite the heavy rains. The meeting also acknowledged the support provided by the State Government and various Ministers and MLAs from the capital in addressing the frequent flood situation in these areas. Special mechanism The meeting decided to form a special mechanism involving councillors for rescue and relief operations in areas which are facing acute problems due to floods and waterlogging. The disaster management wing, health wing and the engineering wing of the civic body will play an active role. The Corporation's round-the-clock control room will co-ordinate all the activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mayor-chairs-meeting-on-flood-damage-in-vizhinjam/article37514851.ece
16 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3 more relief camps opened in district||Three more relief camps were opened in Thiruvananthapuram on Monday with the district reporting more rainfall-related damage. This takes the total number of relief camps opened in various parts of the district over the past three days to 22. In all, 491 people are currently staying in the camps, the district administration said. The three new camps have been opened at the Government Lower Primary School, Poozhikunnu; Government LP School, Attipra; and Government HSS, Kalady, Manacaud, in Thiruvananthapuram taluk. Neyyattinkara taluk has the highest number of camps. In all, 176 people belonging to 82 families have been accommodated in eight camps here. Thirty-two families (95 people) are staying in seven camps in Thiruvananthapuram taluk, while two camps each are functioning in the Nedumangad, Chirayinkeezhu and Kattakada taluks. The District Medical Officer (DMO) has appealed to the public and relief workers to be on their guard against leptospirosis as heavy rainfall has caused waterlogging. People entering waterlogged areas should wear gloves and protective footwear, DMO Dr. K. S. Shinu said. People with injuries should not enter waterlogged areas. People who have come into contact with polluted water should immediately contact the nearest health centre if they develop high fever, headache and red eyes, Dr. Shinu said. Meanwhile, a Monday evening forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) indicated that rainfall is likely to abate in the district by Tuesday. Fishers have been advised not to venture into the sea on Tuesday as strong winds are likely to prevail along the Kerala coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-more-relief-camps-opened-in-district/article37514853.ece
16 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four arrested for attack on youth||The Fort police on Monday arrested four people for allegedly assaulting and robbing a youth few days ago. Those arrested were identified as Mithun alias Bithun, 22, of Panavoor, Shameer, 37, of Varkala, Vishnu, 29, of Pallichal, and Akbar, 45, of Vizhinjam. They have been accused of accosting and attacking Attukal native Gokul Krishna at the Central Theatre road near Pazhavangadi around 8.30 p.m. on Saturday. The gang also allegedly stole his mobile phone before fleeing from the area. The perpetrators have been involved in crimes including extortion, assault and attempt to murder under various police station limits. They have also undergone jail terms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-arrested-for-attack-on-youth/article37514849.ece
16 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held in 22-year-old burglary case||The Crime Branch on Monday cracked a two-decade-old burglary case by arresting a habitual offender who had decamped with gold ornaments and cash from a house in Sasthamangalam. A team led by Inspector Biju Kumar apprehended Kalakumar, 59, of Charuvilakom in Kowdiar in connection with a burglary in the house in 1999. The accused had stolen 45 sovereigns of gold and Rs. 2,000 from the house. The Museum police had registered a case following the incident, but the culprit remained elusive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-in-22-year-old-burglary-case/article37514844.ece
16 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Holiday for schools||Tuesday will be a holiday for schools in Kattakada, Nedumangad and Neyyatinkara taluks in view of heavy rainfall, the district administration said. However, the holiday will not apply to online classes and public examinations scheduled for Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/holiday-for-schools/article37514845.ece
16 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||118 posts sanctioned in Narayana Guru varsity||The Government has sanctioned 118 posts for the Sree Narayana Guru Open University (SNGOU) to launch 12 undergraduate and five postgraduate courses. Those sanctioned include 56 teaching posts, including four posts for directors of the university’s designated regional centres and five for the heads of its study centres. These posts are intended to be filled on deputation. The others which include posts for 46 assistant professors and the director for the Centre for Internal Quality Assurance are meant to be filled on contract basis. Five deputy registrars and assistant registrars each, and four section officers will be filled during the appointment process. The university, which had repeatedly sought the creation of posts for its full-fledged functioning, recently reiterated its demand following a Syndicate meeting last month. Bid to avoid delay While the alleged move to bypass the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) for appointments has sparked criticism, sources said the university’s prospects hinged on filling up the posts without further delay. The disinclination of distance education faculties of other universities in joining the fledgling institution put paid to the Government’s redeployment plans.  Having been unable to gain University Grants Commission (UGC) recognition for its distance education courses, the university faced the threat of missing the bus yet again due to the delay in appointments and curriculum framing process. Both factors are crucial pre-requisites for the gaining recognition. While the UGC’s Distance Education Bureau (DEB) is likely to reopen its portal to enable higher education institutions to apply in December or January, it remained doubtful if the SNGOU would be able to complete its appointment process in time. Besides, the university has completed only 40% of its curriculum development for study materials thus far. The institution would have to wait for another six months to seek approval if it failed to fast-track such activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/government-nod-for-118-posts-in-sngou/article37514649.ece
16 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mani files nomination for RS seat||Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K. Mani on Monday submitted his nomination papers for contesting the vacant seat to the Rajya Sabha (RS) from the State. Mr. Mani submitted the nomination before the Legislative Assembly Secretary here. Left Democratic Front convener A. Vijayaraghavan; CPI assistant secretary K. Prakash Babu; Ministers G.R. Anil, A.K. Saseendran, and Roshy Augustine; MLAs; and party workers accompanied Mr. Mani to file the papers. The seat fell vacant when Mr. Mani resigned from the same seat after his party shifted alliance to the LDF from the Congress-led United Democratic Front. Mr. Mani contested the last Assembly polls from the Pala constituency but lost to UDF-backed Mani C. Kappan. The last date to submit the nomination papers for the Rajya Sabha seat is November 16. The election will take place on November 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mani-files-nomination-for-rs-seat/article37514674.ece
16 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A new record for State in northeast monsoon||The rainfall received so far by Kerala during this northeast monsoon season is a new record for the State. Kerala has logged 833.8 mm of rainfall during October 1-November 15, which is a record for the State’s northeast monsoon season which lasts from October 1 to December 31. The long period average for the 46-day period till November 15 is 407.2 mm, and for the entire northeast monsoon season, 491.6 mm. Previous highest The previous highest rainfall received during the northeast monsoon season was in 2010, show India Meteorological Department data. That year, the State recorded 823.3 mm. In 1977 and 1932, the State got 805.4 mm and 797 mm. The lowest rainfall was in 2016 (185 mm). The rainfall received by Kerala in October this year also was the highest for the month since 1901. This year, the State recorded 589.9 mm in October against a long-period average of 303.4 mm for that month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-new-record-for-state-in-northeast-monsoon/article37514675.ece
16 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||4,547 new cases in State||Kerala registered 4,547 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday when 50,638 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden now stands at 50, 65,619 cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stands at 35,877 with the State adding 127 deaths to the official list on Monday. The active case pool declined further to 64,738 patients on Monday, with 6,866 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. Only 7% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals. Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 709, followed by Ernakulam 616, Kozhikode 568, Thrissur 484, Kollam 474, Kannur 371, Kottayam 226, Idukki 203, Palakkad 176, Pathanamthitta 175, Alapuzha 172, Wayanad 168, Malappuram 159 and Kasaragod 46 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4547-new-cases-in-state/article37514676.ece
16 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Body found in canal||The body of a man was recovered from a canal draining into the Vamanapuram river on Monday evening. The Venjaramoodu police have launched an investigation to identify the individual and the cause of death. The body has been shifted to the mortuary of the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/body-found-in-canal/article37514854.ece
16 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Governor to present Chancellor’s award||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan will present the Chancellor’s Award for best multidisciplinary universities and emerging (specialised) universities for 2019 and 2020 at the Raj Bhavan on Tuesday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will preside over the ceremony. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu will deliver the keynote address.  Kerala State Higher Education Council vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal, member secretary Rajan Varughese and Additional Chief Secretary (Higher Education) V. Venu will also participate. In 2019 Cochin University of Science and Technology (CUSAT) and Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University were the winners of the Chancellor’s Award in the multidisciplinary and specialised categories in 2019, as per a statement from the authorities. Awards in 2020 Mahatma Gandhi University and CUSAT were the joint winners of the Chancellor’s Award for multidisciplinary universities in 2020. Kerala Agricultural University bagged the specialised universities’ award for the same year, the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chancellors-award-to-be-presented-today/article37514664.ece
16 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Girl dies after falling into unprotected well||A four-year-old girl died after allegedly falling into an unprotected well near Venjaramoodu on Monday. The deceased was identified as Krishnapriya, daughter of Priyanka, who hails from Kamukinkuzhy. Priyanka, who had separated from her husband Vishnu, was living with her daughter and mother. According to the police, the incident occurred shortly after Priyanka had returned from her night shift at a private medical college in Venjaramoodu. Priyanka’s mother, who usually took care of the child, had gone out when the incident took place. The child is suspected to have fallen into the well while on her way to a nearby house. Local people rushed her to hospital, but her life could not be saved. The body was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/girl-dies-after-falling-into-unprotected-well/article37514843.ece
16 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IMA office-bearers take charge||The new office-bearers of the Indian Medical Association, Kerala State branch, were sworn in on Sunday at the 64th State-level meeting of the IMA. Samuel Koshy assumed office as the State president of IMA, Joseph Benaven as secretary and V.A. Sini Priyadarshini as treasurer. The meeting pledged to take an unforgiving stance against any attacks on hospitals and doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ima-office-bearers-take-charge/article37514641.ece
16 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||709 new cases in capital||The district recorded 709 COVID-19 cases and 959 recoveries as the number of active cases fell to 9,006 on Monday. The test positivity rate stood at 12.7%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/709-new-cases-in-capital/article37514848.ece
16 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU exams postponed||Kerala University has postponed all of its examinations that were scheduled to be held on Tuesday. The revised schedule will be declared later, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-exams-postponed/article37514850.ece
16 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Union Minister praises Sitaram’s Ayurveda legacy||The health-care services of Sitaram Ayurveda Limited for 100 years are a great achievement in the field of Ayurveda, Union AYUSH Minister Sarbananda Sonowal has said. He was inaugurating the centenary celebrations of Sitaram Ayurveda Limited online on Monday. “Sitaram is the first Ayurvedic institution attaining GMP certification for quality. And the contribution of Ayurveda to the health of society is immense,” the Minister said. “Institutes like Sitraram should be at the forefront of the promotion of Ayurveda in the country,” he added. The Minister presented awards — Ayurveda Ratna to Gurdeep Singh, Apoorva Vaidya to L. Mahadevan, and AYUSH Mitra posthumously to C.P. Mathew. Union Minister of State for Tourism Shripad Yasho Naik lauded Sitaram’s work in Ayurveda, Yoga and Health Tourism, and appreciated the idea of AYUSH Sancharam Award for promoting Ayurvedic Medical Tourism. AYUSH Ambassador to Switzerland Hans Wetstein, AYUSH Ambassador to Germany Marcus Heijman, and AYUSH Ambassador to Russia Yuri Kiryanov, received the AYUSH Sanchar Awards. Sitaram AYUSH Lab and Aachaara Rasaayana Portal were inaugurated by Central AYUSH Department Secretary Rajesh Kotecha. He also presented the Ekalavya Award to L. Prasad. T.N. Prathapan, MP, presided over the function. Vighnesh Devaraj, Director, Sitaram Ayurveda, and D.D. Ramanathan spoke. A webinar on diabetes was inaugurated by Health Minister Veena George. P. Balachandran MLA, National Medicinal Plant Board CEO Tanuja Nesari and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/union-minister-praises-sitarams-ayurveda-legacy/article37514802.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Safety at stake||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/safety-at-stake/article37514627.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-warpath/article37514604.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Season’s flavour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seasons-flavour/article37514618.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||In command in Kottayam||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-command-in-kottayam/article37514657.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||One huge expanse of water||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-huge-expanse-of-water/article37514662.ece
16 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hindupur MP tried to influence voters: TDP||Polling in the Penukonda Municipality has been brisk throughout the day and it ended peacefully by 5 p.m. recording a 82.63% voting. A war of words between the Telugu Desam Party and the YSR Congress Party leaders gave the district police a tough time in controlling tempers and maintaining law and order in the town. The voting in Ward 17 of the Anantapur Municipal Corporation, however, was very tardy with only 37.58% venturing out to vote in the lone ward where election was held till 5 p.m. Meanwhile, a ‘Vote Marking Swastik’ block was found outside a polling booth in Penukonda, which again led to chaos, but the polling staff immediately took it into the booth and denied there was any discrepancy, except that some voter had surreptitiously taken it out and dropped it there. Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav toured some areas and was stopped by former Penukonda MLA and TDP Hindupur unit president B.K. Parthasarathy. He complained to the police about the MP’s alleged attempt to influence the voters while the polling was in progress at Ward No.17 polling station. The police immediately rushed to the spot and ensured that Mr. Madhav, a former circle inspector, was escorted out of the area. Heightened tension was witnessed when both TDP and YSRCP leaders accused each other of influencing the voters in a wrong way and the police had to intervene to calm down the situation. Anantapur TDP district president Kalava Srinivasulu questioned the presence of Chandragiri YSRCP MLA Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy at Penukonda on the polling day and accused the ruling party of using money power and muscle power to influence the electorate. “The TDP is very strong in Penukonda, which has given the jitters to the YSRCP leadership which was using all possible dubious means to influence the voters,” Mr. Srinivaulu alleged. Election Special Observer Harshvardhan along with Joint Collector A. Siri and Penukonda Sub-Collector Mallarapu Naveen went round the polling booths to ensure a smooth process. 78% turnout in Jaggaiahpeta The polling for municipality elections for Jaggaiahpeta and Kondapalli municipalities was conducted peacefully with a turnout of 78% and 67% respectively in the district on Tuesday. Polling activity began at 7 a.m. for 31 wards in Jaggaiahpeta municipality and 29 wards in Kondapalli municipality. According to the officials, out of 57,543 voters in Kondapalli, 38,435 (66.79%) cast their vote. In Jaggaiahpeta, 33,508 (78.45%) of 42,715 voters cast their vote. Counting of the votes will be conducted on Wednesday at SGS College in Jaggaiahpeta and District ZP Girls High School in Kondapalli. Meanwhile, elections to three ZPTCs and seven MPTCs will be held in the district on Tuesday. The polling will be conducted for ZPTCs of Visannapeta, G. Konduru and Pedana and MPTCs of villages in Nagayalanka, Mudinepalli, Gannavaram, Penugranchipolu, Nuzvid and Gannavaram mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hindupur-mp-tried-to-influence-voters-tdp/article37514249.ece
16 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SSBN High School to be reopened as ‘aided’ one||Agreeing to the demands made by students and union leaders, Anantapur District Education Officer K. Samuel on Monday said that the Sri Sai Baba National(SSBN) High School will be reopened from Tuesday. Transfer of teachers The development comes after the school management gave a letter to the DEO to allow them to continue to run the school as an ‘aided’ school and transfer the 11 teachers, who were surrendered to government services, back to the SSBN. The DEO said all the 406 Telugu medium students, who were studying in the school before its closure in October and joined nearby government schools, would be sent back after giving them a transfer certificate. The Anantapur District National Education Trust had revoked its decision to surrender the ‘aided’ status of Intermediate and Degree colleges two days ago. Following pressure from students and parents, it decided to reopen the school also on Monday. The State government had on September 24 given the option to the Aided Colleges to surrender their aided posts and get derecognised and continue as private colleges. The student leaders demanded that the management hand over the college to the State government so that the purpose of setting up the college is served. They opposed the decision of P.L.N. Reddy, the current chairman of the college, to fully privatise the school and colleges as a majority of the students were from very poor backgrounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ssbn-high-school-to-reopen-as-aided-institute/article37514250.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Court asks for Centre’s stand on Kannada in UG courses||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday directed the Centre to make its stand clear on the State Government’s order of making Kannada as a compulsory language for undergraduate courses from the academic year 2021–22 on the “pretext” of implementing the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadumissued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed by Samskrita Bharati (Karnataka) Trust and other educational institutions. The petitioners have questioned the legality of the Government Orders (GOs) issued on August 7, 2021, and September, 15, 2021, making Kannada one of the two languages to be compulsorily studied in degree courses irrespective of thelanguages they studied up to Class XII, the State from which they hail from, and their mother tongue or the regional language. The Bench adjourned further hearing till November 30 while asking the Centre to make its stand clear on the issues raised in the petition and the stand of the State Government. Earlier, State Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi, while denying the allegation of the petitioners that imposing a language at undergraduate level is a contrary to the NEP, claimed that it was a policy decision of the Government to promote Kannada. At this stage, the Bench orally asked the A-G whether the State does not have any other means to promote Kannada without making it compulsory while pointing out that promoting a language was different than making it compulsory. Two levels The A-G also clarified to the court that two levels of Kannada — one for those who have studied Kannada prior to joining UG courses and the other for those who come from outside Karnataka and foreign countries for UG courses without having any knowledge of Kannada — had been prescribed. The syllabus prescribed for those from outside Karnataka and from foreign countries was only functional Kannada to ensure that they could communicate in Kannada with the locals in the State. It was also claimed on behalf of the State Government that the admission for the academic year had been already completed and the students had enrolled for various courses accepting to study Kannada as a language. The A-G also claimed that no college or students had questioned making Kannada a compulsory subject. However, the counsel for the petitioners submitted copies of letters written by some of the students admitted to a few colleges requesting the principals to allow them to opt for a language other than Kannada but their requests were turned down by the college authorities citing the State Government’s orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/court-asks-for-centres-stand-on-kannada-in-ug-courses/article37514187.ece
16 November 2021||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bid to get heritage status for jackfruit tree||A jackfruit tree, aged around 250, located 40 km from Bengaluru, is believed to be State’s oldest tree of this variety and one of the oldest in the country. The tree at Janagere village in Magadi taluk is now in the limelight as agricultural and horticultural scientists are striving to get “heritage tree” status for it. The tree has a massive canopy. With a height of 19.5 m and a trunk girth of 6.5 m, it is visible from a long distance to visitors who come to this village during summer to taste its fruits. Protected by all Ravish J.R., owner of the tree, has fenced it for protection. Villagers say that he is the 10th generation owner of the tree that has been protected not only by the family of owners, but also by the community. What makes this tree special is not just its age but also taste of its fruits and the ability of the tree to continuously bear a big number of quality fruits. “The tree yields 250 to 300 fruits a year ranging between 8 kg and 20 kg. Each fruit fetches an income of Rs. 300 to Rs. 500 depending upon the size,” says K. Narayana Gowda, former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru, who is part of a four-member study team that inspected the tree to assess its characteristics scientifically in a bid to get it heritage status. The team that included noted horticultural scientist Hittalmani and scientist-turned nursery entrepreneur Karianna besides Vikas, an assistant professor from Krishi Vigyana Kendra located at Magadi, scientifically assessed different characteristics of the tree as well as fruits. Seedlings and grafts The tree has contributed lakhs of seedlings and grafts. The then Horticultural Director M.H. Mari Gowda himself took the initiative of multiplying the seedlings of Janagere jackfruit in the 1960s itself, says Dr. Narayana Gowda. The scientists have taken up the proposal with the Central authorities along with scientific data for getting heritage status for the tree. The villagers say that Krishnaraja Wadiyar IV, who ruled the erstwhile Mysore kingdom in the first half of the 20th century, was particularly impressed by the special qualities and exquisite taste of Janagere jackfruit. These fruits were also being sent occasionally to the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, they claim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bid-to-get-heritage-status-for-jackfruit-tree/article37514189.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Centre will look into our concerns on river linking’||Claiming positive outcome from the southern zonal council meeting in Tirupati, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said instructions had been given to consider Karnataka’s concerns in the peninsular rivers inter-linking project. “Karnataka argues that the share of basin States have to be decided before working on the detailed project report involving Godavari, Krishna, Cauvery, and Palar rivers,” the Chief Minister told reporters here on his return from Tirupati. “Instructions have been issued to the Jal Shakti Ministry by Union Home Minister Amit Shah that Karnataka’s concerns had to be completely considered and discussed with the State before taking the project forward,” he said. Mr. Bommai said the State argued for early notification of the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal II award. “The case is in the Supreme Court. We have urged the Centre to declare its intent. The award came nearly 10 years ago, and I have urged that the notification be issued,” he said. The Chief Minister said, “Though Mekedatu project issue came up, there was no response owing to the absence of the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister. However, we are in touch with the Jal Shakti Ministry and will try to address the issue in the coming days.” On efforts to amicably resolve the river water sharing dispute with Tamil Nadu, Mr. Bommai said, “The Cauvery water dispute dates back to pre-Independence days. They have maintained their stance since then. There is always politics over the issue in Tamil Nadu. We have objected to their project downstream, and they have objected to our project (Mekedatu). There needs to be a fair and just decision.” Referring to other discussions at the meeting, the Chief Minister said he raised the issue of handing over railway land for metro rail projects and presence of antibiotics in fish catch that has hurt exports. “States were asked to set up more courts to try POCSO cases, and stick to the rule of filing a chargesheet within 60 days.” During his stay in Tirupati, the Chief Minister visited the site on Tirumala where a Karnataka Bhavan is being built at a cost of around Rs. 200 crore for the benefit of pilgrims from the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-will-look-into-our-concerns-on-river-linking/article37514191.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chennai-Bengaluru road gets green nod||The Expert Appraisal Committee of the Environment Ministry has recommended phase-III of the eight-lane expressway between Chennai and Bengaluru for environment clearance. The project, implemented by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), passes through Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh and Vellore, Ranipet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts of Tamil Nadu. The stretch falls in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The total length of the alignment is 106.10 km, starting from Ramapuram in Chittoor to Irungattukottai in Sriperumbudur taluk. The project is meant to improve connectivity between Bengaluru and Chennai and act as a link between the major commercial and industrial centres of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The road proposed under phase-III will have 31 major bridges, 25 minor bridges, 137 culverts, 13 vehicular underpasses, 5 vehicular overpasses, 3 light vehicle underpasses, 50 pedestrian underpasses, 7 interchanges, 3 road over-bridges and 6 toll plazas. Animal underpass One animal underpass has also been proposed on the Forest Department’s recommendation. There is also a provision for 3 truck laybys, 4 rest areas and high mast lights. The NHAI had informed the committee that there are about 16,954 non-forest trees and 2,058 forest trees in the proposed right of way and committed itself to cutting trees within formation width so as to minimise losses. “About 1,69,540 trees will be planted within the available space in the right of way... The balance will be planted in consultation with the Forest Department,” it had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chennai-bengaluru-road-project-set-for-green-nod/article37514349.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lawyers protest against transfer of Madras HC CJ||A section of lawyers practising in the Madras High Court held a silent protest outside the court premises on Monday urging the Supreme Court collegium to reconsider its recommendation to transfer the High Court's Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee to Meghalaya. The silent protest was led by N.G.R. Prasad, a senior member of the Bar and participated by advocate S. Jimraj Milton of People’s Right Protection Centre, representatives of All India Lawyers Union and many other forums.M. Velmurugan, member of Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, participated. The participants opposed frequent transfer of Madras High Court judges and insisted upon a transparent system of disclosing the reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lawyers-protest-against-transfer-of-madras-high-court-chief-justice/article37514298.ece
16 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kuppam records 76.49% voting amid row over ‘fake voters’||The maiden election to Kuppam Municipality recorded 76.49% of voting in 24 wards by the time the poll proceedings came to an ended at 5 p.m. on Monday. The police had a tough task to regulate the crowd in the streets in Kuppam, with both the ruling YSR Congress Party and opposition Telugu Desam Party leaders and activists thronging the polling stations. Right from 5 a.m., groups of activists of both the parties hit the streets, despite the restrictions in place. Distribution of food packets were seen in many wards. Mild tension gripped Kuppam when TDP activists stopped a private bus near the party office. They alleged that the bus carried fake voters from Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu. The TDP cadres forced the passengers to show their identity cards. Mild lathi-charge The police personnel on duty rushed to the spot and tried to control the situation as the TDP cadres demanded arrest of the commuters. To disperse the cadres, the police resorted to a mild lathi-charge. Later, the commuters were taken to the area police station and let off after collecting details of their whereabouts. The police took the former MLC and TDP leader of Shantipuram mandal, G. Srinivasulu into custody. He was bound over. The YSRCP cadres too handed over half a dozen strangers to the police, alleging that the TDP had brought outsiders into Kuppam. Right from Sunday midnight till Monday afternoon, high drama prevailed in Kuppam with the TDP cadres expecting the arrival of the party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu to examine the voting pattern. The police personnel were in confusion for a while about Mr. Naidu’s schedule. Meanwhile, the police made elaborate bandobast at all arterial junctions of Kuppam. The counting of votes will be done on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kuppam-records-7649-voting-amid-row-over-fake-voters/article37514787.ece
16 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to win 2024 Assembly polls in State, BJP leaders told||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary D. Purandeswari on Monday said that Union Home Minister Amit Shah had given clear directions to the party cadres in Andhra Pradesh to go ahead with an action plan to capture the power in 2024 Assembly elections. The BJP leaders Ms. Purandeswari, party State president Somu Veerraju, MPs Sujana Chowdary, and C.M. Ramesh, had a 90-minute-long deliberation with Mr. Shah in Tirupati. Ms. Purandeswari said Mr. Shah had instructed to the leaders to evolve a strategy to win 2024 elections iin the State. “We have considered an action plan to strengthen the party,” she said. She said Mr. Shah had sought the party cadres to intensify their fight against the ‘anti-people’s policies’ of the YSRCP government, adding that various aspects of the Andhra Pradesh State Reorganisation Act were discussed. . “The Centre has already fulfilled 80% of the promises made to Andhra Pradesh in the Act. It was brought to the notice of Mr. Shah that elections in the State were being held in an undemocratic manner,” said Ms. Purandeswari. Mr. Veerraju said Mr. Shah had asked the party leaders to utilise the adverse atmosphere among the public against the YSRCP government . “We have discussed an action plan to invite important political leaders into the BJP,” he said. Later, Mr. Shah visited the Kapileswara Swami temple in Tirupati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aim-at-winning-2024-poll-shah-tells-ap-team/article37514193.ece
16 November 2021||DEVARAPALLI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man accused in 34 fraud cases arrested||The Central Crime Station (CCS) and the Devarapalli police arrested a man who allegedly was involved in 34 fraud cases. The accused, Shaik Nagoor Meeravali, of Pasivedala in Kovvur mandal of West Godavari district had been deceiving bank customers for the last three years, said Superintendent of Police (SP) Rahul Dev Sharma. His modus operandi was to wait at banks and introduce himself to customers as a bank employee. Thereafter, he would take money from them on the pretext of helping them to deposit it and disappear, the SP said. A team led by Devarapalli SI K. Srihari Rao and Kovvur CCS SI Ravindranath Babu laid a trap and arrested the accused at a bank on Monday. They recovered Rs. 8 lakh, two gold chains and other valuables from him. The accused committed offences at various banks at Gokavaram, Ambajipeta, Tenali, Yanam, Tanuku, Krishnalanka, Pamarru, Rajanagaram, Rajahmundry, Kavali, Nidadavole, Tuni, Annavaram and other places, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-accused-in-34-fraud-cases-arrested/article37514256.ece
16 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Repair damaged roads at the earliest, instructs Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed officials to commence repairs on an estimated 46,000 km of damaged roads across the State at the earliest. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy chaired a review meeting at his camp office on Monday on the condition of roads in the State and directed officials to take up repairs in cities and municipalities on a priority basis, and ensure that Andhra Pradesh becomes a ‘pothole-free State’. The Chief Minister said that roads should be first made pothole-free, followed by carpeting, and that the repairs should be completed by June 2022. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the officials must focus on roads with the maximum damage, and ensure that there is a visible improvement in the quality of the roads after the repairs. Officials informed him that there was a delay in works due to incessant rains, and said that they would take up repairs on 8,268 km of roads by the end of this month after finalising tenders. Officials said that all repairs would be completed between December and June. The Chief Minister directed the authorities to cover all bridges and flyovers and make plans to bring ROBs and bridges under Phase 1. He asked officials to focus on restoring roads and take pictures before and after repairing the roads. He asked them to concentrate on repairing and maintaining existing roads before starting construction of new roads. He told them to prepare an action plan on the expenditure . With Union Minister for Transport Nitin Gadkari scheduled to visit the State next month, the Chief Minister asked the officials to chart out the pending projects that are to be resolved. He asked the authorities to blacklist contractors who bagged the tenders for NDB projects and have not started works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/repair-damaged-roads-at-the-earliest-instructs-jagan/article37514790.ece
16 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Biggest political defeat awaits Naidu on his home turf: Sajjala||Adviser to government (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu is waiting for his biggest political defeat on his home turf of Kuppam, adding that the people are in favour of the YSRCP for the welfare programmes launched by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Speaking to the media on Monday, he accused Mr. Naidu of spreading falsehood on voting in Kuppam Municipality with a voter base of 37,600 , even as the election was held in a peaceful manner. He asserted that there was no need to cast fake votes as people were always ready to support the YSRCP, adding that Mr. Naidu was preparing ground by putting on a show as he was convinced of his party’s defeat. “Mr. Naidu has been conspiring to create unrest in the constituency by pooling people from other places. Hundreds of people were brought to the booths and rowdy-sheeters were appointed as poll agents,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy alleged. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said that despite knowing how the elections were conducted and how many agents were permitted at polling stations, Mr. Naidu was making baseless arguments on fake votes. “How fake voters could exercise their franchise in the presence of agents of all political parties at the booths?” he asked. Recalling that the TDP activists were caught red-handed distributing money to the voters, he said that Mr. Naidu was trying to mislead the people of Kuppam. “As of 1 p.m. on Monday, the total polling was about 60 %. The people of Kuppam are ready to reject the TDP as they are happy with the good governance of the YSRCP. People have reposed faith in the YSRCP in the successive elections,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/biggest-political-defeat-awaits-naidu-on-his-home-turf-sajjala/article37514792.ece
16 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP complains against TDP||Amid the political slugfest between the YSRCP and the opposition parties over the allegations of booth capturing during the civic body polls on Monday, the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) complained to the State Election Commission (SEC) that the TDP supporters had indulged in electoral malpractice during the election to Kuppam Municipality. YSRCP MLC Lella Appireddy and MLA M. Jaganmohan Rao met State Election Commissioner Neelam Sawhney and alleged that the TDP and its the supporters had tried to influence the voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-complains-against-tdp/article37514793.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stop HNSS expansion work: TS||Telangana government has requested the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) one more time to restrain Andhra Pradesh from taking up expansion works of Handri-Neeva Sujala Sravanthi (HNSS) lift irrigation scheme meant to divert Krishna surplus water to the outside basin areas, without any approval either from the river board or from other agencies. Engineer-in-Chief (Irrigation-General) of Telangana C. Muralidhar stated in his letter addressed to Chairman of the river board M.P. Singh that the Telangana government had brought the issue to the notice of the river board and to the Union Minister of Jal Shakti eight times already but no action has been taken so far. In the letter address to the KRMB Chairman on Monday, the ENC said Andhra Pradesh government had already called for tenders for increasing the discharge capacity of the main canal to 6,300 cusecs from the present 3,850 cusecs up to 88 km of its length and for construction of five additional pump houses with discharge capacity of 2,450 cusecs. Total cost The work of enhancement of HNSS capacity was taken up with a total cost of Rs. 4,652 crore, including Rs. 2,487 crore for the components of increasing the main canal’s discharge capacity and for constructing five new pump houses to come up adjacent to the existing one near Malyala village in Kurnool district. He pointed that AP had gone ahead with calling tenders in spite of Telangana taking the matter to notice of the river board and MoJS repeatedly and the river board just kept forwarding the letters of Telangana to AP without taking any action. He requested the board to stop AP from proceeding further immediately. Mr. Muralidhar stated that Telangana had been requested KRMB to restrain Andhra Pradersh from drawing more than 34 tmc ft water from Srisailam reservoir as HNSS was not even mentioned in the inter-State agreements. Even the Planning Commission clearance as per Central Water Commission and Ministry of Water Resources was only for 34 tmc ft from Srisailam reservoir during the flood period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stop-hnss-expansion-work/article37514537.ece
16 November 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja worth over Rs 2 crore seized in Hyd; three held||A total of 1,240 kg ganja, worth over Rs. 2.08 crore was seized from here on Monday and three drug peddlers have been nabbed,the police said. On specific information, police teams raided an automobile garage at Medipally here and seized the ganja that was brought from Sileru Agency area of Visakhapatnam district in Andhra Pradesh and kept for transporting to Mumbai, said Rachakonda Commissioner of Police Mahesh M. Bhagwat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-worth-over-rs-2-crore-seized-in-hyd-three-held/article37514185.ece
16 November 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP leaders taken into custody in Kadapa||Barring stray incidents of jostling and allegations of impersonation of voters, elections to the municipalities of Kamalapuram and Rajampeta was peaceful on Monday, registering 76.16% and 67.27% of voter turnout respectively. Polling to a lone ward in Badvel municipality witnessed 68.25% voting. Notification was issued for 50 wards in the three municipalities, including 20 in Kamalapuram, 29 in Rajampet and one ward in Badvel municipalities. The election officials set up 34 polling centres in Rajampet, 20 in Kamalapuram, two in Badvel. The TDP in-charge at Rajampeta B. Changalrayulu was taken into custody by the police after a face-off between the TDP and YSRCP cadres at Rajampeta. The TDP leaders alleged that despite repeated complaints with the police about the presence of outsiders at the polling stations, the latter did not respond, while the ruling party cadres freely roamed all over the polling stations, influencing the voters. At Kamalapuram, TDP leaders Chaitanya Reddy and Lakshman Reddy were arrested and later let off after they had allegedly tried to gather at the polling booth with large number of activists. Kamalapuram TDP in-charge Puttha Narasimha Reddy was detained by the police after he tried to stage a protest alleging poll violations by the ruling party cadres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leaders-taken-into-custody-in-kadapa/article37514785.ece
16 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kakinada bypoll sees 51% turnout||The byelection to four wards in the Kakinada Municipal Corporation was completed peacefully on Monday with a voter turnout of 51.46% in Kakinada city. Of the total 23,329 voters in the four wards, 12,005 voters exercised their franchise in the civic body election. The byelection was conducted for wards 3, 9, 16 and 30. Tension prevailed for a short while at a polling booth in Ward 16 as TDP leaders alleged that outsiders were being allowed to cast votes. Later, TDP MLA Vanamadi Kondababu appealed to Collector Ch. Hari Kiran and SP M. Raveendranath Babu to cancel the byelection to Ward 30 citing various violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kakinada-bypoll-sees-51-turnout/article37514777.ece
16 November 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crack the whip on illegal flagpoles: HC||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed the State Government to take action against those who erect unauthorised flagpoles in public places and streets under every applicable law, including the Kerala Land Conservancy Act, and that they be slapped with penalties if they did not remove the flagpoles on their own. Justice Devan Ramachandran observed that the situation was alarming because as per a report submitted before the court, the Government said the State had at least 42,337 flagpoles on its roads, though it did not say whether these were illegal or otherwise. No permission Going by the inputs available, the court would not be surprised if none of them had obtained any permission. The court directed that its earlier order against erecting any new flag masts or flagpoles in any part of the State be continued until further orders. The court passed the order when a writ petition filed by Mannam Sugar Mills, Pathanamthitta, seeking police protection to remove the flagpoles illegally erected on the compound of the mills came up for hearing. According to the Government’s report, the highest number of flagpoles has been found in Palakkad (5,159), Kannur (5,064), and Alappuzha (4,692). The court also ordered that the directives of the court be given due publicity by the Government so that violators can remove the illegal structures on their own.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/act-against-those-who-install-illegal-flagpoles-hc/article37514194.ece
16 November 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC dismisses plea to probe ‘bribery’ to hush up spy case||The Kerala High Court on Monday dismissed a revision petition filed by S. Vijayan, former police officer and an accused in the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) espionage frame-up case, against an order of the Thiruvananthapuram Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Special Court rejecting his plea for a CBI probe into his allegation that former ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan had bribed the then CBI officials to hush up the ISRO espionage case. In a complaint filed before the Special Court, Mr. Vijayan had alleged that the information about bribing the CBI officials who had investigated the case was given by a very close associate of Mr. Narayanan. He further said that it was revealed from the documents that the conveyance of property was effected through the Sub-Registrar’s Office, Nanguneri, in Tirunelveli district in Tamil Nadu in the years of 1994, 1995, 1996, 2004, and 2008 by Mr. Narayanan and his benami holders. However, the CBI Special Court rejected Mr. Vijayan’s plea for a probe into the involvement of Mr. Narayanan and the CBI officers who had conducted the probe in the ISRO espionage case in these land transactions. Dismissing the petition, Justice R. Narayana Pisharady observed that the request made by the petitioner to direct an investigation under Section 156(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure was rightly turned down by the CBI Special Court in the absence of sufficient materials to substantiate the allegations. The Judge also noted that “the complaint was only rejected and not dismissed by the Special Court. Rejection of a complaint does not preclude the complainant from filing a fresh complaint with adequate materials.” Counsel for the petitioner earlier submitted that the petitioner was ready to produce documents showing the details of property transactions which would clearly indicate involvement of the accused in the commission of the offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The Kerala High Court on Monday dismissed a revision petition filed by S. Vijayan, former police officer and an accused in the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) espionage frame-up case, against an order of the Thiruvananthapuram Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Special Court rejecting his plea for a CBI probe into his allegation that former ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan had bribed the then CBI officials to hush up the ISRO espionage case. In a complaint filed before the Special Court, Mr. Vijayan had alleged that the information about bribing the CBI officials who had investigated the case was given by a very close associate of Mr. Narayanan. He further said that it was revealed from the documents that the conveyance of property was effected through the Sub-Registrar’s Office, Nanguneri, in Tirunelveli district in Tamil Nadu in the years of 1994, 1995, 1996, 2004, and 2008 by Mr. Narayanan and his benami holders. However, the CBI Special Court rejected Mr. Vijayan’s plea for a probe into the involvement of Mr. Narayanan and the CBI officers who had conducted the probe in the ISRO espionage case in these land transactions. Dismissing the petition, Justice R. Narayana Pisharady observed that the request made by the petitioner to direct an investigation under Section 156(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure was rightly turned down by the CBI Special Court in the absence of sufficient materials to substantiate the allegations. The Judge also noted that “the complaint was only rejected and not dismissed by the Special Court. Rejection of a complaint does not preclude the complainant from filing a fresh complaint with adequate materials.” Counsel for the petitioner earlier submitted that the petitioner was ready to produce documents showing the details of property transactions which would clearly indicate involvement of the accused in the commission of the offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-dismisses-plea-to-probe-bribery-to-hush-up-spy-case/article37514235.ece
16 November 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Set up judicial capital in Kurnool, demands outfit||Comprehensive development of all regions in Andhra Pradesh is possible only through the creation of three capitals as announced by the YSRCP govermnent, opined Adhikara Vikendrikana Samithi (Power Decentralisation Association) members at a press conference here on Monday. Kurnool Mayor B.Y. Ramaiah hit out at Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president Nara Chandrababu Naidu for ‘compromising the development of the Rayalaseema region and the State as a whole by forgetting the agreements reached under the Sribag Agreement’, and urged him not to come in the way of the growth of the region. MLAs Katasani Rambhupal (Panyam) and Jaradoddi Sudhakar (Kodumur) and former MLA S.V. Mohan Reddy questioned Mr. Chandrababu Naidu if he did not want employment opportunities for the youth of Rayalaseema. ‘Naidu betrayed people of Rayalaseema’ “Mr. Naidu, despite hailing from Rayalaseema, betrayed the people of the region by not completing the projects or setting up any industries,” alleged Mr. Ramaiah. Mr. Ramaiah said that he had launched a 50-day agitation against his own party during the State bifurcation and now, with the support of the party, would launch an agitation for setting up of the Judicial Capital and urged other political parties and members of the YSRCP from Kurnool to come forward and launch a joint agitation for the development of the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/set-up-judicial-capital-in-kurnool-demands-outfit/article37514247.ece
16 November 2021||Mangaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||NIT-K set to launch solar bike for forest surveillance||The National Institute of Technology-Karnataka (NIT-K), Surathkal, has designed and developed an e-bike to ensure that commuting in the forests is eco-friendly in its true sense. A unique feature of this bike is that its battery can be charged using solar power and it has a removable headlight which doubles up as a torch for using during night surveillance. “Its electric motor is typically silent. This is an added advantage in the forest since the wildlife will remain undisturbed and also it will help in capturing poachers without giving them a chance to flee,” Pruthviraj U., Head, E-Mobility Projects at the Centre for System Design at the institute told The Hindu.  He said its front utility box can be used to keep all the work accessories of forest officials like walkie-talkie, books etc. Charging docks are provided to charge the walkie-talkie and mobile phones. The rear pannier box can be used to store additional accessories. There is also a provision to carry water and food into anti-poaching camps or watch-towers in deep forest areas. Mr. Pruthviraj said the bike has been developed for use in Kudremukh National Park area keeping in mind the requirement of forest officials managing the park area. “Once fully charged, it can cover up to 75 km on rough terrains,” he said, adding that it took about three months to develop the bike. The project began during the second lockdown. “Kudremukh Wildlife Division in the Western Ghats is home to the vast shola forests and flora fauna of prominence. The bike has been developed to empower forest officials with e-mobility to commute around the forest region during the protection,” he said. Mr. Pruthviraj said the bike ‘VidhYug 4.0’ is powered by BLDC motor. It is powered by 2.0 kw, 72 volts, 33 AH lithium-ion battery. The solar charging setup includes two 400 watt mono crystalline solar panels and 1.5 kw UPS unit for charging the battery. “It stays true to being renewable, green and sustainable,” he said, adding that it will provide access to remote locations. In case of forest fires it will help reach the spot on time. “Furthermore, it is desired to enhance the performance of VidhYug 4.0 by replacing its motor with switched reluctance motor,” he said. The e-bike will be unveiled during a workshop on shola forests organised by the Kudremukh Wildlife Division in Kudremukh on November 17. Ruthren Periyasamy, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Kudremukh Wildlife Division, Karkala said the bike is the brainchild of NIT-K. “We are happy with its performance,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nit-k-develops-silent-solar-bike-for-forest-surveillance/article37514197.ece
16 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||50% of voters exercise their franchise in Nellore civic poll||Adhering to COVID-19 safety norms, over 50% of the 4.12 lakh voters exercised their franchise in the elections to municipal corporation in Nellore on Monday. Rains in the morning delayed arrival of the voters to the polling booths in the 46 divisions in the city. As the day wore on, the voters turned up at the 344 polling stations, including 145 hyper-sensitive polling stations where webcasting was arranged .  Tension gripped for some time at a polling station on the Janda Veedhi in the 43rd division in Nellore as the TDP activists jostled with the ruling YSR Congress Party workers, alleging attempts to cast bogus votes. The police intervened and restored order. Over 38% of the voters exercised their franchise till 3 p.m. in the polls overseen by Nellore Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu and Superintendent of Police Ch. Vijaya Rao. Over 1,000 police personnel on duty ensured that the poll was incident-free. They assisted old and disabled persons exercise their franchise. The COVID-19 positive persons were allowed to vote during the fag end. Unanimous election The YSRCP has bagged eight divisions uncontested. The Nagara Panchayat polls in Bucchireddypalem saw 61.06% of the voters exercising their franchise. In Darsi urban local body in Prakasam district, 75% of the 26,642 voters exercised their franchise. People stood in long queues in the 19 wards which went to polls . By 9 a.m., 11% of voters exercised their franchise. The polling percentage went up to 57% by 1 p.m. and 68% by 3 p.m., the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/50-of-voters-exercise-their-franchise-in-nellore-civic-poll/article37514795.ece
16 November 2021||Palakkad,ANDHRA PRADESH||RSS worker hacked to death in Palakkad||A Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker was hacked to death at Mambaram, near here, on Monday morning. The police said A. Sanjith, 27, was travelling on a motorbike with his wife when he was attacked by a four-member gang on a car. The attackers hit the motorbike with their car and hacked him in front of his wife, the police said. He was rushed to District Hospital here but was declared dead on arrival. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) was behind the attack. The BJP called a hartal in Malampuzha on Monday afternoon. The police said Sanjith, the RSS Boudhik Sikshan Pramukh of Tenari, was involved in several criminal cases. BJP district president K.M. Haridas said it was a planned murder executed with the connivance of the ruling front in the State. BJP State president K. Surendran said the police did not dare openly say that it was the SDPI that killed Sanjith. Denying its involvement, the SDPI said the BJP was trying to divert the investigation by blaming it. SDPI district president Shaheer Chalapuram said the victim’s criminal background should also be investigated. The police suspect that the murder was in continuance of a series of political clashes at Elappully, where Sanjith belonged to. Man collapses, dies Meanwhile, a man who saw the pool of blood at the site where Sanjith was murdered collapsed and died. He was identified as Ramu, 56, from Marutharoad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rss-worker-hacked-to-death-in-palakkad/article37514198.ece
16 November 2021||Pathanamthitta,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will ensure safety of pilgrims’||Health Minister Veena George, who assessed the flood situation in Pathanamthitta on Monday, said safety of Sabarimala pilgrims would be ensured. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been positioned at Kulanada while two more teams are slated to reach the district soon. The heavy rain in the high ranges has rendered most roads in the Konni-Achencoil region, which forms part of the Sabarimala circuit, unnavigable. The police diverted vehicles to alternative routes. Pilgrims from Punalur or Pathanapuram are required to use the Wakayar-Poonkavu-Mallassery Mukku- Kumbazha road, as the route from Vettoor via Kumbazha-Konni remains blocked. The vehicles can then proceed to Sabarimala via Mylapra and Mannarakulanji. As the Adoor-Pathanamthitta route or Kodumon road remains blocked, vehicles can proceed via Adoor, Pandalam, Kulanada, Elavumthitta, Omalur, Pathanamthitta road, Elavumthitta and Kozhencherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-ensure-safety-of-pilgrims/article37514195.ece
16 November 2021||RAMPACHODAVARAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||90% quota for tribals in State in Ekalavya school||East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran on Monday laid the foundation stone for the Ekalavya Model Residential School to be built in 15 acres at Veta Maamidi village of Addateegala mandal in Rampa Agency. The Central government has granted Rs. 20 crore for the school that offers the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) syllabus from class VI to Intermediate. The State government has allocated the 15-acre site for the school and will develop the necessary infrastructure. Ninety percent of seats are reserved for the Scheduled Tribes of Andhra Pradesh and the rest are given to eligible aspirants from non-tribal communities. “The school campus will have dedicated hostels for boys and girls. The students will be groomed in sports apart from academics,” said Mr. Hari Kiran. He was accompanied by Rampachodavaram Sub-Collector K. Simhachalam. Mr. Hari Kiran appealed to tribal students to get enrolled in the school for better prospects in their academics and sports. The Collector expressed happiness over the programme happening on the birthday of freedom fighter Birsa Munda. State Education Department (Residential Schools) Deputy Secretary D. Dayakar was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/90-quota-for-tribals-in-state-in-ekalavya-school/article37514819.ece
16 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain continues in Kerala, 3 dead||Five people have died in natural calamities in the State since November 10, according to data compiled by the State-level disaster management control room. Thiruvananthapuram district reported two deaths while Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kannur reported one death each during the period which saw several districts battered by heavy rainfall. Eight central and northern districts are on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall on Tuesday. They are Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod. Parts of Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha continued to battle waterlogging on Monday. Damage to houses Across the State, 12 houses were fully damaged and 229 partially since November 10. In all, 114 houses were damaged in Thiruvananthapuram, 48 in Kollam, 29 in Pathanamthitta, 25 in Kottayam, eight in Kasaragod, six in Palakkad, four in Idukki, two each in Alappuzha, Ernakulam and Thrissur, and one in Kannur. Between October 12 and November 15, the State reported crop loss in 62,991.41 hectares, affecting 1.43 lakh farmers, according to a report of the Agriculture Department. Weather forecasts have indicated a reduction in rainfall after Tuesday. Low pressure area The low pressure area which lies over the north Andaman Sea and a fresh one which is likely to form off the south Maharashtra coast by Wednesday are not likely to have much impact on Kerala. The low pressure system over the north Andaman Sea is likely to become well marked, approaching the Andhra Pradesh-north Tamil Nadu coasts by Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/death-toll-in-kerala-rain-rises-to-five/article37514200.ece
16 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka CM offers prayers at Tirumala||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai urged TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy to accord more priority to the telecast of Dasa Sahitya programmes on SV Bhakti Channel (SVBC) in Kannada. Mr. Bommai who is on a two-day visit to the town on the sidelines of the Southern Zonal Council meeting, offered prayers at the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara on Monday. Mr. Subba Reddy, who hosted a breakfast in honour of the neighbouring State’s Chief Minister, briefed him regarding various dharmic initiatives taken by TTD and invited him to the Karthika Deepotsavam festival to be organised at the Palace grounds in Bengaluru on November 22. Mr. Bommai assured the former of all help and co-operation from his government to the promotional activities taken up by TTD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/basavaraj-bommai-offers-prayers-on-tirumala/article37514301.ece
16 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Union Home Secy. lauds TTD||Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla lauded the spiritual activities being taken up by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) for the protection and promotion of Hindu dharma. Mr. Bhalla, who was here for the three-day Southern Zonal Council meeting, offered prayers at the hill temple on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/union-home-secy-lauds-ttd/article37514796.ece
16 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jaggaiahpeta municipal polls see 78% voter turnout||The polling for municipality elections for Jaggaiahpeta and Kondapalli municipalities was conducted peacefully with a turnout of 78% and 67% respectively in the district on Tuesday. According to the officials, out of 57,543 voters in Kondapalli, 38,435 (66.79%) cast their vote. In Jaggaiahpeta, 33,508 (78.45%) of 42,715 voters cast their vote. Counting of the votes will be conducted on Wednesday at SGS College in Jaggaiahpeta and District ZP Girls High School in Kondapalli. Meanwhile, elections to three ZPTCs and seven MPTCs will be held in the district on Tuesday. According to Mr. Nivas, the polling will be conducted for ZPTCs of Visannapeta, G. Konduru and Pedana and MPTCs of villages in Nagayalanka, Mudinepalli, Gannavaram, Penugranchipolu, Nuzvid and Gannavaram mandals. West Godavari Polling was peaceful in one ward in Eluru Municipal Corporation and for ward 23 in Kovvur Municipality in West Godavari district. Voters turned up in good numbers at Akiveedu Nagar Panchayat. Of the 26,285 voters in Akiveedu Nagar Panchayat, 20,959 votes were polled, with the turnout standing at 79.74% as of 5 p.m., officials said. In ward 45 of Eluru Municipal Corporation, 2,157 voters exercised their franchise out of 3,594 votes. The polling percentage was 60.02. As many as 943 out of 1,413 voters cast their votes in ward 23 in Kovvur Municipality in the district. Polling officials said that 66.74% turnout was recorded in the ward. Superintendent of Police Rahul Dev Sharma has said that 303 police personnel were deployed for peaceful polling in 63 booths in Penugonda mandal, where ZPTC elections were scheduled on Tuesday. Guntur In Guntur, polling for the local body elections of Dachepalli, Gurazala and the 6th ward in the Guntur Municipal Corporation ended peacefully. Dachepalli witnessed 67.17% voting and Gurazala 71.93%. Polling began on a brisk note with 51.41% voters casting their vote by 1 p.m.. The polling percentage increased to 61.13 by 3 p.m. and 65.82 at 5 p.m. at Dachepalli. In Guntur, however, the byelections held in the 6th ward saw a low voter turnout of 39.73%. Collector Vivek Yadav inspected the polling process at PVK and KPR Junior Colleges at Gurazala and Dachepalli. Mr. Yadav also inspected the poll process at Government Junior College at Karempudi. Every polling station was equipped with web-casting facility and live streaming. The voting arrangements were in line with the guidelines of the Election Commission and the process was monitored by route officers, sector officers, POs, APOs, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jaggaiahpeta-municipal-polls-see-78-voter-turnout/article37514863.ece
16 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active caseload in State goes below 3,000-mark||The State reported one death due to COVID-19 and 117 infections in the 24 hours, ending Monday morning. It was the lowest daily infection tally in the past 252 days and the number of samples tested in the past day (21,360) was also the lowest in the past 259 days. The cumulative tally increased to 20,70,095 and the toll reached 14,416. More than 3 crore samples have been tested in the State since February, 2020. The overall positivity rate of the 3,00,04,569 samples tested remained at 6.90% and that of the samples tested in the past day was 0.55%. For the first time, the number of active cases came down to less than 3,000 after 236 days. As of Monday, there were 2,961 active cases. The recovery rate and total recoveries stood at 99.16% and 20,52,718 respectively. The lone death in the State was reported in Visakhapatnam district, while Chittoor reported 24 infections. It was followed by Guntur (19), Visakhapatnam (14), East Godavari (12), Nellore (12), Krishna (11), Prakasam (8), Kadapa (6), West Godavari (5), Srikakulam (3), Anantapur (3). Vizianagaram and Kurnool reported zero infections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-covid-death-reported-in-state/article37514859.ece
16 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ringing in Children’s Day with the Koya, Konda Reddy tribes||A group of 30 students of Andhra Loyola Institute of Engineering and Technology (ALIET) went into the forests of East Godavari Agency to spend two days with the Koya and Konda Reddy tribes, as part of a study tour. The group stayed at the hamlets of Katukapalle, Chimili Vaagu and Venkatapuram, which are located along the inter-State borders with Telangana and Chhattisgarh, on November 13 and 14 and studied the lifestyles of the tribals and celebrated Children’s Day with the young ones of the tribes before returning home. The students interacted closely with the tribals and enquired about their food, culture, clothing, housing and their daily way of life. Students split up into teams and visited the huts at Katukapalle and Chimili Vaagu, which have a population of around 200 persons each, said ALIET director and secretary Fr. Francis Xavier, who accompanied the students during the study tour. “We stayed at Katukapalle on November 13 and 14, and visited the houses of Koya, Konda Reddy and Gotti Koya tribes. A study was done on the tribal culture, livelihood and customs of the Adivasis in the Agency area,” said NSS Coordinator A. Rajesh. “It was a different experience for us. We observed that there were no medical, education, drinking water, electricity, road and proper transport facilities to Katukapalle,” said a student named P. Charan, who visited the Agency area for the first time. Many Koya and Konda Reddy tribes eke out a livelihood through fishing and agriculture, while some families still survive on hunting. The nearest towns for the tribals are Palvancha and Bhadrachalam in Telangana State, said students Shaik Ameer and N. Manoj. Children of the Koya tribe are suffering from malnutrition and are underweight, and lack proper clothing and drinking water faciliites. Education is an alien concept for many of them, they said. Dr. Francis Xavier said field and experiential learning will help students gain knowledge on the lifestyles of different sections of society. “We gained a lot of exposure on the lifestyles of Adivasis. We celebrated Children’s Day with the Koya and Konda Reddy children. Singing and dance competitions were conducted and prizes were distributed to the children,” said another student K. Sai Venkata Suri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ringing-in-childrens-day-with-the-koya-konda-reddy-tribes/article37514245.ece
16 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||People started revolting against ‘misrule’ of YSRCP, says Naidu||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has lauded the people for coming out and ‘revolting against the use of bogus voters and other election offences by the ruling YSRCP leaders during the civic body polls’. Addressing the media on Monday, Mr. Naidu accused Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his party men of committing ‘midnight murder of democracy’ by getting the TDP polling agents and leaders arrested a few hours prior to the polling. Condemning the midnight arrest of TDP Kuppam town president Rajkumar, Mr. Naidu alleged that the police chased and lathi-charged the whistleblowers instead of encouraging them. “Alarmingly, the police have not registered a single case even as the ruling party brought bogus voters from other districts and States for the polls to municipal bodies. It is a mockery of democracy that the police did not act against the bogus voters but resorted to lathi-charge on the people who came to stop the impersonators,” he said. The people of Kuppam, Mr. Naidu said, put up a strong resistance by coming out in large numbers to oppose ‘the election excesses by the YSRCP leaders’. They had caught hundreds of bogus voters and handed them over to the authorities, said the TDP president. The former Chief minister said that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was under the delusion that he could use money and muscle power to sabotage elections to subvert the public mandate. “However, today’s poll revealed how the people in the streets began revolting against the lawless government,” Mr. Naidu said. In the Tirupati bypoll, not many people tried to oppose the ruling party’s excesses. But, the present civic body polls changed the election dynamics in the State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-started-revolting-against-misrule-of-ysrcp-says-naidu/article37514797.ece
16 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two drowned, one missing in Krishna river||Two members of a family reportedly drowned and another went missing in the Krishna river at Thotlavallur village in Krishna district on Monday. The victims went into the river to take a holy dip on Kartika Somavaram, considered an auspicious day. All three cousins The police retrieved the bodies of Goriparthi Pavan (18) and G. Nagaraju (20). A search is on by expert swimmers for Nagendra Babu (18). The three were cousins and belonged to Thotlavallur on Vijayawada outskirts. Vuyyur circle inspector M. Mukteswara Rao said that Nagendra Babu and Pavan were studying in the ITI at Challapalli while Nagaraju was a tractor driver. About 12 members of the family went to take a dip in the river in the early hours. A pall of gloom descended on the village following the deaths. The bodies were shifted to the Government Hospital for post-mortem. The Thotlavallur police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-drowned-one-missing-in-krishna-river/article37514201.ece
16 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conferment of Bhavani deeksha begins at Indrakeeladri||The conferment of Bhavani deeksha began at Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam atop Indrakeeladri in Vijayawada on Monday, with Vigneswara puja, kalasa sthapana and punyahavachanam being performed on the temple premises to commence the annual ritual. The Bhavani mala dharana (conferment) would end on November 19 for mandala deeksha. Similarly, for artha mandala deeksha, the mala dharana would be from December 5 to 9. The deeksha viramana (relinquishment of deeksha) would be from December 25 to 29. The devasthanam authorities have made elaborate arrangements for conduct of the programme. Executive officer D. Bramaramba said both the deeksha conferment and relinquishment process will be conducted on the lines of Dasara festival. Giri pradakshina and chandi homam  would be from December 25 to 29 while Maha poornahuti would be performed on December 29 at 10.30 a.m. The Kalasa Jyothi Utsavam of Lord Malleswara Swamy and His consort Goddess Kanaka Durga will be taken out in a palanquin from Indrakeeladri on December 25 and will be placed on a decorated van at Sivaramakrishna Kshetram from where the procession will begin. Agni Prathisthapana, Satha Chandi homam will be conducted as part of relinquishment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conferment-of-bhavani-deeksha-begins-at-indrakeeladri/article37514258.ece
16 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hindu Janajagruti Samiti seeks ban on Salman Khurshid’s book||The Hindu Janajagruti Samiti has written a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, urging him to take necessary steps to impose a ban on ‘Sunrise over Ayodhya: Nationhood in our times’, a book penned by Congress leader Salman Khurshid. Releasing the copy of the letter to the media on Monday, Samiti national spokesperson Ramesh Shinde said that a ban should be immediately imposed on Salman Khurshid’s book for ‘its content is hurting the sentiments of the Hindus’. “If a ban can be imposed on a book such as the Satanic Verses in India for the controversial religious matters; then a ban can also be imposed on the book Sunrise over Ayodhya:Nationhood in our times. Legal action should be taken against Salman Khurshid for hurting religious sentiments of the Hindus,” he said. Referring to the contents of book, Mr. Shinde said that the Congress leader in his book had compared ‘Hindutva’ with jihadi organisations such as the ‘Islamic State’ and the ‘Boko Haram’. “It has been stated on page 113 of the book that in the last few years, owing to an aggressive form of Hindutva, it has sidelined the identity of Sanatan Dharma and Hindutva known for its traditions of Sages-Seers and Saints. This aggressive Hindutva is like the political nature of jihadi Islamic organisations such as the Islamic State and the Boko Haram. Mr. Khurshid has insulted the Hindus ,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hindu-janajagruti-samiti-seeks-ban-on-salman-khurshids-book/article37514798.ece
16 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||484 students of NRI IT secure placements||As many as 484 students of NRI Institute of Technology(NRI IT), Agiripalli, secured jobs in various companies this year, said institute principal C. Naga Bhaskar. Of the total, 84 students of final year engineering got selected for placements in TCS. The remaining students of different streams were selected in the interviews conducted by Hexaware, DXC Technologies, Galaxe Solutions, Infosys, Virtusa and Zoho and Wipro, NRI IT correspondent K. Sridhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/484-students-of-nri-it-secure-placements/article37514861.ece
16 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Internship for students of biological sciences||A.P. State Biodiversity Board (APSBB) member secretary and Principal Chief Conservator of Forests(PCCF) D. Nalini Mohan has said that the board is offering an six month/one year internship programme for those with a background in Biological Sciences. The applicants should also have some level of proficiency in M.S.office. The selected candidates would be involved in programmes/projects related to conservation of biodiversity in the State, and operationalising Biodiversity Management Committees (BMCs) in all local bodies and preparation/updation of People’s Biodiversity Registers (PBRs). In a release on Monday, the APSSB member secretary said that the interns were expected to do their assignments in the head office of the APSBB, Guntur, and/or anywhere as per needs of the board. The candidates may indicate their choice of place of working in case selected for the internship. The APSBB will provide an honorarium of Rs. 5,000-Rs. 10,000 per month to the selected interns depending on their qualifications/experience and place of working. A certificate will be provided after the successful completion of the programme. Interested candidates may fill the Google form: https://docs.google.com/fo rms/d/1kyBierSg6i1SFqh 0YeBdsBbpQb9_VABZV dvvP1MMVYk. The last date for submission of applications is December 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/internship-for-students-of-biological-sciences/article37514252.ece
16 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Prevent flow of industrial waste into Ryves Canal’||Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Praveen Prakash, along with Principal Secretary to Government (Panchayat Raj and Rural Development) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi, inspected the Ryves Canal near the national highway at Prasadampadu, after learning about the accumulation of industrial waste causing foul smell and inconvenience to locals and the national highway users, on Monday. They directed Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority Commissioner Vijaya Krishnan to resolve the issue on a priority basis. Officials found that the waste from Autonagar and other areas was entering the canal through a drain. Officials were asked to clean the canal and erect grates to avoid the inflow of waste into the canal. Public Health Engineering officials were asked to prepare estimates for the works and coordinate with the NHAI officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prevent-flow-of-industrial-waste-into-ryves-canal/article37514865.ece
16 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aster Hospitals’ initiative||Aster Hospitals has launched the ‘Second Life-Because Little Lives Matter’ initiative as part of Aster Volunteers Global CSR initiative on the eve of Children’s Day. According to a release, the year-long initiative is aimed at supporting the medical treatment of disadvantaged children, where the initial aim is to help treat at least 100 children below the age of 12 years by providing them free paediatric surgeries, hospital regional CEO K.T. Devanand said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aster-hospitals-initiative/article37514860.ece
16 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rooms for pilgrims at Varanasi, Arunachalam||Akhila Bharatiya Brahmana Karivena Nityannadana Satram has started an accommodation facility in Varanasi, said its general secretary Venugopal. In a release, Mr. Venugopal said the satram has also begun providing rooms in Yadadri(Telangana), Arunachalam(Tamil Nadu) and Tirumala. Free food and accommodation are offered in all its 12 branches, which include Srisailam, Rameswaram, Mahanandi, Shirdi, Alampur, Bhadrachalam and Tripurantakam and others. Karivena is a religious institution started by a group of Brahmins hailing from Karivena in Kurnool district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rooms-for-pilgrims-at-varanasi-arunachalam/article37514251.ece
16 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Book exhibition to mark National Library Week||As part of the 54th National Library Week celebrations, a book exhibition was inaugurated by Krishna district Joint Collector K. Mohan Kumar at the Tagore Memorial Library in the city. The exhibition was organised by the Krishna District Library Association (KDLA). Later, essay writing competitions were held for students in junior and senior categories. Philanthropist Lanka Surya Narayana, known for establishing a library with 1.25 lakh books, inaugurated the book exhibition on the theme ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ at Fr. Gordon Library of Andhra Loyola College. The exhibition showcased rare books based on freedom fighters. Mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan’s ‘Unpublished Papers’ was exhibited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/book-exhibition-to-mark-national-library-week/article37514864.ece
16 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Infant deaths scare tribal hamlet in Agency||Infant deaths in a tribal hamlet in the Agency area of the district reportedly due to an unknown disease have created a scare among the residents forcing pregnant women to leave for other places to protect their babies. In the last two years, about 15 infants died at Patha Rudakota due to the illness, say residents. The village, located around 17 km from Pedabayulu mandal headquarters, houses about 120 families consisting of about 600 people. The disease with symptoms such as vomiting, fever, breathlessness and a few other health issues has been afflicting infants within two to four months of their birth. The situation has worsened in the last six months with eight infants succumbing to the illness, local people say. According to them, most of the deaths have occurred late night and babies barely survived two to three hours after showing the first symptoms. In several cases, parents hardly had any time to shift them to hospital. Twenty-five-year-old Sudha (name changed) from the village says, “My son suffered breathlessness and seizure all of a sudden one day. Even as we were preparing to go to a hospital, he breathed his last. He was very healthy and active till then.” T. Simhadri, a government school teacher from the village, lost his two children to the disease in less than two years. In February 2020, his four-month-old baby boy succumbed to the illness. In March this year, he lost the second baby aged two months. “After delivery, both babies were healthy. Later when we took them for health check-up, they were fine. But suddenly in the night they died. Mine is not the only such case. There are many parents who have suffered a similar fate and are in pain. The government should help us,” says Mr. Simhadri. A few elderly persons in the village say they have never seen such deaths before and attribute it to superstitious beliefs and black magic. However, local youth and educated residents are making efforts to take the issue to the notice of the government for action. Traditional medicines According to a senior medical officer from Pedabayulu, many of them use traditional medicines without any prescription, which may have caused the problem. Responding over the issue, the project officer of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency, R. Gopala Krishna says he has come to know about it and is preparing to send a team of doctors from King George Hospital to ascertain the actual cause of deaths. The doctors may visit the village by next week. “The Government will definitely take necessary action after the team of doctors ascertains the cause of the illness,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/infant-deaths-scare-tribal-hamlet-in-agency/article37514776.ece
16 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Moderate polling witnessed in bypoll for two wards in GVMC||Both wards (31 and 61) in the GMVC (Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation) that had gone for bypolls, recorded a moderate turnout, by the end of the day. While ward 31 recorded a turnout of 41.53%, ward 61 recorded a turnout of 57.53%, by 5 p.m., when the poll ended. The voting began on a slow pace with ward 31 recording a polling percentage of 6%, ward 61 recorded 9%, by 10 .a.m. However, it picked up by afternoon and ended with a moderate percentage. The total electorate in ward 31 is 15,835, including 7,754 males, 8,080 females and one in the others category. The total electorate in ward 61 is 14,089, including 6,931 males, 7,156 females and two in the others category. A tense situation prevailed at the polling booth, set up for the 31st Ward, near the Women's College, as two women, who were allegedly trying to impersonate and cast votes, were caught by the TDP workers. The JSP and the TDP workers raised slogans against the bogus voting. The women were handed over to the police. The bypolls were conducted after Vanapalli Ravi Kumar of the TDP who was elected from Ward 31 died in April, this year, of COVID a month later after he was elected and Dadi Surya Kumari the YSRCP corporator from Ward 61, died of a massive heart attack in March, just three days after she was elected. There is a keen tussle between Vanapalli Gayatri Phani Kumari, wife of Vanapalli Ravi Kumar, who is contesting against YSRCP’s Bipin Kumar Jain. The TDP had cried foul after YSRCP had fielded Mr. Jain in the last minute. TDP did not field a candidate in Ward 61. The counting will take place on November 17 and the results will be declared on the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/moderate-polling-witnessed-in-bypoll-for-two-wards-in-gvmc/article37514875.ece
16 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Khadi expo showcases a wide array of products||Have a penchant for khadi products? Visit the khadi expo, being organised by the A.F.K.K. Sangham, Ponduru, under the aegis of the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) at Sri Shankar Matham at Dwarakanagar here. Ponduru fine khadi, jari dhotis, saris, cotton khadi, ready-made shirts, bed sheets, towels, lungis, carpets, cloth masks, cloth bags and a wide range of products, manufactured by various sanghams, from different places in the States and also a few from Telangana can be seen at the expo. Natural products Natural products and crafts, manufactured by cottage industries, like honey shikakai powder, Etikoppaka toys, pickles, soaps, sambrani agarbathis, shampoos and amla powder. In all, there are 56 stalls at the expo. “The number of members in our sangham, which was 20 till a decade ago, has now declined to six. This can be attributed to the lack of patronage from the public and the younger generation shifting to other professions. Khadi sales begin in October and continue till Sankranti,” says Y. Veerraju of Swarajya Sangham, Tuni. “The demand for khadi products goes up in summer as the khadi fabric is cool during the sultry summer season. Khadi garments are coming in a range of colours to suit different tastes. The only drawback for khadi clothes are that they have be starched and ironed after every wash,” he says. Radhakrishna of Sri Padma Jyothi Khadi Village Development Association, Guntur, says that the sangham has 100 members. All the family members are involved in the tradition and are involved in weaving, dyeing and other activities. They get about Rs. 6,000 a month, based on their work. “This has been our family tradition for generations. We are getting work through KVIC for the last 20 years. The cost of khadi raw material has increased by about three times, while the fabric from mills is available at cheap rates and material is also being imported from countries like China at a fraction of the cost of khadi,” says Gopi of Metpalli in Telangana State. Raw materials “The Khadi and Village Industries Commission provides the raw materials and funds besides arranging loans to the sanghams. Our sangham will organise an expo in Warangal during December-end,” he says. Ashwini Herbals of Machilipatnam has put up a herbal products stall. ‘Bringamalaka Thailam’ provides cooling effect to the head, improves memory, prevents hair fall and reduces dandruff,” says G.V. Purnachandra Rao, stall organiser. The expo was inaugurated by MLC P.V.N. Madhav on November 11. Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy and Deputy Director of KVIC, Visakhpaatnam, S. Raghu, were present at the inaugural. The expo will be open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on all days till November 25.  The exhibition will be open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on all days till November 25||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/khadi-expo-showcases-a-wide-array-of-products/article37514870.ece
16 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low pressure area persists, isolated heavy rain likely||The low pressure area over north Andaman Sea and neighbourhood with the associated cyclonic circulation, extending up to 5.8 km above the mean sea level, persists. It is likely to move west northwestwards and become well-marked over east central and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal during the next 48 hours. Thereafter it is likely to continue to move nearly westwards and reach west central and adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal off south A.P. and north Tamil Nadu coasts on November 18, according to a bulletin issued by the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC) here on Monday evening. Heavy rainfall is very likely at one or two places in East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, Chittoor, YSR Kadapa, and Anantapur districts till Tuesday morning. Heavy rain is very likely at one or two places in Krishna and Guntur districts till November 17 morning. Very heavy rain is likely at one or two places in Prakasam, Nellore and Chittoor districts from November 17 to November 18 morning. Heavy rain is likely at one or two places in Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Chittoor districts from November 18 to November 19 morning. Rain or thurndershowers is likely at many places over coastal A.P., Rayalaseema and Yanam till November 17 and at most places over coastal A.P., Rayalaseema and Yanam on November 18 and 19. Strong winds, with speed reaching 40 to 50 km/hr, gusting to 60 km/hr, are likely along and off south AP coast on November 18 and fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea on that day. The chief amounts of rainfall (recorded in cm) during the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Monday are: Kandukur (Prakasam district) 9, Racherla (Prakasam) 5, Vinjamur, Kavali and Udayagiri (Nellore) 4 each, Veligandla (Prakasam) 4, Kakinada (East Godavari) 3, Visakhapatnam Airport 3, Anakapalle (Visakhaptnam) 3 and Konkanamitla (Prakasam) 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-pressure-area-persists-heavy-rain-likely/article37514254.ece
16 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||PM virtually lays foundation stone for Ekalavya school||Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for construction of buildings for the Ekalavya Model Residential School at Majjivalasa village of Bondam panchayat of Araku Valley mandal in the district, through the virtual mode, on Monday. Social development is possible only through education in the modern world, Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer Ronanki Gopalakrishna has said. Addressing a meeting organised on the occasion, he said that foundation stones were laid for construction of three school buildings at Lakeputtu of Pedabayalu mandal, P.G. Madugula of G. Madugula, apart from Majjivalasa. The construction of the buildings would be taken up at a cost of Rs. 5.976 crore. He said that the Central and the State governments were according top priority to education and the foundation was laid to mark the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations and the birth anniversary of tribal leader Bhagavan Birsa Munda. Mr. Gopalakrishna said that education would contribute to building an egalitarian society apart from helping the tribal people in finding solutions to their problems easily. He said the foundation has been laid for providing education to 5,000 tribal boys and girls on the lines of ‘Navodaya’ schools. The Centre has fixed the deadline for construction of the school buildings in 14 months time. He appreciated the tribal people of Anantagiri and Paderu mandals, who voluntarily donated lands for construction of the buildings. Skill Development Cell and Tourism Cell would be opened by the ITDA for providing employment opportunities to unemployed tribal youth. Job melas would be conducted once in 15 days. Gurukul Secretary K. Srikanth Prabhakar described the proposed establishment of ‘Ekalavya Schools’ as a boon to the tribal children. AP was the first State to complete land acquisition for setting of these schools. Each Ekalavya School would have 52 teachers to provide quality education to the students. He said that 27 students from Paderu had secured seats in IITs. The students presented cultural programmes on the occasion. EPIL Director Radhakrishna, Group General Manager Arundathi Bhowmik, TWSE S. Srinivas, Tahsildar Venugopal and MPDO Venkata Rambabu were among those who attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pm-virtually-lays-foundation-stone-for-ekalavya-school/article37514871.ece
16 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tremors need to be investigated, say scientists||The earthquake of 1.8 Richter scale, that occurred about 10 km off the coast of Visakhapatnam at a depth of 5 km in the sea, has surprised the scientific community in Andhra University, National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) and the Geological Survey of India (GSI). What is even more surprising is that many of the residents had felt the tremors associated with a deafening blast-like sound, which is baffling the geophysicists. An earthquake of 1.8 magnitude on the Richter scale, is not a significant event. As up to 3 on the scale is considered to be normal phenomenon, when it comes to tectonic activities, but what is surprising is the area of occurrence, felt the scientists. Visakhapatnam is known to be a stable area when it comes to tectonic activities and this was for the first time that it has occurred so near to the coast, said Rama Rao, geophysicist from the Department of Bay of Bengal Studies, Andhra University. According to the senior scientists in the GSI, the quake can be ignored in normal circumstances, but it occurring in shallow region of the ocean and so close to the coast, needs to be investigated and studied. And what is even more mysterious is the sound that the people had heard. It is true that it had occurred in shallow region and that is why the propagation of the shock had travelled to a larger distance. But why it had happened needs to be studied, since there are not fault lines in the near vicinity, said K.S. Krishna from University of Hyderabad. Many say that it could be due to differential compaction, because of sediment accumulation. But even that needs to be checked, said Rajsekhar Reddy, convenor INTACH and former professor Department of Geology, AU. Acquiescing with Prof. Krishna, the geophysicist from AU pointed out that it could due a minor adjustment of rocks in the sub-surface below the ocean. But the sound was mystifying, as there was not thunderstorm activity during that period and it cannot be coincidental. Moreover, the water in the ocean mutes the sound, he said. The epicentre is just 10 km away from the coast and the continental shelf is at least 50 to 60 km ahead, even that cannot be correlated, said the GSI scientists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tremors-need-to-be-investigated-say-scientists/article37514799.ece
16 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals won case on land grabbing in High Court: Samithi||The tribal people of the non-scheduled village of Peda Garuvu, in Kalyanapulova of Ravikamatham mandal, have won a legal battle in the High Court against alleged injustice by vested interests to grab their lands, according to the 5th Schedule Sadhana Samithi of Kalyanapulova. The Samithi, on behalf of the Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTGs), thanked the Bench of the High Court Chief Justice. The Samithi leaders noted that the PVTGs were living in Peda Garuvu, a small Adivasi village. They chopped off the trees in 10 acres of government banjar land in Survey no. 93 (old no.) and brought it under cultivation. Some non-tribals, claiming that they had ‘D’ pattas on that land, started harassing the PVTGs. They went to court concealing the fact that the said land was under the cultivation of tribal people. Making only the revenue officials a party to it, they had obtained a Single Judge Bench order on October 7, 2020 in their favour. The accused started harassing the PVTGs, who were cultivating the land, saying they have the court order. They cut off the crop and took it out. With the assistance of the Sadhana Samithi, the PVTGs challenged the order of the Single Judge Bench.  Detailed inquiry The Division Bench, headed by the Chief Justice, conducted a detailed inquiry and struck down the order of the Single Judge Bench on October 5, 2021, and the final orders have come now, said Mr. Ajay Kumar, of the Samithi. The Samithi leaders commended the PVTGs for refusing to give in to the threats and harassment of non-tribals to snatch their lands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribals-won-case-on-land-grabbing-in-high-court-samithi/article37514869.ece
16 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Once a street vendor, now becomes CEO of tech consulting co.||It goes a long way for him. Once a street vendor, he is now CEO of a management and tech consulting company in Dubai, which he established in memory of his elder brother, who had envisioned a bright future for him, despite the trials and tribulations in their lives. Life has been full of twists and turns for Sreedhar Bevara, a native of Vantara village in Vizianagaram district. Occupying a high position, he has not forgotten his humble beginnings, and is full of gratitude for his ‘mentors’, who helped him realise his innate abilities. Work pressure and difficult situation at home led to failure in studies. But that did not dent his determination and he managed to complete his degree privately by clearing 15 subjects at a go in March 1998. He quit his job and studied hard and made it to the IIM, Ahmedabad. There was no looking back for him ever since. He worked for various companies and within 10 years became the senior GM of Panasonic Corporation. His resume now reads like this: Alumnus of IIM, Ahmedabad, CEO of BMR Innovations, a Dubai-based Management and Tech Consulting company, with branches in India and the USA, author of two international bestsellers ‘Moment of Signal’, published by Fingerprint, and ‘The Roaring Lambs’, published by HarperCollins, contributor to Forbes magazine on leadership and business, mentor at IIT – Madras … Life was not a bed of roses for Sreedhar, as his family went through economic crises, and found it difficult to make both ends meet. Sreedhar did odd jobs such as a milk delivery boy and a helper at a chicken stall in the city. “I had to borrow the dress and shoes of a friend to attend the interview for the job of ‘waiter’ at the Taj Residency in the city during the early 1990s. It was a great learning experience for me, though I had to slog for 12 to 14 hours, a day, at the hotel’s ‘Ming Garden’ restaurant, which was frequented by celebrities, cricketers and foreigners,” he recalls. His elder brother Bevara Muralidhara Rao, a constant source of support and guidance to him, succumbed to bone cancer in 1997 and that left a void in the family. Sreedhar established BMR Foundation to perpetuate the memory of his elder brother. He motivates students on developing leadership qualities by giving them examples from his own experiences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/once-a-street-vendor-now-becomes-ceo-of-tech-consulting-co/article37514821.ece
16 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine-year-old boy washed away in stream||A boy was feared drowned while crossing a bridge at Pandrangi of Padmanabham mandal in the district in the early hours of Monday. Karteek (9) was crossing the bridge over the stream at Pandrangi, when he fell into the water and was washed away, as water was overflowing on the bridge due to rains. The officials and villagers are searching for the boy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boy-washed-away-in-stream/article37514780.ece
16 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five, including a juvenile, held in 5 cases||The city police on Monday arrested a five-member gang, including a juvenile, for their involvement in five cases under Gajuwaka police station limits in the city. The police also have recovered 253 gms of gold ornaments worth Rs. 5.46 lakh and Rs. 600 cash from them. DCP (In-Charge) Crimes, D.S. Sravan Kumar said that Thota Shiva Bhavani, a native of East Godavari district and resident of Gajuwaka area in the city, along with Chinthala Purusotham and a juvenile, committed five house break-ins between March 2020 and September 2021 under Gajuwaka police station limits. They have stolen 284 gms of gold ornaments, 800 gms of silver ornaments and Rs. 5.33 lakh in cash, all worth around Rs. 11.48 lakh. Thota Shiva Bhavani is an old offender and had been involved in about 250 cases in East Godavari, Krishna, and a few other districts in the State, the DCP said. He was arrested and convicted in some cases and a suspect sheet was also opened against him in Rajamahendravaram and Vijayawada city. Recently, he shifted his base to Gajuwaka and committed the property offences. The police said Shiva Bhavani’s wife Thota Vara Lakshmi and another person M. Maheswara Durga Prasad, who acted as receivers of the stolen booty, were also arrested, said Mr. Shravan. “We have recovered the stolen property in four or five cases and investigation is on to recover the remaining booty from the accused,” the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-including-a-juvenile-held-in-5-cases/article37514877.ece
16 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Results of lineman recruitment test released||The final merit list of candidates for the posts of energy assistants (junior lineman Grade-II), conducted by APEPDCL, was released on Monday by K. Santhosha Rao, Chairman and Managing Director of APEPDCL. He said that the recruitment is being done as per the State Government's direction and was conducted in a highly transparent and efficient manner following all the rules. The results have been uploaded on websitewww. apeasternpower.comdistrict-wise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/results-of-lineman-recruitment-test-released/article37514781.ece
16 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records one death, 14 new COVID cases||The district reported 14 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours ending Monday morning. This takes the total count to 1,58,628. The district also recorded one death, taking the total death count to 1,102, as on Monday morning. During the same period, 18 persons undergoing treatment were discharged, taking the total discharges to 1,56,827. The active cases have further dropped to 699.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-records-one-death-14-new-covid-cases/article37514873.ece
16 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Need to learn new skills: IIM-V Director||A five-day Management Development Programme (MDP) for Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL) officers began here at the Indian Institute of Management- Visakhapatnam (IIM-V) campus here on Monday. Addressing the inaugural gathering, S.V. Rambabu, Director (Finance and Commercial) of HSL, said, “Change is the constant element and to deliver the effective output, one needs to constantly evolve, think, and adapt to a new approach.” Speaking about the importance of learning new skills and imbibing knowledge, M. Chandrasekhar, Director, IIM-V, said, “ The first and foremost thing is to have a commitment towards the organisation, to keep learning and evolving to enhance the competence.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/need-to-learn-new-skills-iim-v-director/article37514876.ece
16 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Promotions sought for teachers||Andhra Pradesh SC and ST Upadhyaya Sangham State president Samala Simhachalam on Monday urged the State government to ensure promotions for secondary grade teachers as school assistants as the third, fourth and fifth primary classes were being merged with nearby high schools. Mr.Simhachalam also sought promotions for school assistants as junior lecturers. In a press release, Mr.Simhachalam said that the SGTs would have to teach students of higher classes in future. Pending issues Mr. Simhachalam said that the association had submitted a memorandum to AP Education Director Vadrevu China Veerabhadrudu over all the pending issues, including sanction of earned leaves for all headmasters who completed Nadu-Nedu works during the summer holidays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/promotions-sought-for-teachers/article37514778.ece
16 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police foil sugarcane ryots’ padayatra||Police personnel foiled the bid of farmers to take up a padayatra from Bhimasingi sugar factory to the Collector’s office on Monday. The police did not allow the sugarcane farmers to gather at villages, saying that the government had not given permission for any kind of agitations. CPI(M) district secretary and vice-president of Zilla Rythu Sangham Tammineni Suryanarayana, leaders Challa Jagan, Venkata Rao and others alleged that the government was not allowing peaceful protests also over the sugarcane farmers’ issue. Mr. Suryanarayana said that the sugarcane farmers were in a confused state with no sign of revival of the Bhimasingi sugar factory. They said that the government misled the farmers by saying that the factory would reopen after renovation. In a separate press release, Lok Satta Party State president Bhisetti Babji alleged that the government was least bothered about the revival of many closed sugar factories of the North Andhra region. “The government had earlier appointed a sub-committee with Ministers. Its report has not yet been revealed.” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-foil-sugarcane-ryots-padayatra/article37514779.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Legal row over 3 capitals halted State’s growth: CJ||Mr. Mishra then replied that he indeed wanted to right away resume hearing the writ petitions which questioned the validity of the AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts of 2020 as because of them, development of the entire State appeared to be held up. The plea for recusal of Justices Satyanarayana Murthy and Somayajulu from the ‘three capitals’ cases was made by Sarath Kumar, a former government pleader of Telangana, on the ground that the judges had pecuniary interest by virtue of having been allotted plots in Amaravati but the Chief Justice rejected it by insisting that a request to that effect was turned down by a Division Bench earlier and the non-recusal was not challenged then. However, Mr. Mishra said he would examine the plea for recusal of the two judges at the time of giving the final judgement. As far as the arguments against the impugned legislations are concerned, senior advocate Shyam Divan (representing Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi) said what is supposed to be a ‘throbbing capital’ had been completely emasculated in terms of the lost value of the reconstituted plots. ‘Consequences for country’ He observed that there would be a cyclical change of governments but the State remains constant, implying that such controversial proposals as the ‘three capitals’ would have serious consequences for the entire country as at stake was the fundamental issue of governance which ought to be a continuous process, and the constitutional assurances on the basis of which Amaravati farmers took an informed decision to give their arable lands for the construction of the capital city of Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Divan pointed out that the Land Pooling Scheme was at the core of the entire issue and the court should appreciate the fact that nearly 30,000 families had given their lands by volition for the development of Amaravati. Basically, tenders for various projects worth approximately Rs. 42,000 crore were finalised, projects costing Rs. 42,600 crore and odd were grounded and works amounting to Rs. 5,600 crore had been completed. The Central government provided Rs. 2,500 crore for the development of infrastructure in Amaravati. After all this, the government could not simply change its mind to divide the capital into three parts, Mr. Divan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/legal-row-over-3-capitals-halted-states-growth-cj/article37514782.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Legal battle over 3 capitals held up State’s growth: CJ||However, Mr. Mishra said he would examine the plea for recusal of the two judges at the time of giving the final judgement. As far as the arguments against the impugned legislations are concerned, senior advocate Shyam Divan (representing Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi) said what is supposed to be a ‘throbbing capital’ had been completely emasculated in terms of the lost value of the reconstituted plots. ‘Consequences for country’ He observed that there would be a cyclical change of governments but the State remains constant, implying that such controversial proposals as the ‘three capitals’ would have serious consequences for the entire country as at stake was the fundamental issue of governance which ought to be a continuous process, and the constitutional assurances on the basis of which Amaravati farmers took an informed decision to give their arable lands for the construction of the capital city of A.P. Mr. Divan pointed out that the Land Pooling Scheme was at the core of the entire issue and the court should appreciate the fact that nearly 30,000 families had given their lands by volition for the development of Amaravati and have since no sustainable means of livelihood. Due to the abrupt halting of development in the capital region, the value of plots has crashed. Basically, tenders for various projects worth approximately Rs. 42,000 crore were finalised, projects costing Rs. 42,600 crore and odd were grounded and works amounting to Rs. 5,600 crore had been completed. The Central government provided Rs. 2,500 crore for the development of infrastructure in Amaravati. Apart from that, there were several tie-ups with national and international organisations for transforming Amaravati into a greenfield capital of global standards. After all this, the government could not simply change its mind and carry on what was essentially a premeditated exercise to divide the capital into three parts purportedly for legislative, executive and judicial functions as if nothing had happened so far, Mr. Divan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/legal-battle-over-3-capitals-held-up-states-growth-cj/article37514868.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Skirmishes over alleged fake votes mar ULB polls||Of the 25 wards, one ward saw a unanimous victory in favour of the YSRCP. Police used mild force to disperse a mob of TDP cadres at the local party office in Kuppam as they protested against the inaction of the police on outsiders purportedly ferried in buses. Polling for two wards (31 and 61) in Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) went off peacefully. While ward 31 recorded a turnout of 41.53%, ward 61 registered a turnout of 57.53%, till 5 p.m. Polling in Penukonda municipality was brisk but a war of words between the TDP and YSRCP leaders over alleged election offences gave the district police a tough time. Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav toured some areas and was stopped by former Penukonda MLA and TDP Hindupur unit president B.K. Parthasarathy, who complained to the police about the MP’s reported attempts to influence voters in ward 17. Anantapur TDP district president Kalava Srinivasulu questioned the presence of Chandragiri YSRCP MLA Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy at Penukonda and accused the ruling party of using money and muscle power to influence the electorate. Barring stray incidents of jostling and allegations of impersonation of voters, polling for Kamalapuram and Rajampet municipalities was peaceful. Polling to a lone ward in Badvel municipality witnessed 68.25% voting. The polling for elections in Jaggaiahpet and Kondapalli municipalities in Krishna district was conducted peacefully with a turnout of 78% and 67%. The byelection to four wards in Kakinada Municipal Corporation was by and large incident free and the voting percentage stood at 51.46%. Polling was peaceful in one ward in Eluru municipal corporation and in the 23rd ward in Kovvur municipality. Voters turned up in good numbers at Akiveedu Nagar Panchayat. Officials pegged the voting percentage at Akiveedu at 79.74. Rains hold up voters Over 50% of the 4.12 lakh voters exercised their franchise in the elections to the Nellore Municipal Corporation in Nellore city on Monday. Showers early in the day delayed the arrival of the voters to the polling booths in the 46 divisions of the city. Voters turned up at the 344 polling booths as the day wore on, including 145 hyper-sentiive polling stations where webcasting was done. Irrigation Minister Anil Kumar Reddy, Nellore Rural MLA Kottamreddy Sridhar Reddy, former Ministers Anam Ramanarayana Reddy, Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy and T. Ramesh Reddy were among those who voted. The Nagar Panchayat elections held in Buchireddypalem in Nellore district witnessed 61.06% polling and Darsi in neighbouring Prakasam district saw 75% polling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/skirmishes-over-alleged-fake-votes-mar-ulb-polls/article37514822.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Skirmishes over alleged fake votes mar ULB polls||On the other hand, YSRCP MLC Lella Appireddy and MLA M. Jagan Mohan Rao met State Election Commissioner Nilam Sawhney and complained against the TDP and its supporters for allegedly trying to influence voters in Kuppam municipality. The election to the Nellore Municipal Corporation was marred by minor clashes between YSRCP and TDP activists. Elections to 24 wards in Kuppam municipality were largely peaceful. Of the 25 wards, one ward saw a unanimous victory in favour of the YSRCP. Polling for two wards (31 and 61) in Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) went off peacefully. While ward 31 recorded a turnout of 41.53%, ward 61 registered a turnout of 57.53%, till 5 p.m. Polling in Penukonda municipality was brisk but a war of words between the TDP and YSRCP leaders over alleged election offences gave the district police a tough time. Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav toured some areas and was stopped by former Penukonda MLA and TDP Hindupur unit president B.K. Parthasarathy. Anantapur TDP district president Kalava Srinivasulu questioned the presence of Chandragiri YSRCP MLA Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy at Penukonda. . Barring stray incidents of jostling and allegations of impersonation of voters, polling for Kamalapuram and Rajampet municipalities was peaceful. The polling for elections in Jaggaiahpet and Kondapalli municipalities in Krishna district was conducted peacefully with a turnout of 78% and 67%. The byelection to four wards in Kakinada Municipal Corporation was by and large incident free and the voting percentage stood at 51.46%. Polling was peaceful in one ward in Eluru municipal corporation and in the 23rd ward in Kovvur municipality. Voters turned up in good numbers at Akiveedu Nagar Panchayat. Rains hold up voters Over 50% of the 4.12 lakh voters exercised their franchise in the elections to the Nellore Municipal Corporation in Nellore city on Monday. Showers early in the day delayed the arrival of the voters to the polling booths in the 46 divisions of the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/skirmishes-over-alleged-fake-votes-mar-ulb-polls/article37514784.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotional fervour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/devotional-fervour/article37514879.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||DRM spends times with underprivileged children||Divisional Railway Manager, Waltair, Anup Satpathy, spent time with the children of Sathi – Child Help - Sathi line, as part of Children’s Day celebration on Monday. He interacted with the children and presented gifts to them as a token of affection. The children tied Child line band to the DRM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drm-spends-times-with-underprivileged-children/article37514872.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pre-bid meeting held for Uppal Bagayat e-auction||HMDA conducted a pre-bid meeting for the e-auction of more plots in Uppal Bagayat Layout here on Monday. A total of 44 plots spreading over 1.35 lakh square yards are up for auction, of which 21 are residential, and 15 multi purpose. Four are for shopping and entertainment, two for hospitals and two for educational institutes, a press statement from HMDA informed. Officials from HMDA have informed the builders, developers and agencies attending the pre-bid meeting that the winning participants in the online bidding to be held on December 2 and 3 will have to pay the total amount in 90 days after the successful bidding. Plot registration will be done in a fortnight after complete payment, they informed. Buyers paying 25 per cent of the total value of the plot can look forward to avail themselves of the remaining amount as loan from bank. While the layout falls under GHMC limits, building permissions have to be obtained from HMDA, officials informed. Unique selling points Proximity to the Vijayawada and Warangal National Highways, clear titles with affordable prices, plot sizes ranging from 150 square yards to 5,000 square yards, site location between Inner and Outer ring roads, approachability to link road between Nagole and Peerzadiguda, and sites allotted for hospitals, shopping, entertainment and multi-purpose use are being promoted by authorities as the unique selling points of the layout. The minimum up-set price has been fixed at Rs. 35,000 per square yard, with bid increments allowed in multiples of Rs. 1,000. Earlier two instances of e-auction of plots in Uppal Bagayat have yielded considerable gains for the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pre-bid-meeting-held-for-uppal-bagayat-e-auction/article37514568.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Violence mars Bandi Sanjay’s interaction with farmers||State BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Monday charged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of trying to “divert the attention of the farmers” and “not taking any interest in ensuring paddy coming to the procurement centres is purchased.” “Farmers are in distress as they are worried about their crop lying in the open, but the procurement is yet to begin. The Chief Minister instead of trying to find a solution has only succeeded in creating fear and confusion among them with his irresponsible statements,” he told the media at different places following his interactions with farmers in Nalgonda district on Monday. Mr. Sanjay Kumar began a two-day tour to meet farmers and visit the paddy procurement centres to “understand their difficulties and assure them of support.” Convoy attacked Even as farmers complained of either non-procurement or partisan approach of the officials in purchasing paddy, the TRS supporters and partymen tried to obstruct the programme with black flags and slogan-shouting against the BJP and Centre. At one stage at Arjalabhavi, the BJP leader’s convoy was greeted with eggs and stones as the police personnel had a tough time to separate both the groups. The BJP workers blocked the Narketpally highway in protest accusing the police of playing a spectators role and raised slogans against the Chief Minister and the TRS government. Meanwhile, the BJP president focussed on attacking the government and specifically, the Chief Minister. “Mr. Rao, despite holding a responsible position, caused the present crises with his shifting stance of advising farmers to grow paddy once, fine rice on the other. Cotton was propagated once and farmers were also warned against cultivating maize. Does he have any idea on how to deal with the situation like this? Did he not announce on the floor of the Assembly that the government will buy every single grain? Can he clarify on this,” he demanded. The government had assured to purchase paddy “straight from the fields with payments in 48 hours” but the farmers would be happy if the produce coming to the procurement centres is purchased immediately, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/violence-mars-bandi-sanjays-interaction-with-farmers/article37514588.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A new cradle for abandoned children now at Niloufer||Minister for ST Welfare, Women Development and Child Welfare Satyavathi Rathod said that the special ward for Shishu Vihar/Shishugruhas is equipped with 10 beds, Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU), a separate kitchen, and a small play area. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating the ward at Niloufer Hospitals on Monday, Ms. Rathod said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao plans to build four super specialty hospitals in the city to provide the best medical services to the poor, and has conveyed that Rs. 10,000 crore would be spent to adequately equip and strengthen the medical health department and strive for Aarogya Telangana. A dedicated ward at Niloufer Hospital was established in 2000 for children between 0-6 years from Shishu Vihar and Specialised Adoption Agencies (SAAs) requiring medical attention. Children from various districts of the State are regularly referred to Niloufer Hospital for necessary treatment as it has specialised paediatricians for treating babies with critical and chronic illnesses to provide immediate and long-term medical intervention. Abandoned children, street children, children found around garbage bins and children who have been trafficked, aged up to six years, are surrendered at Shishu Vihar. The facility also takes in children who suffer from chronic health diseases and severe mental conditions, and works for their well being. 335 children in 11 SAAs At the moment, there are 335 children staying at 11 SAAs in Telangana, out of which 215 children are staying at Shishu Vihar (SAA, Hyderabad) itself. Children who are surrendered, abandoned, or deserted are given complete medical care and those suffering from chronic health conditions and severe mental conditions are given the best medical care by specialised paediatric doctors at the separate ward at Niloufer Hospital. This ward is exclusively for Shishu Vihar/Sishugruhas whose sole intention is to save children as and when the need arises. With an intention to upgrade the ward and provide children with high quality health care, the department of Women Development and Child Welfare has spent Rs. 17.5 lakh for renovating the ward at Niloufer. Commissioner D. Divya Devarajan and MLA Nawab Mohammad Moazam Khan were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-new-cradle-for-abandoned-children-now-at-niloufer/article37514555.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 1.24 tonnes of ganja seized||The special operations team of L.B. Nagar zone along with Medipally police arrested three persons and seized 1.24 tonnes of ganja on Monday. Three others, including the prime organiser, have managed to escape the police raid. The contraband, the police said, was purchased at Rs. 8,000 per kilogram from a supplier at Sileru village of Visakhapatnam, and was being packed into smaller packages to be sold at Rs. 15,000 per kilogram. Thus, an estimated Rs. 1.86 crore worth psychotropic drug was seized from entering the distribution market. Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh M. Bhagwat presented the three nabbed accused and displayed about 500 brown-taped packages and loose ganja before media persons on Monday. The accused Shaik Yaseen, a seasoned travels agent from Nacharam, had developed a wide circle of acquaintances in Sileru agency and made ganja smuggling to Hyderabad and Maharashtra his main business. Yaseen used the auto garage of one S. Vasudeva Reddy at Medipally as the ganja dispatch hub and his worker P. Rajeshwar as the keeper. Three other persons were hired as drivers who were paid Rs. 20,000 per trip from the origin to the hub. The commissioner said a specific input from the Intelligence Department helped the joint team to plan and execute the raid in the early hours of Monday. In all, 573 packets of 1, 230 ganja, 10 kg loose ganja, three vehicles used to smuggle the packages and other materials were seized. All the six persons in the network, including drivers T. Santosh, C. Ravinder and M. Madhu, residents of Boduppal, Dammaiguda and Nacharam, were booked under related provisions of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Amendment) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/124-tonnes-of-ganja-seized/article37514561.ece
16 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP president attacked ryots with the help of goondas: TRS||TRS leaders have alleged that BJP State president Bandi Sanjay along with some goondas attacked farmers in Nalgonda district in the guise of a visit and wondered what was the purpose of the BJP leader’s visit. “Farmers are confused whether to go for paddy crop or not in the coming season and whether the harvested crop will be procured. The government had already set up 4,500 procurement centres and purchased 9 lakh metric tonnes so far. At this juncture, instigating farmers and attacking them resulting in injuries is most objectionable and inhuman. Farmers were attacked with stones and sticks,” said Rythu Bandhu Samithi chairman and MLC Palla Rajeswar Reddy, MP B. Lingaiah, MLAs Gadari Kishore, P Shekhar Reddy, Saidireddy and Chirmuarthi Lingaiah. Speaking to reporters at Telangana Bhavan on Monday, the TRS leaders stated that while Centre is suggesting farmers not to cultivate paddy, the BJP State president is asking farmers to go for paddy, contradicting the Centre. ‘Double standards’ “There should be one policy. When paddy is being procured from northern States, why not in Telangana?” asked TRS leaders demanding the government to take action against Mr. Sanjay and others responsible for the attack on farmers. They said the BJP leaders would not be allowed to move unless they clarify their stand and procure paddy. ‘Creating anarchy’ “The BJP leader created anarchy from Nalgonda to Huzurnagar. In the past too, he did the same thing and people are not ready to accept this and are ready to counter attack,” said Mr. Saidireddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-president-attacked-ryots-with-the-help-of-goondas-trs/article37514575.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Why was government silent at Southern States meet?’||Former Lok Sabha member and Congress campaign committee chairman Madhu Yashki Goud questioned the silence of Telangana government at the Southern States meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Tirupati on Sunday. “Why was the government silent in the meeting on the promises made by the Centre at the time of formation of Telangana? Were ITIR park in Hyderabad, steel factory at Bayyaram and railway coach factory in Kazipet not there in the list of promises? Why did the State fail to question the Union government?” asked Mr. Madhu Yashki wondering whether the government led by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is serious about protecting the interests of the State. “The TRS supported the BJP at the Centre for the past seven years. Now it has been creating a drama as if it is fighting the Union government on some issues. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has been saying that the State government is not getting the Central funds. Is he accepting that they have failed to get the rightful funds for the State?” questioned the Congress leader. The Congress leader also alleged that the government is silent despite cotton prices coming down in the market. He said that the prices fell by Rs. 1,000 in the last one week in Warangal market. He urged the both Centre and State, in a release here on Monday, to address the issue of paddy procurement, instead of fighting each other. Meanwhile, Kisan Congress chairman Anvesh Reddy alleged that lack of proper planning by the government led to the problem of paddy procurement in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/why-was-government-silent-at-southern-states-meet-yashki/article37514583.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Thanks to OPMS modification, 25 lakh tenant farmers stand to benefit||Addressing a long pending issue of tenant farmers in selling their produce at paddy procurement centres being run by the Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS) or Indira Krathi Patham (IKP) centres, the authorities have modified online procurement and management system (OPMS). Now, the OPMS will reflect the name of the tenant farmer, his phone number and the bank accountdetails. Meanwhile, the Agriculture Extension Officers (AEOs) were entrusted with the responsibility of ascertaining the extent of land being cultivated by a tenant farmer. Once this is confirmed by the concerned officer, it would be entered into the OPMS system. This has become operational from Monday and officials are already entering the details of tenant farmers. In the owners column, the detail of land owner will be as it is. Tenant farmers selling their produce is a serious problem as the system allows only land owners to sell their produce. The tenants farmers used to sell their produce in the name of land owners and get the amount after it was credited by authorities into the account of owner. There were instances where the land owner took longer time to credit the amount. “ Once the amount is released, it would be directly credited in the account of tenant farmer. This will benefit about 25 lakh tenant farmers across the State. Their problems of selling the produce and waiting to get money are addressed once for all,” said an officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/thanks-to-opms-modification-25-lakh-tenant-farmers-stand-to-benefit/article37514584.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kishan’s argument on boiled rice ridiculed||Chairman of the Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation (TSCSC) M. Srinivas Reddy has reiterated that the State has been giving only boiled rice to the Food Corporation of India (FCI) during the Rabi season due to special weather conditions in the State during the season. Ridiculing the argument of Union Minister for Culture and Tourism G. Kishan Reddy on the issue, he said here on Monday that even in combined Andhra Pradesh dispensation, the custom milled rice to the FCI during the Rabi season was boiled rice up to 95% of the total levy supply. Main reason for that is extreme temperatures in Telangana region during the season which would not allow milling raw rice due to high percentage of broken rice in it. Processing of paddy produced in the Rabi season would result in a minimum of 30% to 40% broken rice and the FCI would not allow it as it had fixed the out-turn ratio at 67% for raw rice and 68% for boiled rice based on the recommendations of the Gokak Committee over two decades ago. The maximum percentage of broke rice allowed was 25% even during the Rabi season making it impossible to supply raw rice to FCI during the season. Weather conditions He stated that Mr. Kishan Reddy was speak meaningless without knowing the facts of the weather conditions in Telangana during the Rabi season and its impact on the production of paddy and raw rice. Instead of working for resolution of the issue by taking the matter to the notice of the Prime Minister, Mr. Reddy was encouraging protests by BJP leaders in the State, Mr. Srinivas Reddy said. The Civil Supplies Corporation Chairman also pointed out that the fixing the out-turn ratio for rice was purely in the hands of the Centre and the procurement of food grains, including paddy, is in the Central list since the issuance of orders by Indira Gandhi Government in 1973. Many States were procuring paddy completely as Telangana was doing as the expenditure had to be borne by the States initially and the release of funds from the Centre would happen much later. He explained that while the Centre was bearing the interest component only for two months on the money borrowed by the States for procurement operations, but the Telangana government is was bearing the burden for another 10 months. He also alleged that the FCI was discriminating with Telangana in making available storage space as per the requirement, supply of gunny bags and also the movement of wagons. Further, he stated that the storage charges were being borne by the State for six months and the Centre only for two months. Hamali charges paid by the Centre to Telangana were Rs. 5.65 per quintal against Rs. 24.25 given to Punjab and Haryana, he said.  Kishan Reddy encouraging protests by BJP leaders in State. M. Srinivas Reddy, TSCSC chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kishans-argument-on-boiled-rice-ridiculed/article37514577.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UoH team probes role of miRNAs in immune cell diseases||MicroRNAs (miRNAs) belong to a class of small non-coding RNAs (ribonucleic acids), approximately 22 nucleotides, that often silence the expression of protein-coding genes by binding to their messenger RNAs (mRNAs). Significant advances have been made in the discovery of miRNAs and their respective target genes as their deregulation is closely associated with several immune cell diseases, particularly cancer. A team led by Jagan Pongubala at the department of Animal Biology, School of Life Sciences, University of Hyderabad (UoH) has probed the genome-wide expression and functional analysis of miRNAs during lymphoid lineage commitment to demonstrates its role repressing inappropriate genes. Absence of these miRNAs in developing lymphocytes results in a mixed-lineage gene expression pattern. The genome-wide analyses of miRNAs combined with functional studies help understand the role of miRNAs in developing lymphocytes. Collectively, these studies present the role of miRNAs during lymphoid malignancies, said a press release. The research team included Sameena Nikhat, Anurupa D. Yadavalli, Arpita Prusty, Priyanka K. Narayan, Dasaradhi Palakodeti, Cornelis Murre, and Jagan M.R. Pongubala. The work, ‘A regulatory network of microRNAs confers lineage commitment during early developmental trajectories of B and T lymphocytes’ was published in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America (PNAS, USA) .  UoH Vice-Chancellor B.J. Rao congratulated Mr Pongubala and his team for their ‘excellent’ work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-team-probes-role-of-mirnas-in-immune-cell-diseases/article37514557.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hospital announces free surgeries for 100 children||Aster Hospitals in India, as part of Aster Volunteers Global CSR initiative, has launched ‘Second Life - Because Little Lives Matter’. The year-long initiative was aimed at supporting the medical treatment of disadvantaged children, where the initial aim is to help treat at least 100 children below the age of 12 years by providing free paediatric surgeries. The initiative aims to extend help to deserving children who are being treated across the Aster Hospitals based in five states. This includes common childhood surgeries like appendicitis, intussusception, empyema, paediatric urology surgeries, as well as complex clinical surgeries including bone marrow transplant, liver transplant and heart surgeries, according to Nitish Shetty, regional director of Aster Hospitals for the Karnataka and Maharashtra cluster. Farhan Yasin, regional director, Aster Hospitals, Devanand KT, Regional CEO were present during launch of campaign.  Initiative to cover childhood surgeries like appendicitis, intussusception, empyema, paediatric urology surgeries, as well as complex clinical surgeries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aster-hospital-to-carry-out-free-surgery-for-100-children/article37514553.ece
16 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Indian Photo Festival 2021, commencing on November 18 in Hyderabad, to host online and offline events||The seventh edition of the Indian Photo Festival (IPF) will open here on November 18 with a month-long line-up of digital and real-time events. Some of IPF’s signature features such as portfolio reviews, workshops and artist talks will be held online, while the State Gallery of Art in Madhapur and the walkway of KBR Park will host exhibitions featuring images by national and international photographers. Prior to the pandemic, the annual IPF brought together acclaimed photographers and aspiring lensmen and women to a clutch of venues in Hyderabad for interactive sessions. The IPF turned virtual in 2020, save for a few exhibitions at the KBR Park. Aquin Mathews, the festival director, says the hybrid format of IPF 2021 was necessitated by the uncertainty around vaccination and international travel earlier this year: “We began planning more than six months ago. At that time, things were bleak. Last year’s experience showed us that the online engagement was good, so we decided to continue a similar format for the interactive sessions with master photographers online. However, we were particular in hosting real-time exhibitions to give viewers a chance to look at large-format images rather than viewing them on a laptop or a six-inch mobile phone screen.” The IPF partnered with the National Geographic magazine in 2019 and since then, portfolio reviews by the magazine’s photo editors became an annual feature. This year, aspiring photographers can get their work reviewed by the Nat Geo team by registering for it on www.indianphotofest.com. Another highlight is a five-day masterclass on visual storytelling by photographer Sharbendu De. The IPF also announced an emergency COVID grant for photographers who faced financial setbacks during the extended lockdowns. Emerging photographers can also apply for a free six-month mentorship programme, to be guided by senior photographers. “ The idea is to make photography accessible to more aspirants. The showcase of talent and mentorship programmes are also aimed at promoting culture and heritage through images,” adds Aquin. It will be inaugurated on November 18; 6 p.m. at the State Gallery of Art, with the launch of photojournalist Prashant Panjiar’s book That Which is Unseen and an exhibition that will showcase Panjiar’s work over three decades — from documenting the dacoits of the Chambal region, the aftermath of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots, refugee crisis and communal conflicts in different regions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/indian-photo-festival-2021-commencing-on-november-18-in-hyderabad-to-host-online-and-offline-events/article37514559.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Standing panel members elected unanimously||Fifteen corporators of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, who filed nominations for election to the Standing Committee have been declared winners by the GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar on Monday, the last day for withdrawal of nominations. The candidates have been declared victorious without any contest, as the number of candidates who filed valid nominations equalled the number of required strength for the standing committee, the Commissioner said, citing the rule book. The declared members are Kurma Hemalatha, Devender Reddy Pannala, Parveen Sultana, Y.Prem Kumar, Batha Jabeen, Mahapara, Mandagiri Swamy, Mandadi Srinivasa Rao, Mirza Mustafa Baig, Mohammed Abdul Salam Shahid, Mohammed Rashed Farazuddin, Ravula Seshagiri, C.N.Reddy, E.Vijay Kumar Goud, and Samala Hema. Though 18 nominations were filed, three of them were withdrawn on Monday, paving the way for uncontested election. Only corporators from TRS and MIM parties filed the nominations, with candidates from other opposition parties refraining from the election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/standing-panel-members-elected-unanimously/article37514569.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Encourage States that are capable of faster growth’||Minister for Industries, IT and Urban Development K. T. Rama Rao has stated that economic strength of State is the driving force of the country’s economy and urged the Centre to encourage States to compete at international-level in the economic growth. Participating in a video conference, along with Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao, conducted by Union Finance Minister Nirmal Sitharaman on Monday night he said Telangana was among the top four States in the country which were contributing most to the country’s GDP. Encouraging States having capability to grow fast by the Centre would help strengthening the country’s economy. The ministers also urged the Centre to sanction dry ports to land-locked States such as Telangana to encourage exports. Further, they sought release of special grants recommended by the 15th Finance Commission to Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/encourage-states-that-are-capable-of-faster-growth/article37514573.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Yashoda gets a mother and child institute||To mark the occasion of Children’s Day, a dedicated state-of-the-art Mother and Child Institute was inaugurated in Yashoda Hospitals, Somajiguda, by Hyderabad City Additional Commissioner of Police Shikha Goel on Monday. Hospital director Pavan Gorukanti said the women’s health department is fully staffed with specialists in the field including 24/7 in-house senior consultants in Obstetrics and Gynaecology to address all aspects of care from prevention, health screenings, latest in obstetrics including state-of-the-art labour suites, painless natural birthing, pre/post partum care to all kinds of high risk and precious baby delivery, minimally invasive gynaecological surgeries with in-house multi-speciality surgical, cardiac, intervention radiology, intensivist and other specialist coverage to provide the best possible care. Similarly, the paediatric unit headed by senior consultant Suresh Kumar Panuganti and other experts now offer comprehensive multi-specialty paediatric care from child well being, screening, vaccination and other outpatient consultation to all aspects of in-patient care, including state-of-the-art PICU and NICU with 24/7 senior consultant coverage. Other achievement is management of extremely preterm deliveries and managing young patients on ECMOs with advanced modes of ventilation and other advanced level ICU care to match the best international standards, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/yashoda-gets-a-mother-and-child-institute/article37514550.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IBM sets up facility to offer BPO consulting||Tech firm IBM’s consulting and global professional services business IBM Consulting has established a facility in Hyderabad. The new facility will provide Business Process Operations services across several domains such as finance and accounts, procurement and supply chain, human resources and recruiting and industry specific processes, including risk and compliance. IBM Consulting can help clients achieve their digital transformation goals, the company said on Monday. Global Managing Partner-Business Process Operations of IBM Consulting Tony Menezes said the emphasis is on helping clients leverage hybrid cloud and Artificial Intelligence capabilities to accelerate digital transformation across their organisation. “We will combine our deep industry domain expertise with world-class skills and diversity of talent of Telangana as we witness significant growth in our Business Process Operations portfolio globally,” he said. The expansion is aligned to IBM Consulting’s double-digits hiring strategy across its global delivery network. Currently, the India footprint of Business Process Operations from IBM Consulting covers Bengaluru, Gurugram, Noida, Chennai, Pune, Mysuru and Mumbai, IBM said in a release. The Hyderabad facility will also serve an additional function of enabling resiliency for IBM Consulting by acting as backup site for Business Process Operations centres in Chennai and Bengaluru. The onsite team will also collaborate with IBM India Software Labs in Hyderabad to bring in AI and platform offerings to reimagine intelligent workflows in client operations. Also, the new facility has dedicated workspaces to collaborate with clients via the IBM Garage, a collaborative approach to fast-track innovation and drive meaningful, lasting transformation, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ibm-sets-up-facility-to-offer-bpo-consulting/article37514552.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS records 148 new cases of COVID-19||Continuing its downward trend, coronavirus infections in Telangana stayed under the 150-mark on Monday even as two more deaths were reported. According to health bulletin, a total of 148 cases were detected, which included 50 from GHMC limits, followed by 14 cases in Karimnagar, nine in Rangareddy, eight each in Jagtial and Medchal-Malkajgiri, seven in Mancherial, five each in Khammam, Warangal Urban and Nalgonda, four each in Nizamabad, Suryapet, Bhadradri Kothagudem and Siddipet. Yadadri Bhuvangiri and Rajanna Sircilla logged three infections each while Peddapalli, Mahabubnagar and Mahabubabad recorded two cases each. Districts such as Kumaram Bheem Asifabad, Nagarkurnool, Sangareddy, Nirmal and Jangaon saw one positive case each. The case tally in the State has reached 6,73,722 and cumulative recovered cases are 6,66,012. The case fatality rate was recorded at 0.59% and the recovery rate stood at 98.85%. The total number of cases under treatment/isolation was 3,735. The number of samples tested on Monday was 34,778 and reports of 1,206 persons were awaited, the bulletin mentioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-records-148-new-cases-of-covid-19/article37514551.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Actor on walk attacked, phone snatched at KBR Park||A young actor was attacked and her phone snatched away by an unidentified man at the Kasu Brahmananda Reddy National Park in the Banjara Hills police limits on Sunday. The incident as reported to the police took place on the outer track of the park around 8.30 p.m. when actor Shalu Chourasiya was in her walk. The episode came to light Monday morning. According to the police, an unidentified man, suspected to be in the 20-25 age bracket, approached Ms. Chourasiya and attempted grabbing her phone. While she resisted, the attacker using blunt force snatched the phone and fled the place. The actor sustained abrasion and blunt injuries in the act. Police said they are examining CCTV footage from a few units available around the park and near the attack site. Whereabouts of the attacker, through the phone’s IMEI or the tower location, are yet to be established. Officials said a case of robbery was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/actor-on-walk-attacked-phone-snatched-at-kbr-park/article37514563.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Family dispute behind Falaknuma man’s murder||The murder of 32-year-old mobile technician Mohd. Arif in Falaknuma limits by home guard of Hussaini Alam police station and two others on Saturday night, was reportedly due to family disputes over money and accusations of black magic. Home guard Md. Sami Mohiuddin along with Md. Amjad and Md. Ali had attacked Arif with chilli powder and then hacked him using a knife and an axe. The victim was later declared dead at the Osmania General Hospital. South Zone DCP Gajarao Bhupal said Arif had reportedly demanded Rs. 2 lakh from his sister Shaheen and her husband Amer Mohammed Khan for the medical treatment of his girlfriend, who he suspected was falling ill frequently because of black magic cast on her by them. There were heated exchanges between Arif and Amer and they threatened each other. Consequently, Amer hatched a plot along with his home guard brother Mohiuddin and his two friends to kill Arif at his residence at Payeen Bagh, Jahanuma, Mr. Bhupal elaborated. All the accused were booked. PD Act invoked Hyderabad City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar invoked preventive detention orders against one Varakala Narsimha (28), a slaughter house worker and resident of Jiyaguda, for his habitual offences such as extortion, criminal intimidation and voluntarily causing hurt in Kulsumpura police limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/family-dispute-behind-falaknuma-mans-murder/article37514565.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two convicted for killing co-worker||The III Additional District & Sessions Judge, Rangareddy dist., K. Kusha convicted two persons on Monday for killing their co-worker. Hanuman Manute and Bandan Kumar, migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh and South West Delhi respectively, attacked Abdullah on February 14 last year over hurling expletives for not serving curry. The trio were at a function hall in Adibatla for decoration works and even shared alcohol before having food. Following heated exchange, the former attacked Abdullah with a fire safety cylinder and he died. The duo was sentenced to 10 years rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 500 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-convicted-for-killing-co-worker/article37514566.ece
16 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRSLP meet on boiled rice issue||The TRS Legislature Party meeting will be held on Tuesday. To be chaired by party president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, the meeting is expected to discuss the Centre’s attitude in the matter of procurement of rice, particularly boiled rice produced in Rabi season. It would also discuss the future course of action to be adopted by the TRS government on the issue. The meeting will be held at TRS headquarters, Telangana Bhavan, at 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trslp-meet-on-boiled-rice-issue/article37514579.ece
16 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CM remembers Birsa Munda||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao paid rich tributes to adivasi/tribal leader and freedom fighter Birsa Munda on his birth anniversary. In statement issued on Monday, he said Birsa Munda sacrificed his life at a very young age fighting for the country’s independence, for the self-respect and rights of the adivasi communities and made a permanent place for himself in the history of the country’s freedom movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-remembers-birsa-munda/article37514578.ece
16 November 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||KRIBHCO proposes Ethanol plant||The Krishak Bharati Cooperative Limited (KRIBHCO) has come forward to set up an Ethanol plant in Karimnagar district, considered the rice bowl of Telangana. KRIBHCO Chairman Chandra Pal Singh, Managing Director Rajan Chowdhry, Executive Director V S R Prasad held discussions with the Telangana State Planning Board (TSPB) vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar, Minister for Industries and IT K T Rama Rao, and the Karimnagar District Cooperative Central Bank (DCCB) chairman Konduru Ravinder Rao in this regard in Hyderabad on Sunday, according to a press release. They explained about the importance of setting up an Ethanol plant. The KRIBHCO came up with the proposal for the benefit of farmers in the district, who excelled with record paddy and maize production in the State. They noted that the availability of two major irrigation sources – the Mid Manair Dam and the Lower Manair Dam would be an added advantage for setting up an Ethanol plant. Responding to the proposal, Mr Vinod Kumar assured to extend all assistance to the KRIBHCO team. The KRIBHCO team is likely to tour Karimnagar district on Tuesday to identify suitable locations for the proposed Ethanol plant. Ethanol would be produced from rice, rice straw, rice husk, rice bran, corn and maize.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kribhco-proposes-ethanol-plant/article37514572.ece
16 November 2021||Sangareddy,TELANGANA||Complaint lodged against SI||Alleging that Zaheerabad (Rural) Sub-Inspector Ravi has registered wrong cases against them, tribals of Seriyagattu tanda in Kohir mandal lodged a complaint with Superintendent of Police M. Ramana Kumar on Monday. In the petition, they said that on the day of Deepavali, the police led by Mr. Ravi entered the tanda in plain clothes and misbehaved with residents. They stated the SI even threatened them with his revolver and registered false cases against five persons. Later speaking to reporters, the tribals said that the SP promised an inquiry by a senior officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/complaint-lodged-against-si/article37514586.ece
16 November 2021||SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||3 boys feared drowned in Manair river||A 13-year-old boy drowned and at least two other boys were feared washed away in Manair river in Sircilla town on Monday. According to sources, three children, all aged 13 years, went missing after they ventured into Manair river to take bath near Ambabai temple in the textile town late on Monday afternoon. Alerted by some local residents, the town police rushed to the spot and launched a search operation by deploying swimmers. The body of one of the boys was recovered in a check dam under construction in Manair river later in the day. The police identified the deceased as Ganesh, a class VIII student of Rajivnagar in Sircilla town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-boys-feared-drowned-in-manair-river/article37514589.ece
16 November 2021||Warangal,TELANGANA||Rs. 25 lakh stolen from realtor’s car||Miscreants made away with Rs. 25 lakh cash kept in a parked car near a bank in broad daylight on the busy Nakkalagutta area in Hanamkonda town on Monday afternoon. The incident occurred when a real estate businessman went inside a bank to sign some documents, leaving a bag containing Rs. 25 lakh cash in his car after parking the vehicle on the roadside, sources said. Unidentified persons smashed the front window of the parked car and decamped with the cash. When the businessman returned from the bank a few minutes later, he found the driver's side glass window of the car broken, and cash missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-25-lakh-stolen-from-realtors-car/article37514590.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||Dengue cases in Capital cross 5,000; death toll remains at 9||The Capital reported 2,569 cases of dengue over the past week (till November 13), taking this month’s caseload to 3,740, a civic report said on Monday. This takes the season’s total to 5,277 cases, the highest since 2017, while the death toll remains at nine. The cases recorded last week are almost equal to the total number of cases reported till November 6: 2,708.  The Hindu on November 14 reported that only seven city hospitals had recorded more cases than the Government’s official figure till November 6, which included patients from outside Delhi. While the official count was 4,362 cases, the data provided by sources from the seven hospitals, including Safdarjung Hospital and Lok Nayak Hospital, put the total at over 4,600 cases. North Delhi reported the highest number of cases over the past week at 808, followed by south Delhi with 781 cases. Officials from the South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) public health department said “many hospitals” are reporting “backdated and repeated cases” after the Delhi Government’s decision to notify vector-borne diseases under the Epidemic Diseases Act. They said that “heavy and late rains” in September and October had also led to an increase in “mosquito breeding causing dengue”. “Dengue has a cyclical trend and there is a surge in cases every four to five years. A case spike in the entire National Capital Region is leading to more patients coming to Delhi hospitals due to better treatment facilities. After dengue was made notifiable, reports of cases are received from the Delhi Government and not directly from hospitals,” the SDMC officials said, adding that there is “no backlog of cases” in the civic body’s public health department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dengue-cases-in-capital-cross-5000-death-toll-remains-at-9/article37514451.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Students clash at JNU’s activity centre||A scuffle broke out at the students’ activity centre at Jawaharlal Nehru University on Sunday night after a group of students, who had booked the facility, clashed with Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) members, who were conducting a meeting at the same venue. Students from both groups said that they sustained injuries in the clash and a blame game ensued soon after. Refused to vacate room The JNUSU, which has the keys to the centre, said that a student organisation had booked the room for an event which had been widely publicised on the campus and that the ABVP had tried to disrupt the event by refusing to vacate the room and then resorting to intimidating tactics to dismantle democratic structures. The ABVP countered the JNUSU’s claim by saying that their members had been attacked by the Left groups during an ongoing meeting of ABVP activists. The Delhi Police said that an FIR was lodged at the Vasant Kunj police station. “After the police rushed to the spot, they found that no quarrel was taking place and on enquiry, it was learnt that heated arguments had broken out between two student groups over organising a seminar in the student union hall,” DCP(South-West) Gaurav Sharma said. While the JNUSU has not lodged any complaint so far, ABVP-affiliated students have given written complaints and so has the Left-affiliated students’ organisation. “Both sides are levelling allegations against each other for disrupting their meeting,” the DCP said, adding that further enquiry is under way. The JNU administration said the activity centre belongs to all without discrimination and every student is entitled to use the place adhering to the rules of the university. “Violence and unruly behaviour have no place in an academic institution and the JNU administration would strongly disapprove of any kind of violence and disorderly conduct on the campus,” chief proctor Rajnish Kumar Mishra said. Conduct march The JNUSU as well as the ABVP conducted a march on Monday evening on the campus to defend the democratic spaces of JNU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/students-clash-at-jnus-activity-centre/article37514447.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||BJP leader moves HC against summons||BJP MLA Vijender Gupta on Monday moved the Delhi High Court against summons issued to him in a criminal complaint filed by Delhi Cabinet Minister Kailash Gahlot for allegedly making defamatory statements on purported irregularities in the procurement of 1,000 low-floor buses by the Delhi Transport Corporation. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Jyoti Singh agreed to list the case for hearing on Tuesday. Mr. Gupta was summoned as an accused in the criminal complaint by a trial court on October 11 and was asked to appear before it on November 16. The trial court had said there was prima facie enough evidence to summon Mr. Gupta as an accused of the alleged offences of defamation. Political mileage Mr. Gahlot had alleged in his complaint that Mr. Gupta “intentionally and for mala fide purposes” defamed him and tarnished his reputation to gain political mileage. “The accused made scurrilous, misplaced, and false allegations against the complainant with an intention to teach people of Delhi a lesson for voting in favour of Aam Aadmi Party,” Mr. Gahlot’s plea had alleged. It had claimed that the BJP leader had made unabated tweets doubting the integrity of the Minister concerning the purchase of the low-floor buses, despite a clean chit being given by a high-powered committee. The plea had said that the Delhi Government had floated a tender for buses and after due process, it was awarded to Tata but all sorts of allegations were made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-leader-moves-hc-against-summons/article37514443.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks Australian firm’s reply to start-up’s suit||An Indian software start-up has moved a patent infringement suit before the Delhi High Court against Australian design software giant Canva over its new publishing feature ‘Present and Record’. RxPrism Health Systems, which is based out of Bengaluru, claimed that Canva’s ‘Present and Record’ feature was an infringement of its patented product ‘My Show & Tell’, that helps businesses and individuals create interactive talking head presentation. A Bench of Justice Asha Menon on Monday sought response from Canva, its co-founders Melanie Perkins and Clifford Obrecht, and Cameron Adams, co-founder and chief product officer, who were arrayed as defendants in the suit. The High Court posted the case for further hearing on December 9. Restrain from usage RxPrism’s suit, filed through advocate Sanyam Khetarpal, has asked the court for a direction to restrain Canva from “using, making, manufacturing, offering for sale, publishing,” their patented technology through the ‘Present and Record’ feature. RxPrism said it had on December 19, 2018, applied for Indian patent for its invention — ‘A system and a method for creating and sharing interactive content rapidly anywhere and anytime’. The patent was eventually granted on March 10, 2021, and is valid up to December 2038. The suit claimed Canva, which as on September 14, 2021, was reportedly valued at $40 billion, continues to offer the ‘Present and Record’ feature on its website despite Maruthi Viswanathan, CEO of RxPrism, himself apprising its co-founders of his patent and requesting them for a dialogue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-seeks-australian-firms-reply-to-start-ups-suit/article37514441.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||Despite ban on construction, dust pollution unchecked in many areas||Despite the city’s air quality being in the “very poor” category for the last two days, dust pollution caused by construction activities was noticed in three areas along an eight-km stretch of road in central and south Delhi on Monday, which was selected at random for a spot check by The Hindu . Roads were being dug up at a colony in Jor Bagh without following any dust-control measures, though there is a ban on construction activities in the city due to the high pollution levels. The air quality index of the city was 353 (very poor) on Monday, up from 330 on Sunday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4 p.m. bulletin, which is the average of the past 24 hours. On Monday afternoon, at B.K. Dutt Colony in central Delhi, more than a dozen sections on the road were dug up and work was going on in multiple areas. Heaps of reddish earth were dug out and were not covered and water was also not sprinkled on them. Workers said they are laying cable for a company, which provides services related to telecommunication and Internet. As per the CPCB guidelines for dust control issued in November 2017, sheets made of plastic, tarpaulin etc. should be used to cover construction material that are easily airborne and also the debris that are dumped at temporary storage sites. Dust contributes to fine inhalable particles called particulate matter, which goes deep into the lungs and even bloodstream and causes health problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/despite-ban-on-construction-dust-pollution-unchecked-in-many-areas/article37514454.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||Deadline for e-auto permits for women extended||The Delhi Transport Department has extended the last date for registration of e-auto for women applicants. Earlier, an applicant could apply till November 1, which was extended up to November 15, the Government said. The Transport Department had launchedthe scheme for registration of e-auto in October this year under which it had invited online applications for the registration of 4,261 e-autos.  33% reservation The Delhi Government has reserved 33% of the total registration, that is 1,406 e-autos, for women applicants to encourage them to be part of this EV revolution, the Government said. Till now, a total of 19,885 applications have been received by the Transport Department. Of these total applications, 19,187 are male applicants and the total number of women applicants is 698. To invite more women drivers, the Government has decided to keep the applications for women drivers open till the 33% slots fill up. Valid driving licence Women applicants having a valid driving licence of light motor vehicle or holder of a three-seater autorickshaws driving licence could apply for the registration of e-autos if they have an Aadhaar card with a Delhi address. The public service vehicle (PSV) badge is not required at the time of application. However, the successful applicant will have to obtain a PSV badge within 45 days of the draw of allotment. Women applicants can visit transport.delhi.gov.in  to apply for e-auto registration and can call on 1076 helpline number of the Delhi Government for any assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/deadline-for-e-auto-permits-for-women-extended/article37514448.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||26-year-old acid victim succumbs to burns||A 26-year-old woman, who was battling for life at a hospital here after being attacked with acid by a man in Outer Delhi’s Bawana, succumbed to her injuries on Monday, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Brijendra Yadav confirmed the development. The woman was attacked on November 3 when she rejected the marriage proposal of a 23-year-old man, identified as Montu, who was arrested from Buxar district in Bihar three days after the incident. The woman was attacked by Montu who took her to his room on the pretext of showing evidence of infidelity against her husband. The accused had tied her hands before throwing acid at her, the police said. She had also lost vision a few days ago. She is survived by her husband and three children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/26-year-old-acid-victim-succumbs-to-burns/article37514444.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Four of family injured in LPG cylinder blast||Four members of a family sustained burn injuries following a cylinder blast at their residence in Outer Delhi’s Nangloi on Monday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Parvinder Singh said that the injured have been identified as Daron, 40, his wife Reena, 35, both labourers, and their two minor children — a son aged 13 and daughter aged 15. The police said that they received information about the incident at 7.23 a.m. where the caller said that a gas cylinder blast in a house in Nihal Vihar had caused fire. It was revealed that there was a leak in the domestic gas cylinder while Daron was preparing tea which caused the fire. The police said that all four injured were shifted to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital in Mongolpuri and three fire tenders were pressed into service. Daron and his wife have suffered 80% and 50% burns respectively. Daron is said to be battling for life and Reena is also critical. The children are stable, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/four-of-family-injured-in-lpg-cylinder-blast/article37514446.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||BJP slams Kejriwal for rising air pollution||Reacting to the Supreme Court observations on the air pollution in the National Capital Region, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday termed Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal a source of pollution in himself. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said Mr. Kejriwal has not taken any concrete steps so far to control the pollution in the city. As a result, he said, every October, people are “forced to confine themselves to their homes” as venturing out is an invitation to diseases. “Mr. Kejriwal has not even kept any one of his promises, whether it is making a green corridor, controlling dust particles, increasing battery vehicles, or solar activity,” Mr. Gupta said. “Mr. Kejriwal had made 24 announcements in 2018 to reduce pollution but why was not even one of them fulfilled?” he asked. Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri demanded Mr. Kejriwal’s resignation on moral grounds. Mr. Bidhuri said that the affidavit filed by the Delhi Government or the arguments given in the Supreme Court were only to accuse others. “We have been saying that the biggest reason for pollution in Delhi is that its public transport system has collapsed,” Mr. Bidhuri said. The Dellhi Congress said it has constantly raised concerns over Delhi becoming a gas chamber due to severe air pollution and now the Supreme Court has validated its concerns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-slams-kejriwal-for-rising-air-pollution/article37514449.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||EU envoy hails Delhi’s fight against COVID-19, pollution||European Union Ambassador to India, Ugo Astuto, met Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal here on Monday. The Ambassador took note of Delhi’s fight against COVID-19 and its efforts to reduce pollution. Mr. Kejriwal said that the Government had done “solid work” in curbing the spread of COVID-19. He said that serosurveys suggest Delhi is largely safe if people take precautions and there is no new virus strain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/eu-envoy-hails-delhis-fight-against-covid-19-pollution/article37514455.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Biden to discuss ‘guardrails’ for U.S. and China, with Xi: official||U.S. President Joe Biden will discuss ‘guardrails’ to the U.S.-China dynamics with his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, during the duo’s virtual meeting on Tuesday morning (IST), a senior U.S. administration official said. However, no specific deliverables are expected from the virtual meeting. Mr. Biden also plans to discuss divergences between the two countries – China’s actions towards Taiwan, most notably, but also human rights and China’s “coercive” tactics, in addition to areas of alignment, the official said. “ …It’s important to keep channels of communication open. That’s why President Biden initiated this meeting. We want to make clear our intentions and our priorities to avoid misunderstandings,” the official told reporters on a briefing call on Sunday, while previewing the meeting. “The President will also make clear that we want to build common sense guardrails to avoid miscalculation or misunderstanding,” the official said. Monday’s interaction would be different from the two calls the two leaders have had since Mr. Biden became President (most recently in early September), as per the official, because it would be a virtual, face to face (rather than voice only) interaction and because of the level of preparation going into the meeting. The official listed China’s “coercive and provocative behaviour” with respect to Taiwan, human rights, China’s “extraordinary” state support of enterprises, and its actions in cyberspace, as among the issues on the anvil for Monday’s discussions. “This is an opportunity for President Biden to tell President Xi directly that he expects him to play by the rules of the road,” the official said. The U.S. has been alarmed at the number of intrusions by Beijing into Taiwan’s Air Defence Identification Zone in recent months. China, on the other hand, had objected to U.S. support for Taiwan. Tensions around the issue were evident in both sides’ summaries of a call on Friday between U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi. On Australia’s plan to acquire nuclear-powered submarines via the AUKUS ( Australia-U.K.-U.S.) security partnership, the Biden administration official suggested they would see how Beijing raised the issue on Monday. “It’s certainly possible that we could hear from them on that,” the official said. Australia’s support Australian Defence Minister Peter Dutton had said over the weekend that it was “inconceivable” that Australia would not join the U.S. in any action taken to defend Taiwan. The official was unwilling to commit to a position on whether Mr. Biden would accept any invite to attend the Winter Olympics, scheduled to be held in Beijing in 2022. The virtual meeting with Mr. Xi is scheduled for 6:15 a.m. on Tuesday (IST).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-to-discuss-guardrails-for-us-and-china-with-xi-official/article37514014.ece
16 November 2021||Kandahar,||Taliban crack down on IS hideouts||The Taliban have launched a crackdown on suspected Islamic State hideouts in southern Afghanistan, officials said on Monday, following an increase in bloody attacks by the group in recent weeks. The operation against Islamic State-Khorasan — the local chapter of the jihadist group — started around midnight in at least four districts of Kandahar province and continued through Monday morning, Taliban provincial police chief Abdul Ghafar Mohammadi said. “So far, four Daesh (IS) fighters have been killed and ten arrested... one of them blew himself up inside a house,” he said. Blast in Kabul A member of the Taliban intelligence agency who declined to be named said at least three civilians were killed in the operation. Local media quoted a Taliban official as saying there had also been a blast in a western suburb of Kabul Monday morning with no casualties. In the three months since the Taliban came to power, IS-K has been active in Jalalabad, Kunduz, Kandahar and Kabul. Last month the group claimed responsibility for a suicide bomb attack on a Shiite mosque in Kandahar that killed at least 60 people and injured scores more. That attack came a week after another deadly mosque blast claimed by IS-K in northern Kunduz province killed more than 60 people. The group on Sunday claimed responsibility for a bomb that destroyed a minibus in Kabul at the weekend killing a well-known local journalist and up to two others. IS-K boasted it had killed or injured “20 Shiite apostates” in the incident. Earlier this month IS-K fighters raided the city’s National Military Hospital, killing at least 19 persons and injuring more than 50 others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-crack-down-on-is-hideouts/article37514004.ece
16 November 2021||Brussels,||EU to add airlines to Belarus sanctions as tensions mount||The European Union on Monday ratcheted up pressure on Belarus by agreeing to slap sanctions on airlines accused of helping President Alexander Lukashenko to wage a “hybrid attack” against the bloc using migrants, as tensions mounted on the Polish border. Up to 4,000 migrants are stuck in makeshift camps in freezing weather after Poland reinforced its border with Belarus with 15,000 soldiers. The 27-country EU has already imposed four sets of sanctions on Belarus authorities and senior officials over the disputed election in August last year that returned Mr. Lukashenko to office and the security crackdown on peaceful protesters that followed. The EU is preparing a fifth lot, and on Monday, the bloc’s Foreign Ministers extended the scope of those measures to add airlines, travel agents and others accused of helping to bring migrants to Minsk. EU headquarters said the bloc will now be able to target individuals and entities organising or contributing to activities by the Lukashenko regime that facilitate illegal crossing of the EU’s external borders. Mr. Lukashenko brushed aside the threat of fresh EU measures. “We will defend ourselves. That’s it, there’s nowhere to retreat further,” he was quoted as saying by the state news agency Belta . Asked at the EU meeting in Brussels about the danger that more sanctions might only make things worse, German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said: “I don’t have the impression that Belarus behaves constructively without sanctions. That wasn’t the case in the past.” “We are far from the end of the spiral of sanctions,” Mr. Maas added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-to-add-airlines-to-belarus-sanctions-as-tensions-mount/article37514011.ece
16 November 2021||Tehran,||Iran invites UN nuclear body chief to Tehran for talks||Iran has invited the head of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) for talks after the UN official expressed concern over a lack of contact with Iranian authorities, Tehran said on Monday. UN nuclear watchdog chief Rafael Grossi “has been invited” to Tehran and a visit date has been put forward, Foreign Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh said, without providing specifics on the possible timing of the trip. Mr. Grossi is expected to meet with Iran’s Foreign Minister and the country’s atomic energy chief, Mr. Khatibzadeh told journalists, while also adding that, “we await his response”. Mr. Grossi had been hoping to visit Iran before the next meeting of the IAEA’s Board of Governors starts on November 22, but on Friday described a lack of contact with the Iranian government as “astonishing”. ‘List of things’ “There’s a long list of things we need to discuss,” he said. Rafael Grossi last visited Tehran in September, where he clinched a deal over access to surveillance equipment at Iran’s nuclear facilities. Days after that visit, the IAEA complained that it had been denied “indispensable” access to a centrifuge component manufacturing workshop where it needed to service equipment. The invitation comes as talks are expected to resume on November 29 in Vienna aiming to revive a 2015 nuclear deal between Iran and world powers. The deal, which offered Tehran relief from sanctions in exchange for curbs on its nuclear program, was torpedoed when the U.S. unilaterally pulled out in 2018. Talks have been on hold since June following the election of Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi. On Monday, Mr. Khatibzadeh reiterated Iran’s demands for guarantees that the U.S. would not pull out of the deal again, adding that progress in negotiations was contingent on the lifting of sanctions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-invites-un-nuclear-body-chief-to-tehran-for-talks/article37514003.ece
16 November 2021||Liverpool,||U.K. raises terror threat level after Liverpool blast||Britain raised its terrorism threat level on Monday after a deadly explosion outside a hospital in Liverpool in an attack involving a homemade bomb that was reportedly foiled by a quick-thinking taxi driver. Interior Minister Priti Patel said intelligence officials had increased the threat from “substantial” to “severe” — the second-highest level meaning an attack is highly likely. Ms. Patel said the decision was made because Sunday’s blast, which destroyed a taxi and killed a passenger outside the Liverpool Women’s Hospital, was the second incident in a month. Last month, veteran British MP David Amess was stabbed to death as he met constituents in southeast England, in an attack that prosecutors said had a “terrorist connection”. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the Liverpool attack was a “stark reminder of the need for us all to remain utterly vigilant”. Russ Jackson, in charge of counter-terrorism policing in northwest England, said the motive for the Liverpool attack was unclear. But he told reporters that the improvised explosive device, which ignited in the cab, turning it into a fireball, was “built by the passenger” who died. Mr. Jackson added that it was being treated as a “terrorist incident”. The explosion came just minutes before a Remembrance Sunday service at nearby Liverpool Cathedral, prompting speculation the event was the intended target. Three men aged 21, 26 and 29 were arrested under the Terrorism Act soon after the explosion in the nearby Kensington area of the city and were taken for questioning. A fourth man, aged 20, was detained earlier on Monday, Mr. Jackson said, adding that “significant items” had been found at a second address in Sefton Park, near Kensington. Remarkable escape The blast and fireball sent thick smoke into the air just seconds before Britain fell silent in tribute to its war dead and military veterans at 1100 GMT. There was immediate praise for the taxi driver, who reportedly locked the passenger — a man — inside the cab after growing suspicious about his intentions. The passenger had wanted to go to the annual service at Liverpool's Anglican cathedral, according to U.K. media quoting investigators. But road closures forced the taxi to detour and they ended up at the nearby hospital, where the bomb went off just after the driver had escaped, the Daily Mail reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-raises-terror-threat-level-after-liverpool-blast/article37514005.ece
16 November 2021||Yangon,||U.S. journalist detained in Myanmar released||A U.S. journalist imprisoned in Myanmar since May was released and deported on Monday, a day before he was due to face terror and sedition charges that could have jailed him for life. The military has squeezed the press since taking power in a February coup, arresting dozens of journalists critical of its crackdown on dissent, which has killed more than 1,200 people according to a local monitoring group. Danny Fenster had been working at local outlet Frontier Myanmar for around a year and was arrested as he headed home to see his family in May. He was jailed for 11 years last week for incitement, unlawful association and breaching visa rules and had been due to appear in court on Tuesday to face sedition and terror charges — which could have seen him jailed for life. But on Monday, junta spokesman Zaw Min Tun said he had been freed and would be deported from the country. Negotiations held The 37-year-old’s release was secured following “face-to-face negotiations” between former top U.S. diplomat Bill Richardson and junta chief Min Aung Hlaing, Richardson’s organisation said in a statement. In a statement, the family expressed their relief at Mr. Fenster’s release. “We are overjoyed that Danny has been released and is on his way home — we cannot wait to hold him in our arms,” the statement said, thanking Mr. Richardson for his help. Mr. Fenster — who spent 176 days in detention — is believed to have contracted COVID-19 during his detention, family members said in August. Myanmar has been in turmoil since the military seized power in a February coup and ousted Aung San Suu Kyi’s elected civilian government. More than 1,200 people have been killed by security forces in a crackdown on dissent. The press has also been squeezed as the junta tries to tighten control over the flow of information. More than 100 journalists have been arrested since the putsch, according to Reporting ASEAN, a monitoring group. It says at least 30 are still in detention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-journalist-detained-in-myanmar-released/article37514007.ece
16 November 2021||Paris,||France slams U.K.’s remarks on migrants||France told Britain on Monday to stop “giving lessons” on migrants in an increasingly acrimonious row between London and Paris over the numbers crossing the Channel. Britain “should stop using us as a punch-ball in their domestic politics,” Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin said ahead of talks with his British counterpart Priti Patel later on Monday. The longstanding dispute has intensified in the last days after record numbers of migrants crossed the Channel to reach England from the French coast. “I will remind my British counterpart that the NGOs that prevent the police from working are largely British NGOs with British citizens who are on French soil,” he said. And he added: “The smugglers, who organise networks and exploit women and children, are very often based in Britain.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/france-slams-uks-remarks-on-migrants/article37514002.ece
16 November 2021||Manila,||Philippine leader runs for senate, after vow to retire||Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte filed his candidacy for a senate seat in next year’s elections, walking back on his vow that he would retire from politics and prompting rights groups to say he is working to evade accountability for his deadly anti-drug campaign.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/philippine-leader-runs-for-senate-after-vow-to-retire/article37514009.ece
16 November 2021||London,||Shell wants to shift headquarters to U.K.||Royal Dutch Shell proposed moving its headquarters from the Netherlands to the United Kingdom in hopes of making it easier to move forward in a world transitioning away from dependence on fossil fuels. Dutch officials said they were “unpleasantly surprised” by the move.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/shell-wants-to-shift-headquarters-to-uk/article37514012.ece
16 November 2021||Melbourne,||Life-sized statue of Mahatma Gandhi vandalised in Australia; PM Scott Morrison terms it ‘disgraceful’||A life-sized bronze statue of Mahatma Gandhi, gifted by the Indian government, has been vandalised in Melbourne in an act Prime Minister Scott Morrison strongly condemned as “disgraceful”, triggering shock and disappointment among the Indian-Australian community. The incident happened hours after Mr. Morrison unveiled the statue at the Australian Indian Community Centre in Rowville on Friday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/life-sized-statue-of-mahatma-gandhi-vandalised-in-australia-pm-scott-morrison-terms-it-disgraceful/article37514036.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||The debacle of demonetisation||On November 8, 2016, the Prime Minister announced that from midnight, Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 notes would no longer be legal tender. Though Indians were given the opportunity of redeeming the full value of their money held in this form, they could do so only by depositing the notes in a bank or Post Office savings account. The total value of the currency affected by this move, henceforth referred to as demonetisation, was 85%. A former U.S. Secretary of the Treasury said this was by far the “most sweeping change in currency policy that has occurred anywhere in the world in decades”. With five years of experience, we are now in a position to give an unqualified verdict on the consequences of this move. Changing goalposts The original argument given for demonetisation was that it would extinguish unaccounted or ‘black’ money. The presumption underlying this was that with unaccounted income inevitably held as cash, owners of these hoards would be hesitant to turn them in to banks as they would have to explain the source. When it was pointed out that unaccounted income is very likely to have been converted into real assets or transferred overseas, the government shifted the narrative. It then explained that the move was meant to get the economy to run on ‘less cash’. Finally, it strongly asserted that the move would incentivise direct tax payment and this would raise the government’s revenues sufficiently to allow for greater public investment and the provision of more public services. The Reserve Bank of India’s Annual Report of 2019 settled the first issue conclusively when it reported that approximately 99% of the affected money supply was deposited into accounts with commercial banks. So, the existence of black money hoards may have been exaggerated, to put it mildly, even though this does not imply that all earnings were being declared to the income tax authorities. What about the predicted move towards less cash? Well, the ratio of currency with the public to national income has, at 11.5%, remarkably remained the same from 2015-16 onwards. Money seems to remain a chosen medium of exchange for Indians, even if purchases are increasingly being made online. Any independent economist could have pointed out to the government that in an economy where a large section of the population has little income to save, cash is likely to stay as a medium of exchange for some time. After all, electronic payments other than those based on credit cards draw upon prior savings. All this is besides the point, however, and misses how disingenuous the official narrative was. If the idea was to make the population use less cash, there was no need for the secrecy implicit in the hurried announcement of demonetisation. It could have been simply achieved by amendment of the Income Tax Act requiring all large-value transactions to be made by cheque or electronic means. Finally, we come to the claim that demonetisation would lead to an increase in direct tax payments. Why this would be so was never spelt out, but the data can settle this matter conclusively. We find that the ratio of direct tax collections to the national income rose marginally in 2016-17, but higher rates had been achieved earlier. It continued to rise marginally for two more years, but this cannot confidently be attributed to demonetisation alone. The Goods and Services Tax introduced in 2017 may have nudged potential income tax assesses to comply with the law due to the surveillance that came into force. We can see in the Finance Ministry’s latest ‘Budget at a Glance’ that the trend of a rising direct tax to national income ratio came to an end in 2019-20, and is now lower than it was at the beginning of the decade. Reversing growth acceleration With not a single one of the claims made for it having materialised, it may seem that there cannot be a more stinging assessment of demonetisation but there is worse to come. In 2016-17, India’s economy did register a slight increase in the rate of growth. This may appear to validate the action, but it does not. It is explained by the fact that the growth of the agricultural sector registered a positive swing of over 7% that year. As agricultural yield is weather related, it is independent of economic conditions in the short term. But in the other sectors of the economy, production could have been held back by the cash crunch engineered by demonetisation, thus slowing expansion. We see this in the data on the manufacturing sector, with growth slowing by about a third immediately. Nevertheless, growth of the overall economy did not slow in 2016-17 as much of the services sector held out. This was to come the next year, with annual growth slowing continuously ever since. So, this is something demonetisation did achieve. It reversed a growth acceleration that had been in place for at least two years when the Modi government took over in 2014 and had continued till it met the gleefully named ‘surgical strike’. Imposing hardship Numbers cannot, however, capture the hardship and insecurity that were so casually imposed on the population by the move. The country was thrown into utter chaos with people trying to change their hard-earned small cash savings in banks that were utterly unprepared for the task. There was an acute shortage of currency notes for at least a couple of months. The supply chain for farm produce was severely disrupted but a history of informal credit meant that it did not die out entirely. Indeed, India was bailed out by the traditional practices of its business communities, even as the government was ostensibly goading it into modernity. Vladimir Lenin reportedly said, “the best way to destroy the capitalist system [is] to debauch the currency.” In one of the ironies of history, a whole century later, a government committed to capitalism in all its forms attempted precisely that. But demonetisation was not just a flawed economic policy move. Economic policies must not only be sound, they must also be ethically grounded. While it may have been within the government’s constitutional powers to implement demonetisation, on an ethical conception of powers it was a moral failure. Perhaps not since Muhammad bin Tughlaq have the people of India been forced to endure as much by the state. The difference is that today India is a democracy. Pulapre Balakrishnan teaches at Ashoka University, Sonipat, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-debacle-of-demonetisation/article37513997.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Pegasus inquiry must reverse the ‘chilling effect’||It is startling to know that governments in India purchase very expensive Israeli software to bug the Opposition and suppress dissent. The revelations about the misuse of Pegasus spyware have shaken the world and even India has felt its reverberations. The Government has stonewalled queries on the subject, has refused to order any probe, and even allowed a whole Parliament session to be washed away as a discussion on the subject was denied. The Pegasus scandal matches the Watergate scandal that brought down U.S. President Richard Nixon in the 1970s, but here in India, business has been as usual. There was a fact-finding judgment in May 5, 2021 by the Royal Courts of Justice Strand, London (https://bit.ly/3HraRx4) that was to look into “factual allegations” made by a princess that the software had been installed in her phone as well as those used by her her solicitors, her personal assistant and security by her husband (a high-profile ruler in the United Arab Emirates) in the case of the welfare of their two children. It was an example of how even the phones used by royals have been hacked using Pegasus. After the United States government determined that Pegasus was acting contrary to the foreign policy and the national security interests of the U.S., it blacklisted the NSO group by putting it on an “entity list”. But India has neither looked into the facts nor blocked the hacker.  In India, the suspected abuse of surveillance power followed by blatant denial of Right to Information requests and Parliament questions, defiant responses to Public Interest Litigation (PIL) notices and, above all, the ‘inaction’ of the Government are what have compelled the Supreme Court of India to act. On October 27, 2021, a Bench of the Court, led by the Chief Justice of India (CJI), N.V. Ramana, constituted a three-member independent expert committee to conduct an investigation (it will be overseen by a retired judge of the Court) and protect public faith in the constitutional system. In the world over, this is the first-ever inquiry ordered by any Chief Justice with such wide-ranging terms into spying by Pegasus. This initiative of the CJI will embolden civilians to question the suppression of rights and instil fear among rulers. It should reverse the chilling effect. This dynamic order evoked positive responses while some wanted greater relief than what was prayed in the original PILs. A worrying silence The Union Government has been consistently silent on the question on whether it had or has invaded the privacy of hundreds of innocent non-accused citizens and what it has done with the collected ‘intelligence’. It has a constitutional duty now to justify its defence of ‘national security’ before the Court-appointed inquiry committee or face politico-constitutional consequences. More than anything else, what is worrisome is the Centre’s deafening silence. The Court turned down the Government’s request to allow it to set up the inquiry committee, as the principles of natural justice will not permit the ‘accused’ to select his investigators. The Bench has enough reasons to suspect that the Government is a party to this unconstitutional action (Pegasus). It made it clear that allowing that request “would violate the settled judicial principle against bias, i.e., that ‘justice must not only be done, but also be seen to be done’.” The use of the invasive spyware was noticed in May 2019 when WhatsApp claims that ‘Pegasus’ had infiltrated the devices of WhatsApp users; the fact of Indians being affected was acknowledged by the Minister for Law in November 2019; and when Amnesty International and Citizen’s Lab reported on June 15, 2020 of nine individuals in India having been targeted. The nation cannot afford to ignore the Pegasus Project, or the report of a consortium of 17 media organisations on July 18, 2021, which showed, based on its investigation, that a “list of over 50,000 phone numbers in more than 45 countries had been potentially targeted for surveillance by misusing Pegasus”. The list included the numbers of over 300 Indians, some of whom were senior journalists, doctors, lawyers, political persons and even court staff. WhatsApp, in 2019, said it had notified the Government that 121 Indian citizens had been targeted. Yet, there has been no response. Privacy, a sacrosanct right Though privacy was not a specifically guaranteed right earlier, unabated surveillance was never allowed. The Supreme Court emphatically defined it in R. Rajagopal in 1994. With the landmark order in 2017 by the Supreme Court declaring that the right to privacy is as sacrosanct as human existence and is inalienable to human dignity and autonomy, the burden to secure this right has also fallen on the top court. Snooping can be justified only on three counts: the restriction must be by law; it must be necessary and only if other means are not available, and proportionate (only as much as needed); and it must promote a legitimate state interest (e.g., national security), according to paragraph 325 of the nine-judge Bench judgment on privacy). Without establishing this justification, the Government cannot use ‘national security’, in the case of Pegasus, as an empty or lame excuse, because surveillance directly infringes on the privacy right. If the Government wants to justify the surveillance as authorised then it has to answer the question whether anybody has been prosecuted for terrorism with evidence procured by snooping. And who is the authority that decides the need and mode of surveillance? Without this information, the state cannot rely on the excuse of ‘national security’. The leaked list of phone numbers, which includes those of journalists, politicians and lawyers only raises the suspicion of abuse of surveillance power. Injures freedom of speech The Bench led by the CJI observed that surveillance injures the freedom of speech and results in fear based self-censorship. When it relates to the freedom of the press, it results in a chilling effect on the basic civil right of freedom of speech. Using the highly expensive software, Pegasus, is an assault on the vital public watchdog role of the press, which could undermine the ability of the press to provide accurate and reliable information which is needed for people to know about the acts of their elected government. The potential technological power of Pegasus must be challenged. The Centre’s complacency is worse than its alleged involvement that needs to be probed. In fact, the Court has faced criticism of ‘inaction’, giving a long rope to the Government, and refused to stay the notification issued by the West Bengal government, setting up an inquiry commission to investigate the revelations of the Pegasus Project. The Delhi-based lawyer, Gautam Bhatia, even wrote that the Court should ask the Government to answer whether it ordered spying on citizens who are not accused of any crime. If yes, it should be made liable. If the Government refuses to answer, or says ‘no’, what is the Court expected to do? This is what the committee must probe. Ensuring the independence and the objectivity of members of the committee is not a mean task. The Court has explained how the chairman and other members were chosen with great care and research. The terms are specific: the committee has the task of finding answers to whether spyware was used to access conversations and information through the devices, the interception of the communications, who the victims were, which law authorised this, and who decided this on what basis and at what cost. The defence and a pointer The stock defence of ‘national security’ for snooping has provided, prima facie , grounds to believe the involvement of the ‘state’. The Court has explained: “the Petitioners have placed on record certain material that prima facie merits consideration by this Court. There has been no specific denial of any of the facts averred by the Petitioners by the Respondent — [the] Union of India”. Although it is “a settled position of law that in matters pertaining to national security, the scope of judicial review is limited”, the Bench was vocal in saying “this does not mean that the state gets a free pass every time the spectre of ‘national security’ is raised.” It is well within the four corners of its jurisdiction for the Supreme Court to constitute this committee as specifically prayed in the 12 PILs. Using criminal spyware is not only a mere violation of Part III rights but is also a serious blow to freedom of the press, expression of dissent by the Opposition, and fearlessness of lawyers to challenge in courts the unconstitutional actions of the state. It undermines democracy and converts elected leaders into absolute dictators. The Supreme Court committee and Bench has the onerous duty of resurrecting the constitutional scheme of rule of law. M. Sridhar Acharyulu is Former Central Information Commissioner. He is Dean, School of Law, Mahindra University, Hyderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pegasus-inquiry-must-reverse-the-chilling-effect/article37513989.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Batting for an important yet misunderstood species||Imagine dusk in our rural heartland, groups of people returning to their homes from farms, factories and forests. At the same time, hordes of winged mammals called bats (nearly 128 species in India; over 1,200 species worldwide) emerge from their roosts in trees, caves, rock ledges, temples and buildings. Bats and humans have cohabited since time immemorial. Throughout the night, these bats devour insects in farms, fields, forests, grasslands and around our homes, including agricultural pests and disease-causing mosquitoes. Some bats sip nectar, pollinate flowers, eat fruits, and spread the seeds of many important tree species including wild varieties of bananas, guava, cashew, mango, figs, mahua and other fruits. A study in Thailand has shown that pest biocontrol provided by just one species of bat prevented the loss of 2,900 tons of rice per year — or a savings of $1.2 million, and meals for 26,200 people annually. Bat droppings (guano) mined from caves are widely used as a fertilizer for agricultural crops as they have high concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorous. Role in disease spread Unfortunately, despite these critical roles bats remain among the most misunderstood of all animals. In India, we have almost no studies on the ecosystem services that bats provide. With scientific evidence mounting that the SARS-CoV2 virus that causes COVID-19 originated in bats, there are growing fears of further disease transmission from bats. A significant and unique feature of bats is that they are known or suspected to be the natural reservoirs for many novel and recently emerged pathogenic viruses such as Nipah, Hendra, Marburg, Ebola and the coronaviruses that cause severe acute respiratory syndrome. Despite being reservoirs for viruses, bats never fall sick. Flying is a very stressful business, and results in toxic by-products which could damage cell contents. Bats have evolved mechanisms to avoid such damage by suppressing their immune systems. Scientists think that such suppression results in a continuous auto-immune response which helps them combat infections and control virus propagation. Interestingly, this ability to limit excessive inflammatory response (which is responsible for the adverse effects of such viruses in infected humans), ensures they do not over react to viral infections and protects them from multiple chronic age-related diseases. In other words, in gaining the ability to fly long distances, bats have also inherited an immune system that protects them from viruses. The same immune system also makes them age slower, and live longer. They are among the longest lived mammals for their body size. Due to COVID-19, we have suddenly become aware of the several viruses bats carry because they could spill over to us. But such spillovers — the transmission of pathogens from their natural host or reservoirs to novel hosts such as humans — are unusual and rare events, and tend to occur when there is increased contact between humans and wild hosts. Over the last several 100 years, humans have significantly modified the landscapes around them — cutting of forests, clearing of land for agriculture and development — resulting in disturbances to bat roosts, and forcing them to change their ‘homes’. Activities such as mining destroy natural cave systems that bats live in. Scientists have shown that when bats are disturbed, they become stressed and could shed viruses that they carry, increasing the risk of spillover. This suggests that human habitat destruction makes bats move closer to human habitation, resulting in stressing them, and in turn viral shedding. The COVID-19 pandemic has compelled us to look back on the mistakes made in destroying this fine ecological balance, and study how bats and humans can co-exist in certain areas. This is as important as searching for the cure for SARS. Yet, we still do not know too much about the ecology of bats, even in the context of viruses. Are chances of spillover higher in areas with more bat species? Are viruses shed by bats throughout the year or only seasonally? Study of human-bat interface Several indigenous people had understood the importance of giving enough space to all animals including bats whilst staying with them. Some have isolation practices such as quarantine following hunting. They are dependent on animals and nature, and have achieved a balance without any harm to both sides. The Bomrr clan in Nagaland, for example, have traditionally celebrated the annual bat harvest for many years. They gather at a place called Mimi to smoke a cave full of bats and as bats start exiting, kill them for consumption. In the process, the bats bite them or scratch them. Yet, there has been no major disease outbreak among the Bomrr clan. To understand how and why the Bomrr are immune to the viruses in the bats they interact with, the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS-TIFR), an aided Centre of Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) are carrying out sero-ecological studies on this human-bat interface. They are exploring microbial diversity associated with the bats, and also serology (antibody response to known viral families) to investigate which part of this diversity is potentially pathogenic. So far, they have found: genetic prevalence/detection (between 3%-10% of bats) of several bacterial and viral families and evidence that both bats and humans have shared antibody response to some viral families, indicative of a spillover. The NCBS is also in the process of sequencing whole genomes of bat viruses. This study could help build a bank of virus genomes as baselines to be prepared for any possible future outbreaks. Local practices and traditions could serve as a guide for us to understand how we should minimise risk of infectious disease spillover from bats in the future. The rich biodiversity and cultural diversity in India serves as an excellent and unique place for such studies. Some precautions But the fact remains that bats carry many viruses. So how can we continue to co-exist with them? We could take a few sensible precautions that minimise our direct interactions with bats — such as avoiding handling or eating bats, and not eating fallen fruits gnawed by bats or fruits likely to be contaminated by bat fluids. This would greatly reduce the risk of spillover. In the longer term, we should work towards restricting and reversing land-use change practices that are bringing us in greater contact with, and increasingly stressing out, animals that may harbour ‘emerging infections’. Restore the balance In India, many people are dependent on the ecosystems they live in, and the various services those ecosystems provide, for example water, clean air and pollination. Over the last few decades, habitat destruction and land-use change has impacted most of India. We can regain this balance with nature and animals through a combination of habitat restoration and co-existence with wildlife such as bats. Integrated approaches such as One Health, where human health is linked to that of the environment and animals can result in the best possible outcomes. Any such future will require a global commitment to reduction of habitat loss, and the preservation and restoration of our natural habitats and biodiversity. A world with fewer bats around us will be one that suffers greater crop losses to agricultural pests, witnesses increased incidences of other diseases such as those transmitted by mosquitoes, and one without mahua, too. Sushma Taishete is Joint Secretary in the Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Mumbai. Uma Ramakrishnan is a Professor at the National Centre for Biological Sciences, TIFR, an aided centre of the Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Mumbai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/batting-for-an-important-yet-misunderstood-species/article37513993.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||The EU’s role in the Indo-Pacific||The Indo-Pacific region has acquired striking salience with the U.S.-China strategic contestation becoming sharper than before. Speedy development of the Quad comprising Australia, Japan, India and the U.S.; the emergence of AUKUS comprising Australia, the U.K. and the U.S.; and other alignments raise the question: where does Europe stand in relation to this churning? It is complicated Europe’s Asia connect is old, strong and multi-layered. Asia is viewed and evaluated through national and regional perspectives. This explains why at least since 2018, countries such as France, the Netherlands, Germany and the U.K. announced their specific policies towards the Indo-Pacific. The European Union (EU) is in the process of coping with the rise of China and other Asian economies, the tensions due to China’s aggressiveness along its periphery, and economic consolidation through the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, and the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership. In this backdrop, the announcement by the Council of the European Union of its initial policy conclusions in April, followed by the unveiling of the EU strategy for cooperation in the Indo-Pacific on September 16, are notable. Seen from Brussels, the EU and the Indo-Pacific are “natural partner regions”. The EU is already a significant player in the Indian Ocean littoral states, the ASEAN area and the Pacific Island states, but the strategy aims to enhance the EU’s engagement across a wide spectrum. Future progress will be moulded by principles ranging from the imperative to defend the “rules-based international order”; promote a level-playing field for trade and investment, Sustainable Development Goals and multilateral cooperation; support “truly inclusive policy-making” encompassing the civil society and the private sector; and protect human rights and democracy. The policy document also says cooperation will be strengthened in sustainable and inclusive prosperity, green transition, ocean governance, digital governance and partnerships, connectivity, security and defence, and human security. The EU thus promises to focus on the security and development dimensions of its relationship with the region. But the EU’s security and defence capabilities are quite limited, as compared to the U.S. and China. To obviate an imbalance in favour of economic links, EU will need to give adequate space and support to France which has sizeable assets and linkages with the Indo-Pacific. It also must forge strategic coordination with the U.K. as the latter prepares to expand its role in Asia as part of its ‘Global Britain’ strategy. As a major economic power, the EU has an excellent chance of success in its trade negotiations with Australia, Indonesia and New Zealand; in concluding discussions for an economic partnership agreement with the East African Community; and in forging fisheries agreements and green alliances with interested partners to fight climate change. To achieve all this and more, EU must increase its readiness to share its financial resources and new technologies with partners. Approach to China and India The EU suffers from marked internal divisions. Many states view China as a great economic opportunity, but others are acutely conscious of the full contours of the China challenge. They believe that neither China’s dominance in Asia nor bipolarity leading to a new Cold War will serve Europe’s interests. The risks facing the EU are varied. Russia next door is the more traditional threat. It is increasingly on China’s side. Hence, the EU should find it easy to cooperate with the Quad. However, AUKUS muddied the waters, especially for France. Yet, endeavours by a part of the western alliance to bolster naval and technological facilities to deal with China cannot be unwelcome. What the EU needs is an internally coordinated approach. India has reasons to be pleased with the EU’s policy. India’s pivotal position in the region necessitates a closer India-EU partnership. The India-EU Leaders’ Meeting on May 8, followed by the External Affairs Minister’s Gymnich meeting in Slovenia with the EU foreign ministers on September 3, were designed to “foster new synergies”. Early conclusion of an ambitious and comprehensive trade agreement and a standalone investment protection agreement will be major steps. Cooperation in Industry 4.0 technologies is desirable. Consolidating and upgrading defence ties with France, Germany and the U.K. should also remain a significant priority. The EU can create a vantage position for itself in the Indo-Pacific by being more candid with itself, more assertive with China, and more cooperative with India. Rajiv Bhatia is Distinguished Fellow, Gateway House and a former Ambassador||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-eus-role-in-the-indo-pacific/article37513999.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Is SilverLine on the right track?||The Kerala government is facing political heat over its ambitious 540-km-long semi high speed railway project, SilverLine, which proposes to reduce the travel time between Thiruvananthapuram in the south to Kasaragode in the north. The project also aspires to open up verdant hinterlands to development, decongest highways and reduce Kerala’s carbon footprint. The government has pegged SilverLine’s cost at Rs. 63,941 crore. K-Rail, a Central and State joint venture, will execute the project. Kerala holds a 51% share in K-rail and the Union Railways Ministry holds the rest. Concerns The Congress-led UDF, the BJP and environmentalists have said the project poses serious environmental issues. A UDF fact-finding sub-committee found that the 4 to 10 m high steep railway embankment for the track would tear the State asunder geographically. The causeway would run uninterrupted for at least 250 km. The barrier would impede natural drainage and exacerbate floods during the monsoon. The UDF said the government would have to hollow out the Western Ghats to excavate enough granite to raise the rail barrier. It said SilverLine would subsume large expanses of ecologically fragile wetlands and mangrove forests. The Leader of the Opposition, V. D. Satheeshan, termed it a white elephant. The scheme would foist an irredeemable debt of more than Rs. 1,24,000 crore on the public, he said. Mr. Satheeshan also accused the administration of not publishing an environmental impact study and being opaque about the project. BJP State president K. Surendran said the Centre was sceptical about the financial and environmental viability of SilverLine. The Union Minister for Railways had communicated the Centre’s reservations to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. While the Centre envisaged an elevated high speed railway corridor, SilverLine will hug the terrain, require the construction of scores of underpasses and still would not serve the purpose of an MRTS, he said. The Congress and BJP have said there will be street protests if the government does not drop SilverLine. Both parties have suggested a network of small greenfield airports and an augmented railway network to address public transportation woes. However, the government seems to have crossed the Rubicon. It recently appointed special revenue officers to expedite land acquisition and ensure the speedy relocation of displaced families and disbursal of compensation. The proposed track will pass through 11 districts. SilverLine would require the acquisition of 1,198 ha of private land at an estimated cost of Rs. 13,362.32 crore and affect 9,314 buildings. The government has raised Rs. 2,000 crore from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) for the initial phase of land acquisition. It is in touch with international agencies to get low-interest loans. The administration is also exploring options to raise money from the open financial market for SilverLine via the KIIFB. The LDF says the Congress and BJP are ‘anti-development’ for stridently opposing SilverLine. Mr. Vijayan has said the Opposition’s fears are misplaced. He said SilverLine would skirt population centres and use elevated paths to bypass rivers, lakes, forests and ecologically fragile lands and cause minimal displacement. Allaying fears A comprehensive environmental impact study would serve public interest. The government should shed the perceived opaqueness about the project’s financial viability, social impact and execution. The government should also allay the fears of families and businesses that SilverLine will displace. It should ensure speedy and adequate compensation for those displaced. Any attempt to bulldoze SilverLine through might lead to social and political upheaval. anand.g@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/is-silverline-on-the-right-track/article37514001.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Exception to the rule||The new law authorising an extension of the services of the heads of the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate until they complete a total tenure of five years will seriously compromise the autonomy of those agencies. It goes against the spirit of the Supreme Court judgment in Vineet Narain vs Union of India (1997) which laid down a dictum that the Directors of the CBI and the ED should have a minimum tenure of two years. This was to prevent their sudden transfer out of office if their functioning goes against the interests of the regime of the day. While it did not specifically bar longer terms or extensions, the prospect of getting an annual extension can be an incentive for displaying regime loyalty in the discharge of their duties. Significantly, in the case of the present Director of Enforcement, S.K. Mishra, who was appointed for two years in November 2018, his services were extended by an order on November 13, 2020, which amended the original term of appointment from two years to three years. That the changes were brought in through the ordinance route in November raises a doubt whether the Government is keen on retaining him at the helm. Given that the central agencies have drawn much criticism for their focus on personages linked to Opposition parties, such a measure will be seen as a reward for guided functioning instead of a necessity to keep ongoing investigations on track. As it is, the fixed tenure for certain posts means their superannuation within that period will not end their term. In effect, there is an implied extension for an officer appointed to one of these protected posts if the appointment comes within two years of retirement. A further extension that will take the officers’ services well beyond superannuation, that too one year at a time, will render the heads of two investigating agencies unacceptably beholden to the Government. Also, in Mr. Mishra’s case, the Supreme Court declined to interfere with the one-year addition to his original term of appointment, but also said that “extension of tenure granted to officers who have attained the age of superannuation should be done only in rare and exceptional cases”. And that the further extension should only be for “a short period”. It also made it clear that no further extension shall be granted to him. It is possible that the Government will abide by this order and not give the benefit of the amendment to Mr. Mishra, but it does not render the act of authorising year-on-year extensions to future appointees any less detrimental to the public interest. The protection given by a fixed tenure and the use of a high-ranking committee to recommend appointments and transfers were meant to dilute the ‘doctrine of pleasure’ implicit in civil service. However, it may be breached, if the extension allowed in exceptional circumstances becomes the rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/exception-to-the-rule/article37513984.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A return to form||Australia’s reiteration of its cricketing prowess was the overwhelming theme of the latest ICC Twenty20 World Cup. After the domination of the West Indies waned in the 1990s, it was Australia that claimed top dollar in the willow game before England, India and New Zealand at varying points highlighted their superiority. To make it worse, the 2018 ball tampering controversy sullied Australia’s reputation; and, at home, twice it lost Test series to India. Its recent performances were middling but when frenetic cricket became intrinsic to the United Arab Emirates, which first hosted the remainder of the Indian Premier League (IPL) and then conducted the T20 World Cup on behalf of original host India, it was Australia that had the last laugh. Aaron Finch’s men won the championship on Sunday after defeating New Zealand in the final and it revealed a welcome return to form and supremacy of a rugged outfit seeking a turnaround in its fortunes. David Warner’s runs, Mitchell Marsh’s chutzpah, Matthew Wade’s pyrotechnics especially in the semi-final against Pakistan, and Adam Zampa’s guile all combined to propel Australia to the pinnacle in the T20 format. But New Zealand was not far behind; runner-up in the 2019 World Cup, this year’s ICC World Test Championship winner and now emerging second in the T20 World Cup, Kane Williamson’s men showed that they are the most consistent unit across formats. The Trans-Tasman summit clash may not have been a last-over humdinger but it had its soaring moments and Williamson’s 48-ball 85 was a remarkable innings, high on urgency but one that did not sacrifice its innate batting aesthetics. It was much akin to Mahela Jayawardene’s unbeaten 103 against India in the 2011 World Cup final at Mumbai. However, just like Jayawardene’s effort, Williamson’s knock also got shrouded in defeat. If Australia and New Zealand proved to be the last two teams standing, credit is also due to Pakistan. Often deemed a maverick squad that either soars or crash-lands, Babar Azam’s men prospered with batter Fakhar Zaman and left-arm speedster Shaheen Afridi leading the revival. On the flip-side, the exit of defending champion West Indies and India’s shocking ouster, reiterated sport’s unpredictability. It was the end of an era for the West Indies with some of its T20 stars like Dwayne Bravo and Chris Gayle walking into the sunset while India’s meltdowns against Pakistan and New Zealand jinxed its campaign. Ever since it landed in England on June 3, India has been on the road and with the IPL being part of the schedule, fatigue was evident within the ranks. But this edition was not just about winners and losers, but also about Afghanistan turning up despite the turmoil back home and seeking relief through cricket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-return-to-form/article37513985.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Indecent behaviour (From an Editorial)||The ugliest perhaps among the many unsavoury incidents that have taken place in the wake of the split in the Indian National Congress is the forcible occupation of the headquarters of the undivided AICC in New Delhi on Saturday by some leaders of the Congress (R) and their supporters. The premises involved was in the continued possession of the Congress (O). And it is obvious that any rights to the premises that the Congress headed by Mr. Sanjivayya thinks it has, can be established only in the same manner in which the dispute over the election symbol has been established, namely, by recourse to a court of law. Especially after the Supreme Court has indicated that its verdict in the symbol case is confined to the symbol and any other dispute about the division of property belonging to the undivided Congress has to be resolved by lawful means. By the ruling that it regarded the symbol as “not property to be divided by co-owners”, the Supreme Court had made it clear that disputed property calls for other legal remedies. By taking the law into their own hands and occupying the building the Congress (R) leaders have not merely ignored the implications of the court’s ruling; they have set a bad example for public conduct by thus substituting naked force to the rule of law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/indecent-behaviour-from-an-editorial/article37513994.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||WPI inflation quickens to 12.5%||Inflation in wholesale prices hit a five-month high of 12.5% in October, quickening from September’s 10.7% following a broad-based surge in prices of most commodities including fuel and power, vegetable and animal oils and fats, as well as chemicals. Economists reckoned that core wholesale price inflation hit a fresh all-time high of 11.9% in October, the seventh month in a row that the headline print recorded a double-digit spike. October 2020 had recorded a WPI-based inflation rate of 1.3%.  Fuel and power surge Inflation in the fuel and power category shot up to 37.2%, from about 25% in September, while manufactured products’ inflation hardened to more than 12%. “Partly reflecting the issues related to coal availability, the electricity sub-index spiked by 19% sequentially, pushing up the overall fuel inflation,” said ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar. “While crude oil prices firmed up, the index for natural gas surged 31% month-on-month,” she added. The Wholesale Food Price Index rose 3.06% compared with 1.14% in September. Primary food article price gains surged to their highest level since August 2017, on a sequential basis, estimated Morgan Stanley economists Upasana Chachra and Bani Gambhir, adding that the wholesale price index surge was higher-than-expected. On a month-on-month basis, food prices rose 5% thanks to vegetables and fruits, which continue to see an uptick in prices through early November, said ICRA’s Ms. Nayar. The trend, most acutely seen in potatoes, tomatoes and onions, would weigh against a seasonal moderation in the food index in November, she noted. The tax cuts on fuel announced earlier this month may provide some relief to producers grappling with high commodity and freight costs reflected in persistently high manufactured products’ inflation, said Ms. Nayar, who expects wholesale inflation to moderate in the coming months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wpi-inflation-quickens-to-125/article37513970.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rains hit mining, power; but industry doing well: FinMin||The Finance Ministry on Monday sought to play down concerns about moderating industrial growth, stating that September estimates for the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) showed a sustained rise in industrial output and would have been higher if not for heavy monsoons disrupting coal mining and power generation. As per data released last week, India’s industrial output fell 2.6% month-on-month in September, while year-on-year growth moderated to 3.1% from 12% recorded in August. “The manufacturing index in IIP has held steady and is likely to rise in subsequent months mirroring the eight-month high in Purchasing Manager’s Index (PMI) for manufacturing in October,” the Ministry said in a note ‘FY 2021-22: Rising Industrial growth, Restrained Inflation and Strong Services Revival’. ‘Uptick in investment’ A ‘sharp’ rise in the capital goods index from 74 in the first quarter to 91.7 in the second quarter ‘underscores a significant recovery in investment’, it asserted. “The IIP in FY 2021-22 has grown from an average of 121.3 in Q1 to 130.2 in Q2. The IIP in Q2 would have been still higher but for heavy monsoons disrupting mining activity, especially coal and consequently electricity generation, that repressed the growth of overall production index.” Inflation is now ebbing gradually, with consumer prices recording an inflation of 5.1% in Q2 compared to 5.6% in Q1, it pointed out. “PMI services has accelerated to a decadal high of 58.4 in October, suggesting strong revival in contact-based services with the weakening of the pandemic,” the Ministry said.  Inflation is on an ebb, with Q2 consumer price rise slowing to 5.1%, from 5.6% in Q1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rains-hit-mining-power-but-industry-doing-well-finmin/article37513969.ece
16 November 2021||Bengaluru,||India coffee output hit by rains||India’s arabica coffee production will drop by 30% and robusta by 20% this harvest season ending January on account of excessive rainfall, plant damage, bean splitting and berry dropping, as per data provided by the planters’ community. According to Coffee Board’s post-monsoon estimates, arabica production in India was expected to be 99,000 metric tons and robusta 2.35 lakh metric tons in the current crop year. However, continuous rains from September had resulted in causing significant damage to coffee plantations, reducing yields in arabica (30%) and robusta (20%), said Karnataka Planters’ Association (KPA) that represents more than 80% of coffee growers in India. “A large volume of berries are spitting open or falling down now before they are harvested,’’ said KPA chairman S. Appadurai. Also, the cost of coffee production has been rising 10%-15% annually as wage and input costs were constantly rising. Due to vagaries of nature and plant loss due to white-stem borer disease, the yield has also come down significantly. Brazilian frost The Brazilian frost-induced supply shortage and price surge in the international coffee markets came as a respite for Indian coffee growers who have been reeling under existential crises. As a result, arabica prices have risen to Rs. 12,500- Rs. 13,000 per 50 kg bag from Rs. 9,000 to Rs. 9,500 in the last coffee season. However, robusta continues to stay in the Rs. 6,000-per-50-kg range.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-coffee-output-hit-by-rains/article37513965.ece
16 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Ashok Leyland scouts for investments in EV unit||Commercial vehicle maker Ashok Leyland Ltd. (ALL) is scouting for investments in its electric vehicle business, according to a top official. The company recently transferred its electric vehicle business to subsidiary Switch Mobility to better tap growth opportunities, said CFO Gopal Mahadevan. Dost, Bada Dost EVs “We need investment for product development and technology for e-LCVs and e-buses. Switch will have the electric version of the Dost and Bada Dost,” he said. “The EV initiative is going to be extremely crucial for us. We have seen quite a bit of interest from investors, but we are waiting for the right financial and strategic partners,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ashok-leyland-scouts-for-investments-in-ev-unit/article37513967.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Indian IT firms explore opportunities in Canada||With improvement in the pandemic situation, a delegation of more than 35 Indian IT companies is visiting Canada to explore business expansion opportunities, including possibility of servicing about 50 countries through Canada. The visit, facilitated by the National Association of Software and Services Companies ( Nasscom), is part of the industry body’s ongoing strategic partnership with the Government of Canada, said Shivendra Singh, Vice President, Nasscom. “Indian IT companies have enhanced their footprint in Canada with four new expansions announced in 2021 alone,” he said. Acting High Commissioner for Canada to India Deirdre Kent said the visit would present a great opportunity for Indian companies to explore the advantages that Canada offered to expand their businesses. Mr. Singh said Nasscom received interests from about 100 companies to be part of the engagement. Most of the participating companies were small and medium enterprise (SME) ranging from Rs. 5-7 crore up to Rs. 250 crore in size.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-it-firms-explore-opportunities-in-canada/article37513971.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||India better positioned to face external shocks: Patra||India is better positioned to face external shocks emanating from increasing geopolitical tensions, the aftermath of the COVID pandemic and the inevitability of climate change, Reserve Bank Deputy Governor Michael Debabrata Patra said on Monday. Relative to macroeconomic configurations in 2013 when India was described as one of the fragile five countries, he said, “India is better positioned currently, as its macroeconomic fundamentals have improved significantly, and external sector indicators point to the availability of enough cushions to manage external shocks.” He was speaking at a conference on ‘Growth And Development in the BRICS Economies.’ “Projections show by 2040 India will be the second-largest economy in the world. This, in my view, is the final challenge - preparing, with the BRICS, to be a global economic powerhouse,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-better-positioned-to-face-external-shocks-patra/article37513977.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||American Air reintroduces flights to India||American Airlines on Monday said it had reintroduced flight services to India on November 12 after a gap of 10 years, connecting New Delhi with New York. The carrier’s Boeing 777-300 will offer a four-class configuration including eight first-class lay-flat seats, 52 business lay-flat seats, 28 premium economy recliner seats and 216 main cabin seats. “With the easing of travel between global destinations, and with more routes and options being made available soon, international travel is expected to gain huge momentum,” Molly Wilkinson, VP - Regulatory & International Affairs, said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/american-air-reintroduces-flights-to-india/article37513968.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Exports rose 43%, imports up 63% in Oct.||India’s exports rose by 43% to $35.65 billion in October while imports soared widening the trade deficit to $19.73 billion in the month, according to official data. Imports surged by 62.5% to $55.37 billion widening the trade deficit. Export sectors which recorded positive growth during October include petroleum, coffee, engineering goods, cotton yarn/fabs./made-ups, gems and jewellery, chemicals plastic and linoleum and marine products, the data showed. Cumulatively, exports during April-October stood at $233.54 billion, an increase of 55.1%. Imports rose 78.2% to $331.39 billion, the data showed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/exports-rose-43-imports-up-63-in-oct/article37513972.ece
16 November 2021||Mumbai,||‘RBI remained net purchaser of U.S. dollar’||The RBI remained net buyer of the U.S. currency in September 2021, after it purchased $791 million on a net basis from the spot market, RBI data showed. In the reporting month, the RBI had bought $9.169 billion and sold $8.378 billion in the spot market, the monthly bulletin for November 2021, released on Monday showed. In August 2021, RBI had net bought $3.747 billion. It had purchased $10.887 billion and sold $7.14 billion in the spot market during the month. In September 2020, RBI had net purchased $8.172 billion. During FY21, RBI had net purchased $68.315 billion from the spot market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-remained-net-purchaser-of-us-dollar/article37513975.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||Apollo Tyres to hike prices by 3-5 pc to offset rising cost||Apollo Tyres is raising prices by 3-5% in the domestic market in the third quarter of this fiscal to offset the impact of rising commodity prices, top company officials said. Continuing high prices may compel it to make a similar increase in the fourth quarter, they added.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/apollo-tyres-to-hike-prices-by-3-5-pc-to-offset-rising-cost/article37513974.ece
16 November 2021||DUBAI,||Win the toss and ice the chase: what worked in the UAE||The seventh edition of the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup that began on October 17 culminated in Australia becoming the sixth team to win the crown here on Sunday. Here’s a look at the biggest talking points of the tournament:  Toss is boss: So evident was the impact of the toss on the outcome of a match was that Aaron Finch, the Australia captain, was asked immediately after the final about how he managed to win six out of the seven tosses. The only time the coin did not land in his favour, Australia was demolished by England in the Super 12. The Dubai trend Two-thirds of the total 45 games ended up in favour of the team that won the toss. However, the trend was more evident while playing in Dubai. Of the 13 games at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium, including the final, only two were won by teams that were not lucky with the spin of the coin. Still, while considering the impact of the toss, one should not undermine the fact that eventually it all boiled down to the quality and consistency of teams. Otherwise, Afghanistan would have been in the knockouts, having won all five tosses in Super 12s. And New Zealand would have been sent packing after losing three tosses in the league stage.  Mystery is history: Mystery spinners were supposed to be the show-stoppers in the World Cup but the tournament has shown that batters have ensured mystery spinners’ magic is on the wane, at least when it comes to picking wickets consistently. Basic numbers A look at their basic numbers reveals the story. Rashid Khan (8 wickets in 5 matches), Tabraiz Shamsi (8 in 5), M. Theekshana (8 in 7), Varun Chakravarthy (0 in 3) couldn’t really run through sides. The only exception was Mujeeb Ur Rahman of Afghanistan but five of his seven wickets in three games were against Scotland. On the other hand, conventional spinners like Adam Zampa (13 in 7), Shadab Khan (9 in 6) Ish Sodhi (9 in 7) and R. Ashwin (6 in 3) were as successful.  Lessons from the leagues: IPL is the the most sought-after franchise-based T20 league in the world, with BBL, PSL and CPL vying for the second slot. A few smart players — Josh Hazlewood and Kane Williamson, for instance — have timed their exposure in T20 leagues to precision, and the T20 World Cup underlined that the countries that host the biggest leagues don’t necessarily benefit from it at the biggest stage. Commercial appeal, quality of cricket and popularity of a T20 league don’t guarantee that the host country’s team does well at the big stage. Consistent Kiwis New Zealand’s consistent run despite a low-profile domestic league and India’s and West Indies’ ordinary performances are examples. Besides, the old or tired warriors may end up excelling in T20 leagues but when it comes to the World Cup, they cannot really lead their respective teams to success.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/win-the-toss-chase-and-seal-the-deal-the-uae-gameplan/article37514221.ece
16 November 2021||Lisbon,||Serbia stuns Portugal||Cristiano Ronaldo’s hopes of playing in a record-equalling fifth World Cup hang in the balance after Serbia stunned Portugal 2-1 in Lisbon to qualify for the 2022 World Cup. Spain and Croatia did secure their places in Qatar on Sunday thanks to 1-0 wins over Sweden and Russia respectively. Ronaldo already holds the record of playing in five European Championships and looked well on course for another milestone as Portgual stormed out of the blocks to open the scoring after just two minutes through Renato Sanches. However, Serbia bounced back to dominate the remainder of the first half and deservedly levelled when Dusan Tadic’s strike squeezed in off the post after Dusan Vlahovic had hit the woodwork. Ronaldo was kept quiet as another chance to score his 800th career goal came and went. Instead it was Aleksandar Mitrovic who grabbed the vital goal as stoppage time approached. Portugal must now navigate two tricky one-off playoff matches in March to maintain its record of qualifying for every major tournament since the 1998 World Cup.   The results:   Group A: Portugal 1 (Renato Sanches 2) lost to Serbia 2 (Tadic 33, A. Mitrovic 90); Luxembourg 0 lost to Ireland 3 (Duffy 67, Ogbene 75, Robinson 88).   Group B: Greece 1 (Masouras 44) drew with Kosovo 1 (Rrahmani 76); Spain 1 (Morata 86) bt Sweden 0.   Group H: Croatia 1 (Kudryashov 81-og) bt Russia 0; Malta 0 lost to Slovakia 6 (Rusnak 6, 16, Duda 8, 69, 80, De Marco 72); Slovenia 2 (Zajc 48, Gnezda Cerin 84) bt Cyprus 1 (Kakoulli 89).   Group J: Armenia 1 (Mkhitaryan 59-pen) lost to Germany 4 (Havertz 15, Gundogan 45+4-pen, 50, J. Hofmann 64); Liechtenstein 0 lost to Romania 2 (Man 8, Bancu 87); North Macedonia 3 (Alioski 7, Elmas 65, 86) bt Iceland 1 (Thorsteinsson 54) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/serbia-stuns-portugal/article37514271.ece
16 November 2021||Guadalajara,||Muguruza sets up Badosa meeting||Two-time Grand Slam champion Garbine Muguruza booked her semifinal spot at the WTA Finals on Sunday with a 6-4, 6-4 victory over Anett Kontaveit that ended the Estonian’s 12-match win streak. Muguruza’s victory in her final round-robin contest in the eight-woman season finale in Guadalajara denied Karolina Pliskova a place in the knockout phase. Gutsy Former World No. 1 Pliskova battled to a gutsy 0-6, 6-4, 6-4 victory over fellow Czech Barbora Krejcikova earlier in the day. Muguruza will face fellow Spaniard Paula Badosa on Tuesday. “It’s amazing there are four players left and two of them are Spaniards. I mean, that just shows that Spain has a great level of tennis and a great school. It’s going to be a fun match,” Muguruza said. Kontaveit was already assured of a semifinal berth after winning her first two matches to stretch a WTA winning streak that included titles at Moscow and Cluj-Napoca. But it was a must-win match for Muguruza after Pliskova’s afternoon victory, and the Spaniard came out firing. That ended the hopes of Pliskova, who rallied from a set and a break down to beat reigning French Open champion Krejcikova. 11 aces, 12 double faults Pliskova fired 11 aces but almost undid that good work with 12 double faults. She saved two break points in the penultimate game of the second set and broke to force the decider, which she won on her third match point. “I just fought hard to give myself a chance,” Pliskova said, “Because she didn’t really miss anything the first set. Happy I stayed in there and just waited for the chance.”  The results: Karolina Pliskova bt Barbora Krejcikova 0-6, 6-4, 6-4; Garbine Muguruza bt Anett Kontaveit 6-4, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/muguruza-sets-up-badosa-meeting/article37513983.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||We are excited to have Dravid, says Rahul||K.L. Rahul shares a longstanding bond with new India head coach Rahul Dravid. Over 15 years ago, Rahul scored two double centuries for Mangalore Zone in the KSCA inter-zonal under-13 tournament, and caught the eye of Dravid. Dravid, then an India star, called Rahul aside and had a long chat with him. The young Rahul was over the moon to gain an audience with a legend. Rahul may have now climbed the ranks to become an India star himself, but he still feels a sense of excitement at the prospect of interacting with Dravid. Fortunate “I’ve been fortunate to know him (Dravid) for a long time. As a youngster, I tried to pick his brain and better understand the art of batting. He has been more than kind to us with his time back home in Karnataka. Having him here is a great opportunity for us to get better as cricketers. We all know what a big name he is, and what he has done for the country,” Rahul said on Monday. “I’ve played a couple of games under Dravid in the India ‘A’ set up, and we’ve had a chat with him before coming here. He was a team man when he was playing, and that is the sort of culture he wants here. He wants everyone to put the team ahead of individual goals. We are excited to have him. It is a great time for Indian cricket,” Rahul said. The three-match T20I series against New Zealand, which commences at Jaipur on Wednesday, will also see Rohit Sharma taking over as T20 captain from Virat Kohli. Tactically good “There is nothing new about Rohit being captain. For as long as I can remember, he has been the captain of Mumbai Indians. His stats speak for itself. He has a great understanding of the game. He is tactically very good, and that is why he has been able to achieve great things as a leader. He will bring a lot of calm into the dressing room. “The next few days and weeks will be exciting, as we will understand what sort of goals and culture that Rohit has in mind. It’s a big change in Indian cricket, and we’re all very excited about it,” Rahul said.  He wants everyone to put the team ahead of individual goals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-are-excited-to-have-dravid-says-rahul/article37514214.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Karnataka meets Saurashtra||Two-time champion Karnataka is expected to assert its superiority over reigning Ranji Trophy champion Saurashtra for a place in the quarterfinals of the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy at the Ferozeshah Kotla ground on Tuesday. The other two quarterfinal spots will be decided after Kerala takes on underdog Himachal Pradesh at the Air Force ground and a confident Maharashtra plays an almost untested Vidarbha at the Kotla. Under skipper Manish Pandey, Karnataka has the resources to go all the way despite the late replacements for Mayank Agarwal, Devdutt Padikkal, Prasidh Krishna and K. Gowtham. For the record, Karnataka began by drubbing Mumbai and followed it up with victories over Chhattisgarh, Services and Baroda before losing to Bengal and finishing second best in Group B. Karnataka’s batting could well be tested by the pace duo of Jaydev Unadkat and Chetan Sakariya on a placid Kotla pitch. Saurashtra impressed with the way it bounced back after losing its opener to Hyderabad in Group E. Saurashtra’s line-up has Sheldon Jackson whose flamboyant style and range of strokes had kept him in the mix before the National selectors. Overall, Saurashtra will have to punch way above its weight. Kerala, which relies heavily on opener Robin Uthappa, skipper Sanju Samson and Sachin Baby, will have the advantage of having played at the Air Force ground in the league. Kerala showed great character in bouncing back from a spot of serious bother. It lost two of its first three matches to Group D topper Gujarat and unexpectedly to Railways. Victories over Bihar and Assam kept Kerala in contention and it qualified following a second eight-wicket victory in successive days to knockout Madhya Pradesh. Himachal, too, advanced to the knockout despite losing twice — to Haryana and Rajasthan — in the first three matches. But victory against Jharkhand, and those against Jammu & Kashmir and Andhra in the last two matches ensured Himachal’s survival. Runner-up in 2018-19 season, Maharashtra had a false start. After losing the opener narrowly to Group A topper Tamil Nadu, it made its way past Punjab, Odisha, Pondicherry and Goa. For Plate group topper Vidarbha, Maharashtra will be its first serious test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-meets-saurashtra/article37514218.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Inter institutional carrom from November 18||The All India Carrom Federation will organise the Inter Institutional Carrom Championship through the Pondicherry Amateur Carrom Association at the Rajiv Gandhi Indoor Stadium, Uppalam, Puducherry, from November 18 to 21. Some of the top players like current world champions Prashant More, S Appoorwa, former world champions Yogesh Pardeshi, Rashmi Kumari will be representing various organisations in the championship. Top institutions like Reserve Bank of India, Life Insurance Corporation of India, Public Sector Sports Promotion Board, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited, Electricity Board etc. will be part of the event. Puducherry will be hosting an event of this magnitude, featuring individual and team competitions in the men’s and women’s sections, for the first time in about 30 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/inter-institutional-carrom-from-november-18/article37514431.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Competition intensifies on the circuit||The $15,000 ITF tennis circuit’s move to the DLTA Complex here comes as relief from all the travel for players. The champion of the last event in Indore, Manish Sureshkumar, has been seeded fourth as against No. 2 last week, which signifies the inclusion of more quality players in the field, like top seed Eric Vanshelboim of Ukraine and Valentin Vacherot of France. With players from the US and Britain also seeded, there will be no dearth of quality opposition for the Indian aspirants. The 19-year-old Dev Javia, who had done well by reaching the semifinals last week, will be up against the National junior champion Karan Singh. Karan trains at the venue as part of the National Tennis Centre. It should be a lively match, as the 18-year-old has an explosive game and Javia has reasonable experience handling such opposition. National champion Niki Poonacha has won three singles titles at the venue, including the last ITF event in April. It will be interesting to see how well he fares after he had lost early to Karan last week. He will be up against another dynamic young champion, Chirag Duhan, in the first round. With the qualifying event spread over three days, the players emerging from the event could pose a serious threat to the main draw players, as they get used to the conditions and stay match sharp.  The seedings: 1. Eric Vanshelboim (Ukr), 2. Sidharth Rawat, 3. Valentin Vacherot (Fra), 4. Manish Sureshkumar, 5. Niki Poonacha, 6. Dusty Boyer (USA), 7. Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam, 8. Julian Cash (GBR).   The results: Qualifying singles (second round): Rohan Mehra bt Adil Kalyanpur 4-6, 7-5, [10-1]; B.R. Nikshep bt Kunal Anand 6-0, 6-1; Paras Dahiya bt Lakshya Gupta 6-2, 6-4; Digvijay Pratap Singh bt Fardeen Qamar 6-2, 6-3; Vishnu Vardhan bt Chandril Sood 6-1, 6-1.   Madhwin Kamath bt Yugal Bansal 6-4, 6-1; Faisal Qamar bt Dheeraj Srinivasan 6-3, 6-2; Ishaque Eqbal bt Chinmaya Dev Chauhan 6-0, 6-1.   Sidharth Vishwakarma bt Bharath Kumaran 6-4, 6-1; Lohithaksha athrinath bt Anurag Nenwani 6-2, 6-1.   Rishi Reddy bt Babji Siva Atturu 6-4, 6-1; Parikshit Somani bt V.M. Ranjeet 7-6(2), 6-2.   There are more quality players in the field, like top seed Eric Vanshelboim and Valentin Vacherot||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/competition-intensifies-on-the-circuit/article37514432.ece
16 November 2021||MELBOURNE,||Federer unlikely to play in Australian Open, says coach||Swiss maestro Roger Federer is unlikely to play in the Australian Open as he recovers from injury, his coach Ivan Ljubicic said. The 20-time Grand Slam champion is still determined to return to tournament action at some point. He has been inactive since losing in the Wimbledon quarterfinals in July. Federer underwent arthroscopic right knee surgeries in February 2020 and May 2020. He has played five tournaments since having those surgeries, all of which came this season. “I think the Australian Open is not a real possibility right now,” Ljubicic told Stats Perform . “I think there are very few chances, he is still recovering and knowing him, he wants to be sure he can play to win the tournament and be at 100%. “He will go step by step because he is 40 now and he needs to be patient. He cannot recover as quickly as he used to,” he added. However, the Croatian stated he was certain that Federer was not thinking about retiring just yet. “We have spoken and I can guarantee he wants to return to playing tennis.” Last month, Federer dropped out of the top-10 in the ATP rankings for the first time since January 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/federer-unlikely-to-play-in-australian-open-says-coach/article37514434.ece
16 November 2021||Bali,||Sindhu spearheads India’s challenge at Indonesia Masters||Two-time Olympic medallist P. V. Sindhu will continue her quest for a podium finish when she spearheads India’s challenge at the Indonesia Masters Super 750 tournament but compatriots Saina Nehwal and Sameer Verma will be missing in action after deciding to pull out of the tournament due to injuries. Sindhu is likely to cross swords with Spain’s Clara Azurmendi and Canada’s sixth seed Michelle Li in the next two rounds and a clash against top seeded Japanese Akane Yamaguchi could be on the cards in the semifinals if she can cross the initial rounds. Saina, the London Olympics bronze-medallist, and Sameer, who looked in good touch in the last two events, will miss the Indonesia leg to recover from their respective injuries. While Saina had suffered a groin injury at Uber Cup, Sameer had injured his calf muscle in Denmark. All eyes this week will also be on Kidambi Srikanth and Lakshya Sen, who had reached the semifinals of Hylo Open. Lakshya will meet Japan’s Kanta Tsuneyama in his opening round, while Srikanth faces a qualifier after Sameer pulled out. B. Sai Praneeth will take on Indonesia’s Shesar Hiren Rhustavito, while H.S. Prannoy is pitted against sixth-seeded Indonesian Jonatan Christie in his opener. Parupalli Kashyap will square off against Denmark’s Hans-Kristian Solberg Vittinghus. In men’s doubles competition, sixth seeds Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty will lock horns with Malaysia’s Ong Yew Sin and Teo Ee Yi, while M.R. Arjun and Dhruv Kapila will battle it out against the Japanese combination of Takuro Hoki and Yugo Kobayashi. The women’s doubles pair of Ashwini Ponnappa and N. Sikki Reddy will take on Denmark’s Alexandra Boje and Mette Poulsen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sindhu-spearheads-indias-challenge-at-indonesia-masters/article37514436.ece
16 November 2021||Gangtok,||Northeast has more potential to produce top athletes: Batra||Indian Olympic Association (IOA) president Narinder Batra on Monday said there is more potential in the country’s northeast region than in any other part to produce talented sportspersons. He said that athletes from the northeast region are “immensely talented” and possess tremendous physical endurance to withstand the rigours of playing a competitive sport. Batra stated that the northeast region would produce more and more top athletes in the future. The IOA president is on a two-day visit to the state, having visited West Bengal before coming here. Batra also commended the work of the Sikkim government which he said was developing infrastructure and working at the grass root level and rural areas. Batra is also a member of International Olympic Committee (IOC) and president of International Hockey Federation (IHF). He said that he is in Sikkim for development of sports in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/northeast-has-more-potential-to-produce-top-athletes-batra/article37514718.ece
16 November 2021||Islamabad,||Pakistan recalls Imam to Test side||Pakistan has recalled opening batter Imam-ul-Haq after two years for the two-Test series against Bangladesh. Imam, who played his last Test against Australia at Adelaide in 2019, has impressed the selectors during the ongoing domestic First Class tournament, scoring 488 runs in four matches, including a double century. The two Tests — part of World Test Championship — will be played at Chittagong from Nov. 26-30 and at Dhaka from Dec. 4-8. Replacing Butt Imam replaced Imran Butt, who was part of the team which toured the West Indies. Butt took some scintillating slip catches since making his Test debut against South Africa earlier this year, but has scored just 178 runs in 10 Test innings at an average of 17.8. Pakistan also included uncapped opener Kamran Ghulam and offspinner Bilal Asif.  The squad: Babar Azam (captain), Mohammad Rizwan, Abdullah Shafique, Abid Ali, Azhar Ali, Bilal Asif, Faheem Ashraf, Fawad Alam, Hasan Ali, Imam-ul-Haq, Kamran Ghulam, Mohammad Abbas, Mohammad Nawaz, Naseem Shah, Nauman Ali, Sajid Khan, Sarfaraz Ahmed, Saud Shakeel, Shaheen Afridi, Zahid Mahmood .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pakistan-recalls-imam-to-test-side/article37514725.ece
16 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Ernakulam claims men’s title||Ernakulam warded off a spirited challenge from Thrissur 64-57 to win the men’s title in the 65th Kerala State Senior basketball championships at the Jimmy George indoor stadium on Sunday. Thrissur represented mostly by boys from Sree Kerala Varma College had earned the tag of giant killer after it upset favourite Thiruvananthapuram in the semifinals. In the final, Thrissur matched its more experienced rival for major part of the match but failed to repeat its semifinal heroics. Accurate shooting Ernakulam’s accurate shooting from outside the D and its effective defensive rebound collection made the difference in the final. While Shanazil Muhammed and Tins Thomas were consistent with their outside shooting for Ernakulam, the Thrissur lads relied more on their pace and repeatedly broke free to score points from close. However, Thrissur struggled whenever, Ernakulam managed to mark its main scorers Sonu Jaison and Chacko C.Simon. Thrissur’s rebound collection also left a lot to be desired as Ernakulam punished its rival for the errors. Ernakulam took a narrow lead from the start and succeeded in maintaining it till the end. Earlier, Kottayam stunned host Thiruvananthapuram 55-51 to take the third place.  The results:   Men (final): Ernakulam 64 (Shanazil Muhammed 16) bt Thrissur 57 (Sonu Jaison 17, Chacko C. Simon 10); Loser’s final: Kottayam 55 (Akhil Baiju 18, Jerome Prince 12, Aaron Blessen 10) bt Thiruvananthapuram 51 (Pranav Prince 13, Jishnu G.Nair 12) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ernakulam-claims-mens-title/article37514595.ece
16 November 2021||DHAKA,||Mohit storms into compound semifinals||Mohit Deshwal stunned two World championship medallists, top-ranked Yonghee Choi of Korea and No. 8 Amir Kazempour of Iran, on his way to the compound individual men’s semifinals at the Asian archery championships here on Monday. India was assured of a spot in the compound individual men’s final as the experienced Abhishek Verma set up a semifinal clash with Mohit. Consistent display Mohit, who was ranked 16th in the qualification round, scored consistently to defeat Duc Loc Pham of Vietnam (149-141), Choi (148-148, 10-9) and Kazempour (148-144) to reach the last-four. Abhishek also showed his good form to get past Vietnamese Van Duc Trinh (149-139), compatriot Aman Saini (150-143) and Iranian Mohammadsaleh Palizban (149-147) to make it to the last-four. Rishabh Yadav was edged out (145-145, 9*-9) by Kazakh archer Sergey Khristich in the quarterfinals. In the compound women’s individual, only V. Jyothi Surekha, the Worlds silver medallist, out of three quarterfinalists could get into the semifinals. Jyothi beat Le Phuong Thao of Vietnam (146-141) and compatriot Parneet Kaur 148-146 to enter the medal round. Priya Gurjar lost to Korean Yoohyun Oh of Korea 145-144 in the quarters. In the recurve women’s individual event, three Indians went down to their Korean rivals in the quarterfinals. World youth champion Komalika Bari, Madhu Vedwan and Ridhi lost to Su Jung Ryoo (6-4), Haejin Lim (6-0) and Yejin Oh (6-0) respectively. Olympian Pravin Jadhav and National champion Parth Salunkhe also lost to Koreans Woo Tack Han (6-4) and Pil-Joong Kim (6-4) respectively in the recurve men’s individual quarterfinals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mohit-storms-into-compound-semifinals/article37514260.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bhavani Devi receives Arjuna Award||C.A. Bhavani Devi, the first Indian fencer to participate in the Olympics, received the Arjuna Award from Union Sports Minister Anurag Thakur on Monday. The 28-year-old Bhavani could not attend the Sports Awards ceremony on Saturday as she was participating in a competition in France. On her return to the country, she met Thakur who honoured her with the award. “Holding the Arjuna Award was My Childhood Dream, and today, it happened. I am so much Emotional. Work Hard & Play for the Country. One day, the country will pay back. Thank YOU,” Bhavani tweeted. In the Tokyo Olympics in July, she won her round of 64 match against Tunisia’s Nadia Ben Azizi 15-3 before going down to eventual bronze-medallist Manon Brunet of France in the round of 32.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhavani-devi-receives-arjuna-award/article37514262.ece
16 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Lalremsiami to lead in junior World Cup||Forward Lalremsiami, who was part of the Indian women's hockey team that earned a creditable fourth place finish in the Tokyo Olympics, will lead an 18-member Indian side in the Junior World Cup to be held in Potchefstroom, South Africa, from December 5. Two other Olympians, midfielder Salima Tete and forward Sharmila Devi, were also named in the squad, announced by Hockey India on Monday. Preeti and Prabhleen Kaur have been chosen as alternate players who will get a chance if someone is ruled out due to an injury or COVID-19. “With the experience from the senior team and some great young talent we will show the best. The team is excited as it has waited a long time to compete at the world stage,” said chief coach Janneke Schopman. India, placed in Pool C, begins its campaign on December 6 against Russia. It will take on defending champion Argentina on December 7 and Japan on December 9.  The squad: Bichu Devi Kharibam (GK), Khushboo (GK), Akshata Abaso Dhekale, Ishika Chaudhary (v-c), Priyanka, Marina Lalramnghaki, Ajmina Kujur, Baljeet Kaur, Reet, Vaishnavi Vitthal Phalke, Salima Tete, Sharmila Devi, Lalremsiami (captain), Beauty Dungdung, Deepika, Mumtaz Khan, Sangita Kumari, Jiwan Kishori Toppo .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lalremsiami-to-lead-in-junior-world-cup/article37514266.ece
16 November 2021||London,||Rashid corroborates Rafiq’s accusation||England leg-spinner Adil Rashid has backed former Yorkshire team-mate Azeem Rafiq’s accusation of racism against Michael Vaughan, saying he can “confirm” the former captain’s comments were directed at a group of Asian players. The 33-year-old Rashid said he will be “happy to support” any further official investigations into Rafiq’s claims. “I wanted to concentrate as much as possible on my cricket and to avoid distractions to the detriment of the team but I can confirm Azeem Rafiq’s recollection of Michael Vaughan’s comments to a group of us Asian players,” Rashid said, according to ESPNcricinfo .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rashid-corroborates-rafiqs-accusation/article37514259.ece
16 November 2021||DUBAI,||‘Corruptors now after European leagues’||Sir Alex Marshall, the chief of the International Cricket Council’s (ICC’s) Anti Corruption Unit (ACU), has said the mushrooming lesser-known T20 leagues in non-conventional cricket centres has emerged as the new targets for the unregulated betting syndicate. “The same corruptors who were corrupting international matches are now going after the European leagues. “Basically, the players they are approaching there are asylum seekers, refugees who have come from other countries. “They offer them 3000 Euros to underperform. We caught a lot of people,” Marshall said during an interaction with select media outlets during the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup. ”Usually, the corruptors are linked to the unregulated betting markets in India — nearly always, there’ll be some cases where they are not. But most of the corruption that we ever deal with — the case can be in Zimbabwe, or Namibia or PNG, wherever it might be — but if we identify where the corruption attempt has come from, (it is) nearly always the unregulated betting markets in India because they have the biggest volumes. And they are unregulated, So you can’t see — no one can see what’s happening in that market.” Despite the Law Commission in 2018 recommending that sports betting be legalised in India, it still remains an illegal activity, thus paving way for unregulated corruptors to flourish. Marshall dead-batted a query about whether legalising cricket betting is the need of the hour for India. “The Indian government has decided to make betting illegal and until that was to change, it will be an unregulated market,” he said. “The Indian betting market is enormous. It’s for the Indian government to decide what they want to do about it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/corruptors-now-after-european-leagues/article37513982.ece
16 November 2021||Dubai,||No Indian in ICC’s team of the tournament||No Indian cricketer figured in the ICC’s T20 World Cup Team of the Tournament which comprises players from six different countries, including Sri Lanka and South Africa. Pakistan’s Babar Azam was named captain of the squad. India was ousted in the group stage after being thrashed by Pakistan and New Zealand before winning three inconsequential games against Afghanistan, Scotland and Namibia. Bishop’s explanation Former West Indies pacer Ian Bishop, one of the jury members, said: “As with any team selection, there will be varying opinions and robust discussion on the final composition of the squad. “"The panel respects that, and we encourage the strong debate that will ensue. “This team was incredibly difficult to select over such a highly competitive tournament. Selections were based predominantly from the Super 12 to the final.  The team: David Warner (Aus), Jos Buttler (Eng, wk) , Babar Azam (Pak, Capt.) Charith Asalanka (SL), Aiden Markram (RSA), Moeen Ali (Eng), Wanindu Hasaranga (SL), Adam Zampa (Aus), Josh Hazlewood (Aus), Trent Boult (NZ), and Anrich Nortje (RSA).   12th man: Shaheen Afridi (Pak) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-indian-in-iccs-team-of-the-tournament/article37514207.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shastri roped in as LLC Commissioner||Former India chief coach Ravi Shastri has been roped in as the Commissioner of the Legends League Cricket (LLC), a professional event for retired players. The first season is scheduled in January 2022 in the Gulf. “It feels great to remain connected with cricket in the thick of action, especially with the Legends of the game who have been champions in their own rights,” Shastri said in a release issued by the organisers.  The release, however, did not specify his role as the Commissioner. The league will have former cricketers from India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Australia, England, among other cricket nations divided into three Teams representing India, Asia and Rest of the World.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shastri-roped-in-as-llc-commissioner/article37514208.ece
16 November 2021||Jaipur,||New Zealand team arrives in Jaipur||The New Zealand squad arrived here on a chartered flight a day after losing the T20 World Cup final to Australia in Dubai. Since it is a bubble-to-bubble transfer, the Black Caps will not have to quarantine before the first T20I against host India on Wednesday. “They arrived in the evening and will be tested as per protocol before they have their practice session tomorrow,” confirmed a Rajasthan Cricket Association (RCA) official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-zealand-team-arrives-in-jaipur/article37514209.ece
16 November 2021||Turin,||Djokovic feels at ease in ‘second home’||Novak Djokovic began his attempt to equal Roger Federer's record number of ATP Finals triumphs with a straight-sets 7-6(4), 6-2 win over Casper Ruud on Monday. World No. 1 Djokovic is looking to complete a remarkable year with a sixth Finals title after only just missing out on claiming all four Grand Slams in a single season, and got off to a strong start against eighth seed Ruud, winning in around 90 minutes.  Djokovic attracted wild applause from the Turin crowd when he insisted on speaking in Italian for his on-court interview after the match, before which he was honoured for once again being the world's top player. "It's a great feeling being back here in Italy... thanks for all your support over these years, Italy is like a second home for me," Djokovic said. Sixth-seeded Matteo Berrettini of Italy saw his challenge suffer a painful end when injury forced him to retire against Alexander Zverev.  The results: Green Group: Novak Djokovic bt Casper Ruud 7-6 (4), 6-2; Red Group: Alexander Zverev bt Matteo Berrettini 7-6(9), 1-0, retd .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-feels-at-ease-in-second-home/article37514220.ece
16 November 2021||Hyderabad:,||N R I Valley bags Totaram’s Cup||Trainer R.H. Sequeira’s N R I Valley ridden by Akshay Kumar won the Totaram’s Cup, the main event of Monday’s (Nov. 15) races. The winner is owned by Mr. Ravinder Reddy Male.  1. ELUSIVE HERO PLATE (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden, 2-y-o only (Cat. II): NEGLECT ME NOT (Ashad Asbar) 1, Galway Bay (C.S. Jodha) 2, Lights On (Nakhat Singh) 3 and Wind Sprite (Nikhil Naidu) 4. 1-1/2, Nk and 3/4. 1m 8.75s. Rs. 23 (w), 13, 12 and 25 (p). SHP: 37, THP: 59, SHW: 11 and 13, FP: 78, Q: 32, Tanala: 451. Favourite: Galway Bay. Owners: Mr. Kethi Reddy Venkat Reddy, Mr. K. Ram Gopal Rao, Mr. Sinivas Rao Thota & Mr. Shahnawaz Hasan. Trainer: M. Srinivas Reddy.  2. BHONGIR PLATE (Div. I) (1,100m) Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): ONE MORE TIME (Nakhat Singh) 1, N R I Touch (Akshay Kumar) 2, Gregor Clegane (R. Ajinkya) 3 and Exotic Dancer (Kuldeep Singh) 4. 2-3/4, 1-1/4 and 1. 1m 7. 13s. Rs. 166 (w), 25, 13 and 15 (p). SHP: 33, THP: 51, SHW: 44 and 14, FP: 958, Q: 213, Tanala: 3,505. Favourite: N R I Touch. Owner: Mr. Alagappa Murugappan. Trainer: K. Satheesh.  3. BLOOMER PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): BUCKLEY (C.S. Jodha) 1, Stunning Force (A.A. Vikrant) 2, Farrell (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Moonlight Ruby (Ajeeth Kumar) 4. Not run: Bedford and Plethora. 1, Hd and 2. 1m 12.98s. Rs. 21 (w), 12, 15 and 12 (p). SHP: 42, THP: 47, SHW: 13 and 35, FP: 111, Q: 69, Tanala: 246. Favourite: Buckley. Owners: Mr. K. Vachha & Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: S.K. Sunderji.  4. GOLCONDA CUP (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): KNOTTY DANCER (A.A. Vikrant) 1, Red Snaper (Nikhil Naidu) 2, One Wish (C.S. Jodha) 3 and Mark My Day (Gaurav Singh) 4. Not run: Cosmic Run. 4-3/4, Sh and Hd. 1m 26.08s. Rs. 14 (w), 12, 25 and 14 (p). SHP: 99, THP: 49, SHW: 10 and 89, FP: 220, Q: 231, Tanala: 558. Favourite: Knotty Dancer. Owners: Mr. Krishnan Kamesh, Mr. K. Balamukunda Das & Mr. Srikanth Badruka. Trainer: D. Netto.  5. KINNERASANI PLATE (DIV. I) (1,400m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III): SOUTHERN ACT (Rohit Kumar) 1, Lorena (Gaurav Singh) 2, Royal Girl (Ajit Singh) 3 and Salisbury (Nikhil Naidu) 4. Not run: Isra and Tenth Attraction. 1m 27.81s. Rs. 30 (w), 11, 10 and 42 (p). SHP: 32, THP: 85, SHW: 25 and 14, FP: 83, Q: 38, Tanala: 788. Favourite: Lorena. Owners: Mr. Chandrasekhar Reddy Challuri, Mr. Rakesh Reddy Kondakalla & Mr. G. Narasa Reddy. Trainer: Robin Reddy Kondakalla.  6. BHONGIR PLATE (DIV. II) (1,100m), Maiden, 3-y-o & upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): CABELLO (P.S. Chouhan) 1, Beauty Flame (B. Nikhil) 2, Sally (G. Naresh) 3 and Hot Seat (Md. Ismail) 4. 2, 1-1/4 and Nk. 1m 7.27s. Rs. 20 (w), 13, 23 and 25 (p). SHP: 66, THP: 66, SHW: 11 and 39, FP: 243, Q: 147, Tanala: 5,075. Favourite: Visionary. Owners: Mr. & Mrs. Shapoor P. Mistry rep. Manjri Horse Breeders’ Farm Pvt. Ltd. & Mr. Teegala Vijender Reddy. Trainer: K.S.V. Prasad Raju.  7. TOTARAM’S CUP (1,400m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II): N R I VALLEY (Akshay Kumar) 1, Saffron Art (S.S. Tanwar) 2, Scramjet (P.S. Chouhan) 3 and Staridar (B. Nikhil) 4. 3-1/4, 2 and 1/2. 1m 25.00s. Rs. 27 (w), 11, 17 and 13 (p). SHP: 58, THP: 59, SHW: 18 and 15, FP: 142, Q: 120, Tanala: 348. Favourite: Scramjet. Owner: Mr. Ravinder Reddy Male. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  8. KINNERANI PLATE (DIV. II) (1,400m), rated up to 25 (Cat. III): SIRI (Rohit Kumar) 1, Lightning Fairy (Ajeeth Kumar) 2, Red River (R.S. Jodha) 3 and Wild Card (Aneel) 4. 3-3/4, Sh and 1. 1m 28.91s. Rs. 27 (w), 13, 14 and 23 (p). SHP: 45, THP: 64, SHW: 18 and 14, FP: 118, Q: 49, Tanala: 656. Favourite: Siri. Owners: Mr. D. Balarama Raju, Mr. Rakesh Reddy Kondakalla & Mr. Vijay Anand Jangiti. Trainer: Robin Reddy Kondakalla. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 1,299 (277 tkts.), 30%: 167 (920 tkts.). Treble: (i) 2,903 (16 tkts.), (ii) 153 (259 tkts.), (iii) 326 (201 tkts.). Mini Jackpot: 7,761 (6 tkts.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/n-r-i-valley-bags-totarams-cup/article37514267.ece
16 November 2021||Chennai,||Anirudh to lead CFC||Chennaiyin FC on Monday announced that Indian player Anirudh Thapa will be the captain of the two-time ISL champion for the 2021-22 season. “I think not much has changed for me after being appointed the captain. I have been here for six years now and so it’s not hard to understand what the club wants,” said Thapa. “I will still be a boy who loves football but I will also ensure that the team stays together on and off the field. And I will always protect my team and my players,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anirudh-to-lead-cfc/article37514321.ece
16 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Application moved to implead Lovlina||Boxer Arundhati Choudhary on Monday moved an application through her lawyer Sandeep Lamba to ‘implead’ Olympic bronze medallist Lovlina Borgohain in the case in which she sought her selection in the Indian team for the World women’s championships in Turkey. It may be noted that the International Boxing Association (AIBA) has postponed the World women’s boxing championships to March 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/application-moved-to-implead-lovlina/article37514263.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||The results||1. Lewis Hamilton (Mercedes) 1:32’22.851; 2. Max Verstappen (Red Bull Racing) +10.496; 3. Valtteri Bottas (Mercedes) 13.576; 4. Sergio Perez (Red Bull Racing) 39.940; 5. Charles Leclerc (Ferrari) 49.517; 6. Carlos Sainz Jr (Ferrari) 51.820; +1 lap: 7. Pierre Gasly (AlphaTauri); 8. Esteban Ocon (Alpine); 9. Fernando Alonso (Alpine); 10. Lando Norris (McLaren); 11. Sebastian Vettel (Aston Martin); 12. Kimi Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo); 13. George Russell (Williams); 14. Antonio Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo); 15. Yuki Tsunoda (AlphaTauri); 16. Nicholas Latifi (Williams); +2 laps: 17. Nikita Mazepin (Haas); 18. Mick Schumacher (Haas); DNF: Daniel Ricciardo (McLaren); Lance Stroll (Aston Martin).   Standings: Drivers: 1. Verstappen 332.5; 2. Hamilton 318.5; 3. Bottas 203; 4. Perez 178; 5. Norris 151.   Constructors: 1. Mercedes 521.5; 2. Red Bull Racing 510.5; 3. Ferrari 287.5; 4. McLaren 256; 5. Alpine 112.   Remaining races: Nov 21: Qatar GP, Losail International Circuit.   Dec 5: Saudi Arabia GP, Jeddah Street Circuit.   Dec 12: Abu Dhabi GP, Yas Marina Circuit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-results/article37514205.ece
16 November 2021||Hyderabad,||Hyderabad races postponed||The Stewards of the Hyderabad Race Club have decided to postpone the races to be held on November 21 (Sunday) to November 22 (Monday) due to administrative reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hyderabad-races-postponed/article37514268.ece
16 November 2021||BENGALURU,||Bengaluru races cancelled||The Stewards of the Bangalore Turf Club, have decided to cancel the fifth day of the Bangalore Winter Meeting scheduled to be held on Tuesday, Nov 16, (postponed from Friday, November 12) due to consistent heavy rain and inclement weather rendering the underfoot conditions not conducive for racing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bengaluru-races-cancelled/article37514272.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Sterling qualities||Dasaratha told the people of Ayodhya that Rama was to be crowned as next in line to the throne. They lauded Dasaratha’s decision, and spoke of Rama’s sterling qualities which made Him the right choice for the position. They said Rama was an authority on dharma, said Navalpakkam Vasudevachariar in a discourse. When the need arose to go to battle, Rama did not hesitate. When Rama returned after His successful military campaigns, He enquired of His citizens whether they were doing well. His questions covered many areas of concern. He would ask about their families, their wives and children. He would ask if they had been performing all the required everyday rituals. To the spiritual preceptors, He would ask about their students. The citizens of Ayodhya mention all these things to Dasaratha. In Srirangam, Lord Ranaganatha, the deity of the Ikshvaku family to which Rama belonged, stops to make enquiries when He goes out on a procession. This happens just once a year, during the Brahmotsava in the Tamil month of Thai. Lord Ranganatha stops before every house in the streets around which the procession passes, and makes enquiries. This is a boon to those who are unable to go to the temple during the festival. And it is similar to Rama enquiring after the welfare of His subjects in Ayodhya. Asking pertinent questions to people is an art, and Rama had mastered this art. He knew what question should be addressed to whom. When He met Sabari, He asked her about her tapas. Dasaratha’s subjects told him that Rama was like a father to all the people. If they were sorrowful, Rama treated their sorrow as His own. If they were glad, He was delighted too. Rama spoke the truth, but also made sure that no one was hurt by His speech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sterling-qualities/article37514171.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 07:10 IST,||Sudoku — November 16, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-16-2021/article37514882.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||sunshine||Potter V Vadivel is waiting. Seated next to a spread of wet earthen lamps he just made, he looks at the sky every once in a while: he is hoping for some sunlight. To a potter, the sun is as important as rain is to a farmer. And on that overcast afternoon at Udayar Street in Kavundampalayam, the mood is gloomy. But that does not stop some men and women — there are over 30 families in the potter’s colony — from spreading out their lamps and pots to dry in what remains of the sunlight of the day. “We cannot stop trying, can we?” asks P Manickam with a dry laugh. The 52-year-old says that the rains this year were unexpected. “This is like in 2015, when heavy rains washed out our business during Karthigai season,” he recalls. It takes one full cloudless, sunny day for a batch of lamps to dry after they are taken off the potter’s wheel. Potters wait another day for the lamps to further dry. They then bake the lamps in one of the kilns at the centre of the colony. “None of us is making anything new today,” Manickam dismisses us. “Wait!” he adds as an afterthought, “There is one man who is working at the wheel.” He directs us to a tile-roofed house under the shade of a spreading tamarind tree. Music blares from a radio inside and a pot-bellied man walks out looking at a batch of lamps he has placed outside to dry. An army of boys runs to help him take them inside: A Dinesh, A Thirukumaran, and B Balakumaran, his grandchildren, pick up the lamps one after the other. “Careful, do not bend them,” says K Velliangiri, following the boys. “Place them gently on the floor.” The 55-year-old potter sits cross-legged, picks up the still-wet lamp — it is a gigantic one that can hold two litres of oil — and pats it with a wooden implement that resembles a thick spatula. The lamps have a cavity at the centre and Velliangiri places more clay to cover this, and spreads it across, pat by pat to form the curved base. He holds a circular stone beneath the wet clay to cushion this action, and moves it along with the spatula. The boys settle around him to watch him work. “These lamps are for temples,” he says, adding, “They come in five sizes, and can carry up to three litres of oil.” He uses the potter’s wheel to shape them, while for the small ones, a modified wet-grinder replaces the wheel. The sky is still dark, but Velliangiri goes pat-pat, shaping one lamp after the other. “There will be sunlight in some time,” he says, glancing outside the window. “I must ready these by then; only then will I be able to deliver on time.” His potter’s wheel was handed down to him by his father, and is over 50 years old. It is tied with rope at various places to cover the cracks that have appeared over the years. “I usually mend it during the 10-day break I take after Pongal,” he tells us. Before the pandemic started, Velliangiri taught pottery at a local school. He enjoyed the process of teaching the art form to children. Even today, he continues to involve the children in his family in pottery — unlike other potters who do not want their sons and daughters to take after them owing to the craft’s unpredictable nature. “When the world prays for rain, I do feel guilty praying that it does not,” he says. But this is how life is at the potter’s colony. “Because rains have washed away my lamps and I will be back to where I started,” he says. “At times like those, I wonder why I waste my time at the wheel every day.” But he wakes up the next day to knead clay, nevertheless. Just then, the sun shines on the colony, and Velliangiri smiles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sunshine/article37514643.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||‘There are things about me that are broken’||Netflix’s Red Notice (starring Ryan Reynolds, Dwayne Johnson and Gal Gadot) is, in many ways, the quintessential big-budget Hollywood crowd-pleaser. It has unrealistically charismatic leads (all three headline their own superhero franchises) and a simple but malleable plot, with bullets flying as thick and fast as the scene-ending one-liners. Reynolds’ character, Nolan Booth, and Gadot’s The Bishop are art thieves, while Johnson plays FBI profiler John Hartley. During a recent promotional event, Reynolds talks about the scene where the three meet for the first time, in a prison chapel. “For me, it was the most interesting scene to film. It was the first time that the three of us had shot in the same room,” he says, adding, “It’s where we meet Gal’s character, and she’s charming and funny and easy. In the past we’ve seen her as Wonder Woman and other really authoritative characters. So, to watch her be almost like a Cary Grant in this moment was really fun for me.” When Booth met Hartley  Speaking about the experience of filming an action-adventure story with Johnson, perhaps the most commercially-successful actor in the genre, he shares, “The way that you see Booth and Hartley talking in the film — you know, sarcasm and putting each other down, and yet there’s a kind of underlying respect there. That’s how Dwayne and I talk to each other in real life. If you go to dinner with us you’ll know.” The two have known each other for over 20 years now. “Weirdly, Dwayne and I have a lot more in common than you’d think. Certainly not body mass, but we each have three daughters, extracurricular businesses that we care deeply about. We both very much feel we’re in service of an audience and that they’re the boss, so we have very similar outlooks on life.” Indeed, the film derives much of its narrative frisson via the comedic repartee between these two actors. “There are other films that I have done where the emotional stuff, the tissue that holds together the action, adventure, swashbuckling parts, is much more prominent,” says Reynolds. “But in the action comedy genre, obviously the adventurous bits are front and centre.”  Deadpool and daddy issues  Reynolds has played characters like Nolan Booth in the past: quick-witted, sharp-tongued ‘tricksters’ who live on the fringes of society and follow the ‘trust nobody’ dictum. His current role as the Marvel antihero Deadpool, is perhaps the biggest example of this. Is he worried that he might get typecast? “Well, yes and no,” he says. “I think every artist has this in their career — where you do kind of the same thing but with different setups and in varied ways and hopefully, you get it exactly right a couple of times. What’s important is that you enjoy the work, and the day it gets to be too much, you take a step back and reevaluate.” In the film, both Booth and Hartley have daddy issues. Booth’s father was a Swiss cop who cared more about lost treasures than his own family, while Hartley’s was a con-man. Much is made of the fact that the cop’s son becomes a thief and vice-versa. “I think that in a lot of ways Nolan is broken,” says Reynolds, “The way he speaks, he obviously has trust issues, which come across in his scenes with Hartley… these things are his way of dealing with his past. There are things about me that are broken as well and I kind of use that to play these sarcastic characters.” On a break  Reynolds has been quite prolific of late. Earlier this year, his film, Free Guy , was one of the biggest hits of 2021, when Hollywood badly needed theatrical blockbusters to shore up flagging numbers. Then there was The Hitman’s Wife’s Bodyguard towards the beginning of 2021. The upcoming Netflix film, The Adam Project , will make it four big-budget releases for him in a relatively short amount of time, which is why he has announced that he is taking “a little break”, not least because he wants to spend more time with his three children (ages two to seven). “The time that you don’t spend with your family, when you’re off doing your own thing, that’s time you are never getting back. It’s important to take a break once in a while, to allow yourself the time and the mental space to get creative again, and that’s what I amdoing,” concludes the actor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/there-are-things-about-me-that-are-broken/article37514644.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Marriage story||Actor Anand Deverakonda is a tad nervous ahead of the theatrical release of his new Telugu comedy thriller, Pushpaka Vimanam , on November 12. His previous film, Middle Class Melodies , was a roaring hit, going by the warm response it received after its direct digital release during the pandemic. But a theatrical release is a different beast altogether.  Pushpaka Vimanam was offered to him soon after his debut film Dorasani (2019). Anand was enthused by the journey of the protagonist, a school teacher at a Government school, who holds romantic notions about marriage, and is shattered when his wife elopes: “He believes that marriage is a beautiful institution. To deal with nosy colleagues and society, he puts up a charade to make people believe that he is indeed leading a happy married life.” The title harks back to director Singeetam Srinivasa Rao’s 1987 silent dark comedy Pushpaka Vimana ( Pesum Padam in Tamil), starring Kamal Haasan and Amala Akkineni. “Damodar approached Singeetam sir to inform him about the title. In that film, the title was a metaphor for Kamal Haasan’s dream of a life of luxury. The tangible reference came from a hotel named Pushpak. In our film, the title is a metaphor for my character’s journey in marriage. Incidentally, a travel agency is named Pushpak in the film.” The fictional story came up after the director chanced upon several news clippings of marriages falling apart. He wrote a comedy and narrated it to someone, only to learn that some of the incidents in the story had occurred in the life of the listener. The comedy progresses into a thriller, unravelling the mystery of the missing wife. “My character, Sundar, is going through a depressing situation but his predicament leads to comedy,” says Anand, adding, “He is an introvert and is always neatly groomed and believes that teachers should command respect in society.” When Anand was first offered the part, he went through a look test to see if he would fit the part. Taken in by the story, his brother and actor Vijay Deverakonda’s production house, King of the Hill Entertainment, decided to produce. “My dad (Govardhan Rao) and the executive producer took a chunk of the production responsibilities and I had ample time to focus on my work. Only much later I got involved in the marketing aspects,” adds Anand.  Middle Class Melodies was a confidence booster for Anand, who was disappointed with the dismal box office reception to his debut film Dorasani . There were times when he wondered if he had made the right decision by giving up a corporate career only to get trolled on social media during his launch: “Vijay had warned me early on that a career in cinema will be challenging and I shouldn’t think of going back to corporate life. It slowly dawned on me that when established personalities aren’t spared of trolling, it is bound to happen to me. During the pre-production workshop for Middle Class Melodies , there was a phase when I was sceptical. I then decided to go ahead and enjoy my opportunity to become a better actor.”  Like in Middle Class Melodies , Anand states that Pushpaka Vimanam will also benefit from an able supporting cast: “Recently in Guntur, when college students cheered at the very mention of Middle Class Melodies , I was touched by how a simple and non-massy film endeared to everyone. I hope we are able to pull it off this time as well.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/marriage-story/article37514642.ece
16 November 2021||Patna,||Apex liquor body urges CM, NDA leaders to end Bihar prohibition||Ahead of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s high-level meeting on prohibition on November 16, the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC), the apex body of alcohol producing companies, has sought an end to prohibition in the State. In the wake of over 30 hooch deaths earlier this month, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had announced that he would review each and every detail of the State’s policy in the scheduled meeting on Tuesday but insisted that prohibition would continue. ‘Heavy price’ In a four-page letter to the Chief Minister and leaders of all three other constituents of the ruling NDA coalition, the CIABC said, “Bihar is paying a heavy price for its prohibition policy because of availability of spurious liquor, hooch deaths, rise of liquor mafias and huge loss of government revenues”. It further said that “stringent implementation of prohibition laws has threatened private sector from investing in business and industries in the State and that leads to unemployment”. The CIABC listed out only two positive and 10 negative impacts of prohibition in the State. “The awareness among people about excess liquor drinking and problems related with its misuse has been increased. Liquor consumption and misbehaviour related with it at public places has been stopped,” said the letter as a positive fallout of prohibition. On the negative impact, the Confederation said, “In last five years of prohibition ,Bihar government incurred loss of possible Rs. 30-35,000 crore revenue and it was because of revenue crunch that Bihar’s position in development index in comparison to other States has been at far behind position”. “There has been rise of liquor mafias, people started drinking spurious liquor for non-availability of legal liquor and over 100 of them have lost their lives; there has been 450,000 cases related with liquor in the courts which has slowed down their legal process, over three lakh people were arrested under prohibition laws and most of the poor families lost their sole bread earner; about 40,000 people became unemployed due to prohibition and there has been huge impact on State’s tourism and leisure industry,” said the letter. It also added that, “due to resource crunch and lack of investment in private sector Bihar remains the poorest State of India”. In its suggestions, the CIABC said, “The government can impose cess on sale of liquor to fund alcohol de-addiction and rehabilitation centres and put liquor under State control.” It also said that “the State government can direct liquor factories to hire 50% of their workforce as women which would lead their economic self-reliance and empowerment”. ‘Other State’s gain’ The letter also said that “90% of illegal sale of liquor is among poor and backward people and Bihar’s loss has turned out to be neighbouring State’s gain due to increase in liquor sale in border areas”. Ahead of Tuesday’s review meeting, Mr. Kumar promised a detailed review of the prohibition policy. Refusing to reconsider the ban, he said, “If people are dying by consuming illicit liquor then they must know how bad this is. They should not drink liquor.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/apex-liquor-body-urges-cm-nda-leaders-to-end-bihar-prohibition/article37514423.ece
16 November 2021||JAIPUR,||No liquor here, say two village panchayats||Utilising a legal route to abolish alcoholism, two villages in Rajsamand district of Rajasthan have voted overwhelmingly for permanent closure of liquor shops following a prolonged campaign launched by women against liquor consumption in the region. Over 90% of the villagers voted in support of enforcing liquor prohibition in the polling held on Saturday. A 45-year-old law, the Rajasthan Excise (Closure of Country Liquor Shop by Local Option) Rules, 1975, published in the State Gazette on January 8, 1976, was invoked for the unusual voting, which made the closure of licensed shops possible. The statutory rules lay down that if 51% of the registered voters in the village panchayat opt for closure of a liquor shop, it has to shut down. The campaign against alcoholism was launched in Barar and Hamela Ki Ver villages of Bhim tehsil in Rajsamand in 2015, when the women submitted a memorandum to the district administration seeking closure of liquor shops. They complained that liquor consumption had ruined several families and given a boost to domestic violence and other crimes. Women at forefront Led by Barar Sarpanch Pankaja Singh, women and local activists periodically organised rallies, held demonstrations and approached the administration repeatedly with the plea to save the families through prohibition. After the verification of the petition as per the Excise Act, the administration fixed the date for referendum in April this year, which was deferred to November because of second wave of the pandemic. In the referendum held at five polling booths set up at Rajiv Gandhi Seva Kendra in Barar, 3,624 of the 5,632 registered voters in the two villages turned up for the poll. Women came out in hordes with enthusiasm to take part in the exercise which involved putting a stamp on ‘yes’ or ‘no’ in the ballot paper. An overwhelming number of 3,261 votes, comprising more than 90% of the total votes, were cast in favour of closure of liquor shops, while only 146 were against. “The referendum’s outcome reflects the resentment against alcoholism, which has led to domestic violence against women and children, distress sale of property, families falling in debt trap and the youth falling addicted to liquor,” Ms. Singh told The Hindu on Monday. Interestingly, the activists had appealed to the migrant workers, who had come home to celebrate Deepavali, to stay put till voting day and participate in the referendum. Bhim MLA Sudarshan Singh Rawat and Hamela Ki Ver Sarpanch Ramesh Kumar camped outside the polling booths and appealed to the voters to cast their ballot in favour of shutting the liquor vends. Licence to be withdrawn All the liquor shops in the two villages will be closed and their excise licence withdrawn from the commencement of the next financial year on April 1, 2022, for which a notification will be issued shortly. With the completion of referendum, seven village panchayats in the State have so far exercised their right and opted for liquor prohibition. The other villages where similar referendums were undertaken earlier and liquor shops closed were Kachhbali, Mandawar and Thaneta in Rajsamand district, Phoga Bharthari in Churu and Rojda in Jaipur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-liquor-here-say-two-village-panchayats/article37514462.ece
16 November 2021||Kolkata,||Stage set for schools, colleges in West Bengal to open today||Schools and colleges in West Bengal are set to reopen on Tuesday — after a gap of close to two years forced by the COVID-19 pandemic. The last time students attended classes physically was in March 2020. “All arrangements are being made for keeping the campuses clean and sanitised. Effective steps have been taken for ensuring double vaccination for most students. Public health imperatives are paramount,” said University of Calcutta Vice-Chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee. In all institutions across the State, the arrangements are going to be the same: no mask, no entry; temperature checks and hand-sanitisation at the entrance; smaller number of students in each class; and no congregation in places like canteens. Challenges are going to be many, considering that the closure was extraordinarily prolonged and that COVID-19 is far from gone. Schools will open for students of Class 9 and above. “The challenge for schools, more so the Government-run ones, is about how the students respond to the reopening — whether they throng back or have got out of the habit due to the long closure,” said Krishnakoli Ray, headmistress of Dhakuria Sree Ramakrishna Vidyapith for Girls in Kolkata. “While students in upscale English-medium schools are likely to get back in full force, I fear many in Government schools, both in urban and rural areas, may have dropped out. Only time will tell whether they can be brought back to the system. ‘Onus on schools’ “The onus to keep students safe is on the schools. We have cleaned and sanitised the classrooms, laboratories, common areas, washrooms and the library thoroughly. We plan to sanitise the school building every day after classes and get the toilets cleaned periodically through the day. We have also put up posters around the school premises to create awareness regarding COVID protocol,” said Ms. Ray who, until recently, was the principal of Joynagar Institution for Girls on the rural fringes of Kolkata. Prof. Debasish Mondal, teacher-in-charge at St. Paul’s Cathedral Mission College, said that while online classes worked out well, practical classes were suffering and therefore it was important that students returned to the colleges. ‘Online not a bad idea’ “We have come to realise that online teaching isn’t such a bad idea — it is an idea that can be put to use as and when required. Students performed well even when the learning was online,” said Prof. Mondal, who said his college had formed a COVID-monitoring team to handle its reopening. “A class of 15 will move to a room that can hold 30, similarly a class of 30 will move to a hall that can accommodate 60. The canteen will remain closed. The idea is to ensure social distancing. We have also tied up with a nearby hospital, just in case someone shows symptoms. It is a new situation for all of us, we are to going to watch for 15 days before deciding the next course of action,” Prof. Mondal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/stage-set-for-schools-colleges-in-west-bengal-to-open-today/article37514420.ece
16 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi’s ration delivery scheme still under progress: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday noted that the Delhi Government’s preparation for the doorstep delivery ration scheme was still “under progress” and asked it and the Centre to place their arguments before the Delhi High Court on November 22 without seeking an adjournment. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao was dealing with an appeal filed by the Centre against the High Court decision clearing the way for the scheme. The court recorded the submissions made by the parties that the scheme could not anyway be implemented before November 22 and the High Court would continue to hear it in the meanwhile. The High Court had directed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Government to issue communication to fair price shop dealers informing them of the particulars of cardholders who have opted for the delivery. “The Delhi Government shall first issue communication to each of the fair price shop holders informing them of the particulars of the ration cardholders who have opted to receive their rations at their doorstep and, only thereafter, the rations, to the extent that they are being supplied to such beneficiaries, need not be supplied to the fair price shop holders,” a Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh of the High Court had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhis-ration-delivery-scheme-still-under-progress-sc/article37514426.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Mannu Bhandari: a soft, self-effacing, yet firm creative voice||Eminent Hindi writer Mannu Bhandari breathed her last on Monday in Gurugram because of age-related ailments, after having led a full and rich life. While her death was not unexpected, she turned 91 in April, it did come as a painful shock to the Hindi literary world that suddenly became ever more aware of the significance of her presence. A self-effacing person, she chose to speak through her short stories, novels, plays and memoirs and made her presence felt. Unlike many women writers of the succeeding generations, she did not seek recognition as a “woman writer” and the Hindi world accepted her as a “writer”, just as it had accepted Mahadevi Verma and Subhadra Kumari Chauhan earlier. Hailing from a conservative Marwari family that was progressive in its own way – firm belief in the desirability of women's education being one of the features – Mannu Bhandari was made to feel inferior on account of her dark complexion. It's a painful reality that even today Indian society feels the need for fairness creams. However, young Mannu overcame her circumstances by sublimating them into an inner creative force and gradually emerged as a noteworthy writer. Mannu imbued her works with an uncommonly objective artistic observation, analysis and creative portrayal of day-to-day experiences that, despite looking mundane, shape our lives. Mannuji, as she was fondly called, will always be remembered by the Hindi literary world as soft yet firm creative voice, a writer who expressed what she felt and reflected reality in her works as she saw it, not as it should be. Her huge popularity was mainly due to an endearing lack of pretension. She and Rajendra Yadav were perhaps the first writer couple in the Hindi literary world and blazed a new trail when both announced that they would write an experimental novel Ek Inch Muskan (One-inch Smile). Her penchant for transparency also reflected in the way she discussed her relationship with Yadav, one of the pillars with na yi k ahani (new story) movement in Hindi literature, in her autobiography. She is survived by their daughter Rachana Yadav, who is a noted Kathak exponent. Bhandari’s first novel Aapka Bunty (Your Bunty), published in 1971, firmly established her as a novelist as it very sensitively depicted the tragedy of a child whose parents have divorced and are trying to find new ways of relating to each other and to him. Her novel Mahabhoj (The Great Feast), published in 1979, was a creative writer’s response to the anti-Dalit massacre that took place in Belchhi and it brought out in sharp relief the corruption, hypocrisy and criminalisation of politics in post-1947 India. It was later turned into a play and has been performed — and, continues to be performed hundreds of times all over the country. The novel itself has run into 31 editions so far which is quite a record. The year 1974 saw the release of hugely popular Basu Chatterjee’s Rajnigandha, based on her short story Yahi Sach Hai (Only this is the Truth). Mannu has been the chair of Premchand Srijanpith in Vikramshila University, Ujjain and her autobiography fetched her K. K. Birla Foundation’s prestigious Vyas Samman. Her collections of short stories include Ek Plate Sailab , Main Haar Gayee , Teen Nigahon Ki Ek Tasveer, Yahi Sach Hai , Trishanku and Sampoorna Kahaniyan . Besides Mahabhoj , her play Bina Deevaron Ke Ghar has also been quite popular. ( The writer is a seasoned literary critic )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mannu-bhandari-a-soft-self-effacing-yet-firm-creative-voice/article37514428.ece
16 November 2021||Raigarh,||Raigarh bids adieu to martyred colonel||Shouts of ‘Jai Hind’ rent the air as a large number of people bid final adieu to Colonel Viplav Tripathi, his wife and five-year-old son, who were killed in a militant attack in Manipur two days ago, in their home town Raigarh in Chhattisgarh on Monday. The last rites were held with full military and State honours. The atmosphere turned more sombre when Asha Tripathi (70), saluted the mortal remains of her son and chanted ‘Jai Hind’. Colonel Tripathi, the Commanding Officer of Khuga Battalion of the Assam Rifles, his wife Anuja (36), son Abeer (5) along with four personnel of the paramilitary force were killed in an ambush by the militants in the Northeastern State on Saturday. Earlier in the day, a special plane of the Indian Air Force carrying the mortal remains of the colonel, his wife and son landed at an airstrip in Raigarh at 12.42 p.m. From the airstrip, the coffins were taken in an open flower-decked truck to Colonel Tripathi’s home with a large number of people standing on both sides of the road chanting ‘ Colonel Viplav amar rahe ’. Personnel of Assam Rifles paid floral tributes and accorded a Guard of Honour to the slain colonel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/raigarh-bids-adieu-to-martyred-colonel/article37514458.ece
16 November 2021||Sawad,||Nadda flags off party’s ‘Shaheed Samman Yatra’||BJP president JP Nadda flagged off his party’s “Shaheed Samman Yatra” from the defence personnel-dominated Sawad village in poll-bound Uttarakhand on Monday and accused the Congress of misleading the armed forces over their demand for “One Rank One Pension” for decades. Addressing a public meeting in Sawad on the occasion of the launch of the yatra, Mr. Nadda said no defence equipment were purchased for over 20 years when the Congress was in power at the Centre and the process of strengthening and modernising the armed forces began only when Prime Minister Narendra Modi took over the reins of power. “Under the leadership of Modi, the country has bought 36 Rafale fighters , 28 Apache helicopters, 15 Chinook helicopters, 145 ultra-light howitzers, 1.86 crore bulletproof jackets and five lakh AK-203 rifles,” he said. Accusing the Congress of misleading the armed forces on the issue of OROP for decades, the BJP president said the government led by the party made a budgetary allocation of a paltry Rs. 500 crore for OROP for the sake of appearances in 2013. It was only after Mr. Modi became the Prime Minister in 2014 that efforts to implement OROP were started in right earnest, he said. “He spent Rs. 42,000 crore to implement OROP, from which 20.6 lakh soldiers in the country and 1.16 lakh in Uttarakhand benefitted,” the BJP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nadda-flags-off-partys-shaheed-samman-yatra/article37514425.ece
16 November 2021||New Delhi,||AVUT urges court not to suspend Ansals’ jail term||The Association of Victims of Uphaar Tragedy (AVUT) on Monday urged a Delhi court not to suspend the7-year jail terms awarded to real estate barons Sushil and Gopal Ansalfor tampering with evidence in the 1997 case of Uphaar cinema fire which had claimed 59 lives. The counsel for the association made the submission before Additional Sessions Judge Anil Antil in response to the pleas moved by Ansals. Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, appearing for the AVUT, told the court that the offence of tampering was extremely serious in nature as it affects the entire criminal justice system. He added that the judgment was well reasoned and the court had dealt with each and every argument of the defence and finally had come to a conclusion that it was a case of conspiracy which was established by the prosecution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dont-suspend-ansals-jail-term-avut/article37514460.ece
16 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab government should make fiscal situation public every month, says Sidhu||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday alleged that the State was reeling under acute debt and asked the government to make public the fiscal situation every month. ‘Demanding a solution’ Pointing out that his focus was beyond the 2022 Assembly elections, he asserted that Punjab was the most indebted State in the country and party workers were looking towards a solution. “Today Punjab is the most indebted State in India. Debt accounts for 50% of State GDP. Half of our expenditure is funded by expensive debt. Let’s not derail from real issues to which every Punjabi & party worker demands solution, because there’s #PunjabBeyond2022,” he tweeted. “Financial Accountability and Transparency are pillars of Punjab Model. Accountability demands revealing sources of funds at every scheme announcement, whether from income or from more debt. Transparency demands making public State’s fiscal health every month,” the Punjab Congress chief stated. ‘Don’t borrow’ “Borrowing is not the way forward! Taxes should not go to settle debt but go back to the people in the form of development. Solution oriented model is to stop theft of State’s resources, fill up public exchequer and create a Welfare State through income generation,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-government-should-make-fiscal-situation-public-every-month-says-sidhu/article37514424.ece
16 November 2021||Mumbai,||14-day judicial remand for Sachin Vaze||A local court here on Monday remanded dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze to 14-day judicial custody in an extortion case. The city’s crime branch had taken Mr. Vaze’s custody on November 1 in the case, registered at suburban Goregaon police station on a complaint of builder-cum-hotelier Bimal Agrawal, in which former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh is among half a dozen accused. After the end of his crime branch remand, the 49-year-old former Assistant Police Inspector was produced before a magistrate court, which sent him to judicial custody. The dismissed cop had been in judicial custody after his arrest in March by the NIA in the Antilia bomb scare-Mansukh Hiran murder case. Mr. Vaze was lodged in Navi Mumbai’s Taloja jail from where the crime branch had taken his custody in the extortion case. As per the complaint by Mr. Agarwal, accused persons extorted Rs. 9 lakh from him for not conducting a raid on two bars and restaurants, which he ran in partnership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/14-day-judicial-remand-for-sachin-vaze/article37514421.ece
16 November 2021||November 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Choking the city||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/choking-the-city/article37514430.ece
