17 November 2021||Srinagar,||Four killed in Srinagar gunfight||Four persons, including an overground worker (one who supports militants) and a civilian, were killed during an encounter in Srinagar’s Hyderpora on Monday evening, the police said on Tuesday amid allegations that it was a “staged encounter” and one victim was used as “a human shield”. “Two militants, including a foreign militant identified as Haider, and his local associate, possibly from Banihal area of Jammu, were killed. We have called in a family from Banihal to identify the militant,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar stated. Building owner Altaf Bhat, a Barzulla resident, who also had an office in the multi-storey structure, was killed in the crossfire. “It is not sure whether he was hit by the militants’ or the security forces’ bullet. Militants were carrying pistols. The cause of the death would be clear after investigation,” Mr. Kumar said. The police identified the fourth slain person as Mudasir Gull, a dentist-turned-businessman from Srinagar’s Rawalpora. “He [Gull] may have provided shelter to Haider and his associates. He was harbouring and ferrying militants. Mudasir was also involved in ferrying Haider from the site of the [Sunday] attack at Jamalata Srinagar, where a policeman was injured after a bullet hit him. He was an overground worker and was directly involved in harbouring militants,” Mr. Kumar said. Two pistols, two magazines, half-a-dozen mobile phones and a few computers were recovered at the encounter site, the police said. A special investigation team would probe the modus operandi of the hi-tech hideout at Hyderpora. “It will investigate if the phones and computers recovered from the site had links with foreign countries, including the U.S.,” Mr. Kumar said. Body not handed over Due to apprehension of a law and order problem, the body of the civilian was not handed over to the family for last rites, he added. The families of Bhat and Dr. Gull, however, said they were “innocent civilians” killed in “a staged encounter”. “Eyewitnesses told us that my father was taken into the building [at Hyderpora] thrice. He was allowed to go twice but killed the third time. There was no encounter. He was killed for being a Muslim. We just demand that his body is returned to us so that me and my younger sister can see him one last time,” Bhat’s daughter said. A relative of Bhat alleged that he was used as a “human shield”. Bhat’s and Gull’s families held street protests, demanding the handing over of bodies for the final rites. “My son is a doctor and has no link with militants. Why was he killed,” asked Dr. Gull’s mother. Gull owned a shop in the building. Parties, including the National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party, sought an independent judicial probe into the incident. “Using innocent civilians as human shields, getting them killed in cross-firing and then conveniently labelling them as OGWs [overground workers] is part of the Government of India’s rulebook now. Imperative that a credible judicial enquiry is done to bring out the truth & put an end to this rampant culture of impunity,” PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said. Former Chief Minister and NC leader Omar Abdullah demanded “an impartial and credible inquiry”. “There are far too many questions being raised about the encounter and about the people killed. There have been numerous instances of fake encounters in the past and the questions raised about this encounter need to be answered swiftly and in a credible manner,” he remarked. CPI(M) leader M.Y. Tarigami urged the authorities to hand over the bodies to their families for proper burial. “The circumstances in which these killings happened need to be thoroughly probed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-killed-in-srinagar-gunfight/article37531940.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||NRC: only 1,032 doubtful cases referred for review||Only a little over a thousand doubtful cases in the final draft of the National Register of Citizens (NRC), Assam, have been referred to the District Commissioners concerned for action, the State Coordinator of the NRC has said in an RTI reply. More than 19 lakh of the 3.29 crore applicants in Assam were excluded from the final draft register published on August 31, 2019, which cost Rs. 1,220 crore. The Registrar-General of India under the Home Ministry on March 23 this year told the Assam Government that issuance of “rejection slips” to those excluded from the final draft shall be completed in a “mission mode.” The State Coordinator is a Secretary rank officer of the Assam Government who assists the RGI as citizenship is a Union subject. In response to an RTI application filed by The Hindu , the Office of State Coordinator of NRC, Assam, said, “1,032 number of cases of DV/DF/PFT/DVD/DFD/ PFTD categories have been referred to the concerned Deputy Commissioner to take necessary action as per Clause 4(3) & 4(6) of the Schedule 4(A) 4 of Rules of the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules 2003.” The BJP government in Assam has rejected the NRC in its current form and demanded re-verification of at least 30% names in areas bordering Bangladesh and 10% in the rest of the State. The NRC Coordinator had approached the Supreme Court in May seeking re-verification of the list. The abbreviations cited above stand for doubtful voters, declared foreigners, reference pending at Foreigners Tribunals (FT), descendants of D voters, descendants of declared foreigners, cases of declared foreigners pending in FTs. The tribunals, unique to Assam, are quasi-judicial bodies. The RTI reply added that as of now, no rejection slips have been issued and as per Clause 7 of Schedule 4(A) 4 of the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003, the final NRC is yet to be published by the RGI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nrc-only-1032-doubtful-cases-referred-for-review/article37531942.ece
17 November 2021||GUNTUR,||Capital belongs to people of State: CJ||Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court Justice Prasanth Kumar Mishra has said that the capital belongs to the people of the State and is not just an issue for land owners of the Amaravati region. The remarks came at the end of the hearing on the Amaravati capital issue on Tuesday when senior advocate Syam Divan, arguing for the petitioners, said that “we have given land to the capital and therefore it is our capital.” Responding to it, the Chief Justice said, “It can’t be so.” On the second day of the hearing on the issue, Mr. Syam Divan said the two legislations on the repeal of CRDA and decentralisation were against the spirit of Constitution. The decision to locate the capital between Guntur and Vijayawada had been taken following the Justice Sri Krishna Committee report, he said. He also argued that the Central government had allocated Rs. 2,500 crore for the development of the capital, and hence the present government had no right to shift it. Mr. Syam Divan said land owners had voluntarily parted with the lands, and with the decision of the government they stand to lose Rs. 1 crore per acre. “The price of land ranged between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 7,000 per square yard before the announcement of the capital. Later, the price shot up and ranged between Rs. 44,000 and Rs. 70,000 per square yard. Going by the present market value, the government has to pay Rs. 1 crore to every farmer,” he argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/capital-site-not-just-a-land-issue-says-hc/article37531893.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Courts cannot interfere with day-to-day temple rituals: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said constitutional courts could not interfere with the day-to-day rituals and ‘sevas’ performed in temples on the basis of “public interest” petitions. Religious scholars and priests were best equipped to go into the question whether rituals in temples were being conducted in accordance with customs and traditions. The writ jurisdiction of a constitutional court under Articles 226 and 32 was limited. Whether a particular ritual was being performed in the right way or not was a “disputed question of fact”, the court explained. At most, it could be a subject for filing a civil suit in a subordinate court. “How a coconut should be broken or a puja should be done in a temple is not for a constitutional court to look into,” Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said. Not as per traditions: PIL The Bench, also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and Hima Kohli, was hearing a writ petition filed by Srivari Daadaa alleging that rituals were not being performed as per traditions at the famous Lord Venkateshwara Swamy temple at Tirumala. He also complained about the procedure for darshan . Justices Bopanna and Kohli agreed the Supreme Court could not interfere with the daily conduct of rituals in a temple on the basis of a writ petition. The court said, at the most, it could ask the temple administration to clarify in case devotees complain about discrimination or of not allowing darshan, while taking into consideration the current public health crisis. Disposing of the case, the court directed the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to respond to Mr. Daadaa’s grievances regarding darshan procedures and other administrative issues within eight weeks. The court said Mr. Daadaa could file a civil suit in a lower court to dispute factual issues regarding the performance of rituals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/courts-cannot-interfere-with-day-to-day-temple-rituals-says-supreme-court/article37531937.ece
17 November 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata launches ‘Duare Ration’ scheme||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday launched an ambitious “Duare Ration” scheme for providing foodgrains under the public distribution system at the doorstep for the entire population. “This scheme will help 10 crore people of the State. I request all ration dealers to make it a success,” she said while launching “Duare Ration” in Kolkata. The scheme was one of the key poll promises of the Trinamool Congress in its successful bid to retain power in May 2021. “If there are five members in a family, then one has to carry 25 kg of foodgrains home. We are not so inhuman as to ask people to carry 25 kg on their backs. The solution is to have vehicles in one lane at a distance of 500 metres,” said Ms. Banerjee. “Ours is a humanitarian government. Please do not go to court and oppose the scheme,” the Chief Minister urged the people. A similar scheme started by the AAP government in Delhi has been contested by the Centre, which asked it to ad- here to the provisions of the National Food Security Act. Delhi visit Ms. Banerjee is likely to visit New Delhi on November 22 and call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Sources said among the issues she is likely to bring up are the Centre’s move to extend the territorial jurisdiction of the BSF as well as State’s dues pending with the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-launches-duare-ration-scheme/article37532072.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||T.N. appeals in SC to restore Vanniyar quota||The Tamil Nadu Government has filed an appeal in the Supreme Court, challenging the Madras High Court’s November 1 order declaring ultra vires a law which provided 10.5% internal reservation for Vanniyars within the overall 20% quota for the Most Backward Classes (MBCs) in government jobs and higher education. The State Government, represented by advocate D. Kumanan, said the Madras High Court order was based on an erroneous view that State has no legislative competence and the special reservation was provided with caste as basis and without quantifiable data. The government said Tamil Nadu has been a pioneer State with regard to grant of reservation. “The Most Backward Classes within the Backward Classes were identified in Tamil Nadu as early as in 1957, when they were considered equivalent to Scheduled Castes but without the factor of untouchability,” the petition explained. It said some of these communities were impacted by the criminal tribes' laws of the British and enlisted as Most Backward Classes. The recommendation for 10.5% reservation to the Vanniyakula Kshatriya was made in commensuration with their population as enumerated in a survey held in 1983 by the Tamil Nadu Second Backward Classes Commission. “The State had enacted the Act in 2021 only based on adequate authenticated data on population of the Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities enumerated by the Tamil Nadu Second Backward Classes Commission in the year 1983,” the government contended. Tamil Nadu said that the caste-wise population data disclosed by the Commission was the “only authenticated data available as of now before the State; and such data can be used effectively to plan for sub-classification within backward classes of citizens.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-appeals-in-sc-to-restore-vanniyar-quota/article37531990.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara Corridor to reopen today||The Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara Corridor will be reopened on Wednesday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday. The announcement comes ahead of the birth anniversary of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak on Friday. The corridor, inaugurated in 2019, links two important shrines — Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district of Punjab and Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, Pakistan — and allows pilgrims to travel visa-free. A Ministry of Home Affairs’ statement said the decision was taken “keeping in view the improved COVID-19 situation.” The operations at the corridor were suspended since March 16, 2020 on account of the pandemic. Pilgrimage would be facilitated as per the existing procedures and adherence to COVID-19 protocols, the Home Ministry statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kartarpur-sahib-gurdwara-corridor-to-reopen-today/article37531936.ece
17 November 2021||Pandey,||CBI searches 77 places to probe child abuse cases||In a major crackdown on online sexual abuse of minors and circulation of child pornographic material, the CBI has registered 23 new cases against 83 accused persons. It also conducted searches across 14 States and Union Territories. The CBI has so far identified more than 50 groups, comprising over 5,000 offenders, who shared child sexual abuse material. Several of these groups included foreign nationals. “It is initially learnt that there may be involvement of nationals of about 100 countries. The CBI is coordinating with sister agencies through formal and informal channels,” said the agency. Several detained “Searches are being carried out at 77 locations in Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. Several suspects have also been detained,” a CBI official said. Contents of a large number of seized electronic devices were being examined. The agency has invoked various provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act against the persons who were part of syndicates involved in uploading, circulating, selling and viewing child sexual abuse material through various social media platforms and groups.  The agency has invoked various provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the IT Act against the offenders||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-searches-77-places-to-probe-child-abuse-cases/article37531938.ece
17 November 2021||Pandey,||CBI raids 77 locations to probe child abuse cases||In a major crackdown on online sexual abuse of minors and circulation of child pornographic material, the CBI has registered 23 new cases against 83 accused persons. It also conducted searches across 14 States and Union Territories. The CBI has so far identified more than 50 groups, comprising over 5,000 offenders, who shared child sexual abuse material. Several of these groups included foreign nationals. “It is initially learnt that there may be involvement of nationals of about 100 countries. The CBI is coordinating with sister agencies through formal and informal channels,” said the agency. “Searches are being carried out at 77 locations in Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. Several suspects have also been detained,” a CBI official said. Contents of a large number of seized electronic devices were being examined. The agency has invoked various provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act against the persons who were part of syndicates involved in uploading, circulating, selling and viewing child sexual abuse material through various social media platforms and groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-raids-77-locations-to-probe-child-abuse-cases/article37532391.ece
17 November 2021||Pandey,||CBI searches 77 places to probe child abuse cases||In a major crackdown on online sexual abuse of minors and circulation of child pornographic material, the CBI has registered 23 new cases against 83 accused persons. It also conducted searches across 14 States and Union Territories. The CBI has so far identified more than 50 groups, comprising over 5,000 offenders, who shared child sexual abuse material. Several of these groups included foreign nationals. “It is initially learnt that there may be involvement of nationals of about 100 countries. The CBI is coordinating with sister agencies through formal and informal channels,” said the agency. “Searches are being carried out at 77 locations in Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. Several suspects have also been detained,” a CBI official said. Contents of a large number of seized electronic devices were being examined. The agency has invoked various provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act against the persons who were part of syndicates involved in uploading, circulating, selling and viewing child sexual abuse material through various social media platforms and groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbi-searches-77-places-to-probe-child-abuse-cases/article37532459.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Highway touchdown||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/highway-touchdown/article37531944.ece
17 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Channi helps villagers rescue cow trapped in pit||In an attempt to strike a chord with masses, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi live-streamed the rescue of a cow trapped in a pit on the roadside on his Twitter handle. In the video, the CM could be seen involved in rescuing the cow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/channi-helps-villagers-rescue-cow-trapped-in-pit/article37532074.ece
17 November 2021||Bhopal,||Hindu Mahasabha plans to reinstall Godse bust||Four years after authorities in Madhya Pradesh removed a bust of Nathuram Godse from a Hindu Mahasabha office- cum-temple in Gwalior, activists of the organisation have announced that another bust of Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin is being made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hindu-mahasabha-plans-to-reinstall-godse-bust/article37532075.ece
17 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Bribes-for-transfer charge leaves Gehlot red-faced||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday faced an embarrassment when Government school teachers made an allegation at an event that they had to lobby the MLAs and were forced to pay bribe for their transfers and new postings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bribes-for-transfer-charge-leaves-gehlot-red-faced/article37532076.ece
17 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Second dose coverage remains at 51%||Although over 40 lakh people are due for the second dose of COVID-19 vaccination in Karnataka, it has become a challenging task for the state to get them inoculated. As of Tuesday, the second dose coverage in the state stood at 51% while 88% of the 4.89 crore population has been administered the first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-dose-coverage-remains-at-51/article37532317.ece
17 November 2021||Mangaluru,||Lokayukta: Ensure 100% vaccination in Udupi||Lokayukta P. Vishwanatha Shetty on Tuesday asked the Udupi district administration to identify people who have not been vaccinated against COVID-19 and arrange for their complete vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lokayukta-ensure-100-vaccination-in-udupi/article37532318.ece
17 November 2021||Mangaluru,||Karnataka travel curbs hit Kerala students||Thousands of commuters, including students, from border areas of Kerala to Dakshina Kannada district, have been hit by government’s decision not to resume inter-State bus services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-travel-curbs-hit-kerala-students/article37532161.ece
17 November 2021||Mangaluru,||Six arrested for harassing students||Mangaluru police arrested six persons allegedly involved in yet another case of moral policing of two students belonging to two different religions at Idya village, near Surathkal, on Monday. Prahalad, Prashant, Guru Prasad, Prateesh, Bharath, and Sukesh are all said to be activists of the Bajrang Dal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-arrested-for-harassing-students/article37532162.ece
17 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Vaccination: Second dose coverage remains at 51%||Over 40 lakh people are due for the second dose of COVID-19 vaccination in Karnataka. As of Tuesday, the second dose coverage in the state stood at 51% while 88% of the 4.89 crore population has been administered the first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-second-dose-coverage-remains-at-51/article37532163.ece
17 November 2021||Bengaluru,||BMRCL extends Namma Metro operational hours||The BMRCL on Tuesday announced that it would extend service hours from Thursday. From Monday to Saturday, the first trains will depart terminal stations at 6 a.m., and on Sunday at 7 a.m. The last train will leave Nagasandra, Silk Institute, Kengeri and Baiyappanahalli stations at 11 p.m. The last metro train service from Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Station, Majestic, towards all four directions will be at 11.30 p.m. on all days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bmrcl-extends-namma-metro-operational-hours/article37531975.ece
17 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Vaccination: Second dose coverage remains at 51%||Over 40 lakh people are due for the second dose of COVID-19 vaccination in Karnataka. As of Tuesday, the second dose coverage in the state stood at 51%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-second-dose-coverage-remains-at-51/article37531976.ece
17 November 2021||Mangaluru,||Six arrested for harassing students||Mangaluru police arrested six persons allegedly involved in yet another case of moral policing of two students belonging to two different religions at Idya village, near Surathkal, on Monday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-arrested-for-harassing-students/article37531977.ece
17 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||No discrimination in U.P. now, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that “ Sabka saath, sabka vikas (collective effort and development of all)” without discrimination, dynasticism, casteism or regionalism was the mantra of the Yogi Adityanath Government in Uttar Pradesh. The previous Governments in the State had shown discrimination in development, meted out injustice to the people and fulfilled the interests of only their families, he alleged. Vote bank politics Mr. Modi’s praise for the State Government came while inaugurating the 341-km Purvanchal Expressway in Sultanpur, where he also hit out at the previous Samawjadi Party (SP) Government for its “vote bank politics”. Mr. Modi targeted previous Chief Minister and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, without naming him, saying the SP Government did not cooperate with the Centre when it was working for the welfare of the people through various schemes. “I am pained to say that the Government that was in U.P. then did not cooperate with me. Not just this, they would not even stand next to me in public for fear of annoying their vote bank. When I come here as an MP, they would welcome me at the airport and then disappear. Maybe, he [Mr. Yadav] was ashamed as he had nothing to show for his work,” Mr. Modi said. Describing Mr. Adityanath as lively, energetic and a karmayogi , Mr. Modi said the work done in U.P. under the CM indicated that the fate of the State was changing for the better at a rapid speed. Elections ahead U.P. goes to the polls in three months, and Mr. Modi's address was laced with comparisons between the present government and the previous SP rule. At the event, Mr. Modi witnessed an air show on the 3.2 km long airstrip constructed on the Purvanchal Expressway in Sultanpur for emergency landing of Indian Air Force jets. The expressway connects Lucknow to the eastern regions of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-discrimination-in-up-now-says-pm/article37531736.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi schools shut till Nov. 21||In a series of measures to check pollution, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) late on Tuesday directed that all schools in the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) be shut and the entry of trucks into the region, except those carrying essential goods, be restricted until November 21. Public and private sector organisations would have to ensure that 50% of their staff work from home for the rest of the week. All construction activities, except those involving the Railways, Metro Rail, airports and those of national importance, would also cease until November 21. There would, however, be no restriction on transport. The CAQM has powers under an Act of Parliament to take air pollution-abatement measures across all of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh that are part of the NCR. The body met a day after the Supreme Court directed the Centre to convene a meeting involving all concerned States to take steps to address air pollution that was resulting from construction, industries, transport, thermal power plants and stubble burning. The Supreme Court has asked the Centre to furnish responses on the action taken on Wednesday. The CAQM said air quality over Delhi was expected to remain in the “very poor category” and could slip into the “severe category”, and was unlikely to noticeably improve until the 21st of the month. The body convened a day-long meeting with officials from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan as well Secretaries from the Departments of Home Affairs, Power and Environment at the Centre. Other decisions taken were to ensure that all industries in NCR having gas connectivity only run on gas as a fuel, failing which they would be shut. The State Governments would set up an effective “enforcement mechanism” to monitor air pollution compliance. Only five of the 11 power plants in a 300 km radius around Delhi would be allowed to function and the rest would be inoperative until November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-schools-shut-till-nov-21/article37531924.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC upset as Zakia Jafri questions SIT’s role||The Supreme Court on Tuesday objected to an allegation made by Zakia Jafri, the widow of a Congress leader killed in the 2002 Gujarat riots, that the apex court-appointed SIT “collaborated” with the conspirators. “You are attacking the manner of investigation done by the SIT? It is the same SIT which filed chargesheets in other cases and got the guilty convicted... There was no grievances raised against the SIT in those proceedings,” a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar asked senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Ms. Jafri. The court was reacting to Mr. Sibal’s submissions that there was glaring evidence of “collaboration”. ‘Strong term’ The court said “collaboration” was a very strong term to be used against a SIT formed by the Supreme Court. The court asked whether Mr. Sibal was clear before attributing motives on the SIT in the case Mr. Sibal has been going through various records and evidence to show that the SIT’s examination of Ms. Jafri’s complaint of a “larger conspiracy” behind the riots was riddled with omissions. The conclusions arrived at by the SIT contradicted the facts before it, Mr. Sibal has said, even suggesting that the SIT should be investigated. Mr. Sibal alleged those involved in the SIT were “rehabilitated” later. Ms. Jafri is challenging the closure report filed by the SIT in February 2012. She had alleged that the riots were the machination of the people in power at that time in the State. The conspiracy had manifested in a “compliant” State administration and a complacent police force amidst the carnage. The SIT had given a clean chit to then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi and 63 others, including senior Government officials, saying there was “no prosecutable evidence” against them. A ‘protest petition’ filed by Ms. Jafri against the clean chit was dismissed by the Magistrate. The Gujarat High Court too, in October 2017, refused to entertain Ms. Jafri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-upset-as-zakia-jafri-questions-sits-role/article37531728.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi may close down industrial units||Implementing a work from home (WFH) policy in the Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) and closing down industries are some of the steps suggested by the Delhi Government in a meeting of the Commission for Air Quality Management held on Tuesday, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday had announced various emergency measures, including the closure of schools for a week, a ban on construction activities and WFH for Government employees, to deal with the pollution crisis faced by the city. ‘Construction stopped’ “On Monday, Delhi Pollution Control Committee [DPCC] teams went to see whether the measures are being implemented and they found that the construction work has been stopped,” Mr. Rai told presspersons. The Supreme Court on Monday had directed the Commission for Air Quality Management to hold a joint meeting and on Tuesday, Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh participated in the meeting. “In the meeting, Delhi Government officials suggested implementing WFH policy in Delhi-NCR, a ban on construction work and a ban on industries so that pollution levels can be controlled. The other States have also put forth their views and we are waiting for an official notification from the commission,” Mr. Rai said. He said this meeting would lead to the emergence of a joint action plan. The Delhi Minister asked Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav to clear the confusion over the contribution of stubble burning in Delhi’s pollution so as to effectively control it. “Yesterday, the Centre filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court stating that stubble burning contributes about 4% to pollution in the national capital. In the same affidavit, the Centre mentioned that in a meeting held with experts, it was said it contributes 35-40% in the pollution levels. I want to urge Mr. Yadav to clear the facts. The same affidavit has two facts. Which is the correct figure?” he asked. With the correct figures, they would be able to frame a strategy to curb pollution, Mr. Rai said. “The strategy that will be formed on the basis of the 4% figure will yield different results and the strategy formed seeing the 35% figure will have a different outcome,” he added. Fire contribution Mr. Rai also cited the figures made public by the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor SAFAR, which showed the fire contribution to pollution from November 4 to 14. “The fire contribution was 25% on November 4, 36% on November 5, 41% on November 6, 48% on November 7, 30% on November 8, 27% on November 9 and 10, 26% on November 11, 35% on November 12, 31% on November 13 and 12% on November 14,” he said. “Going by these figures, the average comes to 31%. This is also data by the Centre. We urge the Environment Minister to clear the air on the figures so that a correct strategy can be formulated,” Mr. Rai added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-may-close-down-industrial-units/article37531876.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Singapore to limit quarantine-free entry||A day after including India on its Vaccinated Travel Lanes (VTL) programme, Singaporean officials say quarantine-free entry may not be allowed for Indians taking Air India’s Vande Bharat flights, unless talks on a special bilateral arrangement result in an agreement. In a detailed document on frequently asked questions on VTL, Singapore said only commercial scheduled passenger flights were eligible to be designated as VTL flights and since the Vande Bharat Mission flights were Government charter relief flights, they were not eligible. India has thus far not reopened regular international travel and has restricted flights to only those from 28 countries that have negotiated an “air travel bubble” system with the Government, that do not include Singapore. “As Vande Bharat Mission flights are chartered repatriation flights, they are not eligible to be designated as VTL flights,” the statement released said, adding that negotiations with the Ministry of Civil Aviation was under way to work out a compromise that would allow a “partial” restoration of international flights for Singapore as a “temporary” measure. In a statement on Tuesday, Singapore International Airlines on Tuesday asked passengers to be “patient” while talks were on. Singaporean media had reported a surge in bookings for SIA flights after the announcement of the VTL programme, and at a press meet, Transport Minister S. Iswaran said Singapore aimed two flights a day each from Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai by November 29. Travel agents in India said they were eager for the return of regular flights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/singapore-to-limit-quarantine-free-entry/article37531888.ece
17 November 2021||Mumbai,||Malik reveals ‘WhatsApp chats’ of Gosavi, informer||Continuing his series of revelations against the controversial Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede, NCP leader and Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik on Tuesday released alleged WhatsApp chats between NCB’s independent witness in the cruise ship drug bust case K.P. Gosavi and his informer mentioning Kashiff Khan, the organiser of the cruise party. He questioned why Kashiff Khan was not being questioned by the NCB. “We are giving the WhatsApp chats between Gosavi and his informer. They are talking about the cruise party and mention Mr. Khan. Despite all this, Mr. Khan has not been questioned yet. Is it because of close relations between Mr. Khan and Sameer Dawood Wankhede?” asked Mr. Malik. “The chats clearly show that the informer was supplying information to Mr. Gosavi about Mr. Khan. Mr. Gosavi is asking for photo and informer has even sent it. Mr. Khan was on cruise for over two days. But he was not questioned. Will senior officials of the NCB give information about the cordial relations between Mr. Khan and Mr. Wankhede,” asked the Minister. He claimed that Mr. Wankhede being Mumbai Zonal officer of the NCB has Goa under his jurisdiction. “Russian mafia is involved in drugs business in Goa. Kashif Khan runs the drug syndicate in Goa. Not a single action is taken against him... NCB is protecting him,” he said. Tuesday’s revelations are the latest in a series of allegations the NCP leader has been making about Mr. Wankhede including that the latter submitted a fake caste certificate to clear the UPSC examination. He has also claimed that Bollywood actor Aryan Khan’s arrest by the NCB was not only fabricated but also made to extort money from actor Shah Rukh Khan, Aryan’s father.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/malik-releases-whatsapp-chats-of-gosavi-informer/article37531720.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Navy’s plan for a 170-ship force on course’||The Navy’s plan for a 170 ship force is under way, and some changes in timelines which are being finalised, Vice-Chief of the Naval Staff S.N. Ghormade said on Tuesday. Vice-Admiral Ghormade also said the maritime environment was a complex one and it only increased when more number of players were involved. He said that the Navy had budgeted for a second indigenous aircraft carrier in its Maritime Capability Perspective Plan (MCPP). The Navy will commission the first Project-15B class stealth-guided missile destroyer Visakhapatnam on November 21, and the fourth Scorpene class submarine Vela on November 25, Vice-Admiral Ghormade said, briefing the media. Expanding capacity “We live in a time when global and regional balances of power are shifting rapidly and the region of most rapid change is undoubtedly the Indian Ocean Region (IOR),” he said. “Continuous efforts are therefore on to ensure that our force levels grow progressively to enhance the capability of the Indian Navy in meeting the emerging challenges.” Terming the commissioning of Visakhapatnam and Vela as major milestones in showcasing indigenous capacity to build complex combat platforms, he said as many as 39 ships and submarines were at present under construction at various shipyards across the country. The Navy currently has 130 ships and had earlier planned to achieve securing 200, which was revised to 170 ships by 2027. The timeline is now being revised as the Navy is revising its MCPP for the next 15 years, which is expected to be ready by next year and will be in line with the 10-year Integrated Capability Development Plan (ICDP) being formulated by the Department of Military Affairs to bring in service integration, Vice-Admiral Ghormade said. China has been rapidly expanding its Navy, rolling out more ships than any other country amid its expanding global footprint, especially in the Indian Ocean Region. On the need for a second Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC-II) and the debate over carriers versus submarines, Vice-Admiral Ghormade said all platforms like carrier, submarine and maritime patrol aircraft have a definite role. “To make a balanced force, all these are required for the capability,” he said, adding that the MCPP had factored for all of them while taking into account budgetary allocations and constraints. The contract for the construction of four ships under Project-15B was signed in January 2011 at a project cost of about Rs. 29,643.74 crore. The final cost of the project is Rs. 35,000 crore. The remaining ships would be commissioned one per year from 2022 to 2024.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navys-plan-for-a-170-ship-force-on-course/article37531724.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. keeps no Net shutdown record||There were no verifiable, centralised records of Internet shutdowns in the country. Neither the Union Home Ministry nor the Department of Telecom maintains such a record, the parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology pointed out in its report adopted on Tuesday. The committee, headed by senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, pressed for a detailed study on the economic impact of frequent and prolonged Internet shutdowns. The advocacy group Access Now, in a study published last March, reported that India topped the list of countries that resorted to government-imposed Internet clampdown. The report, sources say, said that in the absence of a database, there was no mechanism to review whether the Internet clampdowns followed the laid-down rules or the Supreme Court guidelines. It is equally revealing, the committee noted, that there were no coherent rules dictating these shutdowns. On the grounds of maintaining “public safety” or in a scenario of “public emergency”, the State Governments have the right to impose an Internet clampdown. But the report, sources say, pointed out that “public safety” and “public emergencies” were not clearly defined. The Net shutdowns have been reduced as a “routine policing and administrative tool”. Citing the example of Jammu and Kashmir, the committee stated that there should be a “standard operating procedure” in place to review from time to time a shutdown and it could not go on indefinitely. The Government had first imposed a communication shutdown on August 5, 2019 to quell anticipated protests after Parliament abrogated Article 370, under which it enjoyed special status. Access to slow, 2G Internet for mobile and fixed-line subscribers was restored in March 2020, but high-speed 4G access was restored only by February 2021. Percolative effect The report said the absence of Internet and regular telecom services also had a percolative effect. The Cellular Operators Association, in their submission to the committee, claimed that every hour of Internet/telecom shutdown cost them Rs. 25 million in every circle area. Apart from this, trade, which is now heavily dependent on Internet banking, also was strongly hit. On January 10, 2020, the Supreme Court declared that freedom of speech and expression and freedom to practice any profession over the medium of Internet enjoyed constitutional protection under Article 19(1)(a) and Article 19(1)(g). In-depth study Quoting the judgment, the committee recommended that there should be an in-depth study on the economic fallout of this. The importance of the Internet, the committee stressed, could not be overemphasised. “There is need to maintain a delicate balance between the citizen’s right to access the Internet and the State’s duty to deal with a public emergency,” the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-keeps-no-net-shutdown-record/article37531871.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBSE begins first term Board exams for Class 12 students||The Central Board of Secondary Education’s (CBSE) first term Board examinations kicked off on Tuesday, with 16,000 Class 12 students writing their first paper in entrepreneurship and another 6,000 in beauty and wellness. Only 848 centres were used to conduct the exams. It was being conducted under a new format, in which the exam had been divided into two terms. The first term exam was an objective-style test with multiple choice questions (MCQs) for a duration of 90 minutes. Students would have to provide their answers in an optical mark recognition ( OMR) sheet. The second term exam, which would be conducted in March-April 2022, would be a subjective/objective exam as per the COVID-19 situation then. The CBSE had gone back to conducting the exam in the physical mode after the Class 10 and 12 Board exams were cancelled this year due to COVID-19. Overall, 15,000 exam centres had been announced this year, more than double the usual, due to the challenges of conducting the exam in accordance with COVID-19 protocols, said CBSE Controller of Examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj. No more than 12 students were expected to be in a single room. As there were only 25,000 CBSE-affiliated schools, a majority of the students would be allowed to write the exam in their own school rather than travel to a different centre. A major change this year was the use of encrypted question papers, which were being sent by the CBSE to be printed at the centres an hour before the exam started. “This is a very vulnerable part of the exam process,” Dr. Bhardwaj said, when asked whether this could lead to paper leaks. “We are deputing independent observers for all the exams to ensure that there is no foul play,” he added. Teachers were being deputed to other schools to act as independent observers. Surprise inspections would also be made by CBSE officials, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-begins-first-term-board-exams-for-class-12-students/article37531883.ece
17 November 2021||Bhopal,||Hindu Mahasabha plans to reinstall Godse bust in Gwalior||Four years after authorities in Madhya Pradesh confiscated and removed a bust of Nathuram Godse from a Hindu Mahasabha-office-cum-temple in Gwalior, activists of the organisation have announced that another bust of Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin is being made. Last week, Mahasabha activists brought soil from the Ambala jail in Haryana where Godse and Narayan Apte were executed, Hindu Mahasabha national vice-president Jaiveer Bharadwaj told presspersons. “This soil will be used to make the statues of Godse and Apte, and they will be installed at the Mahasabha’s office in Gwalior,” Mr. Bharadwaj said. The matter came into the public domain on Monday when activists of a right-wing group organised an event to observe Godse’s death anniversary at the Mahasabha’s office. The activists performed some rituals, including worshipping the bust of Godse, and disappeared from the venue with the bust before a police team in plain clothes could reach the office, a source said. Godse and Narayan Apte were hanged to death in the Ambala Central Jail in 1949. Mahasabha activists have installed statues of Godse and Apte at ‘Balidhan Dham’ in Meerut, Uttar Pradesh, Mr. Bharadwaj said, adding the organisation would construct such ‘Balidan Dham’ in every State. Unconfirmed sources said the busts were made in Gwalior itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hindu-mahasabha-plans-to-reinstall-godse-bust-in-gwalior/article37531739.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC gives 3 weeks to Govt. to frame policy on community kitchens||The Supreme Court on Tuesday questioned the Union Government’s commitment to run community kitchens across the country to stave off hunger, saying the first job of a welfare state was to ensure that people did not starve to death. “Every welfare state’s first responsibility is to provide food to people dying due to hunger,” Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana said. The court was annoyed at the lack of details regarding the Government’s progress in framing a national policy to run community kitchens in consultation with the State Governments. It found that the affidavit merely stated the Government was still “extracting information”. The affidavit did not reveal much about the scheme or consultation with the States or, for that matter, the funds required, it observed. The court gave the Government three weeks as a last opportunity to hold a meeting and frame a policy. “Come up with a comprehensive scheme, identify areas where there is an immediate need... If you want to take care of hunger, no constitution law will come in the way,” it said. Starvation deaths The court was hearing a petition that highlighted how starvation deaths continued to eat into the right to life and dignity of the social fabric, and a “radical” new measure like community kitchens needed to be set up across the country to feed the poor and the hungry. The petition, filed jointly by activists Anun Dhawan, Ishann Dhawan and Kunjana Singh, and represented by advocate Fuzail Ahmad Ayyubi, drew attention to how Tamil Nadu’s Amma Unavagam had become a roaring success by involving peers in self-help groups and employing the poor to serve hygienic food to eradicate the gnawing problem of hunger on the streets. The petition referred to Rajasthan’s Annapurna Rasoi, Indira Canteen in Karnataka, Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Canteen, Anna Canteen of Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand Mukhyamantri Dal Bhat in Jharkhand and Odisha’s Ahaar Centre to combat starvation. “While there are statistics available for malnutrition deaths in children and adults in the country, there is no official data available for death of persons owing to starvation... Food and Agriculture Report 2018 stated that India houses 195.9 million of the 821 million undernourished people in the world, accounting for approximately 24% of the world’s hungry. Prevalence of undernourishment in India is 14.8%, higher than both the global and Asian average,” it noted. The plea urged the court to direct the Chief Secretaries of the States and Union Territories to formulate a scheme for the implementation of community kitchens and to further ensure that “no person should sleep on an empty stomach”. It called for the creation of a national food grid by the Government that was beyond the scope of the Public Distribution Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-gives-3-weeks-to-govt-to-frame-policy-on-community-kitchens/article37531889.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Afghanistan: U.S. diplomat meets NSA||The humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan and facilitating the travel of Afghans out of the country was on the top of the agenda as U.S. Special Envoy Thomas West met National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla here on Tuesday. Mr. West, who is on a multi-country tour of Europe and Asia, travelled to Delhi after meetings in Islamabad and Moscow. They discussed the Regional Security Dialogue of NSAs held in Delhi last week, as well as the “movement of people in and out of Afghanistan and coordinating global efforts on humanitarian assistance”. In a tweet, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson said Mr. Shringla and Mr. West “exchanged views on recent developments and issues of common interest in Afghanistan”. Delhi Declaration Mr. Doval, who chaired the Security Dialogue in Delhi on Wednesday that included Iran, Russia and five Central Asian States, briefed Mr. West on the outcomes in the “Delhi Declaration” issued after the meeting. In particular, India has drawn attention to the need for unhindered access to Afghanistan, given its desire to provide that country with 50,000 tonnes of wheat and medicines via road through Pakistan. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan had promised to consider the proposal,which has been held up for weeks. There is no concrete announcement on moving the aid on trucks yet. India, which has held a firm position of not recognising the Taliban, has been cautious about engaging the group that took control of Kabul in August last, and on dealing with Pakistan on the issue. Pakistan and China had also declined to attend the NSA meeting in Delhi, an indication of their differences with New Delhi. Mr. West took over from former Special Envoy Zalmai Khalilzad when he stepped down from the post on October 18. While he has indicated that he will be part of a U.S. “inter-agency dialogue” with Taliban representatives soon, it is unclear whether he will stop over in Doha or Kabul during this visit. Economic emergency In a press call from Brussels last week, Mr. West spoke about the need for countries engaged with Afghanistan to step up their efforts on the economic emergency and famine conditions ahead of the winter. He also referred to the “logistical challenge” of flying out those in Afghanistan who needed to travel to the U.S., including Afghans the US is indebted to, American citizens and “LPRs” (Lawful Permanent Residents). As The Hindu reported in September, the U.S. is keen to find temporary refuge for thousands of Afghans in third countries where they can be processed pending their entry into the U.S. However, New Delhi, which has thus far cancelled all pre-existing visas for Afghans and issued only a few dozen “e-visas” to those desperate to leave, has been hesitant to house large numbers of Afghan refugees. The MEA did not respond to whether India might consider allowing Afghans to stay in India while their U.S. papers are processed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/afghanistan-us-diplomat-meets-nsa/article37531873.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Four persons killed in Srinagar gunfight||Former Chief Minister and NC leader Omar Abdullah demanded “an impartial and credible inquiry”. “There are far too many questions being raised about the encounter and about the people killed. There have been numerous instances of fake encounters in the past and the questions raised about this encounter need to be answered swiftly and in a credible manner,” he said. CPI(M) leader M.Y. Tarigami said the urged the authorities to hand over the bodies to their families for proper burial. “The “circumstances in which these killings happened need to be thoroughly probed.”,” he said. Peoples Conference chief Sajad Lone stated, “In the midst of conflicting claims in the encounter, the least we deserve is a transparent description of what happened by a neutral institution.” This is neither the first time nor the last time. LG Monaj Sinha has the opportunity to assert that human lives matter.” ‘Heart-wrenching’ Incarcerated Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq said the impunity provided to the forces was all the more heart-wrenching. “The families have been pleading and protesting on roads for the bodies. Dr. Gull is being conveniently labelled as an OGW to justify his cold-blooded killing,” he said. The silence of the international community and the civil society of India in the face of “violation of human rights has made the life of people living in Kashmir hell”. He added, “We demand that the bodies be immediately returned to their families to get a closure, although the families will carry the pain and scars for life”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-persons-killed-in-srinagar-gunfight/article37531734.ece
17 November 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal passes resolution against BSF jurisdiction||The West Bengal Assembly on Tuesday passed a resolution demanding the withdrawal of the notification by the Union Home Ministry extending the territorial jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15 km to 50 km along the international border. It was moved under Rule 169 of the conduct of business of the House, as law and order is a State subject.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-passes-resolution-against-bsf-jurisdiction/article37531737.ece
17 November 2021||Srinagar,||NIFT’s largest campus to open in Srinagar: Jardosh||Union Minister of State for Textiles and Railways Darshana Vikram Jardosh on Tuesday said Srinagar was all set to house the National Institute of Fashion Technology’s (NIFT) largest campus of the country. The Srinagar campus, which is 17th of the institute in the country, will be spread over 133 kanals (16.6 acres) in the Ompora area, Budgam, and will come up at a cost of Rs. 287 crore, with 35% reservation for students from Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. “The campus should be ready by the end of this year. J&K is a priority region for the Textile Ministry. We appeal to the youth to join us in making India prosperous and becoming the real ambassadors of Make in India,” Ms. Jardosh said, while chairing NIFT’s second convocation at the Sher-i-Kashmir International Convention Centre in Srinagar. She felicitated around 28 graduating students on the occasion. “I also thank the parents [from outside the Union Territory] for opting for the Srinagar campus of NIFT,” she said. The Union Minister said a Design Resource Centre (DRC) would also be set up at NIFT Srinagar “to create design-oriented excellence in the local handloom sector” and “and will play a pivotal role in the promotion of the local craft industry”. “All stakeholders of the handloom sector shall have access to the design repository from this DRC. We will also offer evening diploma courses for artisans,” she added. Speaking on the occasion, Javid Ahmad, Director, NIFT, said the institute in Srinagar was an emerging campus offering both undergraduate and postgraduate courses. “We have tied up with around 20 fashion institutions overseas for broader exposure of students. Around 76% of students are already placed in the job market in spite of the pandemic-inflicted slump. We have already started success stories across the country. We have been able to work with local institutions for craft documentation, design packaging and marketing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nifts-largest-campus-to-open-in-srinagar-jardosh/article37531886.ece
17 November 2021||Ghaziabad,||Girl records statement in Kasganj case||In a new development in the Kasganj custodial death case, the girl who was allegedly “kidnapped” by deceased Altaf purportedly told a magistrate on Monday that the deceased promised to marry her and asked her to move to Agra with his friend and that he would join them later. Kasganj Superintendent of Police Rohan Botre said the police had not received the copy of her statement recorded under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) but he could confirm that the boy and girl were in a relationship. “The girl was recovered on Friday from the Kasganj railway station where it seems she was dropped by Mr. Rinku, the unidentified man in the kidnapping FIR.” On media reports that the girl had levelled charges of forced religious conversion and physical abuse by Mr. Altaf and his family, Mr. Botre said he had also heard such “stories from sources” but could not confirm them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/girl-records-statement-in-kasganj-case/article37531721.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||CBI searches 77 places to probe child abuse cases||In a major crackdown on online sexual abuse of minors and circulation of child pornographic material, the CBI has registered 23 new cases against 83 accused persons. It also conducted searches across 14 States and Union Territories. The CBI has so far identified more than 50 groups, comprising over 5,000 offenders, who shared child sexual abuse material. Several of these groups included foreign nationals. “It is initially learnt that there may be involvement of nationals of about 100 countries. The CBI is coordinating with sister agencies through formal and informal channels,” said the agency. “Searches are being carried out at 77 locations in Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. Several suspects have also been detained,” a CBI official said. Contents of a large number of seized electronic devices were being examined. The agency has invoked various provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act against the persons who were part of syndicates involved in uploading, circulating, selling and viewing child sexual abuse material through various social media platforms and groups. Multiple teams of investigators were developing the inputs over the past 45 days, which culminated in the registration of the cases. In one of the First Information Reports (FIR), the agency has arraigned 31 alleged members of one such group. They belong to different parts of Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan. An accused from Tirupati was involved in uploading and selling child sexual abuse material. “If required, we will also seek the assistance of our counterparts in other countries via the Interpol,” the official stated. A large number of suspects are from Pakistan, Canada, Bangladesh, Nigeria, Indonesia, Azerbaijan, United States, United Kingdom, Egypt, Yemen, Ghana and Belgium. Based on the information received via the Interpol, the agency had registered some cases against those selling and circulating child sexual abuse material. In July, a coordinated action involving the Interpol Victim Identification Task Force resulted in the arrest of an accused by the CBI in Goa. Investigation revealed that he had exploited more than two dozen children in Goa and Maharashtra. He would record the acts on digital devices and the clips and photographs were sold to other pedophiles via the dark web. The accused and his victims were identified with the help of images and videos originally uncovered in Belgium and uploaded to the Interpol’s International Child Sexual Exploitation database by Europol. It also helped the Australian authorities provide additional information. In December last, the CBI arrested a person from Srinagar for allegedly running an online racket targeting children living in different parts of the United States. The accused, Niyaz Ahmed Mir, also used to upload pornographic videos and images over dark web for sale. The agency arrested yet another accused named Rambhawan, a resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Chitrakoot, in November last year for allegedly sexually abusing about 50 minors. He too would record the acts and sell the video clips through dark web. The CBI had set up the “Online Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation Prevention/Investigation Unit” in Delhi under the Special Crime zone about two years ago to probe such cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-searches-77-places-to-probe-child-abuse-cases/article37531722.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||CAG-Centre conflict a thing of the past: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said “Comptroller and Auditor General [CAG] versus Government” had earlier become a common thought and auditing was looked upon with apprehension and dread. However, the mindset had now changed and today audit was being considered an important part of value addition. Audit Divas celebrated Speaking at the first Audit Divas, he said that the CAG had changed rapidly by adopting modern procedures and it was now using advanced analytics tools, geo-spatial data and satellite imagery. The institution had grown in importance and had created a legacy with the passage of time. “In the 21st century, data is information, and in the coming times, our history will also be seen and understood through data. In the future, data will dictate history,” he said. CAG studies on the current Government initiatives could become a source of knowledge and inspiration for future generations. The CAG not just kept track of the nation's accounts, but also did value addition in productivity and efficiency. Earlier, due to lack of transparency in the banking sector, various wrong practices were followed and as a result, non-performing assets (NPAs) kept increasing. “You know very well, how in the past, NPAs were brushed under the carpet. We will find the solutions only when we recognise the problems,” he said. Mr. Modi suggested focussed studies into various initiatives, also by the CAG, to assess their impact. Such studies would be beneficial for the future governments. ‘Sarkar Sarvam’ “Today we are making such a system in which the thinking of Sarkar Sarvam , i.e. the interference of the Government, is decreasing and your work is also getting easier,” he said. This was in accordance with the “minimum government maximum governance” policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cag-centre-conflict-a-thing-of-the-past-pm/article37531725.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI is an ‘autonomous body’, Centre tells SC||The Centre on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that the CBI was an “autonomous body” and it had no “control” over the investigative agency. The submission in the top court incidentally comes two days after the promulgation of an ordinance extending the tenures of the CBI Director and the Enforcement Directorate chief. Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal was objecting to a suit filed by the West Bengal Government making the Union of India, and not the CBI, party. West Bengal has, in the case, challenged the CBI’s jurisdiction to register FIRs and conduct investigations in the State in myriad cases. The State had withdrawn its “general consent” to the CBI way back in 2018. The Centre, through Mr. Venugopal, said it had no part in the FIRs and cases registered by the CBI. The West Bengal Government has got it wrong. The CBI can speak for itself. It is, after all, an independent body operating under a statute of law. “The defendant [Union of India] is not concerned under any of these issues. There is a Special Act called the DSPE Act and the officials of the Delhi Special Police Establishment are required to register cases… Registering FIR is purely by an autonomous body. The Union of India has no control. I am not registering or investigating any case,” Mr. Venugopal protested in the preliminary hearing of the suit before a Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao. Senior advocates Biswajit Bhattacharya, appearing for West Bengal, and Siddharth Luthra, countered that the Centre and the CBI were “inextricably intertwined”. He said the fact was evident from the DSPE Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-is-an-autonomous-body-centre-tells-sc/article37531726.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||NRC: only 1,032 doubtful cases referred for review||The BJP Government in Assam has rejected the NRC in its current form and demanded re-verification of at least 30% names in areas bordering Bangladesh and 10% in the rest of the State. The NRC Coordinator had approached the Supreme Court in May seeking re-verification of the list. The abbreviations cited above stand for doubtful voters, declared foreigners, reference pending at Foreigners Tribunals (FT), descendants of D voters, descendants of declared foreigners, cases of declared foreigners pending in FTs. The tribunals, unique to Assam, are quasi-judicial bodies. The RTI reply added that as of now, no rejection slips have been issued and as per Clause 7 of Schedule 4(A) 4 of the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003, the final NRC is yet to be published by the RGI. “The supplementary list for inclusion or deletion was published by the Local Registrar of Citizens Registration (LRCR) on 31st August, 2019. Rejection slips can be issued only after publication of the final NRC,” the reply stated, implying the delay is at the Centre’s end. Each rejected person can approach the FTs within 120 days of receiving the rejection slips. Under Citizenship Rules, any person may object to inclusion of any other person’s name in the citizen register or exclusion from the register, following which the local registrar (usually the revenue officer appointed by the State Government) will issue a notice and the applicants will have to furnish documents to prove their claims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nrc-only-1032-doubtful-cases-referred-for-review/article37531732.ece
17 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||CBI team comes under attack during Odisha raid||A CBI team came under attack when it raided the residence of a suspect in a child pornography case in Odisha’s Dhenkanal district on Tuesday. As part of a nationwide raid, the team comprising eight persons had come to the house of Surendra Naik in Colony Sahi area unannounced around 7 a.m. In the middle of their questioning, local people including women got agitated and attacked the officials. For the next one hour, commotion prevailed. Police to the rescue Before the CBI team was brutally thrashed by the locals, the Dhenkanal town police station personnel rushed to the spot and rescued them. Dhenkanal SP K. Siva Subramani, however, dismissed the report of attack. “They were just gathering around the team. The CBI did not inform us before carrying the raids. Now, both the CBI team members and the accused have been brought to the police station. The investigation into the allegation is going on smoothly,” said Mr. Subramani. Naik said he was a part of a WhatsApp group and his job was to upload videos received through the group and circulate them in the group. “I have received $21 for uploading the videos in a particular website. The CBI team had confiscated my mobile and wanted to know if I knew any other persons involved in the circulation of child pornography cases,” he said. Similarly, houses of Manoranjan Das and Anil Majhi were searched in Bhadrak and Nabarangpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-team-comes-under-attack-during-odisha-raid/article37532098.ece
17 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Entire Punjab Cabinet to be at Kartarpur||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday said the entire Cabinet would pay obeisance at the Kartarpur Sahib gurdwara in Pakistan on Thursday as part of the first delegation after the reopening of the Kartarpur corridor. Mr. Channi thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah for the reopening of the corridor ahead of “Prakash Purb” (birth anniversary) of Guru Nanak Dev. Mr. Channi noted that he had personally taken the issue of reopening the corridor with Mr. Modi and Mr. Shah. “It’s a joyous occasion for the entire Punjabi community in general and Sikh brethren in particular,” he said. The movement of devotees to Kartarpur was suspended in March 2020 due to COVID-19. The corridor connects the Kartarpur Sahib with the Dera Baba Nanak shrine in Gurdaspur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-cabinet-to-visit-kartarpur/article37531738.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||Kartarpur corridor to reopen today||The Kartarpur Sahib Gurdwara Corridor will be reopened on Wednesday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday. The announcement comes ahead of the birth anniversary of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak on Friday. The corridor, inaugurated in 2019, links two important shrines — Dera Baba Nanak in Gurdaspur district of Punjab and Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur, Pakistan — and allows pilgrims to travel visa-free. A Ministry of Home Affairs’ statement said the decision was taken “keeping in view the improved COVID-19 situation.” The operations at the corridor were suspended since March 16, 2020 on account of the pandemic. Mr. Shah had held meetings with officials to expedite the resumption of the operation of the corridor at an opportune time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kartarpur-corridor-to-reopen-today/article37532393.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||Appointments, transfers of judges notified||The Law Ministry on Tuesday notified the appointment of three additional judges for the Calcutta High Court and transfers made to the Madras and Madhya Pradesh High Courts. According to the notification issued by the Department of Justice, advocate Krishna Rao and judicial officers Ajoy Kumar Mukherjee and Bibhas Ranjan De were appointed Additional Judges at the Calcutta High Court. The Supreme Court Collegium recommended their elevation in September. The Centre also notified the transfer of Justice Satish Kumar Sharma of the Rajasthan High Court to Madhya Pradesh in accordance with the Collegium’s recommendations of October. Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari of the Allahabad High Court has been transferred to the Madras High Court. His transfer was notified a day after the Centre accepted the collegium’s recommendations to transfer Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee from the Madras High Court to the Meghalaya High Court. Though both the transfers were recommended in September by the collegium, they were made public only in November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/appointments-transfers-of-judges-notified/article37531740.ece
17 November 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Nine booked for converting tribals to Islam||The police have booked nine people, including a London-based NRI, for allegedly converting more than 100 tribals of Kakariya village in Bharuch into Islam using foreign funds. Those who were allegedly converted into Islam belonged to the Vasava Hindu community, said the police. The accused mentioned in the FIR are Shabbir Bakerywala, Samad Bakerywala, Abdul Aziz Patel, Yusuf Patel, Ayyub Patel, Ibrahim Patel, Fafdaawala Haji Abdulla (NRI), Hasan Tisli and Ismail Achhodwala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nine-booked-for-converting-tribals-to-islam/article37532079.ece
17 November 2021||Pune,||3 held for rape of minor in Maharashtra||A minor in Beed district of Maharashtra has alleged that she was raped by no fewer than 400 men over a six-month period, according to the police. The girl, in her late teens, is said to be pregnant. The minor lodged a complaint with the police last week, after which a case was registered under the POCSO Act and relevant sections pertaining to rape and molestation under the Indian Penal Code. Three men have been arrested in the case thus far, said Superintendent of Police, Beed, Raja Ramasamy. The minor has also alleged that in spite of having attempted to file a complaint at the Ambejogai police station in Beed several times, the police there took no action against the culprits and that she was instead allegedly harassed by a policeman also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/3-held-for-rape-of-minor-in-maharashtra/article37531729.ece
17 November 2021||Mumbai,||HC rejects Indrani’s bail petition||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday rejected the bail plea filed by Indrani Mukerjea, accused of killing her daughter Sheena Bora in 2012. A single Bench of Justice Nitin Sambre was hearing the bail plea filed by Ms. Mukerjea in October 2020 on merits. She was arrested in August 2015 and has been lodged at the Byculla jail from October that year. Sheena’s partially burnt body was found in the forests of Maharashtra’s Raigad District on April 24, 2012. On August 6, 2020, a special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court rejected Ms. Mukerjea’s bail on merits and said, “There is no doubt that the accused is an influential and wealthy person. Therefore, the possibility of influencing prosecution witnesses cannot be ruled out,” the judge said. The case was detected by Mumbai police in 2015 and then transferred to the CBI which filed its first chargesheet on November 19, 2015. The supplementary chargesheet was filed on February 14, 2016. The trial which commenced on February 24, 2017, however is currently stalled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-rejects-indranis-bail-petition/article37531730.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||New rules give relief to foreigners||Foreigners leaving India will not be required to submit registration certificates in physical form at the immigration desk, according to a Home Ministry notification that has amended the Citizenship Rules, 1992. The Ministry had already simplified the process by launching an e-Foreigners Regional Registration Office (E-FRRO) portal to provide “faceless, cashless and paperless” services to foreigners. The Citizenship Rules implementing the changes were amended through a notification on Tuesday and are called the Registration of Foreigners (Amendment) Rules, 2021. The FRROs already send the registration certificate, registration permit and exit permit to applicants by post on the “Address in India” mentioned in the online application form and via e-mail. There is no requirement of endorsement on passport as the records are generated electronically, said a Ministry official. Tuesday’s notification inserted a new Section to the Rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-rules-give-relief-to-foreigners/article37531731.ece
17 November 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata to visit Delhi next week||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to visit New Delhi on November 22 and may call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Among the issues which Chief Minister is likely to bring up before with the Prime Minister is the Centre’s move to increase the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force. The Chief Minister had earlier written a letter to the Prime Minister protesting against the Centre’s move to increase territorial jurisdiction of BSF. The visit of the Trinamool Congress chairperson to the national capital comes just before the winter session of the Parliament. She is likely to meet representatives of different political parties in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mamata-to-visit-delhi-next-week/article37531869.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||Zakir Naik’s NGO banned for 5 more years||The Centre has extended the ban on Islamist preacher Zakir Naik’s NGO, the Islamic Research Foundation (IRF), by another five years. The IRF was first declared an unlawful association in 2016 under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) after a terror attack in Bangladesh. Mr. Naik is said to be in Malaysia. A notification issued by the Home Ministry said that Mr. Naik, president of the IRF, through his speeches and statements has been promoting enmity and hatred amongst different religious groups and “inspiring youths of a particular religion in India and abroad to commit terrorist acts”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/zakir-naiks-ngo-banned-for-5-more-years/article37532078.ece
17 November 2021||Jaipur,||Rajasthan reduces VAT on petrol, diesel||The Congress Government in Rajasthan on Tuesday decided to reduce value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to provide relief to people after similar move by several other States. The petrol prices will come down by Rs. 4 per litre and diesel prices by Rs. 5 per litre. The State Cabinet took the decision at a meeting here amid the pressure being faced by the Government on the issue. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted after the Cabinet meeting that the reduced fuel rates, to be implemented from midnight, would lead to an annual revenue loss of Rs. 3,500 crore to the State Government. Facing pressure Mr. Gehlot was facing pressure to find ways to reduce fuel prices after Congress-ruled Punjab had cut down the price of petrol by Rs. 10 and diesel by Rs. 5 with the claim made in an advertisement that its fuel prices were lower than those in Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan. The Opposition BJP, which took up the issue, has been targeting the State Government in the matter. State BJP president Satish Poonia even wrote a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi last week, requesting her to instruct Mr. Gehlot to announce VAT reduction in the interest of people facing difficulties because of rising inflation. The BJP also alleged that the State Government was charging the highest VAT on fuel in the country. Mr. Gehlot had earlier said the VAT collection of the States had automatically reduced in a proportionate manner after the Centre’s recent decision to cut excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs. 5 and Rs. 10. He had been pitching for slash in additional excise duty, special excise duty and cess on fuel to ensure further reduction. Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariawas told reporters here after the Cabinet meeting that the Centre had adopted an “obstinate stance” by refusing to further slash additional and special excise duties. He said Cabinet members had observed that the Centre had reduced the States’ share in excise duty on fuel from the divisible pool after 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-reduces-vat-on-petrol-diesel/article37531925.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘NGOs helped us stand tall during COVID’||India stood tall during the COVID-19 crisis because of NGOs and civil society organisations (CSOs) who supplemented the efforts of the Government to ensure that nobody went to sleep on a hungry stomach during the lockdown, said Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday. The Minister was discussing strengthening the Prime Minister’s ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ (a knock on every door) campaign with NGOs and CSOs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ngos-helped-us-stand-tall-during-covid/article37531927.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. allows meals on all flights||The Ministry of Civil Aviation on Tuesday allowed airlines to serve meals onboard all domestic flights. The service was banned on flights shorter than two hours during the second wave of COVID-19. “The airlines operating flights on domestic sectors may provide meal services on board, without restriction on duration of the flight,” the Ministry’s order said on Tuesday. The decision was taken in the light of a reduction in the “COVID-19 caseload,” the order further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-allows-meals-on-all-flights/article37531881.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||Austria recognises Covishield but will restrict movement of Indian travellers inside the country||Indian travellers vaccinated with Serum Institute of India’s Covishield will be able to travel to Austria, but will not be able to interact with local people, an official statement said. The statement from the Government of Austria also informed that the fully vaccinated travellers would not be required to remain in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/austria-recognises-covishield-but-will-restrict-movement-of-indian-travellers-inside-the-country/article37531884.ece
17 November 2021||PUNE,||Another body found, Gadchiroli encounter toll rises to 27||Two days after the Gadchiroli encounter, in which 26 members of the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist), including top fugitive Maoist leader Milind Teltumbde , were killed, the body of another Maoist identified as Sukhlal Parchaki was found at the encounter site, authorities said on Tuesday. With this, the number of outlaws who have been slain has risen to 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-body-found-gadchiroli-encounter-toll-rises-to-27/article37531929.ece
17 November 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Ariyalur Collector warns stray cattle owners of severe action||Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi on Tuesday warned severe action against owners of stray cattle that caused hindrance to vehicular movement in the town. She said she had received inputs that some cattle rearers let loose their cattle, mainly cows, in the town. The animals were roaming on main roads, thereby causing severe inconvenience to motorists. The menace caused accidents too. The carelessness of cattle rearers could not be accepted. They should take control of their cattle and the animals should not be allowed to roam in the town in search of food without direct monitoring. Tough action would be taken against those who failed to bring their cattle under control, Ms. Saraswathi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ariyalur-collector-warns-stray-cattle-owners-of-severe-action/article37532113.ece
17 November 2021||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC crew resort to flash strike||Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation crew resorted to a flash strike at the Kariapatti depot on Tuesday in protest against poor condition of the rest house. They did not take out 20 buses from the depot in the early morning for trips and staged a sit-in protest for two hours. Last month, the TNSTC hired a new rest house for the crew. “While 30 crew members have to take rest between late nights and early mornings every day, the new rest house has space for only 10 persons,” one of the crew members said. Those drivers and conductors who arrive early (after 10 p.m.) only get space for sleeping. Stating that the crew who start their duty in the afternoon need a sound sleep for a few hours so that they could resume the early morning duty that would go on till next afternoon, the drivers expressed apprehension about their safety and that of passengers and vehicles. “Without a good sleep, we have been taking risk for the last one month ever since the rest house was shifted to a new house,” he added. ‘It is far away’ While the depot is located on Madurai Road, the new rest house is located some 500 metres away on Kallupatti Road. “When it rains, we are held up at the depot. This further denies us a good rest at night,” the drivers said. Besides, walking on the road with cash and tickets worth over Rs. 20,000 in the dead of the night will be a security risk, they complained. The rest house has only one attached bath which makes their condition worse as all the crew members have to get ready within a short span of time in the early hours. The TNSTC crew said that it was high time the officials shifted both the depot, set up in 2009, and rest house to a government land from rented space so that they get better amenities and the TNSTC need not spend huge monthly rent. After officials promised to find a solution for their problems at the earliest, the crew gave up the protest and operated the buses.  It is high time both the depot and rest house were shifted to a government land from rented space Bus crew||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnstc-crew-resort-to-flash-strike-at-depot/article37532128.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mask compliance drops in city||Mask compliance has been dwindling over the past few weeks across the city. Fresh coronavirus infections have been gradually declining in the State. Despite varying figures, the cases continue to be stable in the city. However, mask compliance, one among the crucial COVID-19 appropriate behaviours, has taken a hit of late. Many persons are either not wearing masks or have their masks lowered in public places. Persons visiting grocery stores and markets were not adhering to masking, while many travelling in public transport, particularly buses and trains, were either not wearing masks or had them lowered. Some of the busy commercial streets in north Chennai, where crowds are huge, are witnessing poor compliance. An official said the overall mask compliance was not good, with floods diverting focus from COVID-19 appropriate behaviour as people were mainly worried about waterlogging. “We continue to have enforcement teams, with sanitary inspectors empowered to impose fines. But the main issue is that people need to understand the importance of wearing masks,” he said. Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Epidemiology (ICMR-NIE), said the compliance with masking began to drop from pre-Deepavali times. “I think we should continue to wear masks in closed spaces such as departmental stores, textile showrooms and cinema halls as we do not know who is vaccinated. We should continue to have compliance in wearing masks in closed spaces. Persons, especially those with co-morbidities, or immune-compromised conditions, should always wear masks even if they have received two doses of COVID-19 vaccines,” she said. According to the survey conducted by the ICMR-NIE in July, mask compliance in outdoor areas was 48% in non-slum areas and 40% in slum areas in the city. K. Kolandasamy, former director of public health, said it was crucial for people to continue wearing masks. “The number of cases may be less but severe disease and mortality may be high among unvaccinated and partially vaccinated persons who are above 60 years of age, and have severe co-morbidities. Wearing masks and ventilation is important. In fact, wearing masks could prevent many other respiratory infections as well,” he said. A senior public health official noted that adherence to wearing masks was on the decline among the public. It was important to continue wearing masks and adhere to other norms at this point in time when fresh cases of COVID-19 were gradually declining. He said there was a need to undertake a study to assess mask compliance in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mask-compliance-drops-in-city/article37532020.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rainfall fills check dams across Cooum, helps clean polluted stretch||Abundant rainfall this month has brought heavy flow in Cooum river and also filled check dams across its unpolluted portion. Considerable flow in the river has also helped flush out stagnant sewage in the urban stretches. Officials of the Water Resources Department (WRD) said surplus water from Kosasthalaiyar river was transferred to the Cooum through a link canal running from the Poondi reservoir. This generated a flow in the river, most of whose stretches were otherwise dry till early this month. Floodwater from the Kesavaram anicut and Cooum tank augmented the flow. Korattur anicut full The recently-renovated Korattur anicut, which was a British-era storage structure built with regulator arrangements, has become full and is surplusing since Sunday. Five check dams across the river, including in Pudumavilangai and Putlur, are now full, and a minimum of 130 million cubic feet (mcft) of water has been stored so far. The river would have carried about 2,000 cubic feet per second (cusecs) out of its capacity of 25,000 cusecs in its suburban portion. There will be inflow in the check dams at least till February. This would ensure groundwater recharge in at least 50 villages along its course and help in irrigation, officials said. Moreover, it diluted the stagnant sewage and cleaned the river in some parts of Putlur and downstream of Thiruverkadu up to city limits. Officials noted that once the proposal to build another check dam across the river at Sorancheri is implemented, additional floodwater can be stored in the Cooum. Outflow increased Meanwhile, discharge from three city reservoirs, including Chembarambakkam, was increased again on Tuesday. Officials said the amount released had increased as the water levels had reached close to full, and in anticipation of more inflow because of a heavy rain forecast. About 1,000 cusecs were let out from the Red Hills and Chembarambakkam reservoirs on Tuesday. Water level at Chembarambakkam now stands at 22 feet against its full capacity of 24 ft. Moreover, surplus water released into the Kosasthalaiyar from the Poondi reservoir has also been increased from 6,000 cusecs to 7,000 cusecs as its level is one feet lower than its capacity of 35 ft. The fifth reservoir created at Thervoy Kandigai Kannankottai is also full this monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-fills-check-dams-across-cooum/article37532030.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Court order on new colleges by HR&CE Dept not a setback’||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE), P.K. Sekarbabu, on Tuesday said, the recent order of the Madras High Court, restraining the HR&CE Department from opening new colleges using temple funds was not a setback. Addressing the media after flagging off an ambulance from SIMS Hospital to be stationed at Sabarimala to help devotees, he said the High Court had not objected to the idea of opening these colleges, but had only said that it can be done through the trustees of the temples. Blaming the AIADMK government for not appointing trustees to many temples in the last 10 years, he said that the present government would take swift measures to appoint trustees. Stating that the State government respected the High Court’s order, he expressed hope that the measures to be taken by the government will satisfactorily address the concerns raised by the court. He said that the measures will include courses in religious instructions in Hindu religion in the proposed colleges. Helpline to be launched The Minister also said that the HR&CE Department will soon be launching a 24/7 helpline to assist Sabarimala pilgrims in need of help, during the upcoming pilgrimage season. A team from the HR&CE Department will be deployed in Sabarimala in consultation with the Kerala Government, to help devotees from Tamil Nadu. Mr. Sekarbabu said that steps were being taken towards this initiative by the HR&CE Commissioner, J. Kumaragurubaran, and a formal announcement on this will soon be made by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. He lauded SIMS Hospital for deploying its medical team and an ambulance with advanced cardiac life support facilities for the fourth year in a row, to help Sabarimala pilgrims. Raju Sivasamy, vice-president, SIMS Hospital, said that the initiative was launched four years ago in association with Sree Ayyappa Health Amenities Society (SAHAS) to meet the medical needs of the pilgrims, particularly to treat any cardiac emergencies. While the ambulance, with advanced facilities, will be stationed at Pampa, a medical team will be deployed near the temple. “In case of patients facing a cardiac event, they will be stabilised by the team, taken to the ambulance and moved to the government hospital in Kottayam,” he said. Last year, 4,000 pilgrims benefited from the facility, of whom 200 persons had reported cardiac ailments, he said. Meanwhile, temples across the State have collected over Rs. 11 crore as rent this month via an online portal launched last month by Chief Minister M. K. Stalin, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-order-on-new-colleges-by-hrce-dept-not-a-setback/article37532039.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM announces aid for farmers, Rs. 300 crore for restoring roads||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday announced compensation of up to Rs. 20,000 a hectare for crops cultivated during kuruvai , kar and sornavari seasons that were ready for harvest, before they were completely damaged by heavy rain that recently pounded various parts of the State. To aid farmers whose samba crops have been damaged, Mr. Stalin also issued orders to officials to provide agricultural input supply, valued at Rs. 6,038 a hectare, an official release said. The input supply will include 45 kg of paddy seeds for short-duration varieties, 25 kg of compost, 60 kg of urea and 125 kg of DAP fertilizer. Mr. Stalin also issued orders for sanctioning Rs. 300 crore towards restoring roads and other civic infrastructure, damaged due to the rain. Earlier in the day, a team of Ministers, led by Cooperation Minister I. Periasamy, which visited Cauvery delta districts to assess the damage caused by rain, submitted its report to the Chief Minister. Before making the announcement, Mr. Stalin held detailed discussions with members of the team — Agriculture Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam; Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu; Law Minister S. Regupathy; Rural Development Minister K.R. Periakaruppan; Food Minister R. Sakkarapani; School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, and Minister for Youth Welfare Siva V. Meyyanathan. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu; Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy; Finance Secretary N. Muruganandam; Revenue Secretary Kumar Jayant; Agriculture Secretary C. Samayamoorthy; Director of Agriculture A. Annadurai, and Director of Disaster Management N. Subbaiyan were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-announces-aid-for-farmers-rs-300-crore-for-restoring-roads/article37532010.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Petition filed in HC to register FIR against Panneerselvam||A resident of Theni district has approached the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) to register a First Information Report (FIR) against former Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam. The litigant claimed that Mr. Panneerselvam had mined gravel sand worth over Rs. 500 crore from government lands through his associates and family members without obtaining proper approvals. The litigant, P. Gnanarajan of Upparpatti, also alleged that huge tracts of those government lands were converted into private properties after completing the mining operations. When the case was listed before Justice V. Bharathidasan, the DVAC submitted that the matter was now pending before the Vigilance Commissioner for approval. The judge recorded the submission and adjourned the matter by two months for obtaining approval and proceeding further. Long-time complaint Mr. Gnanarajan claimed that he had been complaining about the illegal mining in Vadaveeranaickanpatti village, ever since the AIADMK was in power, but no action was taken. He alleged that the illegalities were committed through Mr. Panneerselvam’sassociate V. Annaprakasam and his family members. The petitioner claimed to have made a detailed complaint running to 14 pages along with 217 pages of supporting documents. He said the DVAC was duty bound to conduct a preliminary inquiry to find out if any cognisable offence had been made and go ahead with the FIR registration, as ordered by the Supreme Court in Lalita Kumari’s case.  Mr. Panneerselvam had mined gravel sand worth over Rs. 500 crore from government lands Litigant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-in-high-court-to-register-fir-against-ops/article37532040.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thanjavur man survives critical heart condition||A 50-year-old fireman from Thanjavur survived a critical heart condition, thanks to appropriate surgical intervention. The Fire and Rescue Services Department employee had developed dizziness and a sudden weakness in his left leg and could not walk. He was treated for stroke in a nearby hospital, where an MRI scan showed that the blood supply to the right half of his brain was cut. There was a massive tear in his aorta, the main blood vessel in the heart, which could lead to bleeding outside the heart. It could extend into the coronary artery or the aortic valve, and stop blood supply to his vital organs such as the brain, kidney or the gut. Such patients require an open heart surgery to replace the torn aorta with prosthetic graft. The patient was shifted to Gleneagles Global Health City (GGHC). Dr. Murugu Sundara Pandiyan, senior cardiothoracic surgeon, and Anto Saharaj, senior consultant (cardiothoracic and vascular surgery), along with cardiac anaesthetists, Gokul and Sudheer, treated him. Dr. Pandiyan said, “Apart from stroke, he suffered renal dysfunction as well. His platelet count was low, calling for control of excessive bleeding. The surgery was done by putting the patient on a heart-lung machine and cooling his body to 18 degree to prevent brain ischemia.” The patient recovered gradually and began to walk with minimal support in a few days, the specialist added. Alok Khullar, chief executive officer of GGHC, said, aortic dissections are rare, where diagnosis and treatment is an immense task.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thanjavur-man-survives-critical-heart-condition/article37532390.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DVAC searches houses of two police inspectors, seizes cash||The officers of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Tuesday conducted searches at the houses of two inspectors of the Chennai City Police in connection with cases booked against them on allegations of indulging in corrupt activities while they were working with the Anti-Vice Squad (AVS). The accused are Sam Vincent, crime inspector, Kilpauk, and Saravanan, law and order inspector, Saidapet. The case was booked following an order of the Madras High Court on a petition filed by Y. Akbar Ahmed, Royapettah, sources said. The petitioner alleged that the inspectors earned lakhs of rupees in collusion with traffickers while in the AVS, and after a probe, they were transferred to other police stations. Mr. Ahmed stated that as corrupt officers, they should not remain in public service. Preliminary inquiry Based on the petition, a preliminary inquiry was conducted, which revealed that Sam Vincent and Sarvanan served as inspectors of the AVS between January and May 2018. The first information report (FIR) said they had were in close contanct with ‘Tailor’ Ravi and ‘Poonga’ Venkatesan, who ran commercial sex rackets. ‘Tailor’ Ravi, who had been in hiding for eight years, was arrested in November 2018. “The accused inspectors had close contact with the traffickers, and both had taken money from them. The preliminary inquiry revealed a prima facie case against the accused. Sam Vincent and Saravanan appear to have committed criminal misconduct punishable u/s 13(2) r/w 13(1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988,” said M.E. Ramachandra Moorthy, Deputy Superintendent of Police, DVAC, in the FIR. Sources said 17 incriminating documents were seized from Sam Vincent during the raid on his residence. Eight incriminating documents, fixed deposits worth Rs. 18.5 lakh and Rs. 2.5 lakh in cash were seized from Saravanan’s house.  The accused inspectors had close contact with ‘Tailor’ Ravi and ‘Poonga’ Venkatesan, who ran commercial sex rackets M.E. Ramachandra Moorthy Deputy Superintendent of Police, DVAC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-searches-houses-of-two-police-inspectors-seizes-cash/article37532028.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases in State fall below 800-mark||Fresh COVID-19 infections dropped below the 800-mark in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, as 789 people tested positive. Fifteen people succumbed to the infection. While Perambalur and Tenkasi recorded no new case, 18 districts logged fewer than 10 cases each. Of them, Ramanthapuram, Tirupattur and Villupuram saw just a single case each. Chennai reported 120 cases, followed by Coimbatore with 118. In Erode, 75 people tested positive, while Chengalpattu saw 63 infections. There were 47 cases in Tiruppur, while Salem and Tiruchi recorded 38 and 36 cases respectively. With this, the State’s tally touched 27,16,421. Deaths were reported in 12 districts. Chennai, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi accounted for two fatalities each. The State’s toll reached 36,311. Active cases stood at 9,349 — Chennai accounts for 1,270 cases and Coimbatore 1,185. A total of 1,03,202 samples were tested. The total count reached 5,28,50,459. Vaccination camp Health Minister Ma. Subramanian on Tuesday said mega vaccination camps would be held on Thursdays and Sundays, every week. He said the State had 1.31 crore vaccine doses in hand. The camps held so far have achieved a coverage between 14 lakh and 30 lakh. From now, camps will be held twice a week, he said. As many as 4,33,169 people were vaccinated on Tuesday. They included 2,49,570 people aged 18 to 44, 1,19,435 people in the 45-59 age group and 63,722 senior citizens. This took the coverage in government centres to 6,04,93,460.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-cases-in-state-fall-below-800-mark/article37532005.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Justice refrains from hearing sensitive cases||Madras High Court Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee on Tuesday refrained from hearing a case challenging the constitutional validity of a provision of the Copyright Rules of 2013. He said it might not in the interest of constitutional propriety, on the part of a judge under order of transfer, to hear such a case. The Chief Justice avoided hearing several other sensitive cases as well, and adjourned them simpliciter, since the Union Ministry of Law and Justice had on Monday notified a Presidential order, transferring him to the High Court of Meghalaya. For the first time, he wound up the court proceedings early in the day. Fondly called the “10:26 judge” at his parent High Court in Kolkata, Chief Justice Banerjee continued the practice even after his elevation as Chief Justice of the Madras High Court this January. There has never been a day when he did not occupy the dais, much before the bell rang at 10:30 am. He had also made it a point to sit through the entire court working hours and beyond to perform his duties. Voluminous administrative work, attached to the office of the Chief Justice, was carried out only before or after judicial work during weekdays. Inspection of district courts during weekends and travelling by road to get accustomed to the geography of the State had also been his regular practices. When the second wave of COVID-19 was at its peak, he took up a suo motu PIL petition, heard it during the summer vacation of the High Court, and issued directions for ensuring availability of oxygen, ventilators, vaccines and drugs in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-justice-refrains-from-hearing-sensitive-cases/article37532006.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin launches Tancem’s ‘Valimai’ cement brand||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday launched ‘Valimai’ — a new cement brand from the Tamil Nadu Cements Corporation Limited (Tancem), a State government undertaking. The two varieties of the Valimai cement brand are priced at Rs. 350 and Rs. 365 a bag, Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu said. An official release said the new brand’s cement had greater compression strength and quick setting, and was also heat resistant. Mr. Thennarasu, Industries Secretary S. Krishnan, Tancem managing director Anil Meshram and senior officials were present when Mr. Stalin launched the brand.  Mr. Thennarasu had, earlier this year, announced in the Assembly that a new cement brand, ‘Valimai’, would be introduced. The brand is being introduced months after complaints came up over the rise in cost of construction materials. The move is aimed at bringing down prices. At a separate event, Mr. Stalin virtually inaugurated new buildings constructed by the Public Works Department in Katpadi, Vellore district, at a total cost of Rs. 1.27 crore. Minister for PWD E.V. Velu, PWD Secretary Dayanand Kataria and senior officials were present.  The Chief Minister also launched the Tamil Nadu Mission on Sustainable Green Cover in Farm Lands, under which over 73 lakh high-value tree saplings will be distributed to farmers at a cost of Rs. 11.14 crore.  The saplings will be obtained from the Forest Department, at Rs. 15 each, and distributed to farmers for free.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-launches-tancems-valimai-cement-brand/article37532008.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free hearse service staff stage demonstration for job security||Employees attached to the free hearse service and mother-child drop back service, staged a demonstration on the campus of the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services on Tuesdayto put forward their demands . About 680 employees, including drivers, call centre staff and district programme managers, were working with the free hearse service and 102 mother-child drop back service in the State. Rajesh Pushparaj, general secretary of the employees association, said, the Indian Red Cross Society were managing the programmes so far but the employees were shifted to GVK-EMRI management, which operates the 108 ambulance network, without prior information. “Some of the payments such as arrears and increments are pending for us. In this scenario, we have been shifted to a different management. We are demanding job security as GVK-EMRI will have its own terms and conditions. . Many of us have been working as drivers for 10 years. So, we need continuity of service without affecting our seniority,” he said. No hike The association said that many drivers, who were transferred to Chennai during the COVID-19 pandemic, were struggling without being transferred to their original districts. Drivers of ‘Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakaram’  (JSSK) were yet to receive their long-pending monetary benefits. They said their salaries were not increased after 2018 and demanded regularisation of services for employees who have been working for more than 10 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-hearse-service-staff-stage-demonstration-for-job-security/article37532388.ece
17 November 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Investigation officer in Jaya disproportionate assets case dead||N. Nallamma Naidu, former Superintendent of Police, Directorate of Vigilance & Anti-Corruption, who investigated the disproportionate assets case against former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and three others, died in Chennai on Tuesday. According to sources close to his family, Mr. Naidu, aged about 82, complained of breathlessness shortly after midnight at his residence in Kilpauk. He was rushed to a private hospital, where doctors declared him dead. Mr. Naidu led the painstaking investigation into the disproportionate assets case involving the former Chief Minister, her close aide V.K. Sasikala, the latter’s sister-in-law, Illavarasi, and Jayalalithaa’s disowned foster son, V.N. Sudhakaran. He played a crucial role in collecting documentary evidence running to thousands of pages, particularly documents on immovable assets, in the case that culminated in the conviction of the accused. Stalin condoles death Chief Minister M.K. Stalin condoled the death of Mr. Naidu and visited his residence to offer floral tributes. In his condolence message, Mr. Stalin noted that the officer, who was handpicked by former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi as the investigating officer, was “loyal to the department he served and served the public until the end”. His death was a huge loss, the Chief Minister added. ‘An example of honesty’ Mr. Stalin said the officer stood as an example of honesty while serving in the DVAC and fearlessly stood for justice against any threats. "He investigated corruption cases, especially those involving the [1991-96] AIADMK government." Recalling his statement, soon after the Supreme Court delivered its judgment in the disproportionate assets case, that “justice has won”, Mr. Stalin said, “Recently, he presented me a book, 'My Duty — Down with Corruption’, and shared with me the challenges he faced in the department.” Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi, Public Works Minister E.V. Velu, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekarbabu, North Chennai MP Kalanidhi Veerasamy and chairman of the State Minorities Commission S. Peter Alphonse accompanied Mr. Stalin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/investigation-officer-in-jaya-disproportionate-assets-case-dead/article37532043.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK MP moves HC seeking bail in cashew factory death case||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) Member of Parliament T.R.V.S. Ramesh, representing Cuddalore constituency, has approached the Madras High Court seeking bail in a case booked against him and others pursuant to the death of a 60-year-old employee in his cashew nut factory in September this year. Justice M. Nirmal Kumar has adjourned the hearing on the bail petition to Wednesday since a government counsel, on Tuesday, sought time to get instructions from the Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID). A Sessions Court in Cuddalore had on October 23 dismissed a similar bail petition. Initially, the case was registered by Kadampuliyur police and then transferred to the CB-CID since the MP had been arrayed as the prime accused. He had surrendered before a Judicial Magistrate in Panruti on October 11 and remanded in judicial custody. He was also subjected to custodial interrogation by the police. Claiming that the employee had died by suicide and that his political opponents were attempting to project it as a case of homicide, the MP sought bail since he had to discharge democratic duties attached to his office. He also claimed to be under medication for acute hypertension and diabetes.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-mp-moves-hc-seeking-bail/article37532041.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Veteran Congress leader Vinayagamurthi no more||S.G. Vinayagamurthi, veteran Congress leader, died on Monday night here due to age-related issues. He was 91. He is survived by three daughters and three sons. Known to be a no-nonsense person, Mr Vinayagamurthi was a relentless worker, A. Gopanna, vice-president of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) said. Born in Washermenpet, Chennai in October 1930, the veteran leader, whose roots were from Virudhunagar district, was drawn to the Congress party in his early years. He first became the general secretary of the then Chennai city’s youth wing of the party. He got elected to the Chennai Corporation Council thrice, starting from 1959. He later became the floor leader of the party in the Corporation Council. In 1967, he was elected as president of the North Chennai unit of the Congress party. One of the highlights of his political career was that in the 1967 Assembly election, he was fielded in Saidapet against M. Karunanidhi, who had by then emerged as a prominent leader of the DMK. “It was an intensely-fought contest,” recalled Mr Gopanna. The Congress leader lost in the election by about 20,480 votes and Karunanidhi went on to become Public Works Minister first and Chief Minister two years later. In the 1971 Lok Sabha polls, the Congress leader tried his luck from the North Chennai constituency against Nanjil Manoharan of the DMK and again, tasted defeat. At the time of the Congress split in 1969, Vinayagamurthi identified himself with the Congress (Organisation) led by K. Kamaraj. Seven years later, when a major faction of the Congress (O), headed by G.K. Moopanar, merged itself with the Congress, Vinayagamurthi chose to remain in the other faction, which was led by P. Ramachandran and got subsumed in the Janata Party in 1977. When Ramachandran joined the Congress led by the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in September 1980, Vinayagamurthi followed suit. Subsequently, he was made the president of the State unit of the Seva Dal of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veteran-congress-leader-vinayagamurthi-no-more/article37532033.ece
17 November 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Jai Bhim row: Tamil film industry bodies throw weight behind Suriya||After PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss strongly objected to the representation of Vanniyar community as a villain in Suriya-starrer Jai Bhim, and the subsequent decision of Vanniyar Sangam to send a legal notice to the actor, seeking Rs. 5 crore in damages, Tamil film industry bodies have decided to throw their weight behind Suriya. They include Tamil Film Active Producers Association (TFAPA), Film Employees’ Federation of South India (FEFSI) and Tamil Nadu Movie Makers Sangam (TNMMS). In a letter to Dr. Anbumani, TFAPA president P. Bharathirajaa said real-life stories were placed in front of the audience for them to celebrate it or reject the film, knowing the truth. “ Jai Bhim is one such film. When a film deals with past incidents, one must see how it aids social change. One must not wear magnifying glasses and find faults because no film can be made that speaks for ordinary people,” he said. Mr. Bharathirajaa said that if Dr. Anbumani and his father S. Ramadoss viewed the film as just a piece of art, they would realise that it was a protest in favour of vulnerable people. He said there were a number of issues other than the film which required urgent intervention from the PMK. “This issue could have been resolved with a phone call. I don’t know why a fire is allowed to rage. Whatever your issues may be, speak with us. We are your friends,” he said. In a letter to Dr. Anbumani, FEFSI president R.K. Selvamani appealed to him not to allow a culture of issuing threats of violence against artistes. “Though actors make political comments here and there, the film industry has been a place for everyone. We thought the issue would end with his response to your letter. It is a matter of concern that the issue is being kept alive,” he said. Mr. Selvamani further said, “When some aspects of true stories are changed, some names are inadvertently included in the film. But this should not result in Suriya and yourself, who share similar values, entering opposing camps.” TNMMS president T. Rajendar said Dr. Anbumani should avoid criticising Mr. Suriya, who was doing his bit to enrich the lives of poor and needy students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jai-bhim-row-tamil-film-industry-bodies-throw-weight-behind-suriya/article37532035.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Collectors told to take measures to prevent disease outbreaks||Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan has written to all District Collectors instructing them to take measures to prevent outbreak of diseases following the recent rain and inundation. The most common causes of morbidity and mortality in this situation were diarrhoeal diseases and acute respiratory infections. A multidisciplinary approach with a wide range of proficiency which is useful in the prevention and immediate treatment of communicable diseases was key to diminish the adverse health effects due to events such as the recent rain and inundation. The establishment, implementation and continuous monitoring of minimum standards for water safety, sanitation, shelter and personal hygiene was critical for health promotion after disasters. Awareness of the emergence of water and food-borne diseases was of importance to the health of the victims, he said. The goal was better awareness and response to the recent events to ensure that any outbreak due to communicable diseases was averted, and in the event of any reports of cases its spread is immediately contained, and morbidity and mortality is minimised, he added. He said that major causes of communicable diseases in disasters can be categorised into four areas - infections due to contaminated food and water, respiratory infections, vector and insect borne diseases and infections due to wounds and injuries. He urged the Collectors to ensure constant delivery of safe drinking water as it was the major preventive measure to be applied after a natural disaster. He called for monitoring and control of vectors and vector borne diseases. For prevention, vector control interventions based on the local context and epidemiology of diseases was essential. He also asked the Collectors to ensure adequate static and mobile medical camps to provide easy access for people. On laboratory facilities, he said that the network of district laboratories may be effectively used and any cluster event must be investigated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/district-collectors-told-to-take-measures-to-prevent-outbreak-of-diseases/article37532140.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||68 babies born in 24 hours at Chennai hospital on November 11||With the rise in the number of referrals, the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (IOG) and Government Hospital for Women and Children, Egmore, has been receiving more pregnant women for deliveries than before. On November 11, 68 babies — 39 boys and 29 girls — were born at the hospital, with a team of 10 doctors and 22 staff nurses on duty. Previously, 65 babies were born in a span of 24 hours in October last year amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, according to S. Vijaya, director of IOG. “A total of 68 babies were born on November 11. Of this, 60% were normal deliveries and 40% through caesarean section. The reasons for caesarean section included previous surgeries,” she said. The team of doctors had six obstetricians and gynaecologists, two anaesthetists and two paediatricians. On an average, the hospital conducts 40 to 50 deliveries a day. She recalled how 72 babies were born on a single day, a decade ago. On Tuesday, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian felicitated the doctors and nurses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/68-babies-born-in-24-hours-at-chennai-hospital-on-november-11/article37532380.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 patient with 100% lung involvement treated||A 35-year-old COVID-19 patient, with 100% lung involvement, has recovered after treatment by doctors at Kauvery Hospital. In a release to the media, the hospital said the patient, a resident of Nellore in Andhra Pradesh, had tested positive for the infection and a CT scan showed 100% lung involvement. Critical state N. Sridhar, consultant intensivist and head of critical care at the hospital, said the patient was brought to the hospital in a critical state. “We immediately ventilated him in the prone position and performed a tracheostomy early on. He was initially too weak to even turn from one side to the other. He was gradually weaned from the ventilator and underwent daily physiotherapy, including taking a few steps while connected to the ventilator, until his activity level improved,” he said. While the hospital has treated patients with 100% lung involvement earlier, what was remarkable in this case was the speed at which the patient recovered. Congratulating the doctors and the staff on the successful treatment, Aravindan Selvaraj, co-founder and executive director of the hospital, said the case highlighted how accessing the right expertise at the right time could save lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-patient-with-100-lung-involvement-treated/article37532031.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM invited to felicitate CSK||India Cements vice-chairman and managing director N. Srinivasan called on Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat on Tuesday, and invited him for the felicitation event being organised for the members of the Chennai Super Kings (CSK). The team emerged as the winners of the 2021 edition of the Indian Premier League. The event will be held at Kalaivanar Arangam on November 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-invited-to-felicitate-csk/article37532025.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC starts QR code printing||The Madras High Court, in a press communique, said, it has begun to print Quick Response (QR) code on the web copies of its judgements and daily orders to authenticate downloaded copies easily. This would be in addition to the water marking feature that had now been shifted from the centre of the page to the top left corner to ensure that the orders are legible and readable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-starts-qr-code-printing/article37532389.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 prevention kits handed over to students||The Consulate General of Republic of Korea in Chennai gave 4,000 COVID-19 prevention kits to government schoolchildren on account of classes resuming in the State this month. The kits were handed over to Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Tuesday. As part of the Korean National Foundation Day, which was celebrated last month, this initiative is for the four south Indian States and supported by Venu Srinivasan, the Goodwill Envoy for Culture and Diplomacy of the Republic of Korea, in association with InKo Centre, according to a press release. The Korean Association in the city will also donate 70,000 masks and five oxygen generators to the State government. This kit will have masks, hand sanitisers, colour pencils, origami sheets and sweets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-prevention-kits-handed-over-to-students/article37532021.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. seeks Union Govt.’s support||Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Tuesday sought the Union Government’s support to boost investment and infrastructure development in the State, and listed out specific requests to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Mr. Rajan took part in a video conference meeting, convened by Ms. Sitharaman with Chief Ministers and State Finance Ministers, to discuss steps to promote investment, infrastructure development and economic growth in the country. While pointing out that the State government was taking several steps to improve the condition of Power DISCOMs, Mr. Rajan requested the Union Government to ensure adequate and continuous supply of coal, an official release said. The Minister also urged the Union Government to formulate a viable offshore wind development policy. He said the Union Government should come out with a comprehensive revival package for MSMEs. He requested the upgradation of the entire length of Chennai-Kanniyakumari to eight lanes, and urged the government to speed up 11 pending NHAI projects. He sought cooperation to resolve the bottlenecks faced in the expansion of Chennai, Coimbatore, Tiruchi and Thoothukudi airports. He requested the Union Government to formulate a data sharing protocol that gives States access to data. He said States should be permitted to borrow unconditionally, within prescribed limits, and such limits should be decided based on the capacity of State to absorb higher investments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-seeks-union-govts-support/article37532011.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister inaugurates T.N. Day celebrations||Information Minister M.P. Saminathan on Tuesday inaugurated Tamil Nadu Day celebrations at the 40th India International Trade Fair 2021, at Lal Chowk in Delhi. The Tamil Nadu stall at the fair displays the portraits of women freedom fighters, and also screens documentaries on the lives of prominent freedom fighters from Tamil Nadu, an official press release stated. “All States that are taking part in the India International Trade Fair are celebrating their State day. Tamil Nadu Day was also observed at Lal Chowk in Pragati Maidan,” it said. The State Government’s special representative in Delhi A.K.S. Vijayan, Erode MP A. Ganesamoorthy, Rajya Sabha MP P. Wilson and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inaugurates-tn-day-celebrations/article37532012.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Perarivalan files case against TNSIC||Former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict A.G. Perarivalan has filed a writ petition in the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Tamil Nadu State Information Commission (TNSIC) to dispose of a second appeal preferred by him against the failure of the Home Department to provide details sought by him under the Right to Information Act of 2005 regarding the status of his plea for premature release. Justice M. Dhandapani on Tuesday directed advocate Niranjan Rajagopalan, representing the TNSIC, to get appropriate instructions by November 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/perarivalan-files-case-against-state-information-commission/article37532042.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special police unit bags award||The Tamil Nadu Special Unit for Crimes Against Women and Children has bagged a silver medal in the police and safety category in the nation-wide SKOCH Awards this year for ‘Holistic Approach in Crimes Pertinence to Women and Children’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-police-unit-bags-award/article37532027.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||16NOVCHRSR02||The Thirumangalam police on Monday arrested Kameshwaran, 19, and three juveniles for the murder of V. Mahesh, 21, in Kolathur. The accused attacked him near V.R. Mall on November 4, following which he died of his injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/16novchrsr02/article37532018.ece
17 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan gangster Angoda Lokka, aide planned to leave India: CB-CID||Sri Lankan gangster Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera alias Angoda Lokka, who died while hiding in Coimbatore in July 2020, planned to get a passport using forged documents to leave India, the investigation by the Crime Branch CID (CB-CID) has found. The CB-CID suspects that Lokka, who lived in Coimbatore as Pradeep Singh, wanted to leave for Dubai. His close aide Chanuka Thananayaka, whom the CB-CID arrested from Bengaluru on November 13, also planned to leave India, said sources privy to the investigation. However, the CB-CID is yet to confirm whether Lokka engaged in illegal activities while hiding along with Sri Lankan woman Amani Thanji near Cheran Ma Nagar in Coimbatore, until his death on July 3, 2020. The investigators are checking whether Lokka and Thananayaka were into drug trade while hiding in India as they were part of a drug syndicate in Sri Lanka. “Both Lokka and Thananayaka were arrested in 2017 for illegal stay in India. They are believed to have reached India on an illegal ferry. The two remained at large after getting bail. They did not want to return to Sri Lanka fearing arrest and threats from a rival gang. Their plan was to leave India by sourcing passports using forged documents,” an officer said. According to the officer, the CB-CID recovered forged documents, including Aadhaar card, from Thananayaka when he was apprehended from Bengaluru. Likewise, Lokka possessed an Aadhaar card in the name of Pradeep Singh and underwent a plastic surgery in the nose. The CB-CID will send the mobile phone recovered from Thananayaka for cyber forensic examination to unearth more details. The officer said that the CB-CID’s focus was on investigating the illegal stay, forging of documents and suspected possession of weapons by Lokka and his associates. The CB-CID in September last year had ruled out foul play in his death, concluding that he had died of cardiac arrest as claimed by Amani Thanji. Lokka's identity was also confirmed as his DNA profile matched with that of his mother which was sourced from Sri Lanka through diplomatic channels. Along with Thananayaka, the CB-CID team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police P. Sivakumar had arrested T. Gopalakrishnan (46) alias Jayapal, a resident of PNS Layout at Subbannapalya in Bengaluru for sheltering the foreigner. M. Sanjeevi Baskar, Chief Judicial Magistrate, Coimbatore, on Tuesday granted the CB-CID five days custody of Thananayaka and  Gopalakrishnan for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sri-lankan-gangster-angoda-lokka-aide-planned-to-leave-india-cb-cid/article37532159.ece
17 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Alstom inaugurates new facility in Coimbatore||Alstom, a global leader in green mobility solutions, inaugurated here on Tuesday its new components manufacturing facility. The facility, which is spread over 15 acres and has seen an average investment of 25 million Euros, will improve the industrial efficiency in manufacturing components for various national and international projects, said a press release from Alstom. Opened in the presence of Emmanuel Lenain, Ambassador of France to India, and Alain Spohr, Managing Director, Alstom India and South Asia, the new upgraded facility has an installed capacity of 2.1 million hours. It will create 10,000 direct and indirect jobs and currently has a gender diversity rate of 20 %. The company’s industrial presence here has evolved across three sites since 1978. The new site will cater to 40 % of the component requirements of Alstom globally. Mr. Spohr said Alstom India is the preferred mobility partner on various Indian projects and looks forward to becoming a leading supplier of components across Alstom’s sites globally. According to the press release, the Ambassador said, “French companies are fully committed to ‘Make in India’ and speeding ahead on the back of strong bilateral relations between the two countries. It is heartening to see India’s manufacturing prowess powering global mobility. I salute the efforts and investments made by Alstom over the years in India towards building a strong base of sustainable mobility solutions and high localisation, while creating a positive impact on the people and communities.” In line with Alstom’s Sustainability Goals for 2025, the Coimbatore site has undertaken sustainability measures such as targeting 80 % of regular activities to be run on green energy, use 100% of natural light during daytime, rainwater harvesting and reuse 100% of the sewage treated water. Alstom has also pledged Rs. 3 crore for various CSR projects here in the next three years for programmes such as water conservation, sustainable rural living and youth skilling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alstom-inaugurates-new-facility-in-coimbatore/article37532068.ece
17 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Nature enthusiasts express concern over filling of tanks in River Noyyal system with sewage mixed water||Nature enthusiasts have expressed concern over filling of tanks in the River Noyyal system with sewage mixed water. They also point out that water stored in most of the tanks are not released scientifically to aid the natural cleansing process when there is heavy inflow due to rain. P.K. Selvaraj of Perur Padithurai Pathukappu Iyakkam said that tanks such as Achankulam are currently storing polluted water as authorities have not released water in accordance with the inflow. “The heavy inflow of water in Noyyal triggered by recent rain was an ideal opportunity for authorities to clean the tanks naturally by releasing water equal to the inflow. The releasing must be done by raising the shutters so that water gets out from the bottom of the tanks,” he said. According to him, the channel connecting Achankulam with Noyyal had blocks at Anavaripallam due to which the tank did not get a good amount of rainwater. Instead, sewage mixed water flows into the tank. Another nature enthusiast alleged that the authorities were not releasing water properly from most of the tanks to aid fishermen. Release of water using shutters could lead to losing the fish stock, their main means of income. R. Manikandan of Kovai Kulangal Padhukappu Amaippu said that the outflow channels of tanks, including Sengulam, Perur Periyakulam, Valankulam and Vellalore tank are not maintained well due to which water could not be drained in accordance with the inflow. “Dead fishes float in many tanks often when the pollution level increases,” he said. According to the district administration, 24 out of the 25 tanks in River Noyyal system in Coimbatore district had 100 % of water as of Monday. Prasath Selvaraj, an independent researcher, said that shores of Achankulam and many other tanks vanished after water was stored unscientifically, ignoring various lesser known species, resident and migratory birds. “Several species of shore birds and depend on shores and shallow waters in tanks. Such birds lose their habitat when tanks are full to the brim. Also mixing of sewage is a threat to fishes and other living organisms” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nature-enthusiasts-express-concern-over-filling-of-tanks-in-river-noyyal-system-with-sewage-mixed-water/article37532058.ece
17 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CII to hold healthcare startup conclave||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Coimbatore, will organise a virtual connect on November 19 and 20 on the “Future of Health”. Swathy Rohit, Conference Chairperson and Co-founder and CEO, Health Basix, said the healthcare sector has several initiatives on the technology front that will expand its reach to people living in remote areas. The event will bring together panel discussions on healthcare Information Technology, tele-health, med-tech and digital therapeutics. J.S. Bhuvaneswaran, convener of the CII Coimbatore – Healthcare Panel and Director, PSG Hospitals, said that the pandemic has highlighted that the healthcare system and industry need a complete revamp and it is technology that can play a vital role. The healthcare system is undergoing a seismic shift in how information is obtained and disseminated. The event will bring together all stakeholders in the healthcare, disruptive startups and venture capital sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cii-to-hold-healthcare-startup-conclave/article37532049.ece
17 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Rural police to ensure schools have active steering committees for children’s safety||Coimbatore District (Rural) Police have instructed women police inspectors and personnel working at the women help desk in all the police stations to ensure that schools coming under their limits have active steering committees for the safety of children. The main objective of the initiative is to prevent incidents of sexual abuse of children in schools and get such incidents reported to the police, if occur. M.S. Muthusamy, Deputy Inspector General of Police (Coimbatore range), said that all the women inspectors and women help desk officers have been instructed to identify schools with girl students in their areas and visit them. “Apart from ensuring that steering committees are active, the women police officers have been instructed to maintain contact with the committee members. They have been asked to share their mobile numbers and also to interact with students to instil confidence in them,” he said. Based on the instructions of Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam, a meeting was held for women inspectors and women help desk officers in Coimbatore rural on Monday. Additional Superintendent of Police R. Sughasini chaired the meeting which was attended by women inspectors and women help desks officers of all the 38 police stations in Coimbatore rural. “Women help desks are functioning in all the police stations from June this year. Each station has two women constables who were given special training to run the help desk. They are trained to handle complaints from women and children,” she said. The women officers will also check whether schools have anti-ragging committee and complaint box kept for students to drop their grievances, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rural-police-to-ensure-schools-have-active-steering-committees-for-childrens-safety/article37532062.ece
17 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||118 persons test positive in Coimbatore district||A total of 118 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday. The district had 1,185 active cases of the disease on Tuesday and 110 persons recovered. A 75-year-old man from Coimbatore died of COVID-19 at a private hospital on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 2,440. Coimbatore district had a test positivity rate of 1.3 % on Monday. Tiruppur district reported 47 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking its tally to 96,364 cases. The overall toll remained at 987 as no new deaths were reported by the Health Department. The district had 606 active cases and 63 patients from the district recovered from COVID-19 on Tuesday. Nilgiris district In the Nilgiris district, 20 people tested positive on Tuesday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 33,850. The number of deaths in the district stood at 213 on Tuesday, while 190 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/118-persons-test-positive-in-coimbatore-district/article37532060.ece
17 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police move to analyse handwriting in Coimbatore girl’s death||The police team investigating the death of a 17-year-old girl from Coimbatore, who left a note alleging sexual assault by a teacher, has decided to send the note for handwriting analysis to find out if it was indeed written by her. The police, on Tuesday, collected the notebooks of the Class XII student from her house. The handwriting in these would be analysed by experts to see if it matched with the one in the note that had the allegation of sexual assault. Deputy Commissioner of Police T. Jayachandran told The Hindu that samples of the girl's handwriting would be sent along with the note found in her house to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) in Chennai for an analysis. The note in Tamil and English, which was widely circulated on social media, read that a teacher, the father of a girl and the grandfather of another girl should not be spared. A day after the girl's death, her former teacher Mithun Chakravarthy (31) was arrested for offences under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of Indian Penal Code (IPC), Section 9 (l) (whoever commits sexual assault on the child more than once or repeatedly) read with 10 (punishment for aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Mr. Jayachandran said that the police were investigating whether the girl was sexually assaulted by the two elders mentioned in the note and also whether Chakravarthy misbehaved with any other student of the same school. Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj on Tuesday visited the parents of the girl and extended them all support from the State government. As per the First Information Report, the alleged sexual assault took place between March 1 and May 1 this year on the school campus. The principal of the school Meera Jackson alias Mini Jackson was arrested by the police on Sunday for allegedly not acting upon the girl's complaint against the teacher and reporting it to the police.  (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling 'Sneha' 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/handwriting-on-note-left-by-sexual-assault-victim-to-be-analysed/article37532056.ece
17 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CEO completes inquiry on alleged sexual assault||Nearly four days after the death by suicide of a 17-year-old girl in Coimbatore, the Chief Educational Officer (CEO) for Coimbatore district N. Geetha, on Tuesday, completed an inquiry into the allegations that the girl was sexually assaulted by a teacher on the premises of a private school. Sources privy to the inquiry told The Hindu that a detailed report would be submitted to the Department of School Education by Wednesday for further action. The inquiry team was led by Ms. Geetha and comprised three headmasters from government schools and school education officials. The team visited the private school in the city and posed questions pertaining to the activities of the accused teacher to the faculty members, and students. The accused had joined the school in 2019, the sources said. The deceased girl, who had been studying in the school from Class VI, was known to have been a bright student and had been studying through a scholarship due to her family’s economic situation, according to the sources. In September, she shifted to a Corporation higher secondary school in the city, where she continued studying in Class XII, until she ended her life on November 11. Abetting suicide The Coimbatore City Police arrested the teacher on November 12 on charges of abetment of suicide and aggravated sexual assault, and principal of the private school on November 14 for her alleged failure to report the assault to the police. Further investigations are on.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ceo-completes-inquiry-into-alleged-sexual-assault/article37532052.ece
17 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||ICAI’s regional conference on Nov. 19 and 20||The Southern India Regional Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) will holds its regional conference on November 19 and 20. The event at Le Meredien will be inaugurated virtually by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. Minister for Finance and Human Resources Palanivel Thiaga Rajan and ICAI president Nihar N. Jambusaria will be present at the inaugural. The conference will be attended by 750 members physically and 5,200 members through virtual mode. The theme of the conference is Vitthakam – in pursuit of knowledge and excellence. A press release said the conference through virtual mode will provide world class experience and a “feel good” visual experience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/icais-regional-conference-on-nov-19-and-20/article37532050.ece
17 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Pending Briefly||Government Museum, Coimbatore, will conduct an essay writing competition for school students to mark the Children’s Day as part of the celebrations for 75th anniversary of India’s Independence. A press release said that students from Classes VI, VII and VIII shall write an essay on the topic ‘Gandhi and Moral Principles’ with a word limit of 100 words; Class IX and X students on the topic ‘Gandhi and Non-Violence’ for 200 words and students of Classes XI and XII shall write an essay on the topic ‘Gandhi and Freedom Struggle’ for 250 words. The essays could be in either Tamil or English and the entries must carry the participant’s name, class, school’s name, contact number and residential address. The last date for submission is November 24 by 5 p.m. and the essays could be submitted either through post at Government Museum, No. 21, Nehru Stadium, Opp. VOC Zoological Park, Coimbatore-641018 or in person. For, details, contact 93446 43422.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pending-briefly/article37532054.ece
17 November 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Opposition leaders survey flood-affected regions||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday visited rain-affected areas in Cuddalore district. The duo, accompanied by former Ministers C.Ve. Shanmugam and M.C. Sampath, and Chidambaram constituency MLA K.A. Pandian, inspected paddy crops that were damaged due to waterlogging in Poovalai near Chidambaram. The leaders began their tour of the affected regions in delta districts, visiting areas in Bhuvanagiri and Chidambaram in the district, and interacting with the residents. The duo also distributed rice, blankets and essentials to residents at a marriage hall in Chidambaram. Talking to reporters, Mr. Palaniswami said the DMK Government had failed to take precautionary measures ahead of the monsoon, and the lack of planning had led to waterlogging in Chennai and across the State. Whether it was 10 days or 10 months, there should be no delay in providing relief. When the AIADMK was in power, prompt action was taken to extend necessary relief to those affected by rain, he said. In Nagapattinam The two AIADMK leaders also inspected paddy affected by heavy rainfall in Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts. They interacted with affected farmers and handed over relief to affected families. In Nagapattinam, they inspected damage in Karunkanni village of Keelaiyur block, and handed over rice and other provisions to about 100 families. Accompanied by former Minister O.S. Manian, the leaders interacted with farmers, who highlighted the need for enhancing the government’s relief package. At Olugaimangalam in Mayiladuthurai district, the leaders handed over relief to about 175 families in the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opposition-leaders-survey-flood-affected-regions/article37532014.ece
17 November 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Car plunges into farm well, two feared drowned||Two members of a family are feared drowned when a car plunged into a farm well off the national highway in Karimangalam here on Tuesday. Veeran (40) of Mettur, his wife Uma (35) and daughter Sushmita (13) were returning to Bengaluru. The car was crossing Ponneri in Karimangalam at around 2.45 p.m on Tuesday, when Veeran was suspected to have lost control over the vehicle. The car veered off the highway and plunged into a farm well. According to the police, Uma was thrown off the vehicle after the car door swung open. Veeran and Sushmita were feared drowned as the car submerged in the deep waters of the well. As of Tuesday evening, rescue efforts were still under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/car-plunges-into-farm-well-two-feared-drowned/article37532143.ece
17 November 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Travel ban to Tiruvannamalai||Collector S. Dhivyadarshini has advised pilgrims against travelling to Tiruvannamalai for the Deepam festival at the Arunachaleshwarar temple. In view of the ban on pilgrim travel to the temple by Tiruvannamalai district administration due to COVID-19, the Collector advised the public against travelling to the temple from November 17 to November 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/travel-ban-to-tiruvannamalai/article37532145.ece
17 November 2021||Emmedoddi,TAMIL NADU||Kadur women step up battle against bottle||Women residents of Muslapura Hatti in Kadur taluk are on the warpath against the opening of a liquor shop in the village, despite police action against them and what they call mounting pressure to weaken their agitation. “Let the police arrest all of us but we will not allow a bar to come up in our village. The police and senior officers are in favour of the bar owner; nobody is listening to our plea,” an elderly woman at Muslapura Hatti, a village in Emmedoddi gram panchayat, told this reporter on Tuesday. For the last two months, the women have been fighting against the opening of SunMoon Bar and Restaurant in the village. “We staged a dharna in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Chikkamagaluru, but the the officer did not meet us. We were told that he would come to our village and listen to our problem. So far, he has not. When all our peaceful efforts against the shop failed, we went and ransacked the establishment,” admitted another woman. She was referring to the protest in the village on November 12 that turned violent and left a few women injured. Violent turn After a series of protests, the licence-holder assured them that he would not open the bar, in the presence of police officials. But, when the women noticed someone had already started business that day, they gathered and took the employees hired by the license-holder to task. As they did not get a satisfactory answer, they damaged the furniture and broke the window panes of the building. The employees also retaliated, leaving a few women injured. Following the incident, Mahanthesh, an employee in the bar and restaurant, filed a complaint against 41 people with the Kadur police. The police took the injured women from the hospital into custody, allegedly without allowing them to undergo treatment. They were released after the villagers staged a protest in front of the station that evening. The police went to the village early on Monday and arrested five people, including three women again. “The police broke open doors and took away people, who were asleep,” alleged an aged woman. Following this, many women fled the village to avoid arrests. When The Hindu visited the village on Tuesday, there were hardly any men. “Some people have approached advocates to secure anticipatory bail,” said a resident, who wished not to be named. The arrested Premabai, Janibai, Sheelabai, Mallesh, and Kiran have been remanded to judicial custody. “Whatever may be the turn of events, we will fight against the bar, as we are more concerned about the health of our men and children,” said a young lady. Dire consequences At present, there is no bar near the village. Those wishing to get alcohol have to go to Kadur, about 15 km away. “If the shop opens near the village, those addicted to alcohol will spend more money on liquor. We are all working people, who earn a couple of hundred rupees after a day’s hard labour,” said a woman, adding that her children’s education would be in peril. Chikkamagaluru Superintendent of Police Akshay M. Hakay defended the police action. “We have not violated any rule in arresting the accused. We will act as per the law,” he said. However, residents allege that the local police had been acting at the behest of bar owners, who enjoy the support of politicians and elected representatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kadur-women-step-up-battle-against-bottle/article37531892.ece
17 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Water level in Bhavanisagar Dam inching close to 104 feet||The water level at the Bhavanisagar Dam is inching close to 104 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 105 feet on Tuesday. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the dam was 4,342 cusecs while the discharge was 1,800 cusecs into Lower Bhavani Project canal and 300 cusecs into Arakkankottai – Thadapalli canals. The water level stood at 103.62 feet while the storage was 31.64 tmcft. against the capacity of 32.80 tmcft. Officials of the Public Works Department said the inflow increased from 3,229 cusecs on Monday to over 4,000 cusecs on Tuesday and they were continuously monitoring the flow.  Staff Reporter from Salem adds  Despite releasing surplus water, the water level at Mettur Dam remained at 120.10ft on Tuesday due to increase in inflow to the dam. According to officials from Public Works Department, at 8 a.m., the water level at the dam was 120.10ft and the storage was 93,630 tmcft. The dam received an inflow of 40,000 cusecs and equal amount of water was released into River Cauvery from the dam through power houses and Ellis Saddle surplus gates. The discharge through East-West canal was maintained at 300 cusecs. The dam premises recorded 28.4 mm rainfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level-in-bhavanisagar-dam-inching-close-to-104-feet/article37532146.ece
17 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Declare all persons below 18 years as children’||A signature campaign that stresses for declaring all persons below 18 years as children and make necessary amendments to the existing law was held at Kadambur Hills. Organised by Service Unit for Development Activities in Rural (SUDAR), a Sathyamangalam-based NGO, and Vanmugil Company, Sathyamangalam Union chairman K.C.P. Elango inaugurated the campaign in the presence of SUDAR Director S.C. Natraj, Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association president Kadambur Ramasamy and teachers. Mr. Natraj said United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child defined persons upto the age of 18 years as children and declared various rights to them. “India is one of the signatory among the total 190 countries. But many laws in the country define children as persons below 14 years and not 18 years,” he said. Mr. Natraj said Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986 and Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, still described child as less than 14 years. Other Acts like Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, described child as less than 18 years. Amendments “Discrepancies in fixing the age limit to 14 years should be corrected as 18 years and amendments should be made,” he stressed. The signature campaign would be held in villages in the taluk for a week, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/declare-all-persons-below-18-years-as-children/article37532148.ece
17 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Minister hands over welfare assistance to Sri Lankan Tamils||Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy, on Tuesday, handed over welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 13.40 lakh to 1,333 persons residing in the two rehabilitation camps for Sri Lankan Tamils in the district. A total of 1,055 families (3,152 members) are residing in the Bhavanisagar camp, 170 families (499 members) in Arachalur and 140 families (473 members) at the Enjampalli village in Modakkurichi Taluk for the last 30 years. At a function held at Arachalur, Mr. Muthusamy handed over welfare assistance to those living in the camps at Arachalur and Enjampalli. The Minister said the State government was implementing various schemes for the welfare of the people living in the camps across the State and recalled the Chief Minister’s announcement on construction of houses and renaming of the camps. He said steps were taken to ensure that they lived in a protected environment with all basic amenities. The Minister gave away dress materials worth Rs. 3.95 lakh, utensils worth Rs. 2.19 lakh and LPG cylinders and gas stove worth Rs. 1.40 lakh to those residing in Arachalur camp. Likewise, 473 persons living in Enjampalli camp were given dress materials worth Rs. 3.57 lakh, utensils worth Rs. 1.79 lakh and cylinder and gas stove worth Rs. 49,413. A total of 3,152 people living in the camp at Bhavanisagar will be given dress material worth Rs. 24.17 lakh, utensils worth Rs. 13.49 lakh and gas stoves worth Rs. 5.89 lakh, he said. Modakkurichi MLA C. Saraswathi, Collector H. Krishnanunni, Erode Revenue Divisional Officer Premalatha, Tahsildar Shanmugasundaram (Modakkurichi), and Maheswari (Special Tahsildar for Sri Lankan Tamils Rehabilitation), were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-hands-over-welfare-assistance-to-sri-lankan-tamils/article37532155.ece
17 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Three of a family found dead at Perundurai||Three persons of a family were found dead at their home in Perundurai here on Tuesday morning. Police identified the deceased as Mallika (60) of Vettuvampalayam, her daughter Amudha (30), and grand daughter Dhananya (9). Amudha married Vadivel 10 years ago and following a dispute, she was living with her mother. She was working as a teacher in a private school and her daughter was studying in Class V. Police said that Mallika’s second daughter Poovizhi (28) left home to marry a man of her choice and the family was upset over this. On Tuesday, they did not open the front door for long. Neighbours broke into the house and found the three dead. The police recovered the bodies and sent them to the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai for post-mortem. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-of-a-family-found-dead-at-perundurai/article37532153.ece
17 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Action sought against those responsible for man’s death||Demanding action against persons responsible for the death of a 32-year-old man of Vadugapatti village in Sankari in Salem district, members of Adi Tamilar Peravai and the victims’ relatives refused to receive the body after postmortem and staged a protest at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai on Tuesday. M. Mohanraj was married to Mahalaxmi (25) and has a daughter. Due to a dispute, she was living with her parents for the past four years and a divorce case is pending in the court. Later, Mohanraj developed an affair with Chitra of Tharamangalam. She left home on November 11 and her parents lodged a complaint with the police. Mohanraj married her at a temple in Madurai and the couple reached the All Women Police Station at Sankari and sought protection. After inquiries, Chitra was produced at the court in Omalur where she expressed her willingness to go with her parents. Mohanraj was upset and left home. On Tuesday, the body of Mohanraj was found on the railway tracks between Mavelipalayam and Sankari railway stations. The Erode Railway Police recovered the body. A note recovered from the spot claimed that Chitra’s three relatives were responsible for his death. The relatives demanded registering a case under SC/ST Act and action against the three persons. Senior police officials pacified them and they received the body in the evening. ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/action-sought-against-those-responsible-for-mans-death/article37532151.ece
17 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at Kavindapadi sub-station , power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on November 18 at Kavindapadi, Kolathupalayam, Odathurai, Pethampalayam, Ellispettai, Singanallur, Perundalaiyur, Vellankovil, Appakudal, Krishnapuram, Dharmapuri, K. Pudur, Marappampalayam, Ayyampalayam, Velam palayam, Chandirapuram, Perumapalayam, Thannachi patti, Pandiyampalayam, Kunjaramadai, Odamedu, Karukkampalayam, Kannadi pudur, Manickavalasu, Ayyanvalasu, Manipuram, Viralimedu, Thangamedu, Sevacoundanur, Alandur, Kavundampalayam, Kuttip alayam and Serayampalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37532152.ece
17 November 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for posts in Juvenile Justice Board||Applications are invited by the Department of Social Defence for appointment to the posts of social worker members of the Juvenile Justice Board in the district. The posts of social worker members of the Board are on an honorarium basis and the appointments are made to the Board constituted under the provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act, 2015. Eligibility The applicant should have been actively involved in children’s health, education, welfare for at least seven years as a practising professional with a degree in child psychology, psychiatry, sociology or law. The applicant shall not be less than 35 years of age and not more than 65 years. The applicant is eligible for appointment as a social worker member for a maximum of two terms, but not continuous terms. The application may be procured from the District Child Protection Unit, or downloaded from the website www.krishnagiri.nic.in. The filled in forms shall be sent to The District Child Protection Officer, District Child Protection Unit, No.8 &10, DRDA Shopping Complex, opposite district central library, Krishnagiri -635 002, phone-04343-292567; 9150827493 within 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-posts-in-juvenile-justice-board/article37532142.ece
17 November 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates agri infrastructure||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, via video conferencing, inaugurated agricultural infrastructure to the tune of Rs. 5.83 crore in Krishnagiri on Monday. He inaugurated two regulated market complexes and an integrated agriculture extension centre. The market complexes with godown of 1000 MT capacity at Rs. 3.83 crore were inaugurated in Pochampalli and Uthangarai. The agriculture extension center constructed at Rs. 2 crore was opened in Bargur. Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-agri-infrastructure/article37532144.ece
17 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Permanent solution eludes this battered stretch of road||City residents are, generally, lamenting about poor upkeep of black top on arterial roads and streets that have worn out following the monsoon rains. But, here is a stretch of road on New Vakkil Street that not only tests the riding/driving skills, but also often leads to bike riders falling down every day. With this stretch located very close to a sharp turn from Yanaikkal and being an important bus route connecting Mattuthavani with Arapalayam and Periyar bus stands, no vehicle, big or small, can by-pass it. “I cross this stretch at least thrice a day from Goripalayam to Periyar bus stand. I find it difficult to negotiate this stretch due to the craters, potholes and rough surface. Besides, the encroachment of road margin by cattle and a temporary median make it worse on a rainy day with slush all around,” lamented P.S. Srinivasan, a businessman. All the VIPs of the city have to necessarily pass through this stretch and unfortunately the stretch continues to be a ‘danger zone’ where two-wheelers vie with buses while negotiating the sharp turn, said Communist Party of India (Marxist) functionary P. Jeeva. He complained about the lackadaisical attitude of the Corporation officials, who took pains no more than dumping soil for a temporary solution that could not last even more than an hour. “We have drawn the attention of the Corporation officials repeatedly. They come up with the statement that the tender would be floated and road relayed. But, then they are not bothered about the daily sufferings of the motorists,” he alleged. He wished the stretch was repaired at the earliest before the bad road claimed any life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permanent-solution-eludes-this-battered-stretch-of-road/article37532311.ece
17 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC orders fresh autopsy of fisherman who died at sea||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered a re-postmortem be conducted on the body of a Pudukkottai fisherman who died after falling into the sea when his boat collided with a Sri Lankan naval vessel. The postmortem will be conducted on November 18. The court passed the order on the petition filed by the fisherman R. Raj Kiran’s wife, R. Brundha, who alleged he was first shot by the Sri Lankan authorities and subsequently the Sri Lankan vessel collided with the boat wantonly. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that when such genuine apprehension had been raised by the petitioner, it was the duty of the State to allay the same. The court also allowed a retired Professor of Forensic Science to be present, representing the petitioner, at the time of exhumation and postmortem. The case was adjourned till November 24. The petitioner also sought a probe into the death of her husband. She said on October 18 that her husband Raj Kiran, along with S. Suganthan and A. Xavier, ventured into the sea in a boat owned by Suresh Kumar. They were intercepted by a Sri Lankan naval vessel and were told they had crossed the International Maritime Boundary Line and were in Sri Lankan waters. The fishermen tried to escape from the authorities. It was said that the Sri Lankan vessel collided with the boat accidentally and Raj Kiran fell into the sea and drowned. Ms. Brundha said she had perused some photographs of her husband’s body provided by the authorities and was convinced that there were injuries on the body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-orders-fresh-autopsy-of-fisherman-who-died-at-sea/article37531890.ece
17 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL petition for operation of spices park||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has sought a status report from authorities on a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to the Directorate of Town and Country Planning to grant permission to the spices park in Sivaganga district to start its operation. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan sought a response on the PIL petition filed by S. Ramesh Kumar of Karaikudi. He said though the spices park was constructed in 2013, it was not yet opened. He said the facility was equipped with all infrastructure but due to lack of the permission from the Directorate of Town and Country Planning, it was not functioning even after eight years. The spices park was set up to facilitate the processing and improving the quality of spices of the region like turmeric and chilli. He said the authorities should take steps to operate the park. The court adjourned the hearing till November 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-petition-for-operation-of-spices-park/article37532307.ece
17 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court seeks status report in death case||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Nagercoil to file a status report on a petition filed by a Scheduled Caste man from Kanniyakumari district who alleged that his brother’s death was honour killing. Justice G.R. Swaminathan directed the DSP, Nagercoil, to file the status report and directed the Kanniyakumari police to protect the petitioner’s family. He had sought a probe into the death of his brother. The court passed the direction in the petition filed by S. Suman Anand of Thovalai. He said that his brother Suresh Kumar was in a relationship with N. Thanganeela. But, the woman’s family members did not accept the relationship as they belonged to different castes. He alleged that his brother was threatened by the woman’s family members and asked him not to contact her. Under these circumstances, the woman’s family members lodged a police complaint and Suresh Kumar was called for an inquiry. However, it was said that Suresh Kumar did not turn up for the inquiry. The petitioner went in search of his brother and later found him in an unconscious state with blood and injuries all over the body, he said. He said that he took his brother to a nearby clinic and later to the Asaripallam Government Medical College Hospital in Nagercoil, where the doctors informed him that Suresh Kumar was dead. He alleged that his brother was killed by the woman’s family. The police had told the petitioner’s family members that Suresh Kumar had committed suicide. During the course of the hearing in the case, the State submitted that CCTV footage was available in the case and sought time to file a status report. The case was adjourned till November 29. (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State’s health helpline 104 or Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-seeks-status-report-in-death-case/article37532134.ece
17 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC directs DSP to probe temple priest case||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has directed the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Human Rights and Social Justice Wing, Pudukkottai district, to conduct a probe into the death of a Scheduled Caste temple priest in Pudukkottai . Justice G.R. Swaminathan ordered the DSP probe. The court directed the DSP to conduct and conclude the probe as expeditiously as possible. The Pudukkottai police were directed to provide police protection to the family members of the temple priest. The court was hearing a petition filed by K. Villayi. She said that her husband Karuppaiya was a temple priest at a Kali temple in Theeyathur in Pudukkottai district. On July 16, he was attacked by a group of Caste Hindus after he had offered ‘vibhuti’ to them in hand, she said. She said that Murugaiah, Prabhu, Velavan, Ananthan and Kesavan had questioned her husband over offering the ‘vibhuti’ in hand instead of offering it on the archanai plate and attacked her husband as he had touched them. A complaint was lodged with the police. But no steps were taken against the accused. The group also lodged a complaint against her husband. A peace committee meeting was also held, but ended in vain, the petitioner said. Under these circumstances, the petitioner said that her husband went missing on August 14. He had gone out to buy betel leaves at about 8 p.m., but did not return home. On August 15, her husband was found hanging from a tree. She alleged that her husband was murdered due to caste animosity and it was not a case of suicide. She complained that there were injuries on the body of her husband. The petitioner sought a probe into the death of her husband.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-directs-dsp-to-probe-death-case/article37532123.ece
17 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Don’t resort to strike, students told||Madurai city police have appealed to students not to resort to any strike seeking online examination for college and polytechnic semesters. In a statement, Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said Principal Secretary for Higher Education had clarified that examination for polytechnic, arts and science colleges, engineering colleges and universities would be conducted on offline mode only. Students should accept this clarification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-resort-to-strike-students-told/article37532314.ece
17 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bomb hurled at advocate’s house||A country-made bomb was hurled at the house of an advocate Mariselvam at Anupanadi here on Tuesday morning. However, no one was injured. Forensic experts inspected the scene of crime. The police said that a suspect involved in the crime was picked up for questioning and it was revealed that the bomb was hurled to threaten the advocate at the instigation of an accused now in jail. Keeraithurai police are on the lookout for another suspect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bomb-hurled-at-advocates-house/article37532313.ece
17 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Changes in train services||Southern Railway has made the following changes in train services due to landslips in Kanniyakumari– Nagercoil Junction– Thiruvananthapuram sections. Train No. 06426 Nagercoil Jn- Thiruvananthapuram Central special train and Train No. 06427 Thiruvananthapuram Central– Nagercoil Jn special train, both commencing journey on November 17, are cancelled. Train No. 06425 Kollam Jn– Thiruvananthapuram Central special train commencing journey on November 17 is cancelled. Train No. 06435 Thiruvananthapuram Central– Nagercoil Jn Special train commencing journey on November 17 is cancelled. Besides, 19 trains that commenced or would commence their journey on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday are partially cancelled between Nagercoil/Kollam Junction and Kanniyakumari, Guruvayur/Punalur and Tirunelveli, Nagercoil Junction and Thiruvananthapuram Central, and Tirunelveli and Thiruvanathapuram Central.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/changes-in-train-services/article37532308.ece
17 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Petitioner fined||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has imposed cost on a petitioner for filing a habeas corpus petition with frivolous and false details alleging that her Havildar husband was missing. The court imposed a cost of Rs. 15,000 and dismissed the petition. The petitioner, G. Baby Shalini of Kanniyakumari district, alleged that her husband Duraisingh, a Border Security Force Havildar, who was posted in Barmer district in Rajasthan, was missing. Under these circumstances, the Nagercoil police investigated the matter and found out that her husband was alive and the couple was frequently contacting each other over phone. She had filed the petition to force him to come down to Tamil Nadu. A Division Bench of Justices S. Vaidyanathan and G. Jayachandran observed that it was an abuse of the process of law and such an attempt made by the petitioner had to be curbed and curtailed. The court dismissed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petitioner-fined/article37532306.ece
17 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Tuesday stood at 140.50 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 2,795 cusecs and a discharge of 2,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 69.32 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 2,954 cusecs and a discharge of 2,354 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,589 mcft. Rainfall recorded in various places during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Tuesday was (in mm): Peranai 63, Thaniyamangalam 35, Kodaikanal 24.6, Sathiyar dam 20, Maruthanadhi dam 15, Andipatti 11, Mullaperiyar dam 8.8, Kuppanampatti 7.6, Viraganur 7, Madurai 6, Sothupparai dam 5, Gudalur 4.7, Pulipatti 4.6, Shanmuganadhi dam 4.5, Manjalar dam and Chittampatti 4 each, Thekkadi 2.6, Melur, Uthamapalayam and Veerapandi 2 each, Kallandiri 1.5 and Idayapatti 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37532127.ece
17 November 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Reconsider move to withdraw cluster plan’||Nagapattinam District Small and Tiny Industries Association (NADISTIA) has urged the State government to reconsider its decision to withdraw the proposed petrochemical cluster at Nagapattinam. Referring to the government’s withdrawal of the bid for the proposed Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the petrochemical cluster, NADISTIA president V. Ramachandiran said the district being economically backward, agricultural jobs were available only for three months in a year, and that the cluster planned on a 1,000-acre expanse to capitalise on the construction of a refinery by Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd (CPCL) must not be dropped. Citing the commencement of work on the Rs. 31,580-crore project by CPCL for the project entailing output of nine million metric ton per annum (MMTPA) at the grassroot refinery, Mr. Ramachandiran said in a press release that the job opportunities arising from the cluster project would benefit the entire composite district. The crux of the problem was the low compensation being offered to farmers for the acquired land. By addressing this issue and assuring jobs for the eligible member of the families of those from whom the land had been acquired, the issue could be resolved. The prevailing apprehension that the environment would be affected by the project had no basis since CPCL had made it clear that the entire intake of crude oil and re-routing of the finished products would be carried out through pipelines to berth platforms in offshore points. The end products from the refinery could be utilised by ancillary units in the cluster project for generation of jobs and economic progress, Mr. Ramachandiran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reconsider-move-to-withdraw-cluster-plan/article37532125.ece
17 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CM seeks Central assistance for promoting tourism in U.T.||Making a pitch for tourism promotion in the Union Territory of Puducherry with more Central assistance, Chief Minister N. Rangasamy has sought funds for setting up a water aerodrome for seaplane operations apart from introducing cruise and chopper services. In a virtual interaction with Chief Ministers/Finance Ministers chaired by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman the other day, Mr. Rangasamy also sought assistance for expansion of airport and port infrastructure and establishment of a film city. Mr. Rangasamy wanted Viability Gap Funding (VGF) scheme for operators of helicopter operations in the initial period. As tourists, who go sight-seeing, preferred entertainment, there is a proposal to set up auditoriums / convention centre / amphitheatres for cultural performances/MICE activities. On the proposal for a film city, theme park and cruise terminals on a 100-acre site along Manapet beach, Mr. Rangasamy sought the Central Government’s help in identifying and designating suitable agencies to implement the scheme in PPP mode. On the IT/ITES front, the Chief Minister sought assistance to develop multi-storeyed infrastructure in industrial estates for start-ups to launch operations on a plug-and-play basis. As the Union Territory proposed to implement universal health coverage, it required Central assistance to construct a new 500-bedded Infectious /Epidemic diseases hospital to strengthen the infrastructure for health care facilities at an estimate cost of Rs. 150 crore. The Chief Minister made a case for differentiating Puducherry from a Union Territory like Delhi with regard to allocation of financial resources as the several key sectors of the NCT were directly administered by the Centre. He advocated a funding pattern for Centrally-sponsored schemes on a par with those for the Union Territories where Central share was 90%. The Chief Minister pointed out that the existing funding support under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) for Puducherry was inadequate to complete the housing projects after the government enhanced the share of Union Territory. As the revised pattern of funding financial implications for housing schemes amounted to Rs. 126.84 crore, a higher Central grant for the housing project for Puducherry would be of help to achieve the objective of providing houses to the poor. Another important plea was to implement a 10% year-on-year increase in Central grants provided to the Puducherry Government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-seeks-central-assistance-for-promoting-tourism-in-ut/article37532386.ece
17 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Vaithilingam seeks separate recruitment board for U.T.||Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) V. Vaithilingam has requested the Union Government to set up a separate recruitment board for the Union Territory. In a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Mr. Vaithilingam said at present Group A and Group B (gazetted) posts in the Union Territory are filled by the Union Public Service Commission. The conduct of the UPSC exam allows participation of job seekers from across the country. Such mode of recruitment gives room for appointment of non-Tamil speaking persons in key posts such as General Duty Medical Officers (GDMO) and Vice-Principals, he said. “For instance, GDMOs, appointed by the UPSC, are posted in rural health centres. Patients as well as public find it difficult to communicate with the doctors since they don’t know the local language,” he said. If the Union Territory had a recruitment board, students passing out from the nine medical colleges and conversant with the local language could be appointed for the post. The welfare officers, engineers, tahsildars could be recruited by the Government of Puducherry, he added. Stating that all States have their own service commission, the MP said establishment of a separate board would also help local residents get employment. Urging the Home Minister to approve the setting up of a recruitment board, he said it would be headed by the Chief Secretary and Secretary (Personnel). The Centre could nominate a representative at an appropriate-level to monitor the procedures adopted by the board, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaithilingam-seeks-separate-recruitment-board-for-ut/article37532382.ece
17 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||33 new cases reported in Union Territory||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory as 33 new cases were detected on Tuesday. Puducherry logged 16 of the new cases, which were detected from 2,364 tests, followed by Karaikal (5), Yanam (8) and Mahe (4). With 18 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 320. Of this, 91 patients were in hospital and 229 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.4%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate stood at 98.3%. The cumulative toll remained at 1,866 — Puducherry (1,459), Karaikal (250), Yanam (108) and Mahe (49). The Union Territory has so far recorded an aggregate of 1,28,495 cases against 1,26,309 recovered patients. Of an estimated 19.55 lakh tests held so far, over 16.52 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 4,234 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered 11,60,364 vaccine doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/33-new-cases-reported-in-union-territory/article37532384.ece
17 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Monsoon relief of Rs. 5,000 for red ration cardholders||Chief Minister N. Rangasamy on Tuesday announced a monsoon relief of Rs. 5,000 to each family holding red ration card in the Union Territory. Mr. Rangasamy told mediapersons that while an equivalent relief had earlier been announced for fishermen and construction workers that would benefit an estimated 1.10 lakh families, the newly-announced relief would benefit 30,000 red ration cardholders. Livelihood affected The recent heavy rain had disrupted the livelihood of daily wage workers, agricultural labourers, fishermen and construction workers. Various political parties and trade unions had called for some form of assistance to unorganised sector workers and the relief measures were in response to these demands, Mr. Rangasamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monsoon-relief-of-rs-5000-for-red-ration-cardholders/article37532383.ece
17 November 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Soon, construction of bridge across supply channel||The district authorities in Pudukottai have said that steps would be taken to construct a bridge across the supply channel in Ilupur taluk, which had filled up in the recent heavy downpour forcing residents of Mela Paluvanchi and Keela Paluvanchi to wade through neck-deep water carrying the dead to the burial ground situated on the other side of the water body.  The Hindu had recently highlighted the misery faced by the residents of the two villages in carrying the dead through the supply channel to reach the cremation ground situated on the other side and their long-pending demand for construction of a bridge for a permanent solution. Responding to this, Collector Kavitha Ramu in a communication addressed to the Director of Information and Public Relations, said separate reports had been received from the Tahsildar, Ilupur taluk, Executive Engineer, Water Resources Department and the Block Development Officers of Pudukottai and Annavasal on the matter. Based on the news report, enquiries were conducted with the villagers of Keela Paluvanchi and the president of the Kothandaramapuram panchayat who informed them that they were carrying the dead through the supply channel and burying them on the southern bank of the Vellar. The villagers had also conveyed that since water had filled up in the supply channel, which feeds the Kavinaadu tank, they had to wade through the water carrying the dead and such a situation had prevailed for several years. During site inspection, it was found that there was a road from Keela Paluvanchi village up to the supply channel and that a bridge needed to be constructed across the channel. The Ilupur Tahsildar in his report had advised the Block Development Officer, Annavasal, to prepare estimates for the construction of a bridge. The Collector said the Block Development Officer, Annavasal, in his report, had said that since the supply channel was under the maintenance of the Public Works Department, a no-objection certificate would be obtained from the department for construction of a bridge across the channel. An estimate would be prepared and steps would be taken for construction of the bridge by getting administrative sanction, the Collector said citing the report sent by the Block Development Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soon-construction-of-bridge-across-supply-channel/article37532124.ece
17 November 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Collector takes stock of govt. school’s needs||Collector Kavitha Ramu on Tuesday ascertained the requirements of Government Middle School for the Hearing Impaired in Pudukottai town besides the activities of the institution, developmental works and grievances. Ms. Kavitha Ramu presided over the school management committee meeting at the school in which parents of the students took part. Speaking at the meeting, Ms. Kavitha Ramu said the State government was providing various types of assistance to students with disabilities through the School Education Department and the Department of the Welfare of Differently Abled Persons with a view to protecting their welfare. It was taking steps to provide ramp, separate toilets for persons with disabilities besides other facilities at government offices and other places. The Collector said welfare assistance was being provided to students studying at the Government Middle School for the Hearing Impaired in Pudukottai along with good education. She ascertained from the parents about the school’s requirements, its functioning, developmental works at the school, grievances and other information. Parents who attended the meeting pleaded for provision of additional school building, appointment of teachers, additional toilets and creation of a high school among others. She told the parents that steps would be taken to implement their demands. Chief Educational Officer Sathyamurthy, District Differently Abled Welfare Officer S. Ulaganathan and others took part, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-takes-stock-of-govt-schools-needs/article37532111.ece
17 November 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Farmers demand urea||With the increasing demand for urea from paddy farmers following the recent rains, officials of the Department of Agriculture have exuded confidence about supplying the adequate quantity of urea through primary agricultural cooperative societies (PACSs) in Ramanathapuram district from Wednesday. Long queues of farmers seeking urea were seen in various PACSs in the last few days. “We are getting 600 tonnes of urea by Wednesday that is being transported from Karaikal. Farmers can buy urea from their respective PACSs,” said Joint Director (Agriculture), Tom P. Silas. Stating that Ramanathapuram district has cultivated paddy on 1.30 lakh hectares, he said the farmers were getting ready for the first top dressing, for which they required urea. The standing crops are aged between 40 and 50 days. With widespread rainfall, the need for top dressing has arisen. “If there is another spell of rainfall, they might need more urea for the second dressing. With a supply plan of around 2,000 tonnes by next week, we hope to manage the situation,” he said. All the 130 PACS would get adequate quantity of urea, as two companies from Chennai and Mangalore are supplying 500 tonnes each. Mr. Silas said that other fertilizers like complex, were already available in the district. Stating that all fertilizers should be sold only through point-of-sale equipment, the Joint Director said that the officials can monitor the availability of fertilizer in each shop on a real-time basis. Besides, since the sales are based on the Aadhar card, irregularities are ruled out. Farmers need to give a one-time password to effect transactions, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/600-tonnes-of-urea-on-the-way/article37532138.ece
17 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Steps taken to lay roads within forests as per law: Minister||Forest Minister K. Ramachandran conducted a review of the Forest Department in Salem and Namakkal districts on Tuesday. The Minister said measures were being taken to address the grievances of the public residing within forests as per law. Salem Collector S. Karmegham, Namakkal Collector Shreya P.Singh, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Sekar Kumar Neeraj, senior forest officials, MLAs and MPs took part in the review meeting and heard the grievances of the public. Addressing at the review meeting, Mr. Ramachandran said measures were being taken subject to law to lay roads for people living within the forests through which travel distance could be reduced from 50 km to 3-5 km. Mr. Ramachandran told presspersons the State government was working on increasing forest cover by 33% and a special purpose vehicle called Tamil Nadu Green Climate Company including various departments had been set up. On the delay in release of funds for development of tourist attractions like Agayagangai falls and Kurumbapatti Zoological park, Mr. Ramachandran accused the previous government of leaving the Finance Department (treasury) empty. “The Chief Minister has formed a committee including financial experts and the Finance Minister to address the issue,” he said. He added measures would be taken to develop these attractions. The public, who took part in the meeting, raised grievances about laying of roads and providing pattas. Mr. Ramachandran provided assistance to the tune of Rs. 85.93 lakh to 30 beneficiaries. The Minister released a book on fern varieties found in Salem forest ranges. He also honoured M. Abdul Rahman, R. Lakshmanan, P. Shanmugham, Forester S. Karthik, and Forest Guard V. Kavendiran who rescued a woman and child at Annavari Muttal falls recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-taken-to-lay-roads-within-forests-as-per-law-minister/article37532158.ece
17 November 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner inspects rain-affected areas||Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj inspected areas affected by rain during the early hours of Tuesday and advised officials to take remedial measures. Due to continuous rain, rainwater stagnated at a few areas within the Corporation limits. Recent rain in Yercaud filled up Raman Kuttai lake and the surplus water from the lake inundated Sona Nagar, Muniappan Kounder Street and Mari Kounder street during the early hours of Tuesday. The Commissioner and other senior officials visited the rain-affected areas and assessed the damages. Mr. Christuraj advised officials to take immediate measures to drain the rainwater. Pumps and vehicles were deployed to clear the water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commissioner-inspects-rain-affected-areas/article37532156.ece
17 November 2021||SALEM/DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK, AIADMK won’t permit new dam at Mullaperiyar’||Neither the DMK nor the AIADMK will permit the construction of a new dam at Mullaiperiyar, Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan said in Salem on Tuesday. Mr. Duraimurugan told reporters that despite talks, the Kerala Government continued to oppose measures to strengthen the Mullaperiyar dam. In 1979, chairperson of the Central Water Commission K.C. Thomas had visited the dam, after reports said the structure was weak. Mr. Thomas had said that it was strong and that there was no need for fear. However, authorities were asked to visit Thiruvananthapuram, and the next day, the water level was asked to be maintained at 136 feet. Authorities were given three technical advices — immediate, short-term and long-term — to strengthen the dam. Mr. Duraimurugan said the reduction in the storage level could not have been possible without the consent of the then Chief Minister, M.G. Ramachandran. Ministers concerned had not signed on the file, he said. He added that two of the dam strengthening works were completed during his tenure as PWD Minister in 1989. Despite this, Kerala had refused to increase the water level then. He added that neither the DMK nor the AIADMK would permit the construction of a new dam at Mullaiperiyar. Mr. Duraimurugan, along with Department Secretary Sandeep Saxena, Collector S. Karmegham, senior officials, legislators and an MP, visited the Mettur dam premises, and interacted with officials on the release of surplus water from the dam. The Minister also launched the Mettur Surplus Water Scheme, and switched on the motors at the Thippampatti lift irrigation pump house. . Dam at Rasimanal Efforts will be made to construct a dam at Rasimanal, across the Cauvery in Hogenakkal, once “issues” surrounding the project are resolved, he said later in the day at Hogenakkal. On Karnataka’s claims of a favourable judgment from the Supreme Court on a petition filed by Tamil Nadu, seeking a halt to the dam project at Mekadatu, he said it was natural for every party to presume victory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-aiadmk-wont-permit-new-dam-at-mullaperiyar/article37532016.ece
17 November 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Bodies of two workers recovered from debris||Charred bodies of two women workers, Hameeda and Kartheeswari, were on Tuesday evening recovered from the concrete debris of a cracker tube-making unit where an explosion on Monday led to collapse of the building. Fire and Rescue Services personnel toiled to break two concrete roofs and beams of the building since Monday evening. “The rescue work had to be suspended late on Monday night as a precautionary measure after we found raw materials for making fireworks, along with crackers, being illegally stocked there,” said Superintendent of Police M. Manohar. Fire service personnel, led by District Fire Officer K. Ganesan, resumed the rescue operation under the supervision of Virudhunagar Collector J. Meghanath Reddy, on Tuesday morning even as the crackers were bursting from under the debris. “The building was relatively new and its good quality of construction posed a challenge in breaking the concrete structure,” he After a day-long effort, the body of Kartheeswari was found at 4.40 p.m. and that of Hameeda by 5.30 p.m. Owner’s family had left Initially, the police suspected that the owner of the tube-making unit, Panchavarnam and her husband Ramanathan, had been trapped under the debris along with other workers. However, the SP clarified that no other body was found and investigation revealed that the family members had left their house before the accident. Efforts were on to trace them, Mr. Manohar said. One of the two injured workers, Velmurugan, had reportedly told the police that the unit owner had got crackers for the paper tubes supplied to fireworks units.“We need to verify his statement as raw materials were also found inside the unit that has to deal only with non-explosive materials,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bodies-of-two-workers-recovered-from-debris/article37532129.ece
17 November 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Blockage leads to inundation||Paddy fields along the Konakadungalar in Aimbadumelnagaram and Varagur in the district were inundated due to heavy discharge in the water course on Tuesday following heavy rain in the locality on Monday. The villagers complained that weed overgrowth had blocked the flow across a culvert, leading to inundation. Tiruvaiyaru tahsildar D. Nedunchezhian, who inspected the spot along with the village administrative officer Rajesh, joined the villagers in clearing the weeds. According to rough estimates, about 500 acres of samba paddy crop could have been submerged. Officials said the water was draining and expressed the hope that the crop would not have suffered damage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/blockage-leads-to-inundation/article37532108.ece
17 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Congress dogged by bitter divisions over restructuring||Bitter divisions between senior party figures and the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) leadership over organisational restructuring continue to dog the Congress in Kerala. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy is in New Delhi reportedly to make a strong attempt to stymie the hard push by KPCC president K. Sudhakaran and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan to shake up the party ahead of the organisational elections next year. Sources close to Mr. Chandy said he had strongly objected to allowing the incumbent powers to restructure the party at will in the run-up to the organisational polls. The ‘A’ and ‘I’ factions had objected to the KPCC bid to create new unit committees at the grassroots to spearhead the membership drive. The factions viewed the move as a thinly veiled bid by the KPCC president to capture the party. Moreover, Mr. Sudhakaran had expressed his intention to contest for the post of KPCC president in the upcoming party polls. Hence, the factions have raised questions about a possible conflict of interest. Similar views Mr. Chandy is likely to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday. Congress insiders claimed that Ramesh Chennithala, Mullappally Ramachandran and V.M. Sudheeran were on the same page with Mr. Chandy. Mr. Satheesan said the All India Congress Committee had ordered the reorganisation. It had not viewed the impending organisational elections as an impediment to party restructuring. Meanwhile, the KPCC was pushing ahead with the reorganisation. The KPCC has also cracked the whip against perceived indiscipline. For one, it has issued a show-cause notice to ‘A’ group stalwart and KPCC secretary M.A. Latheef for trying to “derail” Mr. Satheesan’s visit to a fishing hamlet at Muthalapozhy. Reconciliatory tone In New Delhi, the AICC general secretary in charge of Kerala Tariq Anwar appeared to strike a reconciliatory tone. He said the party would hear Mr. Chandy’s grievances sympathetically. Public flashes of acrimony and a spate of desertions to the CPI(M) had marred the attempts of the KPCC to project a semblance of unity. The leadership is now bracing for the outcome of Mr. Chandy’s meeting with the AICC top brass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/congress-dogged-by-bitter-divisions-over-restructuring/article37531904.ece
17 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Call for increased storage capacity in State||With Mettur Dam reaching its full capacity of 120 feet and almost the entire inflow from Karnataka being discharged into the Cauvery river downstream, over 40,000 cusecs of water was diverted into the Kollidam from Upper Anicut (Mukkombu) in Tiruchi district on Tuesday. A major portion of the water will run off into the sea. On Tuesday evening, 41,103 cusecs of water was being discharged from Mettur Dam against the inflow of 41,812 cusecs. Significantly, only 11,208 cusecs of water was released from Krishnaraja Sagar Dam and 1,767 cusecs from Kabini Dam from Karnataka. Rainwater in catchment areas downstream accounted for the rest of the inflow, according to Public Works Department officials here. At Upper Anicut, 47,813 cusecs of water was being realised on Tuesday evening. Of this, 40,699 cusecs was being diverted into the Kollidam, which was essentially a flood carrier, prompting Thanjavur Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver to caution the people living along the river banks to stay safe. Given the widespread heavy rain in the Cauvery delta in recent days, there is not much demand for water for irrigation in the rivers and canals. Besides, most of the irrigation tanks also have substantial water storage,PWD officials point out. In many places in core delta districts, farmers are still struggling to drain the water from inundated fields where samba/thaladi crops have been raised. The heavy discharge in Kollidam has once again triggered calls for effective steps to harness surplus water during monsoon by increasing the storage capacity in the State. “The government should look to store water in tanks and water bodies along the rivers. Scientific ways to increase the ground water table through artificial recharge structures should be explored,” says Arupathy Kalyanam, general secretary, Federation of Farmers Associations of Cauvery Delta Districts. “Although steps are underway to build a few barrages across the Cauvery and the Kollidam, the government should pursue a plan mooted earlier by a few former PWD engineers to build about a dozen barrages across the two rivers. Through this, we can store up to 10 tmc of water,” Mr. Kalyanam said. He also bats for a substantial increase in funding for irrigation in the State. “The present allocation is meagre, especially in comparison to neighbouring States such as Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana,” he claims. The entire irrigation system of over 28,000 canals in the Cauvery delta should be modernised quickly through a transparent project for effective utilisation of water, he adds. A few others feel that the Cauvery-Gundar intra-State river link project, which envisages filling up several tanks in Pudukottai and other southern districts, was the best option to harness the surplus flow. “More than 50,000 cusecs of water is being let into the Kollidam now, if we take into account the discharge into the river from Grand Anicut. The Cauvery-South Vellar-Vaigai-Gundar linking project is the best way to harness the surplus water. The scheme will also help effective utilisation of the flow under the Godavari-Cauvery linking scheme in future,” contends G.S. Dhanapathy, State general secretary, Farmers Forum of India. Referring to the petition filed before the Supreme Court by Karnataka against the Cauvery-Gundar link scheme, Mr. Dhanapathy says Tamil Nadu should present its case effectively by pointing out that the scheme envisages utilisation of only the surplus rain water during the monsoon. “Karnataka is releasing only the surplus water from its dams, we are getting much water from the catchment areas downstream and various parts of Tamil Nadu and we are seeking to utilise only this surplus flow,” he maintains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-increased-storage-capacity-in-state/article37532110.ece
17 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Minister promises permanent solution to waterlogging in city||Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru on Tuesday said that a permanent solution would be found to prevent flooding in low-lying areas of the city. Speaking to reporters here after visiting Linga Nagar, Fathima Nagar, Beski Nagar, Thyagaraja Nagar, Edamalaipattipudur and other areas, where water inundation was reported due to heavy flow of water in the Koraiyar and the Kudamuriti, Mr. Nehru said it had been found that a few areas along the banks of the two rivers in the city faced inundation frequently. They were prone to waterlogging as they were situated in low-lying areas. Similarly, some residential colonies faced inundation whenever Kodingal vaical was in spate, All vulnerable areas had been identified and officials had been asked to prepare a suitable action plan to prevent waterlogging in the affected areas. As far as Linga Nagar and a few other neighboring residential colonies were concerned, Mr. Nehru said that construction of a retaining wall along the Kudamuriti for some distance would solve the issue. Similarly, a shutter had to be installed to prevent excess flow ofi water n Kodingal vaical. It might cost Rs. 50 crore. The Minister said that a few areas in Edamalaipattipudur were inundated due to a minor breach in the Koraiyar. The vulnerable spots had been identified and suitable action would be taken to strengthen the bund of the Koraiyar. He said the Collector had inspected almost all lakes and water bodies in the district to check the storage capacity and the strength of the bund. Several lakes had good storage. There was no need for worry as the storage level was well under control. Some water bodies might pose problems if the catchment areas received heavy rainfall hereafter. There were reports of water inundation on paddy fields in some places in the district. Officials had taken up enumeration to figure out the damage on crop loss. They would be duly compensated based on the relief plan to be announced by the State government. To a question, Mr. Nehru said that encroachment on water bodies was one of the reasons for the flooding. But, there were difficulties in removing encroachment as many factors came into the picture. Hence, the way forward was to find a solution based on ground reality. Collector S. Sivarasu, Corporation Commissioner P.M.N. Mujibur Rahuman and senior officials accompanied the Minister to the rain-hit areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-promises-action-to-prevent-waterlogging-in-tiruchi-city/article37532119.ece
17 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bid to accelerate entrepreneurship culture in region||The scope for accelerating culture of entrepreneurship in Tiruchi and surrounding districts was to the fore during ‘YUDID 2021 - Tiruchi Excellence Recognitions’, the maiden exercise by CII Yi Tiruchi Chapter, with the objective of recognising socially responsible individuals and outstanding entrepreneurs. The objective was to recognise and celebrate young entrepreneurs, innovators, change makers, unsung heroes, NGOs and public offices (central and state); showcase best practices of large organisation and SME industries towards environmental and social governance; show support and gratitude to people who had made a positive contribution to the region; and motivate others to strive for excellence. The recognition accorded to the achievers recently was under two broad categories: Entrepreneurship excellence, and Social Impact. “The event was basically to celebrate talent in Tiruchi region and bring to limelight successes achieved by people in different fields. The YUDID 2021 was a vertical of Ithu Namma Tiruchi event of Yi Tiruchi to make people feel proud of their achievements,” Kaveri Annamalai, Chair, Yi Tiruchi Chapter, said. Nominations were received by entrepreneurs in the age group of 18 to 50 years from Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Perambalur and Pudukottai districts. The achievers under ‘Pride of Tiruchi’ constituted Bharathidasan University, Bharat Heavy Electricals, High Energy Projectile Factory, St. Joseph s College, Lion Nutri Foods, Director of NIT-T Mini Shaji Thomas, Director of Tiruchi International Airport S. Dharmaraj, and Olympic 2021 participants Suba Venkadesan, Dhanalakshmi and Arokiaraj. Social Impact recognition was accorded to Ramakrishnan of Athma Foundation; S. Damodaran, Founder, Gramalaya; Anantharamakrishnan, Director, Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology, Thanjavur; Subburaman, Director of SCOPE and Padma Shri winner 2021; Ravindra Kumar V.G., Secretary, Sathguru Thavathiru Rangaraja Desika Swamigal Trust; Sam, Founder, Newlife Social Welfare Trust; A.P. Sivakumar, District Library Officer; Ignitte Club, NIT-T; Sam Ellis of Kingdom Foundation; and Citizens for Uyyakondan. Entrepreneurship Excellence Achievers consisted of Tamizhinian, Founder and CEO, Frigate Engineering Services Pvt. Ltd.; Sidd Ahmed, president and Group CEO, VDart Group; Srinidhi Umanathan, Founder and CEO, Re-Tailors; K. Ashok Kannan, Managing Director - Farm Operations, Happy Hens; A. Janet Rajeswari, Founder, Ecoheal; Rajesh Vaidhyanathan, Co-Founder, Nimesa Technologies Pvt. Ltd.; Krithika Subrahmanian, Co-Founder, Sreshta Leisure Pvt. Ltd.; Senthil, MD, Honey Builders; Roshan Manavalan, MD, Sarathas; G. Suresh Kumar, Co-Founder and CEO, MacApp Studio; Sridhar Deivasigamani, Founder and CEO, Intellihot Inc; Srinath Ramakkrushnan, Co-Founder and COO, Zetwork; and V. Narayanan, Senior Vice-President and Location Head, Omega Healthcare Management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-accelerate-entrepreneurship-culture-in-region/article37532434.ece
17 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Drawing competition elicits good response from students||Students took part in the drawing competition at the District Central Library conducted on Sunday as part of the National Library Week celebrations. Both library officials and participants were enthusiastic to take part in activities at the library after it was closed for over a year due to COVID-19 restrictions. The competitions for readers in various age groups included story telling, poetry writing, and essay writing based on depicted pictures. The drawing competition for school children was inaugurated by the president of Readers' Circle, Tiruchi, V. Govindasamy, and District Library Officer A. P. Sivakumar. Mr. Sivakumar said that the initiative was meant to encourage readers to return to the library. “We noticed that many were coming to the library for the first time. The aim of the initiative is to create awareness about the facilities at the library and to encourage reading habits,” he added. A special quiz competition for the visually-impaired students who prepare for competitive examinations at the library has also been planned. The participants were apprised about the significance of the National Library Week that will be celebrated from November 14 to 20. The Indian Library Association (ILA) had declared 14th November as National Library Day, coinciding with the birthday of former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, and that the day was being celebrated since 1968, through various programmes to enable the public to know about libraries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drawing-competition-elicits-good-response-from-students/article37532121.ece
17 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||114 fresh cases, 4 more deaths in central region||The central region reported 114 fresh cases on Tuesday. Four more deaths, two each in Tiruchi and Tiruvarur, owing to complications arising out of the infection were recorded in the region. Tiruchi topped among the nine districts in the region in terms of fresh and active cases following a drop in cases in Thanjavur district. On Tuesday, Tiruchi district accounted for 36 fresh cases and Thanjavur 26. Tiruvarur reported 16 fresh cases and Karur 14. Eight persons tested positive in Pudukottai district, seven in Nagapattinam, five in Mayiladuthurai and two in Ariyalur. Perambalur had no fresh case. In Tiruchi district 378 patients were under treatment including those under home treatment. Thanjavur district had 338 active cases, Karur 189, Tiruvarur 181, Nagapattinam 89, Pudukottai 70, Ariyalur 34, Mayiladuthurai 32 and Perambalur 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/114-fresh-cases-four-more-deaths-reported-in-central-districts/article37532115.ece
17 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||550 acres of paddy crop submerged in Tiruchi||About 550 acres of standing paddy crop have been submerged in the district. According to a survey carried out by the Department of Agriculture, as of Monday, Tiruverumbur is the worst affected block in the district. Out of 550 acres, Tiruverumbur block alone accounted for 300 acres. A large number of fields in Kiliyur, Arasangudi, Vengur, Vazhavanthankottai and Alathur villages remain waterlogged. In Andhanallur block 105 acres of paddy have been affected. They are mostly in Pulivalam, Kodiyalam and Maruthandakurichi. Paddy crop raised in a few locations in Pullampadi, Lagudi, Mannachanallur and Manapparai are also waterlogged. In addition to them, groundnut raised on 10 acres in Manapparai and cotton on five acres in Pulampadi have also been affected. A senior official told The Hindu that about 100 acres in Lalgudi were said to have been affected due to the rain on Monday night. Officials had been asked to verify the claims. The district received 65% more rain than the actual rainfall in northeast monsoon so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/550-acres-of-paddy-crop-submerged-in-tiruchi/article37532435.ece
17 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Poachers held||Forest officials have arrested K. Raja (65) and K. Kumaresan(25) of Narikuravar Thoppu in Kollidam Tollgate on the charge of hunting monitor lizard and cranes at Moovarampalayam Road near Thiruppainjeeli on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poachers-held/article37532112.ece
17 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||35 jail inmates undergo training in fast food making||Thirty-five inmates of the Central Prison here were imparted free self-employment training in preparation of fast food items. The 10-day training was conducted by Indian Overseas Bank - Rural Self Employment Training Institute, Tiruchi, to the inmates in the age group of 18-45 years. During the training programme, the inmates were taught on ways to prepare fast food items, their packing and delivery to customers. They were also trained in soft skills such as basic English communication, banking awareness and financial literacy. The participants received the course completion certificates at the valedictory function held at the Central Prison on Monday. Deputy Inspector General of Prisons, Tiruchi range, Kanagaraj and Superintendent of Prisons, Central Prison, Tiruchi, Urmila distributed the certificates, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/35-jail-inmates-undergo-training-in-fast-food-making/article37532433.ece
17 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||College students demand online exam||Around 400 students of various colleges staged a demonstration here on Tuesday demanding online examinations. The students assembled under the banner ‘Anaithu Maanavargal Munnetra Amaippu’ near the District Collectorate where they staged the demonstration for nearly an hour in support of their demand. Online classes The contention of the students was that since the semester classes were conducted online during the pandemic period, the examination for them should be held in the online mode as well. Similar demonstration was held by a group of students in front of the District Collectorate in Pudukottai town on the same issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-students-demand-online-exam/article37532436.ece
17 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Hold more consultation on Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy’||Lauding the intent of the State Government to draft a ‘fair’ and ‘humane’ policy to resettle communities in ‘dignified manner’, civil society organizations have, however, sought a moratorium on evictions till the policy is finalised. The collective opinion of ten civil society groups represented by nearly 94 individuals at a consultation on the Draft Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy, 2021, here was that the exercise must be made more extensive covering various districts in the State. Though the Government of Tamil Nadu had held extensive consultations with civil society organisations and formed a drafting committee consisting of experts, the policy appears to have been drafted behind closed doors. The discussions had so far been confined to select organisations and academicians, the participants said at the consultation organised by Jamal Mohamed College (Autonomous), in collaboration with People Development Initiative (PDI), Tiruchi and Madras School of Social Work, on Saturday. Communities being the primary stakeholders of the policy had not been consulted restricting the scope of the draft, they said. The draft in English was released on the website of Tamil Nadu Urban Habitat Development Board (TNUHDB) on October 12, 2021, and the Tamil version on October 16, for eliciting public opinion. The civil society groups sought more time for involving the community in the consultation process so that the policy could be made participatory and holistic. A specific suggestion related to the draft was that the policy should begin by spelling out the key problems and challenges of the resettlement processes that have emerged in the past (such as poor quality of infrastructure and services, and issues of safety) in order to ensure that these issues are addressed. While the idea of a State-level resettlement committee envisaging inter-departmental coordination is appreciable, the composition of the proposed committee: 20 official (government) representatives and one non-governmental representative has to be revisited for better balancing, they emphasised I. Ambalavanan, Director, Peoples Development Initiatives; R. M. Sam Deva Asir , Assistant Professor in Social Work, Bishop Heber College; Tamilagan, Advocate; K. Sheik Fareeth, Assistant Professor of Social Work, and M. Antony Stephen, Professor, Madras School of Social Work, offered extensive inputs during the consultation, in their capacity as experts. A. Syed Zakir Hasan, Head, Department of Tamil, and Dean of Arts, Jamal Mohamed College; and A. Mohamed Ibraheem, Vice Principal, also took part in the consultation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hold-more-consultation-on-resettlement-and-rehabilitation-policy/article37532122.ece
17 November 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Need for check dam to store water flowing into sea||Failure by successive State governments to construct a check dam downstream of Srivaikundam check dam to store the Tamirabharani’s surplus water during floods has resulted in wastage of over 10,000 cusecs of water into the Gulf of Mannar. Srivaikundam check dam, the last check dam of Tamirabharani irrigation system built in the 1860s with the storage capacity of 8 tmcft, had to wait for more than five decades for desilting, thanks to the delay in getting the nod from Ministry of Environment and Forest. When the desilting started, it caused a furore among the public, especially farmers, who alleged that desilting was not done properly as river sand was alone plundered in far away places. An additional check dam could help in irrigating over 50,000 acres of uncultivated area with the water draining into the sea. Though steps were taken to identify a place for the construction of a check dam during the previous AIADMK government, the proposal remains only on paper till now. After Papanasam dam’s storage level touched 135 feet and Servalar dam’s storage rose to 142 feet, the Tamirabharani flooded recently as over 15,000 cusecs of water was discharged from these reservoirs. Consequently, over 10,300 cusecs of water was going waste into the sea at 4 p.m. on Tuesday. While 300 cusecs water is released in Vadakal channel, no water has been released in the Thenkal channel. Since Nanguneri and Radhapuram taluks in Tirunelveli district and Sattankulam taluk in Thoothukudi district have been categorised as ‘rain shadow regions’, a 72-km-long flood carrier channel is being dug on an outlay of Rs. 872 crore for 13 years to take 2,675 mcft of surplus water of the Tamirabharani. The project is nearing completion and expected to be commissioned in March 2022 to nourish 56,908 acres of land under 252 irrigation tanks and 5,220 wells in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts. Similar project to benefit the northern regions of Thoothukudi district was mooted by the previous AIADMK government towards the end of its tenure. As per this proposal, the Tamirabharani flood will be diverted from the check dam at Seevalaperi near Palayamkottai to Poovani by digging a channel for about 12.50 km. Then the 60-km-long channel will be excavated from Poovani to connect Uppathu Odai, Malattaru, Kallaru and Vaipar to take the excess water of the Tamirabharani even up to Muththalapuram. If it is done, this dry region will get drinking water in adequate quantity. “Besides executing the second flood carrier channel for benefiting the northern parts of Thoothukudi district, the government should construct another check dam at Eral beyond Srivaikundam. It will immensely benefit the farming operations and effectively check the intrusion of seawater into the land to spoil the groundwater,” says K.P. Arumugam, district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-for-check-dam-to-store-water-flowing-into-sea/article37532439.ece
17 November 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Seminar on personality development held||Annai Hajira Women’s College, Melapalayam, organised a programme on ‘Capacity building and personality development for girl students’ on Tuesday as mandated by National Commission for Women, and ‘My Government’ It focused on learning and applying the use of intuitive, logical and critical thinking, communication and interpersonal skills, not limited to cognitive or creative skills and sure will enhance outcome of employability. A. Abdul Kader, former Head, Department of English, Sadakathullah Appa College, Palayamkottai, spoke on ‘Personal capacity building’ to identify career opportunities, preparing the right resume and presentation skills by exploring their innate strengths and weaknesses. B. Beneson Thilagar Christadoss, Professor of English, St. John’s College, Palayamkottai, spoke on ‘Professional - career skills’ while the third session on ‘Digital literacy and effective use of social media’ was handled by K.A. Mohamed Riyazudeen, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, Sadakathullah Appa College. He stressed on awareness among women on safe use of Internet and social media platforms to protect them from cyber crimes and explained the resources available for them for preventing and handling cyber crimes. Following the online quiz programme organised through ‘MyGov’, the participants were given certificates. A. Jayashee, Head, Department of Commerce, welcomed the speakers. K. Rajab Fathima, principal, presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seminar-on-personality-development-held/article37532442.ece
17 November 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||BJP plans protest over bad roads||State vice-president of Bharatiya Janata Party and Tirunelveli MLA Nainar Nagenthran said that he would lead a fast on December 7 by mobilising traders, labourers and people if the damaged roads are not repaired immediately. He told reporters here on Tuesday, after chairing a meeting with traders, autorickshaw drivers and labourers to discuss the condition of the roads, that basic amenities like roads, street lights, drinking water distribution, drainage channels were in the worst shape. Pettai Road, South Mount Road, Gandhimathi Nagar Road and all the roads in Thatchanallur area were unmotorable and causing accidents every day after they were dug for underground drainage project. “Since the monsoon is active and the ongoing underground drainage project is yet to be completed, the corporation cannot lay complete roads. At least, it can rectify the roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-plans-protest-over-bad-roads/article37532136.ece
17 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man tests positive for A(H1N1) in Tiruppur||A resident in Tiruppur Corporation limits has tested positive for A (H1N1) influenza, officials from the Health Department and the District Administration confirmed on Tuesday. The 44-year-old man was diagnosed last week and was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore. Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar said on Tuesday that the patient was ‘stable.’ “His family members have been placed under home isolation for 10 days,” he said. Disinfection works and other precautionary measures had been carried out in Tiruppur, he added. No case in Coimbatore The Coimbatore district administration on Tuesday said there was no case of A (H1N1) influenza in the district in the past two days. The statement of the district administration has contradicted a release issued by the Coimbatore Corporation on Sunday which said that two persons tested positive for A (H1N1) influenza in its limits and appealed to the public to be cautious. The district administration said in a communiqué on Tuesday that the two persons had tested positive for influenza A, which causes normal flu-like symptoms, and not for A (H1N1) influenza.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-tests-positive-for-ah1n1-in-tiruppur/article37532069.ece
17 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Process to provide compensation under way’||Following the deaths of three persons due to asphyxiation after they entered into an effluent tank of a private dyeing unit in Tiruppur, the district administration has been collecting documents to provide compensation for the deceased’s kin, sources said on Tuesday. Sources in the district administration said that a preliminary report was sent to the State government following the incident. The process of collection of documents such as death and legal heir certificates of the deceased are under way, based on which the district administration will provide the compensation amount, the sources added. Vadivel (32), a daily wage labourer who was engaged illegally to clean the effluent tank of the dyeing unit at Veerapandi within Tiruppur City Police limits, died after inhaling noxious fumes on Sunday. Two of the unit’s employees manager Dinesh Pandian (28) and fitter Rajendran (55), who went to rescue the deceased from the tank, had also died. The Veerapandi police arrested the unit’s owner R. Dhanalakshmi (48) under the provisions of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/process-to-provide-compensation-under-way/article37532053.ece
17 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Minister hands over homestead pattas to tribal people||Minister for Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj on Tuesday handed over 34 homestead pattas to the residents of Melkurumalai tribal settlement in Udumalpet. A press release said the Minister participated in an event organised by the Department of Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare at the Amanalingeswarar temple hall in Thirumoorthy Malai within Udumalpet block in the presence of District Collector S. Vineeth. Ms. Kayalvizhi also distributed subsidy worth Rs. 28.51 lakh among 21 beneficiaries from the tribal settlement under the Tamil Nadu Adi Dravidar Housing and Development Corporation Limited (TAHDCO). The Minister said that TAHDCO provides subsidies for entrepreneurial activities such as purchase of milch cattle, vehicles and financial aid for women self-help groups, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-hands-over-homestead-pattas-to-tribal-people/article37532141.ece
17 November 2021||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Fixed fare for autorickshaws in Tiruvannamalai for visitors||Collector B. Murugesh has introduced fixed fares for auto rickshaws in Tiruvannamalai town for the Karthigai Deepam festival, especially Maha Deepam on November 19, to be celebrated at the famous Arunachaleswarar temple. A special desk with a helpline 04175-232266 has been set up at the District Collectorate for receiving complaints of overcharging by autorickshaw drivers. On the Maha Deepam, autorickshaw drivers should charge only Rs. 50 per person for the following routes: From Athiyanthal temporary bus stand to Government Arts College (Perumbakkam); Athiyanthal temporary bus stand to Angalzhuamman Koil via Outer Ring Road and Tirukoilur Road to Athiyanthal temporary bus stand. “All government buses are free for devotees, especially during Maha Deepam. Strict COVID-19 norms including hand sanitizers, face masks and first aid kit should be followed in all autorickshaws during the festival,” the Collector said. Likewise, a charge of Rs. 30 per person has been fixed for the following routes: From Vettavalam temporary bus stand to Tirukoilur temporary bus stand; Tirukoilur temporary bus stand to Angalamman Koil; Manalurpettai Road to Angalamman Koil; Government Arts College (Perumbakkam) to Angalamman Koil; Tindivanam Road temporary bus stand to Tiruvalluvar Statue; Tindivanam Road temporary bus stand to Sixth Cross Street (Gandhi Nagar Bypass Road); Nallavan Palayam to Angala Parameswari Koil; Pachchaiamman Koil to Krishna Lodge in Tiruvannamalai town. The visitors to the temple, after showing due registration, will be screened for fever. Mask compliance has been made compulsory. As against 5,000 visitors allowed for the festival in 2020, the number of visitors has been increased to 13,000, including 3,000 persons from the district, for the festival in 2021. This year, the festival is being held between November 7 and 23. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, entry for visitors from outside the district has not been allowed from November 17 to 20 to prevent overcrowding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fixed-fare-for-autorickshaws-in-tiruvannamalai-for-visitors/article37532378.ece
17 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Doddabetta Road being repaired for second season||With the second tourist season on the verge of starting in the Nilgiris, preparations are under way to reopen one of the main tourist attractions of the town – the Doddabetta Peak. According to officials, the Doddabetta Peak has been closed to tourists since August of this year, when heavy rain caused landslips and tree-falls along the road leading up to the peak, damaging the road heavily and making it unsafe for tourist vehicles to ascend up to the peak. The Doddabetta Eco-Development Committee (EDC), which is managed by the Tamil Nadu Forest Department, also provides employment opportunities for local communities and also brings revenue to other small businesses such as tea stalls, bakeries and restaurants around the area. On Monday, Forest Minister, K. Ramachandran inaugurated the repair work of Doddabetta Road, which cuts through the Doddabetta Reserve Forest. The repair work is estimated to cost around Rs. 15 lakh and will be completed in one month’s time. The Minister also inaugurated a new bus TNSTC bus route from Kappachi to Mettupalayam. The Minister said that the new bus route will be beneficial to thousands of people who use public transport in the Nilgiris. With the Nilgiris district administration advising tourists to not visit the Nilgiris between November 13 and 16, tourist footfall to the district reduced substantially over the weekend, officials said. All major parks and gardens reported significant reduction in tourist visitors, while heavy rain also impacted the Government Botanical Garden (GBG). The lawns of the garden have been closed to the public temporarily due to the heavy rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doddabetta-road-being-repaired-for-second-season/article37532064.ece
17 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 8 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,040 with 8 new cases reported on Tuesday. While a total of 48,791 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 115. The district's death toll is 1,134. In Ranipet district, three cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,508. In Tirupattur district, 1 new case was reported on Tuesday and the total number of positive cases reached 29,358. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 7, taking the tally of cases to 55,106. Out of these, 54,358 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 79.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-8-new-cases/article37532379.ece
17 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Farmers get new facilities||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday inaugurated several godowns constructed under Agricultural Regulated Market and commercial buildings developed by Agricultural Marketing and Agri-Business in southern districts, through video conference. Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration  P. Moorthi inspected a newly-inaugurated integrated Agricultural Extension Centre and a godown at Sedapatti in the district. The extension centre is for Departments of Agriculture, Horticulture, Agricultural Engineering, Agri Marketting and Agri-Business and Seed Certification. The new building has been constructed a cost of Rs. 2 crore under National Agricultural Development Programme 2019-2020. The building has come up with a plinth area of 620 square metres and the godown of 200 square metres. Mr. Moorthi also distributed barnyard millet seeds, micro-nutrient, and other farm inputs to 12 beneficiaries. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar, Joint Director (Agriculture) J. Vivekanandan were among those who were present. Virudhunagar Among the new facilities inaugurated in Virudhunagar district are three godowns, each with a capacity to stock 1,000 tonnes of food grains, at a cost of Rs. 1.40 crore each in Aruppukottai, Rajapalayam and Sattur. Besides, an extension centre of Agricultural Engineering constructed at a cost of Rs. 1 crore at Srivilliputtur and an integrated agricultural extension centre, at a cost of Rs. 2 crore, at Vembakottai, were also inaugurated. Revenue Minister K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran, along with Collector J. Meghanath Reddy, inspected the godown constructed at Ramasamypuram in Aruppukottai. The Minister also distributed spraying machineries, barnyard millet seeds to beneficiaries. Ramanathapuram The Chief Minister inaugurated 21 commercial establishments, a cleaning and grading shed and office building, constructed at a cost of Rs. 6.81 crore, at the Agricultural Regulated Market. Fifteen shops and a cleaning and grading shed constructed at a cost of Rs. 2.31 crore at Rajasinghamangalam were also opened. Later, Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat, along with Ramanathapuram MP, K. Navas Kani, inspected the facilities at Ramanathapuram. MLAs Kader Batcha Muthuramalingam (Ramanathapuram) and S. Murugesan (Paramakudi), Joint Director of Agriculture Tom P. Silas, and Ramanathapuram Marketting Committee secretary P. Raja were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-inaugurates-godowns-other-facilities-for-farmers/article37532132.ece
17 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ meet on Friday||Farmers’ grievance redressal meeting would be held at the Virudhunagar Collectorate on November 19. A statement said that the monthly meeting, chaired by Collector J. Meghanath Reddy, would be held at 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-meet-on-friday/article37532130.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu appeals in Supreme Court to restore Vanniyar quota||"The State had enacted the Act in 2021 only based on adequate authenticated data on the population of the Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities enumerated by the Tamil Nadu Second Backward Classes Commission in 1983," the government contended. Tamil Nadu said the caste-wise population data disclosed by the Commission was the "only authenticated data available as of now before the State; and such data can be used effectively to plan for sub-classification within backward classes of citizens". "Totally brushing aside such an authentic survey just for the insignificant observations in the note of dissenting members of that Commission on the population enumerated on few of the communities in the order [of the High Court] cannot be sustained," the State said. It said the High Court had decided to focus on these observations rather than the "stupendous" exercise conducted for two years by the Commission and the State for enumeration of the data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-appeals-in-supreme-court-to-restore-vanniyar-quota/article37532017.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nature’s art||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/natures-art/article37531907.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 75 fresh COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Tuesday reported 75 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total cases to 1,05,342. While 72 persons were discharged, 783 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 693. Salem district saw 38 positive cases. According to health officials, 21 cases were indigenous and 13 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 32 cases were reported. As per the bulletin, all cases were indigenous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-75-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37532149.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Somayampalayam sub-station   (9 a.m. to 5 p.m.- November 19): Yamuna Nagar, Kalappanaikenpalayam, GCT Nagar, KTN Palayam, Marutham Nagar, Navavoor Pirivu, Bharathiar University, Somayampalayam, Vasantham Nagar, IOB Colony, Maruthamalai, Agarwal Road, Kanuvai, KNG Pudur, and Thadagam Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37532051.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore – Engagements||Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Workshop on Hot and Spice Skewers, 10.30 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Session on ‘Innovation towards Longevity’, 12 noon.  District Central Library and New Century Book House: Inauguration of Book Exhibition, District Central Library, R.S. Puram, 11 a.m.  Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan College of Engineering: Conference on “Emerging Trends in Engineering and Management 2021”, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-engagements/article37532055.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Velalar College of Engineering and Technology: Department of Medical Electronics, diabetes screening camp, M. Jayaraman, principal, inaugurates, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article37532150.ece
17 November 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Basava Yoga Mantapa seer passes away||Sanganabasava Swami, head of Basava Yoga Mantapa of Balobal Mutt near Gokak, died of a heart attack on November 6. The 54-year-seer collapsed in his chair during his address on his birthday on the mutt premises. Other seers and dignitaries shifted him to a hospital, but he was declared brought dead at the Gokak hospital. He suffered from a severe heart attack, the doctors said.   Senior seers like Chandrashekar Shivacharya of Hukkeri Mutt have expressed shock at his death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/basava-yoga-mantapa-seer-passes-away/article37532166.ece
17 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 vaccination: Second dose coverage remains at 51%||Although over 40 lakh people are due for the second dose of COVID-19 vaccination in Karnataka, it has become a challenging task for the state to get them inoculated. As of Tuesday, the second dose coverage in the state stood at 51% while 88% of the 4.89 crore population has been administered the first dose. It is quite the reverse of the situation two months ago, when there was a shortage of vaccines and people waited in long queues before vaccination centres. The pace of vaccination picked up after vaccine supply from the centre was streamlined. Now the state has surplus stock of vaccines but no takers. As of Tuesday, the state had a stock of 60 lakh doses. State health officials admitted that people are reluctant to get vaccinated, mainly because the number of new COVID-19 cases have reduced drastically. According to data from the state health department, the second dose coverage in 17 of the 31 districts is less than the state average of 51%. Bengaluru Urban district has seen the highest second dose coverage at 78%, followed by Kodagu (62%), Ramanagaram (61%), and BBMP (59%). North Karnataka districts of Kalaburagi, Raichur, and Haveri have recorded the lowest second dose coverage at 39% followed by Davangere (42%), Dharwad (43%), and Yadgir (44%). In fact, the trend of poor vaccination in several North Karnataka districts has been continuing for months now. The state’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) had warned that the third wave, if and when it happens, is likely to hit this region the most. Arundhathi Chandrashekar, state mission director, National Health Mission, said: “With the number of new cases declining, people have forgotten the virus and feel there is no need to get vaccinated. From November 3, we started the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign where our vaccinators go door to door to motivate those who are yet to get vaccinated. It will continue till November 30.” They are also calling up those who have missed the second dose. “We are determined to complete at least 95% coverage by December-end,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-vaccination-second-dose-coverage-remains-at-51/article37531985.ece
17 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ordinance for amendment of KMC Act, BBMP Act promulgated||Karnataka on Tuesday promulgated an Ordinance for the amendment of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Act, 2020. This amendment will allow the civic body to collect ground rent, licence fee, building plan approval fee, scrutiny fee, and security deposit. This comes as a huge relief for the civic body as these fees and charges had been deemed “unenforceable” and contrary to the provisions of the KMC Act, 1976, by the High Court of Karnataka. The amendment will save the BBMP from refunding nearly Rs. 2,000 crore and protect it from slipping into severe financial distress. The notification was issued on Tuesday after an assent from Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot. According to sources, the Bill will be tabled before the legislature during the winter session that is likely to be held in December in Belagavi. The amendment will allow the civic body to levy a fee for issuance of licence; security depositfor the building for which the licence is granted; maintenance of public roads or storing of construction materials in public places during construction (ground rent); security fee ensuring that construction is in accordance with plan sanctioned; commencement certificate, and occupancy certificate. It will also allow the civic body to collect penalty imposed at the time of issuance of occupancy certificate for not obtaining commencement certificate, penalty for regularisation up to 5% of violation or deviation in construction with respect to sanctioned plan or zonal regulation limit, and such other fee specified by government from time to time. Following the High Court’s ruling in early August, the civic body has not been approving building plans or levying any charges or fees. Apart from affecting construction activity in the city, the development had larger legal and financial implications. The levy of these charges contributes a substantial percentage to the BBMP’s revenue, after property tax. The BBMP’s Town Planning Department had submitted a proposal with regard to amending both the KMC Act, 1976, and BBMP Act, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ordinance-for-amendment-of-kmc-act-bbmp-act-promulgated/article37531982.ece
17 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Council elections: Women outnumber male voters||Women voters outnumber male voters in the upcoming biennial elections to 25 seats of the Legislative Council from 20 local authorities constituencies across the State. Of the 98,846 voters on the list, 51,474 are women while 47,368 are men. Most of the voters are those who have been elected to gram panchayats in the elections held in December 2020. In all, the Election Commission is proposing to have 6,073 polling stations in these constituencies to enable voters, who are members of urban and rural local bodies, to cast their ballot. A challenge Of the 20 local authorities, Belagavi, Vijayapura, Dharwad, Dakshina Kannada, and Mysuru constituencies will elect two members each to the Legislative Council. While the fight would be straight between parties in other constituencies, it is these dual constituencies that pose a challenge to parties before they field candidates. Belagavi Local Authority constituency has the highest number of voters at 8,871, followed by Dharwad – 7,502, Vijayapura – 7,385, Mysuru – 6,764, and Dakshin Kannada – 6,043 voters.  Preferential voting “Parties are carefully calculating their moves to field two candidates in these constituencies. Since it ispreferential voting system, same party candidates may fight for the same votes and the party may end up losing both the seats,” a Congress leader said, adding that the members of the Legislative Assembly had an important role in mustering support for the party candidates in these elections.Among constituencies that elect one member, Kalaburagi Local Authorities constituency has the highest number of voters at 6,990, while Kodagu Local Authorities has the lowest number of voters – 1,328. Absence of members The absence of taluk and zilla panchayats members in these elections could reduce on an average about 200 to 250 votes across constituencies while it straight away reduces 198 votes in Bengaluru constituency due to the absence of BBMP councillors. While the State Government has been postponing elections to taluk and zilla panchayats, the matter of holding elections to the BBMP council is in court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/council-elections-women-outnumber-male-voters/article37531994.ece
17 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Issue of slow pace of shifting of utilities raised||At a review meeting on Tuesday, Yelahanka MLA S.R. Vishwanath raised the issue of the slow pace of shifting of utilities, such as power lines, gas lines, optic fibre cables, and drinking water and underground drainage lines. This, in turn, was delaying road restoration work, he said at the meeting which he chaired with BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, and senior officials from civic agencies. Of the 110 villages where the BWSSB is providing new drinking water and UGD lines, 16 come under the Yelahanka Assembly constituency. BWSSB officials were directed to submit the list of areas where pipeline work has been completed to the BBMP. This will help the civic body in taking up road restoration in those areas, he said. Meanwhile, Mr. Gupta directed officials to identify areas where rainwater had entered homes. They were also directed to monitor maintenance of main roads in the segment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/issue-of-slow-pace-of-shifting-of-utilities-raised/article37531987.ece
17 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘No recreational activities on zoo premises at Hospet’||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the state government that no recreational activity should be permitted in the forest area near Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary in Hospet where the Atal Behari Vajpayee Zoological is being shifted from its present location in Ballari. The court also said that minimum required construction should be carried out for operation of zoo on the new premises at Kamalapura in Hospet. A Division Bench passed the order while disposing of a PIL petition filed in 2017 by Santosh Martin and Rajesh M. Krupad, Ballari-based conservationists. Taking note that the forest advisory committee in February 2021 had permitted shifting of zoo to the forest area in Kamalapur, the Bench said the order of the apex court in restraining establishment a recreational park near a bird sanctuary in Utter Pradesh does not come in the way of establishing a zoological park next of the bear sanctuary in Hospet. Moreover, the Bench noted that the state government has made it clear in its statement that no recreational activities are proposed at the new location of the zoo and only minimum construction is being undertaken for operation of the zoo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-recreational-activities-on-zoo-premises-at-hospet/article37532171.ece
17 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court takes suo motu cognisance of noise pollution||Taking suo motu cognisance of noise pollution caused by illegal amplification or modification of vehicle silencers, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to conduct drives to curb them. Besides, the courtdirected the authorities to take into consideration the operation of night clubs and similar establishments which are violating the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control ), Rules, 2000. The court also directed the State government to explain under what provision of the law loudspeakers or public address systems were allowed to be used in places of worships, particularly allowing 17 mosques located in Thanisandra locality of Bengaluru city to use loudspeakers in perpetuity. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the directions while hearing a batch of PIL petitions related to noise pollution, particularly by use of loudspeakers in violation of rules. Not only illegal use of loudspeakers or public address systems, even the modification of silencers of the vehicles is contrary to the provisions of the motor vehicles laws is a menace to the public at large, the Bench observed while directing the State government to submit a detailed action taken to ensure compliance of laws to prevent noise pollution. The Bench also directed the authorities to spell out the action taken to restrict the places of worships from using loudspeakers contrary to the provisions of the Rules, 2000. The Bench pointed out that residents, particularly living in houses and apartments near main roads are affected by noise pollution caused due to illegal modification of silencers. Use of loudspeaker Earlier, Sridhar Prabhu, advocate for some of the petitioners, who are residents of apartment complexes in Thanisandra locality in the city, questioned the authority of the Karnataka Boards for Auqaf in issuing a circular stating that use of loudspeaker is permitted for azaan, the call to prayer even between 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. when the use of loudspeaker is banned under the Rules, 2000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-takes-cognisance-of-noise-caused-by-modified-silencers/article37531979.ece
17 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Another bid to smuggle star tortoises foiled||Three days after 170 Indian star tortoises were found abandoned in two bags at a bus station, the Kalasipalya police on Tuesday recovered another 401 of the threatened species from a man who was hoping to smuggle them to Chennai. However, by the time the police intervened, 21 tortoises had died and another 20 were in serious condition. The accused, Muthu Hamad Meera, was caught on Monday evening while he was trying to board a private bus to Chennai. Acting on a tip-off, the police intercepted him and took him into custody. According to Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Sanjeev Patil, the tortoises had been packed into two boxes. The police obtained court permission and handed over the tortoises to the Bannerghatta Biological Park for rehabilitation. Measures are being taken to save those that are in a critical condition. “We suspect the accused is part of a bigger racket and efforts are on to track down others involved in it,” said the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-bid-to-smuggle-star-tortoises-foiled/article37531980.ece
17 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC puts rider on process initiated to register new vehicles at dealer level||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday said that any process initiated for registration of new non-transport vehicles and fully built transport vehicles on first sale by the authorised representatives of the vehicle manufacturers or dealers based on new October 31 notification would be subject to order to be passed by the court. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the interim order on a PIL petition filed by Mohammed Dastagir, a 67-year-old retired employee of the State Transport Department, who is serving as an advocate after his retirement. The petitioner has contended that the October 31, 2021, final notification empowering the Transport Commissioner to declare a dealer holding valid trade certificate as‘Registering Authority’ was issued in a hurry by giving only five days from the first notification, issued on October 26 inviting objections and suggestions from the public. It has been claimed in the petition that the notification was issued a day after an officer on special duty to the Chief Minister wrote a letter to the Transport Commissioner to arrange a function on November 1 to inaugurate dealer-level-registration of vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-puts-rider-on-process-initiated-to-register-new-vehicles-at-dealer-level/article37531992.ece
17 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Abdul Jabbar is new Congress minority cell president||The former MLC and former president of the Davangere District Congress Committee K. Abdul Jabbar on Tuesday was sworn in as president of the Minority Cell of the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC). On the occasion, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar appealed to the minority community members to expose the “anti-people” and “anti-minority” policies of the BJP Government in the State. Unlike the BJP, he said, the Congress had been following an inclusive policy and accommodating people from all sections and community in the party and in the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/abdul-jabbar-is-new-congress-minority-cell-president/article37531998.ece
17 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Complaint against GP president for ‘insulting’ Dalit V-P||Bagalur Gram Panchayat president J. Mune Gowda has been accused of allegedly “cleansing” the official chair with cow urine and dung after it was used by the vice-president, a Dalit, in his absence when she temporarily assumed charge. After a video of the incident was circulated, BJP SC Morcha state president Chalavadi Narayanaswamy on Monday filed a complaint with the Bagalur police seeking Mr. Mune Gowda’s arrest. He also demanded that the police provide protection to the vice-president, Yashodamma. In his complaint, Mr. Narayanaswamy said Mr. Mune Gowda (backed by Congress) had been disqualified from the post after allegations of embezzlement of funds. After his disqualification, Ms. Yashodamma assumed charge to run the office. However, three days after his disqualification, the accused approached the court challenging the disqualification and got a stay order. He returned to the office to assume charge and found that his chair had been used by Ms. Yashodamma, following which he reportedly “cleansed” it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complaint-against-gp-president-for-insulting-dalit-v-p/article37531999.ece
17 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 255 new cases, seven deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 255 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,92,276. Bengaluru Urban reported 163 cases and two deaths. With seven deaths, the toll rose to 38,153. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 667 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 29,46,601. The State now has 7,493 active patients. Positivity rate touched 0.38%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-255-new-cases/article37531983.ece
17 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Adopt Singapore model, says TAC chairman||TAC chairman M.K. Sudarshan has said that the government should adopt the Singapore model to ensure maximum vaccination coverage. “Singapore has a rule under which people who opt to remain unvaccinated will have to pay COVID-19 hospitalisation bills. While we cannot deny free treatment in government hospitals, the state should stop referral of unvaccinated people to private hospitals under government quota (where they get free treatment),” he said. “Besides, the government should also make it mandatory that only fully vaccinated people can enter public places. While vaccination cannot be done forcefully, those who do not have a complete vaccination certificate should be denied entry,” Dr. Sudarshan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/adopt-singapore-model-says-tac-chairman/article37531986.ece
17 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hassan DC’s PA held for accepting bribe||The Anti-Corruption Bureau police arrested a personal assistant to Hassan Deputy Commissioner after he was allegedly caught while accepting a bribe of Rs. 50,000 for processing an application seeking land use conversion. Sanjeev S. Chavan, village accountant, now posted at the DC’s personal section, was arrested in a hotel in the city. Navya, a resident of Byramangala in Ramanagaram district, had submitted an application to the DC’s office seeking conversion of land use of 1.06 acres at Niluvagilu in Arkalgud taluk for setting up a petrol bunk. The accused had demanded Rs. 1.5 lakh as a bribe to process her file. The complainant brought this to the notice of the ACB. The ACB police laid a trap and arrested the accused while accepting Rs. 50,000 from her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hassan-dcs-pa-held-for-accepting-bribe/article37532339.ece
17 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dharwad Zilla Kannada Sahitya Parishat polls on November 21||With the Dharwad Bench of the High Court of Karnataka vacating the interim stay and dismissing a writ petition against the polls, the elections to the Dharwad Zilla Kannada Sahitya Parishat will be held as scheduled on November 21. After the election to the district unit was announced and the nomination process began, a writ petition was filed in the High court seeking a stay on the poll process as nominations were being allowed in violation of the bylaws of the sahitya parishat and other rules. The petitioner, Nagaraj Kiranagi, has said contended through the petition that Lingaraj Angadi, who served as president of the district unit for two consecutive terms, was seeking re-election for the third time, which was against the bylaws of the parishat. The petitioner had also contended that as per the law, the Assistant Commissioner should be appointed as the Election Officer but in Dharwad, the tahsildar was appointed as the Election Officer. Admitting the petition, the court had earlier issued interim stay on the polls. On Monday, hearing arguments on behalf of the Election Officer and Mr. Lingaraj Angadi, a single-judge Bench, headed by Justice Suraj Govindaraj, observed that if there were objections to the process of holding the election, the objections could be questioned through filing of applications. Observing that as Assistant Commissioner had been appointed as the Chief Election Officer and no loopholes were to be found in the election process, the court dismissed the writ petition. Senior counsels Prakash Udakeri and Rajshekar Angadi represented Mr. Lingaraj Angadi, while Gurudev Gachhinmath argued for the Election Officer. With the legal hurdle being cleared, the election process would go as scheduled, the authorities said. The polling will take place on November 21 along with the polling for the election to State body of the Kannada Sahitya Parishat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharwad-zilla-kannada-sahitya-parishat-polls-on-november-21/article37532169.ece
17 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||International film festival in Dharwad from Nov. 19 to 21||The Nava Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy will be conducting a three-day international film festival and award ceremony from November 19 to 21 in Dharwad. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Tuesday, president of the academy M.A. Mummigatti said that the three-day international film festival will be held at Hotel Travel Inn located at Sattur near Dharwad. Mr. Mummigatti said that the festival will be inaugurated by Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil in the presence of Shivakumar Swami of Siddankolla at 5 p.m. on November 19. Head of Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy Sunil Puranik, film personalities Sa. Ra. Govind, Mohammed Rasheed, D.R. Jairaj, Managing Director of VRL group Anand Sankeshwar, and others will be present during the inauguration. Mr. Mummigatti said that at 5 p.m. on November 20 there will be a fashion show and the award ceremony would be held on November 21. During the fest, the films will be will be screened from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/international-film-festival-in-dharwad-from-nov-19-to-21/article37532167.ece
17 November 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Congress moves court against BJP bid to control civic body||The Congress moved court on Tuesday in its tussle with the BJP for control of the Kalaburagi Mahanagara Palike. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson and former Minister Sharan Prakash Patil said that the party has filed a writ petition in the Kalaburagi bench of the High court of Karnataka, which might be heard on Wednesday. A few days ago, Mr. Patil had accused the BJP of trying to include seven of its MLCs in the voters’ list of Kalaburagi though they were not residents of the city. The move would make the MLCs eligible to vote in the elections for Mayor and Deputy Mayor, and help the party take control of the civic body. According to him, Laxman Savadi, Bharati Shetty, Saibanna Talwar, Lehar Singh, Pratap Naik, Raghunath Malkapure and Muniratna had applied for addition of their names to the voters’ list of Kalaburagi city claiming that they are local residents. In the 55-member civic body, no party has enough seats to get its members elected as the Mayor and Deputy Mayor. Congress is the single-largest party with 27 seats followed by BJP with 23. JD(S) has four seats, and there is one independent member. Congress has two more votes, that of an MLA and a Rajya Sabha member, taking its strength on the floor to 29. BJP has six more votes – that of three MLCs, two MLAs and a Lok Sabha member – to match the strength of the Congress. “After sensing that the Congress would enter into a coalition with the JD(S), BJP began plotting to enter from the back door and capture the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor. Efforts to include its MLCs in the electoral rolls of Kalaburagi city are a part of its game plan to increase its numbers during a vote. We have already raised objections before the authorities concerned and have also filed a writ petition,” Mr. Patil told The Hindu on Tuesday. He claimed that inclusion of the MLCs in the voters’ list of Kalaburagi would be a violation of norms and a Supreme Court ruling. “One has to be an ordinary resident of a city for at least six months to be eligible for inclusion of his/her name in the electoral rolls as per a Supreme Court ruling. None of these MLCs are residents of Kalaburagi,” Mr. Patil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-moves-court-against-bjp-bid-to-control-civic-body/article37532165.ece
17 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||New faces in Cabinet within two months, says Yatnal||Predicting radical changes in the composition of the State Cabinet, BJP leader Basangouda Patil Yatnal said that new faces will replace seniors within two months. “Important changes are going to be made in the State Cabinet. Old and senior leaders who have had enjoyed power for many years will be replaced with the new ones in the reshuffle that is expected to take place within two months. The Cabinet will be restructured along the lines of the Gujarat Cabinet,” Mr. Yatnal said at a media conference in Kalaburagi on Tuesday, claiming that his party’s high command had decided to give representation to all districts. When asked about the possibility of replacing Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, the Vijayapura MLA reiterated his party’s national leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s words and said that there was little possibility of that. “Mr. Shah himself had made it clear that the next Assembly elections in the State would be fought under the leadership of Mr. Bommai.” To a question, Mr. Yatnal said that he would ensure the victory of 130 candidates from his party if he were to be made the in-charge for the election campaign. “V. Somanna and I were not allowed to campaign in the Hangal byelections. If we were allowed, we would have got our candidate registered a landslide victory with a huge margin, just as we did in Sindgi,” he said. To a question on the agitation for Panchamasali reservation, Mr. Yatnal said that the movement for reservations to the Panchamasali sub-groups such as Maleyagouda, Adi Banagiga, Diksha Panchamasali and Talwar would continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-faces-in-cabinet-within-two-months-says-yatnal/article37532170.ece
17 November 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Mayoral polls in Ballari, Kalaburagi postponed||In view of the elections to the Legislative Council, the elections of the Mayor, the Deputy Mayor, and other standing committees in Kalaburagi and Ballari corporations have been postponed. Letters from the Regional Commissioner (Kalaburagi Division) sent to the Commissioners of Kalaburagi and Ballari corporations on Tuesday said that the elections scheduled for November 11 for Kalaburagi corporation and on November 18 for Ballari corporation were postponed as the district administrations were busy with the Council polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mayoral-polls-in-ballari-kalaburagi-postponed/article37532168.ece
17 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Ensure 100% vaccination in Udupi: Lokayukta||Lokayukta P. Vishwanatha Shetty on Tuesday asked the Udupi district administration to identify people who have not been vaccinated against COVID-19 and arrange for their complete vaccination. Chairing a review meeting at Udupi, Justice Shetty said there were reports of some teachers in private educational institutions and fisherworkers not being vaccinated. Every effort should be made to vaccinate such people, he said. The district, he said, has registered 93.5% first dose vaccination by inoculating 9.22 lakh people out of 9.99 lakh eligible persons. Of the 6.29 lakh persons eligible for vaccination as on date, 5.81 lakh are vaccinated. Both doses thus have been administered to 58.16% eligible persons in the district, he noted. Dwelling upon administrative issues, Justice Shetty told officials not to reject applications from the public for minor mistakes. Instead, they should guide applicants to correct such errors and dispose them as per rules, he said. He also asked speedy disposal of cases pending before the Assistant Commissioner’s court. It would be appropriate for government employees to dispose applications on the day of receipt itself, he added. Justice Shetty also directed the departments concerned to approve applications by mobile telecom companies to erect network towers on priority. There were many complaints of rural areas not getting adequate network coverage, he said. Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao, Zilla Panchayat CEO Y. Naveen Bhat, Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhana, deputy conservator of forests Ruthran, Lokayukta SP Kumaraswamy, and others were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ensure-100-vaccination-in-udupi-lokayukta/article37532322.ece
17 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Contesting Council polls to represent coop. sector’||South Canara District Central Cooperative (SCDCC) Bank chairman M.N. Rajendra Kumar on Tuesday said he was compelled to contest the elections to the Legislative Council as an Independent candidate as none heeded to his repeated requests to offer representation to the cooperative sector in the Council. Speaking at the inauguration of his campaign office in the city, Mr. Kumar said members of cooperatives, political parties, religious heads, and others have forced him to contest the polls from the local authorities constituency of Dakshina Kannada-Udupi. As such, it is everyone’s responsibility to ensure his victory and he would work hard for the overall development of the region in general and cooperative sector in particular. Mr. Kumar said there was pressure from different corners not to contest the polls. However, he had already decided to move forward; there are over 4 lakh cooperative members to reach out to the 6,000 odd electorate, he said. Earlier, World Bunts Sangha president Aikala Harish Shetty inaugurated the campaign office. Speaking on the occasion, he said Mr. Kumar has been an apolitical personality. Social workers do not need any political party for support as people’s backing has been their suport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/contesting-council-polls-to-represent-coop-sector/article37532323.ece
17 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Defiling of nagabana: Special police team formed to trace accused||Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar on Tuesday said a team has been entrusted with the task of solving the case of the defilement of the nagabana in Kodikal. Unknown persons entered the sanctum santorum of the nagabana on Saturday and threw out an idol of the snake god. Residents and activists of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Bajrang Dal carried out a demonstration on Saturday and said repeated defiling of places of worship had hurt the sentiments of many devotees. Residents closed shops and business establishments on Monday as police had failed to arrest the accused. In a protest meeting that was held, activists said if the accused are not arrested in the next 24 days, there will be a district bandh. Mr. Kumar told reporters on Tuesday that the police have taken serious note of the defilement of nagabanas in Kavoor police station limits and in Kodikal. “We are working from all possible angles. I am personally reviewing the cases every day,” he said, and asked people to share any leads. The nagabana in Kodikal is among the several sacred groves, temples, and daivastanas in the city that has no CCTV cameras or security guards. A daivastana was defiled in Baikampady and a person was arrested last month. The accused are yet to be traced in connection with the defilement of the nagabana in Kodikal and the one in Kavoor police station limits, which was reported in the last week of October. Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharath Shetty has assured of taking steps for strengthening security and surveillance to places of worship in his constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/defiling-of-nagabana-special-police-team-formed-to-trace-accused/article37532326.ece
17 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Week-long exhibition of bird photographs inaugurated||A week-long photography exhibition of rare birds by journalist K. Shivasubramanya was inaugurated at Puttur on Sunday. Inaugurating the exhibition at Sougandhika, a nursery at Parpunja, poet Subraya Chokkady said the external world became tolerable only because of birds. If there were no birds, the world would have become meaningless, he said. He has brought birds in his poems while writing about nature, Mr. Chokkady said regretting not many crows were visible near his residence of late. Exhibitions like these would introduce birds to public in general and kids in particular, he said. Mr. Shivasubramanya said parents should first encourage kids to go for birding so as to introduce them to the fantastic world of birds. Then they may be given cameras to indulge in bird photography, which in fact is a costly affair. Stating that the world of birds has been a part of the ecosystem surrounding everyone, one cannot become expert in bird photography overnight. It requires a maximum amount of patience and practice, Mr. Shivasubramanya said adding one can capture stunning images if practised for years. The exhibition, he said, does not have any commercial aspect and was organised to encourage local youth, students and agriculturists to develop bonding with birds. Mr. Shivasubramanya said he was involved in the hobby since 15 years and it was a real stress buster for a journalist like him. Sougandhika is a rooftop small open air theatre created by nursery owner Chandru to facilitate cultural activities. The exhibition remains open to public between 10 am and 6 pm till Sunday. As many as 40 pictures of rare birds out of thousands of pictures in his collection would be on display.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/week-long-exhibition-of-bird-photographs-inaugurated/article37532331.ece
17 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Relaxation for filing ESI contribution||The Employees’ State Insurance Corporation has relaxed the time limit till December 15 for filing ESI contribution for the period between April and October 2021. In a press release, ESIC Sub-Regional officer director (In-charge) S. Sivaramakrishnan said as per Regulation-26 contribution for the period between April 2021 and September 2021 had to be paid by November 11. This has now been extended to December 15. The contribution for the month of October 2021 had to be paid by November 15. This contribution can now be paid by December 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relaxation-for-filing-esi-contribution/article37532325.ece
17 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||Power supply would be affected in areas fed by 11 kV Pandeshwara feeder in Mangaluru on Thursday between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Areas affected include A.B. Shetty Circle, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavana, SP Office, Pandeshwara Road, Pandeshwara New Road, Mahalingeshwara Temple, and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article37532328.ece
17 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||briefly||The Election Commission of India has issued the notification for the Karnataka Legislative Council polls. An official release here said November 23 will be the last date to file nominations while they could be withdrawn till November 26 and verification would be done on November 24. Elections will be held on December 10 between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. and the counting on December 14. Candidates may file nominations before the Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner (returning officer) or the Additional DC, DK (assistant RO) on working days between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m.    St. Aloysius College has arranged screening of award-winning Konkani movie, Anthu , at 3 p.m. on November 19 at Eric Mathias Hall, Maffei Block of the campus. Entry to general public is free, said event organiser Flora Castelino in a release.    The Excise Department has constituted flying squads and control rooms to prevent violation of poll code of conduct. Deputy Superintendents of Excise P. Geetha (8762118651), Shivaprasad (9449597109) and Amarnath S.S. Bhandari (9449597781), all in Mangaluru, K. Shobha (9449597107-Bantwal) and Shivaprasad (9449597111-Puttur) head these squads. People may inform the squads on finding any violation of the poll code with the distribution of liquor, said an official release. Similarly, they may call the central office control room on toll-free number 18004252550 or the district control room on toll-free number 18004253872.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37532324.ece
17 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MCC Commissioner meets traders on easing ‘tax load’||Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Lakshmikanth Reddy on Tuesday said the classification of commercial properties in the MCC limits for tax collection will be discontinued and property tax on such properties will henceforth be levied under the category of “commercial” without categorising them. The Commissioner gave this assurance when a delegation of traders and businessmen under the banner of Federation of Organisations and Associations of Mysuru met him in connection with the problems faced by them with regard to the MCC’s tax system and trade licence. They argued the tax structure, particularly for commercial properties, has become a burden with differential taxing of properties. Instead of categorising the commercial properties as ‘A’ and ‘B’ and levying taxes, tax for such properties should be levied entirely as ‘commercial’ properties without any distinction in the extent of tax charged, the Federation said, after the meeting. The Federation said in a release that the Commissioner told the delegation that steps will be taken to bring all commercial properties in the MCC limits under one category and property tax from them would be collected without classifying them. This is expected to ease the tax burden on marriage halls, cinema theatres, commercial complexes, lodges and others from next year. The proposal will be placed before the next council meeting. The Commissioner, however, told the delegation that the outstanding property taxes have to be paid at the earliest and there won’t be any concession on the payment of dues. The council will take a decision on discontinuing collecting additional cess based on facilities such as air-conditioners, power generators and borewells. “The MCC will also look into the tax burden on properties that lack CR for trade licence. For old buildings, the tax is collected based on current construction cost. The traders want the tax to be devalued when the building gets older. This issue will also be brought to the notice of the council,” the Commissioner said in the meeting. For revenue Also, a decision on introducing the procedure of issuing ‘B’ khatas to properties will be taken in the next council meeting. This is expected to bring revenue to the MCC, he added. The depreciation of tax will also be discussed in the council meeting. “The MCC has no powers to act on certain matters which could only be brought to the notice of the State Government. Whatever petitions you give to me will be sent to the government, be it the issue of additional cess collected for vacant sites or other issues for which there are specific government orders. Issues that could be sorted out locally will be looked into by the MCC. The corporation is also ready to issue trade licences to those who are running the trades with valid NOCs,” said the release quoting Mr. Reddy. After the Federation expressed its unhappiness over the “banner campaign” of the MCC for recovering the property tax dues, the Commissioner said the matter will be looked at and the MCC will ensure that there won’t be any cut in basic amenities to the defaulters. Federation President B.S. Prashanth, Vice-President C. Narayana Gowda and other officer-bearers were present. Former Mayor Bhyrappa also questioned the MCC’s act of putting up banners on the properties of defaulters. “When the MCC was not able to recover taxes from certain people for years, it resorted to this drive to recover taxes from those who had kept the dues for two to three years,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mcc-commissioner-meets-traders-on-easing-tax-load/article37532344.ece
17 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||PCV immunisation for infants||As many 40,000 infants in Mysuru district are expected to get pneumococcal vaccine with the launch of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) immunisation programme under the Universal Immunisation Programme (UIP) here on Tuesday. Launching the programme, District Health Officer K.S. Prasad said the PCVs are available at 137 PHCs and urged the parents to get their babies inoculated as per the vaccination schedule for protecting them from pneumonia and meningitis. “This vaccine was not available free in government hospitals but was available in private hospitals with each dose costing around Rs. 3,000. It was unaffordable for many as three doses of the vaccine have to be administered to the child at different intervals within the age of one year. Now, under the UIP, the vaccine is available free and the people must make use of it.” Dr. Prasad said 15 per cent of morbidity in infants aged between zero and five years is attributed to pneumonia and meningitis. With PCV jab, they can be protected. “Our records say there are about 40,000 babies eligible for receiving the PCV vaccine. The parents can visit the PHCs of their choice and get the vaccine for their babies for free,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pcv-immunisation-for-infants/article37532342.ece
17 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Attendance in schools 84%||Attendance in schools in Mysuru district shows a steady improvement with each passing week and more number of students attending classes in rural than in urban areas. There are nearly 4.25 lakh students in the district studying in various classes from 1st to 10th standard and the attendance in both the Government and private schools continues to rise and was pegged at 84 per cent almost 3 weeks after the reopening of primary schools. There was graded opening of schools due to the pandemic. While primary schools reopened from October 25, classes for those between 6th and 8th standard had commenced in September and for 9th and 10th, from the last week of August. Deputy Director of Public Instructions Ramachandra Raje Urs said that the attendance in primary schools had reached 78 per cent while it was 86 per cent in high schools. For LKG and UKG which reopened from November 8, the attendance rate was steadily improving and 58 per cent of the children enrolled for classes were attending. Interactions In areas where the attendance is low the Department of Public Instructions is initiating measures to encourage students to attend classes by way of interaction with parents etc. Meanwhile, the long gap of almost 20 months was beginning to tell on the performance of the students and they have been identified and the learning gap is maximum in the subjects of Mathematics and English. NGOs working in the field of education too had expressed concern over the absence of serious academic activity for nearly 20 months due to which children, especially those in the primary schools, would have lost their learning ability and skills. “We have initiated remedial classes apart from starting special classes in those subjects. In case of students in whom the learning gap was wide, special attention was also being paid to shore up their learning while a bridge course to brush up the fundamentals has also been introduced’’, said Mr. Ramachandra Raje Urs. The commencement of classes also brought to the fore the shortage of teachers. The Government has approved the appointment of guest teachers to handle the subjects. and make good the shortfall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/attendance-in-schools-84/article37532340.ece
17 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Man held for poaching||One person has been taken into custody in connection with poaching a deer in the Nagarahole national park. The accused, Puttaswamy Gowda of Chikkodanahalli, was produced before the court and has been remanded in judicial custody. The Forest Department with the help of the police is scouting for two others said to be Puttaswamy’s accomplice in the crime. Their houses were raided by the Forest Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-poaching/article37532347.ece
17 November 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Water level receding in Idukki dam||The water level in the Idukki dam is receding, increasing the chances of closing a shutter of the Cheruthoni dam that was opened on Sunday. An official at the Dam Monitoring and Research Station said on Tuesday that the rule curve committee would take a decision on closing the shutter. The water level in the Idukki dam receded to 2,399.08 ft at 4 p.m. from 2,399.16 ft at 6 a.m. on Tuesday. The official said the shutter could be closed at night.  The official said one of the shutters of the Cheruthoni dam was opened to 40 cm to regulate the water level and avoid a sudden release of water in case of heavy rainfall. He said Tamil Nadu continued to draw water from the Mullaperiyar dam at the same level of inflow, which was 2,300 cusecs on Tuesday. The water level remained steady at 140.5 ft. The upper rule level till November 20 was 141 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-level-receding-in-idukki-dam/article37532294.ece
17 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||International webinar from today||The Mass Communication Department of the Pazhassiraja College at Pulpally in the district is hosting an International Mass Communication Webinar, titled “Hablemos 21”, from Wednesday to Saturday.  Academicians and researchers from the United States, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates, and India will handle various sessions. College manager Rev. Dr. Joseph Mar Thomas will inaugurate the programme at 10.30 a.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/international-webinar-from-today/article37532240.ece
17 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Report sought on denial of job||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has called for a report from the military welfare director asking why the dependant of a deceased soldier was yet to get the promised job. Shalu P. Varghese, a native at Ambalavayal in the district, said in his grievance that his brother. Sabu P. Varghese, a military cadet, drowned during the swimming training at the military camp in Dehradun in 2009. SHRC Member K. Baijunath said government officials should not disrespect the family of a soldier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/report-sought-on-denial-of-job/article37532247.ece
17 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Mappilappattu singer Peer Muhammed passes away||Mappilappattu singer Peer Muhammed passed away at his residence in Muzhappilangad on Tuesday. He was 75. He was suffering from age-related issues. He was born at Surandai village, near Tenkasi, in Tamil Nadu on January 8, 1945. His mother, Bilkis, was a native of Tenkasi and father, Aziz Ahmed, belonged to Thalassery. When he was four, he moved to Thalassery with his father. Over 4,000 songs Peer Muhammed, who composed music for more than 4,000 songs, was not a trained musician. His first song was recorded at the age of seven. He played a major role in popularising Mappila songs. He mesmerised music buffs with his unique singing style and clear voice for decades As a boy, he sang for the Thalassery Janata Sangeetha Sabha, which was the largest choir at that time. It is through their stage programmes that Muhammed was recognised by people and his fans. Stint with HMV He was an artiste at HMV from 1957 to 1990. His father, who was an officer in Hindustan Lever, arranged the opportunity at the HMV studio in Chennai. In 1976, for the first time in the history of television, Mappilappattu was broadcast on Chennai Doordarshan. He has performed over a thousand programmes in Kerala and abroad. The songs sung by him in the eighties and nineties are still sung by the new generation. He is a recipient of the Kerala Folklore Akademi Award, A.V. Muhammed Award, the Muslim Cultural Centre Award, the All Kerala Mappila Sangeetha Academy Award, the Kerala Mappila Kala Academy Award, the Moyinkutty Vaidyar Memorial Award and the Dubai Malabar Arts and Culture Venue Award. The funeral was held at 4 p.m. on Tuesday at the Valapattanam Manna Cemetery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mappilappattu-singer-peer-muhammed-passes-away/article37532296.ece
17 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CPI(M) rebel is new Town Planning Committee chief||The ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) suffered a setback in the Kochi Corporation council on Tuesday with the election of a rebel CPI(M) councillor as the chairman of the Town Planning Standing Committee. M.H.M. Ashraf, who had earlier won the Kochangadi Division of the Kochi Corporation as a CPI(M) candidate, defeated his former party colleague P.S. Viju to the post of the chairperson in the election held on the day. While Mr. Ashraf got five votes in the nine-member committee, Mr. Viju polled three votes. One seat in the committee fell vacant following the death of CPI(M) councillor K.K. Sivan. With the victory in the Town Planning Standing committee, two committees of the civic body are now controlled by the United Democratic Front (UDF). The front had earlier won the Works Standing Committee. Earlier, a no-confidence motion moved by the UDF against J. Sanilmon, chairperson of the committee, was passed. The LDF had supported Mr. Sanilmon, who won the local body election as a UDF rebel candidate, to become the chairperson, which had irked Mr. Ashraf. Mr. Ashraf had openly aired his protest against the party for sidelining him and not considering him for the post. He had also refused to renew his party membership. The LDF is likely to move the State Election Commission against Mr. Ashraf for disqualifying him by invoking the Anti-Defection Law. Mr. Ashraf, according to a statement issued by Antony Kureethara, the leader of the Congress in the council, left the CPI(M) and the LDF protesting against what he termed as the rampant nepotism and corruption. He will associate with the UDF and function as an independent candidate, the statement said. “The LDF was paying no attention to the issues faced by the city. The corporation suffered heavy loss following the decision of the Mayor for issuing an anticipatory sanction to a company to draw cable along the city roads. All the major roads have developed potholes,” alleged Mr. Kureethara. More councillors from the LDF who are opposed to the ruling dispensation will leave the front in the coming days, he claimed. Congress leaders accorded a reception to Mr. Ashraf at the DCC office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-rebel-is-new-town-planning-committee-chief/article37532257.ece
17 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Relief as heavy rain subsides||Incessant heavy showers have given way to brief spells of moderate rain across the district as no fresh instances of damage to homes or loss of human lives were reported on Tuesday. There were no fresh cases of flooding, said Fire and Rescue Services sources after a man was killed by a falling boulder on Sunday in Kalamassery and around a dozen houses were flooded in the Railway Canal area in Edappally near the city. The Kochi city and its immediate surroundings have remained free of flooding though some segments near the Edappally Toll Junction saw waterlogging briefly during heavy rain late on Monday evening. The Udaya Colony, right in the heart of the city, was free of flooding even though water levels in the canals were high in the early hours of Tuesday. Kuttampuzha panchayat, on the eastern outskirts of the district which is usually at the receiving end of heavy rain, has not seen any major damage or landslips as the Manikandan Chappath, the only link between the mainland and residences of hundreds of tribespeople, has remained unaffected. Panchayat sources said that the areas that are usually vulnerable to landslips have escaped during the current bout of rain. Panchayat member E.C. Roy said the panchayat administration had requested the revenue authorities to deploy more staff to attend to any possible emergencies. Ayampuzha panchayat, which has a few locations vulnerable to landslips like Thanikkod, Vettilappara and Kunthiri, has remained free of problems during the recent round of heavy rain, panchayat sources said. The weather department has predicted light to medium rain of 2.5 mm to 15.6 mm from Tuesday till November 20. The 24-hour period between 8.30 a.m. on Monday and 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday saw North Paravur receiving 21 mm of rain while Keerampara received 2.2 mm of rain and Palluruthy received 23.5 mm of rain, the weather department report said. The rainfall has been lighter on Tuesday compared to Monday in most parts of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/relief-as-heavy-rain-subsides/article37532259.ece
17 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Documentary takes a journey through Kathakali artiste’s craft||For over three-and-a-half years, documentary filmmaker Binuraj Kalapeetom followed Kathakali artiste Sadanam Krishnankutty to all his performances. Most of the time, he shot the artiste without his knowledge. “I did not want him to perform for the camera or be aware of it,” says Binuraj. His documentary film, Krishnayanam, on the veteran artiste will be screened on Wednesday at the TDM Hall at 5.30 pm. Krishnankutty is known for the effortless ease with which he transforms into characters, having played pacha (noble), kathi (characters with negative shades) kari (evil) , thaadi (demonic characters) and minukku (brahmins, saints and women) veshams (roles) with equal panache. “His beloved role is that of Krishna, which he excels in, but he has no trouble becoming Keechakan,” says Binuraj. The 40-minute documentary is a journey through seven different roles he has portrayed. It is a tribute to the artiste and his contribution to the art form, says Binuraj. Born in Palakkad’s Cherpulassery, Krishnankutty joined Peroor Gandhi Seva Sadanam, where he learnt Kathakali under Thekkinkattil Ravunni Nair, Kottakkal Krishnankutty Nair and Sankaranarayanan Embranthiri. He taught for a brief while at the Unnayi Warrier Smaraka Kalanilayam at Irinjalakkuda in Thrissur, but slowly entered the performing world as a full-time artiste. Krishnankutty has spent more than half his life on stage — he started performing at the age of 21 and continues to do so even at the age of 80. His most recent performance was in Delhi, on November 1. He won the State Kathakali Award in 2016. Having no technical knowledge of Kathakali may have helped in the making of the documentary, feels Binuraj. “I have filmed it from the perspective of a curious onlooker, fascinated by the colours and the characters enacted by this artiste.” Except a few anecdotes and memories that Krishnankutty shares, the film focuses more on the artiste’s craft. This is Binuraj’s ninth documentary — he has done biographical documentaries on Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer, writer and critic M.K. Sanoo, artist Namboothiri and is currently working on a documentary on filmmaker Shaji N. Karun.  Krishnayanam has been produced by Soumia Binuraj under the banner of Pournami Art Gallery. It has been edited by Nikhil Venu and the music is by Rinil Gowtham. Camera has been handled by Rajan Pothi and Sreeraj Rajan. The event is being organised by Ernakulam Karayogam Kathakali Club and Mudra Association for Art and Culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/documentary-takes-a-journey-through-kathakali-artistes-craft/article37532249.ece
17 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||No COVID-19 clusters yet in schools after reopening||No COVID-19 cluster has been reported yet from schools in Ernakulam district after the educational institutions reopened on November 1. However, a few COVID-19 positive cases have been reported among bio-bubbles at the class-level. A total of 20 such cases have been reported in schools across the district under the General Education Department in the past two weeks, as per official estimates. The number of children infected is around 10 while an equal number of teachers has been tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The children and teachers were found to have been infected through contact with family members, who were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Most of the children had not shown any symptoms and had attended the class as part of the bio-bubble, according to the authorities. The bio-bubbles were formed to ensure physical distancing. Each bio-bubble consists of six to 10 students. One class may have two to three bio-bubbles. Only the students in a bio-bubble are permitted to interact with each other. On no account should the students in a bio-bubble interact with one in another bubble. Their travel arrangements are also planned together as far as possible, if the students in one bio-bubble are from the same location. School managements had asked the entire bio-bubble to go into quarantine after either a student or a teacher in the bubble tested positive for COVID-19. Health Department officials were alerted in all the cases as part of the standard operating protocol prescribed by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-covid-19-clusters-yet-in-schools-after-reopening/article37532263.ece
17 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC criticises State for delay in building Idukki court complex||A proposal initiated in 1997 to construct a court complex for trial courts in Idukki district indicates the ‘sorry state of affairs’ in the State due to ‘red tape rules,’ the Kerala High Court said on Tuesday. The court’s observation came while directing the State Government to ensure that land is allocated within six months, from receipt of the instant order, for construction of the court complex at Idukki. It also ordered that once the land is allotted, the competent authority ‘will take immediate necessary steps to see that the dream of the litigant public, including lawyers, advocate clerks, are fulfilled and a new court complex is constructed at least within one year from the date on which the land is allotted.’ The directions by Justice P. V. Kunhikrishnan came while disposing of a plea moved by the Bar Association of Idukki challenging the order cancelling allotment of two acres of land earmarked for construction of the judicial complex. Trial courts “The issue involved in this case is the construction of a court complex for functioning of the trial courts in Idukki district. The trial courts are the backbone of the Indian judiciary. If there is no proper infrastructure and proper atmosphere for the decision-makers in the trial courts, that will be a threat to the justice delivery system itself. The present case is one such case,” the High Court said. The association, represented by George Mathew, Advocate, had said in its plea that the Special Court under POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act, the Judicial First Class Magistrate’s Court and the Munsiff Court and the respective offices of government pleaders and prosecutors attached to these courts were functioning out of the District Headquarters at Idukki. Buildings for courts “All the above-mentioned offices are functioning under limited facilities provided in the civil station at Kuyilimala in Idukki. There arose a need for more facilities and also an independent need of buildings for courts at the district headquarters,” the plea had said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-criticises-state-for-delay-in-building-idukki-court-complex/article37532279.ece
17 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Mega fete brought to life on tiny canvas||Malayalis can never visualise Thrissur Pooram and its iconic “Kudamaattam” ceremony any other way but on a wide canvas. Ironic as it may sound, a self-taught artist from Thrissur has now won global acclaim for portraying the festival on the smallest possible canvas. A 3-cm-long and 2-cm-wide canvas was all that Swismin Gems, a 27-year-old dental surgeon, needed to bring to life the “Kudamaattam”, using water colour. It helped her to walk into the International Book of Records for the World’s Smallest Painting. “I happened to read about the smallest painting, which held the record and thought that I could do better. While capturing everything in the small canvas was tough in itself, painting 14 elephants into that space was the biggest of challenges,” said Swismin, who practices as a dental surgeon in Ernakulam. Notwithstanding that, she claims to have completed the work in an hour. She managed to contact the International Book of Records authorities and sent in the entry complete with the videos of her painting. Swismin started painting at the age of 13, influenced by her father who is also a self-taught painter. Portraying landscape in water colour remains her favourite. Preoccupied as she is with her dental practice, Swismin finds time for her passion during nights and Sundays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mega-festival-brought-to-life-on-tiny-canvas/article37532255.ece
17 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No manipulation in NEET OMR sheet, NTA tells HC||The National Testing Agency (NTA) on Tuesday informed the Kerala High Court that there were no signs of manipulation or tampering in the OMR sheet of a candidate from Thrissur who appeared in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) of 2021. The NTA made the submission when a petition filed by Rithu Sibi of Thrissur seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the alleged manipulation of her OMR sheet came up for hearing. A committee constituted by the NTA to inquire into the allegation found that the OMR sheet in the particular barcode and roll number belonged to the petitioner and it had been evaluated by the NTA as per the answers attempted by her, the NTA submitted before the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-manipulation-in-neet-omr-sheet-nta-tells-hc/article37532368.ece
17 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rain wrecks children’s bus trip||Rain played havoc with Childline Kochi’s child rights awareness campaign programme organised in association with Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) on Tuesday. A proposed trip with school children aboard a KSRTC bus, named ‘Aanavandiyil oru Kutty yathra’, had to be called off owing to a heavy spell of shower in the morning. KSRTC had allotted a bus for the purpose. “We had planned to bring in school students but had to call it off because of heavy rain. Instead, the programme was reduced to distribution of pamphlets on child rights, sweets, and balloons to passengers at South KSRTC depot by our staff,” said Arun Thankachan, Childline district coordinator. This was followed by a cleaning campaign at Puthuvype beach with the participation of coastal police, Kudumbashree members, and people’s representatives. The programmes were part of ‘Childline Se Dosthi Week’, a week-long campaign being organised in association with government and non-government departments as part of the Children’s Day. “The campaign is aimed at checking the rising atrocities against children, game and screen addictions while ensuring their physical and mental well-being. Classes on child rights protection, online photography contest, awareness programmes across the district, flash mobs, child labour eradication programmes, zumba dance, online open house for children, cycle rally for strengthening child rights, ventriloquism shows, etc will be organised as part of the campaign,” said Mr. Thankachan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rain-wrecks-childrens-bus-trip/article37532251.ece
17 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||New district and sessions judges posted||Four senior district judges were promoted as district and sessions judges in the State. While P.V. Balakrishnan, district and sessions judge, Kasaragod, will be the district and sessions judge of Thiruvananthapuram, P.S. Sasikumar, additional district and sessions judge of the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal, Alappuzha, will assume office of the district judge at Thodupuzha. N. Harikumar, additional district and sessions judge of the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal, Kollam, will be the new district and sessions judge, Kottayam. Honey M. Varghese, CBI special judge, Ernakulam, will be the new district and sessions judge at Ernakulam. Ms. Varghese, who is hearing the actor rape case as the special judge, will continue to try the case. Though posted as the district and sessions judge, she will hold the full additional charge of the special court till the disposal of the case, according to an order issued by P. Krishnakumar, Registrar (District Judiciary). Other postings M.B. Snehalatha, enquiry commissioner and special judge, Thiruvananthapuram, will be the district and sessions judge, Kasaragod. P.P. Saidalavi, additional district and sessions judge of the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal, Palakkad, was transferred and posted as the enquiry commissioner and special judge, Muvattupuzha. Enquiry commissioner G. Gopakumar, additional district and sessions judge, Kottayam, will be the enquiry commissioner and special judge, Thiruvananthapruam. K.S. Ambika, special additional sessions judge hearing the Marad cases in Kozhikode, will take over as the special judge for the trial of SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act cases, Kottarakkara. Usha Nair, additional district and sessions judge of the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal, Thrissur, will be the special judge for the fast-track special court considering the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act cases at Karunagapally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-district-and-sessions-judges-posted/article37532239.ece
17 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Motorcyclist knocked down by models’ car to petition police||The motorcyclist who was knocked down by the speeding car before it met with an accident and killed three persons, including two promising models on the spot, at Chakkaraparambu on November 1 may file a separate petition with the police. Dinil Davis, a 32-year-old private company executive, who was on his way back from the company to his home in Kanjoor, was knocked down just before the car rammed a tree along the national highway at around 12.45 a.m. He was late to return from his company head office at Perumbavoor on account of the month end the previous day. “The fact that I was knocked down by the speeding car is missing entirely from the police First Information Report. I fear that it may affect my insurance claims. So, a petition will be filed based on the legal opinion,” said Mr. Davis, who had a providential escape on the fateful day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/motorcyclist-knocked-down-by-models-car-to-petition-police/article37532261.ece
17 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Nano urea unit likely in Kochi||Leaders of the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, who met Mansukhk Madaviya, Union Minister for Fertilizers and Chemicals, in New Delhi have been given an assurance that the possibility of producing nano urea under a partnership between Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore (FACT) and Hindustan Insecticides Limited (HIL) would be pursued. HIL Employees’ Organisation’s general secretary K.N. Rupesh said an MoU was likely to be signed for the project soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nano-urea-unit-likely-in-kochi/article37532250.ece
17 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MVD seizes caravan from film shooting location||The Motor Vehicles Department has seized a Maharashtra-registered caravan used at a shooting location near Irumpanam for not paying the requisite tax. The officials of the enforcement wing slapped a fine of Rs. 25,000 on a person based here, who had offered the caravan for rent. Shaji Madhavan, Deputy Transport Commissioner, said that the owner of a caravan registered in other States could use it here for his or her personal use. But caravans registered outside could not be given on rent without paying the requisite tax applicable in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mvd-seizes-caravan-from-film-shooting-location/article37532260.ece
17 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||TiEcon Kerala summit from Nov. 25||The 10th edition of one of Kerala’s annual entrepreneurship conferences TiEcon Kerala 2021 will be held here from November 25 to 27 to figure out the opportunities and challenges for entrepreneurs in the post-pandemic scenario. The organisers said Industries Minister P. Rajeeve would inaugurate the three-day “phygital” (physical and digital) conclave at 4.30 p.m. on November 25. Around 200 participants are expected to attend the physical event while another 1,500 delegates will join it virtually. The theme for this year’s summit is “Despite the Pandemic”, with a focus on successfully adapting to the new normal and reviving businesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tiecon-kerala-summit-from-nov-25-in-city/article37532252.ece
17 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Aid to be provided to flood-affected: Minister||The Government will provide all assistance to those affected by rain-related disasters, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal said here on Tuesday. He was visiting relief camps in Munroe Thuruthu, one of the worst-hit parts of the district. “By taking ample precautions we can bring down the intensity of hardships caused by heavy rain. Blocked canals and creeks that disrupt the water flow is one reason that led to flooding and steps will be taken to address that,” the Minister said. Mr. Balagopal said long-term plans to improve the living conditions of the islanders were under consideration. “Compared to earlier times, flooding has increased during the rainy season. Along with this, tidal flooding too has made the lives of the people miserable. A permanent solution must be found for this and various possibilities, including proposals for comprehensive development of tourism, will be explored,” said the Minister after interacting with residents of camps functioning at Government MG Lower Primary School, Bethel LP School, VS Upper Primary School, and the Kalluvila Bhargavi Auditorium. Kovoor Kunjumon, MLA, and local body representatives accompanied the Minister during the visit. Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development J. Chinchu Rani said the government would consider a special package to address the distress of Munroe Thuruthu residents. After visiting the camps, she added that financial assistance would be provided for those who had lost their homes. As the water level in the Kallada river continued to rise, many families on the banks were moved to safer places. Apart from Munroe Thuruthu, camps were opened at Poruvazhy, Sooranad North, West Kallada, and Mynagappally villages in Kunnathur taluk. 200 beds The district administration has ensured all facilities in the camps with the help of local bodies. Around 200 beds along with masks and sanitisers were made available in the schools where the camps are functioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aid-to-be-provided-to-flood-affected-minister/article37532285.ece
17 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||4,451 people in 45 relief camps in Kollam||The district administration has shifted 4,451 people to 45 relief camps opened in various parts of Kollam. At present 1,703 families, which include 2,113 women, 1,844 men and 494 children, have been moved from flooded parts and disaster-prone locations. While large-scale crop damage amounting to Rs. 70 lakh has been reported, two houses were completely destroyed in the rain. The number of houses that suffered partial damage is 65 and the district has incurred a loss of Rs. 15.92 crore so far. Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal, speaking at a meeting to assess the damage caused by rain-related incidents, said the extent of the damage in the eastern part of the district, especially in Munroe Thuruthu and Karunagapally, will be estimated and compensated.“The water level in the Thenmala dam is rising but it is not a concern at present. Extreme care should be taken while releasing water,” said the Minister, who directed the officers concerned to remain on duty till the emergency situation is over. The administration has instructed various departments to hand over the details of damage. While a meeting will be convened to expedite the construction works of the Minor and Major Irrigation Departments, measures have been taken to address various issues raised by people’s representatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4451-people-in-45-relief-camps-in-kollam/article37532288.ece
17 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Training||The Indigenous Milk Products Training and Development Centre, Oachira, is conducting an online training session on fodder grass processing. For more details, contact 8075028868.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training/article37532287.ece
17 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam Textiles resumes operations||Over 21 months after it downed shutters, the Kottayam Textiles, a spinning mill unit under the State Government at Vedagiri, near Ettumanur, has resumed operations. The unit had declared a lay-off in February last year following a labour dispute and incurring huge arrears to the Kerala State Electricity Board. A meeting convened by Industries Minister P. Rajeeve in Thiruvananthapuram last month, which was attended by Registration Minister V. N. Vasavan, higher officials and trade union leaders, had decided to reopen the mill following assurances that the unit would be made profitable by operating three shifts and that the loss could be offset in the long run. The meeting had also resolved to consider the demands raised by trade unions through relevant forums after the reopening. Based on these assurances, the Government sanctioned Rs. 1.5 crore for the resumption of activities in the milling unit, which employs 168 permanent workers and 100 temporary staff. Polyster threads In addition to cotton threads, the company will now be manufacturing polyester threads as well.  The Government has sanctioned Rs. 1.5 crore for the unit, which employs 168 permanent workers and 100 temporary staff||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-textiles-resumes-operations/article37532291.ece
17 November 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Man jumps in front of train||A 37-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by jumping in front of a moving train near Muttambalam in Kottayam on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Harikrishnan, a native of Pallikathodu. The Kottayam East police have booked a case for unnatural death. The deceased leaves behind his wife and two children. Suicide prevention number: 1056||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-jumps-in-front-of-train/article37532278.ece
17 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Civic body’s pet licensing by-law evokes good response||The public response has been overwhelming to the new by-law of the Kozhikode Corporation making licensing of pets mandatory within the city. Corporation Veterinary Officer V.S. Sreeshma said the civic body was getting several enquiries about the licensing process from people, who were also welcoming the initiative. The Corporation had implemented the by-law in September following a High Court order in July that made licensing of pets mandatory in all local bodies. The order came against the backdrop of increasing incidents of mistreatment and abandoning of animals by owners. The order encompasses cattle owners such as dairy farmers and also those who own horses and cats. The Corporation has fixed the licence fee for cattle at Rs. 100 and for dogs and horses at Rs. 500. The breeder licence for dogs is Rs. 1,000 and for cats, Rs. 500. Each of the licensed animals gets a microchip costing Rs. 300, which will be implanted in the body of the animal free of cost at the Corporation’s veterinary hospitals. “This chip is an official record of ownership and helps us track the animal or owner when necessary,” said Dr. Sreeshma. The licensing of pets makes it easier for the Corporation to get a census of domestic animals in the city, ensure that they are vaccinated and taken care of, and prosecute owners for mistreating them. However, the licensing process is yet to take off due to some technical glitches. “The application is accepted online, for which the software is being prepared,” said Dr. Sreeshma, adding that the process would be completed in less than a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/civic-bodys-pet-licensing-by-law-evokes-good-response/article37532236.ece
17 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||College teachers cry foul over new order||A Finance Department order that purportedly eliminates the pay protection and promotion opportunities for teachers recruited to teaching departments in universities from aided or government colleges and those appointed to government colleges from aided colleges through the Kerala Public Service Commission has kicked up a row. According to sources, the Government has also asked these teachers to repay the extra amount that they had availed themselves so far to the exchequer. The order was issued by Additional Chief Secretary Rajesh Kumar Singh on November 9. It deals with teachers whose salaries are governed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). This is applicable to teachers in aided or government colleges who get appointed to university teaching departments, and teachers in aided colleges who get jobs in government colleges after going through tests and interviews. The order says that various regulations by the UGC and the AICTE mention considering erstwhile service for “placement for career advancement”, subject to conditions. They do not, however, mention the protection of the existing salary if a person who has been working in a post gets another job through a different recruiting procedure. The order says that if anyone was getting salary that way, it will be cancelled. Quality of education P. Rasheed Ahammed, Syndicate member of the University of Calicut, said the order would affect teachers who might be appointed as principals in other colleges through interviews. He said that instead of increasing the remuneration of teachers who excelled in their fields, the order to recover the existing benefits would lead to a decline in the quality of education. He urged Calicut University Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj not to implement the order. The Syndicate might also pass a resolution against it, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-over-order-eliminating-pay-protection-of-college-teachers/article37532243.ece
17 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Hotels to get Responsible Tourism certification||The classification and certification of hotels and restaurants in the State under the aegis of the Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission, launched on Tuesday, is a first-of-its-kind initiative under a government agency. The classification is mainly based on the compliance of the hospitality industry to the policies of the RT Mission, which is rooted in sustainability. “We take into consideration their sustainability and environment friendliness besides socio-cultural involvement through a set of questions. Factors such as usage of plastics, local employment, sourcing raw materials locally, assisting local artists and artisans, transgenders and differently abled, practising gender equality, environment audit, and water conservation come into question,” said State RT Mission Coordinator K. Roopesh Kumar. The properties are rated out of 1,000 points and are classified based on it. Those that earn up to 300 points are classified as RT Silver, those up to 500 points as RT Gold, and those above 500 as RT Diamond. Besides, RT Green classification is given to those properties that earn more than 80% points in the environment category. “This is quite different from the conventional classification in which the size of rooms and additional infrastructure at the properties are taken into consideration. We try to point out that mere showcasing was not enough,” said Mr. Kumar. Inspections The registration is done online and a classification society conducts physical inspections before certifying the properties. The certification has three-year validity, but the society can review and cancel the certification if the hotels failed to comply with the norms. The Mission plans to complete 300 certifications this financial year while the target for the next year is 1,000. “Despite being ready much earlier, we could not launch the project due to the pandemic, during which the properties including hotels, resorts and homestays remained closed,” said Mr. Kumar.  This is quite different from the conventional classification in which the size of rooms and additional infrastructure at the properties are taken into consideration K. Roopesh Kumar State RT Mission Coordinator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hotels-to-get-responsible-tourism-certification/article37532242.ece
17 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||‘Govt. let down Kerala on Mullaperiyar’||Leader of Opposition V. D. Satheesan has accused the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front Government of not protecting the interests of Kerala. Inaugurating the United Democratic Front (UDF) Kozhikode district leadership conference here on Tuesday, Mr. Satheesan said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan remained silent when Ministers took a contradictory stand on the orders for felling trees at the Mullaperiyar baby dam site. He said Kerala’s argument in the Mullaperiyar case was weakened with the permission given to cut down trees. Mr. Vijayan and veteran CPI(M) leader V.S. Achuthanandan had earlier raised a hue and cry that if Mullaperiyar dam burst, over 40 lakh people in Kerala would drown in the Arabian Sea. The Chief Minister should now clarify whether the dam had strengthened or not since then. Criticising the K-Rail project, he said the whole of Western Ghats would have to be excavated to construct the Semi High-Speed Rail (SilverLine) project connecting Thiruvananthapuram with Kasaragod. With that, all the rivers in Kerala would be destroyed, he said. In Wayanad Speaking after inaugurating the district convention of the UDF in Wayanad on Tuesday, Mr. Satheesan said the farmers in the State were passing through a crisis owing to various factors, including the anti-farmer policies of the Central and State Governments. The UDF would continue its fight to address the issues faced by the farmers, he said. The increasing instances of man-animal conflict had put the lives of farmers in the district in a fix, he said. The Government should clarify what measures it had adopted to address the issue, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-let-down-kerala-on-mullaperiyar/article37532238.ece
17 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||More ‘Foodie Wheels’ cafes to be opened||The Tourism Department plans to open ‘Foodie Wheels’ restaurants in 20 major tourist locations in the State. Launching the classification and certification of hotels under the aegis of the Responsible Tourism Mission at Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday, Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas said ‘Foodie Wheels’ would follow the model of the one set up at Vaikom, where a KSRTC double-decker bus has been converted into a restaurant. Food streets The Minister said economic feasibility and employment generation were the other specialities of the project. He said old bridges not used for traffic any more would be converted into food streets in a project in collaboration with the Public Works Department. The Minister also launched an online portal to submit applications for several schemes of the Tourism Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-foodie-wheels-cafes-to-be-opened/article37532241.ece
17 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||A community space for intellectually challenged||A group of parents of intellectually challenged persons have come together to form a community living space at Keezhariyur in Kozhikode district to help their children become self-reliant. D.K. Babu, a retired college teacher, who is the joint secretary of the Parents’ Association for the Rehabilitation and Assistance for the Intellectually Disabled to Support and Empower (PARADISE) Trust that has come up with the initiative, said the parents had pooled in money to buy five acres of land at Meerod Mala. He said the community living space would have facilities for the mental and physical well-being of their wards. “If they live here with their parents for some time, they will be able to continue here even after their parents’ lifetime. Villas are also being planned for the parents,” he said. The trust is planning to set up daytime shelters and therapy centres on the premises. There could be centres for skill development so that they can take up jobs. K. Koyatti, chairman of the trust, pointed out that intellectually disabled people were still not getting State support in the country unlike what they got abroad. The trust is expecting funds from philanthropists and corporate social responsibility initiatives of companies to take forward its activities. Kozhikode district panchayat president Sheeja Sasi launched the initiative on Children’s Day on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-community-space-for-intellectually-challenged/article37532244.ece
17 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Kalpathy festival held with religious fervour||Curtain fell on the 10-day Kalpathy festival on Tuesday night with the deities of different temples reaching out to the devotees in their respective chariots. A large number of people witnessed the final chariot procession of deities and they paid their respects in an ambience of religious fervour. Although the large chariots were not used because of the restrictions imposed by the government, the devotees were happy to have their favourite deities move in small chariots. The devotees pulled the chariots as a mark of faith. The final round of chariot procession began at 4.45 p.m. and the festival fervour reached a crescendo by the sunset. The entire heritage village of Kalpathy was lit up in a display of festival mood. The deities of New Kalpathy Manthakkara Mahaganapathy Temple, Old Kalpathy Laxminarayana Perumal Temple, and Chathapuram Prasanna Ganapathy Temple reached in front of the main temple of Sree Visalakshi Sametha Sree Viswanathaswami and paid respects to each other in a symbolic gesture. The festival flag will be lowered on Wednesday morning. The government sanction for the festival had been accorded after pressure from various quarters. The government restricted the crowds to 200 and the roads to Kalpathy were closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kalpathy-festival-held-with-religious-fervour/article37532428.ece
17 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Fundamentalists behind RSS worker’s murder, says BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national executive member P.K. Krishnadas said here on Tuesday that the murder of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker A. Sanjith at Mambaram, near here, on Monday was not part of a political clash. He said it was a murder executed by religious fundamentalists. He criticised the police for highlighting Sanjith’s criminal background. “He has not been involved in any case since 2019. Did the District Police Chief want to send out a message that Sanjith was a person who should have been killed,” Mr. Krishnadas asked. The BJP leader accused District Police Chief R. Viswanath of creating stories for the media, instead of trying to go after the culprits. “Any acts of fundamentalism should be viewed with utmost concern. The police chief tried to downgrade the murder by extremists,” he said. He said that the failure of the police in arresting anyone even a day after the murder showed the hand-in-glove relationship between the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] and the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI). “This is the finest example showing that the Left-Jihadi coalition formed during the election is still in existence,” he said. CM flayed Mr. Krishnadas said the silence of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and CPI(M) secretary A. Vijayaraghavan about the RSS man’s murder was tantamount to a tacit approval for the SDPI to finish off its enemies.  Any acts of fundamentalism should be viewed with utmost concern||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fundamentalists-behind-rss-workers-murder-says-bjp/article37532370.ece
17 November 2021||Palakkad,KERALA||Cong seeks Vigilance probe||The Congress staged a dharna at Chittur, near here, on Tuesday evening demanding an investigation by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau into the allegations of the Chittur Thattamangalam municipality spending Rs. 2.19 lakh for painting a 35-metre-long wall without following tender norms. Inaugurating the dharna, district Congress vice president Sumesh Achuthan said the municipality had become a centre of corruption, nepotism, and inefficiency since the Left Democratic Front came to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cong-seeks-vigilance-probe/article37532369.ece
17 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Situation grim in Alappuzha||The flood situation remained grim in Alappuzha, which witnessed widespread damage to the water distribution network and rural roads. The impact of the flood situation was the most severe in Ambalappuzha, Thakazhi, Karuvatta and Purakkad villages. District Collector A. Alexander visited the flood-hit locations in Veliyanadu, Kidangara and Ramankari and reviewed the arrangements in place. The Irrigation Department has been entrusted with the task of clearing the Alappuzha-Changanassery canal to ensure smooth flow of the run-off water. Mobile teams have been deployed to ensure medical assistance to people in flood-hit regions. As many as 47 relief camps were operating in Alappuzha with Chengannur taluk alone accounting for 25 of them. These camps accommodated 1,434 people from 471 families. Holiday in Alappuzha In view of the flood situation, the Alappuzha District Collector has declared a holiday for educational institutions including professional colleges in Kuttanad, Chengannur, Karthikappally and Mavelikara taluks. The low-lying parts of Kottayam district too reeled under the flood situation. Traffic along most roads including the Alappuzha-Changanassery road faced disruptions. Pathanamthitta With the rain staying away for most part of the day, traffic along most roads barring a few was restored in Pathanamathitta on Tuesday. The overall flood situation in the region continued to abate even as Upper Kuttanad continued to reel under the rain-inflicted damage. The water level in major rivers including the Pampa, Achencoil and the Manimala began to recede and people on the riverbanks in the upper reaches began returning to their homes. Preliminary estimates suggested that crops worth Rs. 46 crore in over 1,268 hectares were destroyed in the rain over the past one month. As of Tuesday evening, Pathanamthitta had 73 relief camps accommodating 2,223 people. With 23 camps, Thiruvalla taluk had the highest number of camps, followed by Pandalam. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation did not operate several of its services to Upper Kuttanad from the Pandalam and Adoor depots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/situation-grim-in-alappuzha/article37532290.ece
17 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM sees bid to derail State’s development||Alleging sinister attempts to discredit the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said it revealed the sadistic mentality of some elements hell-bent on derailing the State’s development. His comments at a function here come in the wake of the Controller and Auditor General of India (CAG) report accusing KIIFB of bypassing the legislature in “off-Budget borrowings” for infrastructure projects and its warning that this would push the State into a debt trap. A combative Mr. Vijayan said various quarters attempted to torpedo development in a State that could not aspire to grow purely on its Budget capabilities owing to its fiscal limitations. However, pushing the State into stagnancy due to such a handicap would be an injustice to the generations to come. “Under such circumstances, the Government had to pursue uncharted paths that were not illegal. While funding by KIIFB had provided a massive boost towards developing general education during the last few years, it is imperative that a similar strategy was adopted for enhancing higher education facilities,” he said, while delivering the presidential address at the Chancellor’s Awards presentation ceremony at Raj Bhavan on Tuesday. Full steam ahead The Chief Minister added the malicious efforts being made by certain sections to prevent the State from progressing would turn futile. None of the development projects that are under way would be disrupted. They will progress full steam ahead, he asserted. Lamenting the slow progress attained by the higher education sector in changing with the times, Mr. Vijayan said its significant overhaul figured high among the Government’s priorities. No higher education institution could grow without Government backing. While it is necessary that universities displayed an urge to flourish, an environment conducive to growth is also vital. Plugging inadequacies There have been instances when universities have witnessed fall in National Assessment and Accreditation Council ( NAAC) grading due to the dearth in sanctioned posts. Many also suffered due to the lack of infrastructure including hostels, laboratories and libraries, he said. The Government had a crucial role to play in plugging such inadequacies to ensure that no student was denied facilities that prevented his or her academic development, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-sees-bid-to-derail-states-development/article37532301.ece
17 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pulmonary rehab clinics to be started||Pulmonary rehabilitation clinics will be started in all 227 Community Health Centres (CHCs) across the State this year, Health Minister Veena George has said. She said this in a statement here on Tuesday on the occasion of World COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) Day on Wednesday. Pulmonary rehabilitation is a comprehensive therapeutic programme wherein the focus is on teaching breathing exercises and other aerobic exercise programmes for improving lung capacity to a patient with chronic respiratory diseases so that he is less symptomatic and his quality of life improves. It also includes help for tobacco cessation as well as counselling services to help these patients manage depressive disorders. These services will be offered through pulmonary rehabilitation clinics so that it benefits not just COPD patients but also those suffering from other respiratory diseases and post-Covid pulmonary issues. Functional Physiotherapists will be made available at CHCs to help make the pulmonary rehabilitation clinics functional, Ms. George has said. An estimated five lakh persons in Kerala suffer from COPD. The SWAAS (step wise approach to airway syndromes) clinics at family health centres were launched as part of Aardram, recognising that COPD is emerging as a serious public health issue in the State. These clinics are available now in 379 primary health centres and 39 district and general hospitals in the State and are catering to some 20,000 new COPD patients who were detected through these clinics. More SWAAS clinics are on the anvil this year, Ms. George has said.  An estimated five lakh persons in Kerala suffer from COPD||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pulmonary-rehab-clinics-to-be-started/article37532413.ece
17 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State’s housing policy soon||Revenue and Housing Minister K. Rajan has said the Government will soon formulate a housing policy for the State. The proposed framework will incorporate various factors including climate change and the growing affinity of Keralites towards grandiose houses. Formally inaugurating the ‘Finishing School’ launched by Kerala State Nirmithi Kendra (KESNIK) for engineering graduates here on Tuesday, Mr. Rajan said there were no lessons learnt from the floods that had ravaged the State in 2018. Under such circumstances, the proposed policy will lay down safety guidelines by considering land characteristics, the growing tendency to build luxury houses as well as the prevailing practice of constructing houses on hilly terrain. V.K. Prasanth, MLA, presided over the programme. KESNIK director Febi Varghese, finance advisor Ashok Kumar, chief technical officer R. Jayan, and Laurie Baker International School of Habitat Studies dean Ruby Abraham, also spoke. Eco-friendly Speaking at another programme organised by the Kerala State Housing Board, Mr. Rajan said the vagaries of weather that had affected normal life of late would also have a bearing on the housing policy. Priority would be given to encourage eco-friendly constructions. The Minister also urged officials to abandon a laid-back approach to adopt a more socially responsible role in undertaking their responsibilities. The Government had set its sights on establishing a centre of excellence at Mulankunnathukavu in Thrissur that would enable technical officers in all construction-related departments to undergo training programme every year, he said. He was inaugurating a workshop for newly appointed engineers of the board at the Centre for Management Development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-housing-policy-soon/article37532423.ece
17 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Embrace digital education: Governor||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has exhorted universities to embrace digitally enabled education in right earnest and exploit the possibilities of the ‘new normal’ in the post-pandemic era. Presenting the Chancellor’s Awards for the best universities at Raj Bhavan here on Tuesday, Mr. Khan urged the State universities to imbibe the benefits of Internet-based education. Pointing out that the State was poised to witness a boost in the use of technology in education through the Kerala Fibre Optic Network (KFON) project, the Governor lamented the slow progress being made by the universities in contributing substantially to offering Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC) through services such as Study Webs of Active–Learning for Young Aspiring Minds (SWAYAM). He hoped that all State universities uploaded at least 50% of lectures on the online platform for wider access. The Chancellor also urged universities to work towards introducing online examinations in their teaching departments within a time frame as the first step towards realising the goal of ‘Anytime-Anywhere Examination’ system. He added that the higher education sector could not afford to ignore training teachers in the use of online pedagogical techniques so as to enable them to integrate research and teaching with digitally enabled education and render online classes more productively in tune with outcome-based education approach. Winners The Governor presented the Chancellor’s Award for 2019 to the Vice Chancellors of the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) and Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences Universities, the winners in multidisciplinary and specialised categories respectively. While Mahatma Gandhi University and Cusat shared the Chancellor’s Award for multidisciplinary universities in 2020, Kerala Agricultural University was selected the best among emerging/specialised universities. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan presided. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu and Vice Chancellors of various universities were present.  Governor laments slow progress being made by universities in offering Massive Open Online Courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/embrace-digital-education-governor/article37532303.ece
17 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TRCMPU to amend bylaws||The Thiruvananthapuram Regional Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union (TRCMPU) has scheduled a general body meeting on December 9 to effect changes to bylaws as mandated by the recent amendment to the Kerala Cooperative Societies Act, and set in motion the process of electing the new board of directors. Welcoming the amendment to the Act by the just-concluded session of the Assembly, N. Bhasurangan, convener, Administrative Committee, TRCMPU, termed the legislative initiative as a “revolutionary step” and said the changes would help avoid development stagnation and provide new ideas and impetus to the sector. The amendments to the Act were made on the basis of the report of the three-member committee chaired by former Dairy Development Commissioner Lida Jacob set up by the Government to study and recommend changes in the dairy sector. The changes have ensured that dairy farmers and women would have roles in the administration of the cooperative unions. It has also brought in restrictions with regard to the number of terms a member of the board can hold. An individual cannot be a member of the board for more than three terms. There is also a cap of two years on presidents. Dairy farmers The amendments ensure that only dairy farmers are elected to the administrative committee. It also mandates that one of the three women members of the committee is chosen as the president or vice president, paving the way for a greater role for women in the crucial sector.  Changes expected to help avoid development stagnation and provide new ideas and impetus to the sector||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trcmpu-to-amend-bylaws/article37532281.ece
17 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation publishes tax defaulters’ list in 11 wards||The city Corporation on Tuesday published the ward-wise list of those who have pending property tax payments in the Poojappura, Sreekandeswaram, Thampanoor, Valiyasala, Fort, Sreevaraham, Vallakkadavu, Valiyathura, Kazhakuttam, Chanthavila, and Kattayikkonam wards. The list is available in the Corporation’s website, the Sanchaya website, and at the zonal office. Those who have objections to the list published by the Corporation could submit the same in an application form, available at the zonal offices, main office, and the Corporation website, within 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corporation-publishes-tax-defaulters-list-in-11-wards/article37532424.ece
17 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Youth held on kidnap, theft charges||The Fort police have arrested a 25-year-old youth of Kalipankulam, Manacaud, on the charge of kidnapping a youth and robbing him of gold and cash. The accused has been identified as Vishnuraj. He had created a fake Facebook account in his wife’s name and posing as a woman chatted with a youth from Nedumangad. The youth was lured to the Attukal parking grounds, from where he was taken to the Iranimuttom homeo college grounds and robbed of cash, gold jewellery, and vehicle RC book. Vishnuraj then went into hiding at Adimalathura from where he was arrested by Fort Station House Officer J. Rakesh. The arrest was on the basis of a tip-off received by Fort Assistant Commissioner of Police S. Shaji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/youth-held-on-kidnap-theft-charges/article37532419.ece
17 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Nirbhaya project to be implemented soon||Nirbhaya, a project to ensure safety of women and girls during travel, will be implemented soon. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting presided over by Minister for Transport Antony Raju. All public transport vehicles will be fitted with a location tracking system and emergency button to bring them under round-the-clock surveillance to prevent attacks, including those at night, against women. In the State, the Motor Vehicles Department is implementing the project with the support of the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. Safe travel The Minister directed the officials concerned to launch the project at the earliest considering the importance of safe travel for women and girls. Transport Principal Secretary K.R. Jyothilal, Transport Commissioner M.R. Ajith Kumar, and top officials of the Transport Department and Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nirbhaya-project-to-be-implemented-soon/article37532425.ece
17 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||5,516 new COVID cases||Kerala reported 5,516 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 70,576 samples were tested in 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden now stands at 50,71,135 cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality stands at 36,087 with the State adding 210 deaths to the official list on Tuesday. These include 39 deaths which occurred in the past few days and 171 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families The State’s active case pool declined to 63,338 patients on Tuesday, with 6,705 persons recovering. According to the Health Department, only 7% of the active cases are admitted to treatment centres. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients is 876. On Tuesday, 426 were newly admitted to hospitals with COVID. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 798, followed by Thrissur 732, Kottayam 624, Kozhikode 615, Ernakulam 614, Kannur 368, Kollam 357, Palakkad 285, Pathanamthitta 277, Idukki 236, Malappuram 208, Alapuzha 180, Ksaragod 118 and Wayanad 104 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/5516-new-covid-cases/article37532298.ece
17 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BJP seeks NIA probe into RSS man’s murder||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran on Tuesday demanded that the Government invoke the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) activists “responsible” for the murder of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker Sanjith in Palakkad. Speaking to journalists after calling on Governor Arif Mohammad Khan at the Raj Bhavan here, Mr. Surendran said the State should hand over the case to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). He said SDPI “assailants” had killed two RSS workers in the past 10 days. The law-and-order situation in the State had deteriorated. The police were yet to arrest any suspects in the case. Mr. Surendran said a trained hit team had ambushed Sanjith and killed him. Forensic experts counted several “clinically and methodically” inflicted fatal wounds on the body. Eyewitness accounts and forensic evidence pointed to a planned hit done by professional killers. He said the police had not included any SDPI leader as accused in the murder of Biju at Chavakkad. The SDPI hits resembled the attack on RSS workers in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-seeks-nia-probe-into-rss-mans-murder/article37532299.ece
17 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Assembly premises now flaunt a digital garden||The rich plant life on the Kerala Assembly premises has been digitised. The Assembly’s ‘digital garden’ makes details of trees, plants, and other flora on the premises readily available at our fingertips. The ‘digital garden’ was inaugurated by Speaker M.B. Rajesh at the Assembly lounge recently. Assembly Secretary S.V. Unnikrishnan Nair presented the details of the digital garden. Details of trees, flowering plants, and creepers, are digitised and stored in a server computer and can be found by using the QR code. This is done by relating the digitised data to QR code. Each plant is assigned a specific QR code and URL. On using a QR code scanner to scan the code, the web page opens and details of a tree or plant become available. The websitewww.digitalgarden. niyamasabha.orghas been created to display the data and for the communication between the QR code and the server. University of Kerala Botany professor and Centre for Biodiversity Conservation director A. Gangaprasad and research scholar Akhilesh S.V. Nair conceived the ‘digital garden’. Technical aid for the project was provided by the IT experts at the Assembly Secretariat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plant-life-on-assembly-premises-digitised/article37532280.ece
17 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Two persons held for murder attempt||The Thumba police have arrested two persons on the charge of attempting to murder a youth at Pallithura in Attipra. On Friday last, Anand, 23, of Pallithura and his stepfather Kabeer, 48, hacked their neighbour Ranjith on the head. Ranjith who was seriously injured is under treatment at Government Medical College Hospital. He had questioned Kabeer who had driven an autorickshaw towards him on the road and sounded the horn loudly. Anand and Kabeer had gone into hiding after the incident, but were arrested by a team led by the Thumba station house officer R. Sivakumar under the leadership of Assistant Commissioner of Police Sheen Tharayil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-persons-held-for-murder-attempt/article37532414.ece
17 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Law enforcers receive medals for good service||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan formally presented the President’s Police Medal, the Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation and the Chief Minister’s Police Medal to police, Excise, Fire force, Prisons, and Motor Vehicles, officials through video conference at a ceremony held here on Tuesday. As many as 24 police officers received the President’s Police Medal, while 19 officials bagged the Union Home Minister’s Medal for excellence in investigation, special operations, and training for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020. A total of 257 police officers received the Chief Minister’s Medal during functions held separately in various districts. The other officers who received medals from their respective chiefs in the presence of the Chief Medal include 24 Fire force and Excise officials each, 15 prison officers, and 17 officials of the Motor Vehicles Department. Addressing the medal recipients, Mr. Vijayan hailed the dedication shown by law enforcers during the pandemic and disaster crises that affected public life in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/law-enforcers-receive-medals-for-good-service/article37532416.ece
17 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||798 cases in capital||The district recorded 798 COVID-19 cases and 930 recoveries on Tuesday. The number of active cases fell to 8,852. The test positivity rate stood at 9.5%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/798-cases-in-capital/article37532421.ece
17 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Accused in drug case held||A 22-year-old youth who escaped from the police after throwing crackers at them has been arrested by the Karamana police. He has been identified as Ananthu, whose gang was allegedly involved in drug trade. A special team of the city narcotic cell and the Karamana police seized 5 kg of ganja, psychotropic drug MDMA, three air pistols, and machetes from this gang at Killi Tourist Home. Two persons were arrested that day, and two others escaped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accused-in-drug-case-held/article37532415.ece
17 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MTech, MArch classes from Nov. 29||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has postponed the commencement of first semester MTech, MArch and MPlan classes to November 29. It was earlier announced that the classes would get under way on November 15. Launch deferred However, the launch has been deferred since the admissions process is yet to be completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mtech-march-classes-from-nov-29/article37532418.ece
17 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||RS byelection: UDF candidate files papers||Congress leader Sooranad Rajasekharan on Tuesday filed his nomination papers for the Rajya Sabha (RS) byelection on November 29. He submitted his papers to the Secretary, Kerala Legislative Assembly. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president K. Sudhakaran and several United Democratic Front (UDF) legislators accompanied Mr. Rajasekharan to the Assembly complex. Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K. Mani had on Monday submitted his nomination papers as LDF nominee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-byelection-udf-candidate-files-papers/article37532300.ece
17 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||History-sheeter vandalises houses, vehicles||A history-sheeter unleashed a wave of terror at Ulloorkkonam, near Kazhakuttam, during the early hours of Tuesday after accusing the residents of informing the police of him. Hashim, from Ulloorkkonam, accused in many cases of drug peddling and murder attempts, allegedly vandalised three houses and four vehicles. He barged into Ulloorkkonam resident Ramla Beevi’s house around 9 p.m. on Monday after accusing her of complaining to the police against him. He fled when other residents rushed to the scene. A gang led by him then returned and allegedly vandalised properties. The police launched a manhunt for him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/history-sheeter-vandalises-houses-vehicles/article37532417.ece
17 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Traffic lights, signals installed at Kuthiran||Ahead of allowing vehicles from both sides through the first tunnel at Kuthiran, traffic lights and signal boards have been installed on the stretch from Vazhukkumpara to Villan Valavu. It was done on a directive of the police as safety measures. Traffic has been allowed from both sides of the first tunnel for closing the old road for repairs. The work of the second tunnel road is reaching final stage. Meanwhile, Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas said the government would bring out a solution for the traffic congestion in the State in the next five years. New bypass He was speaking after inaugurating the Kechery-Akkikkavu bypass road work on Monday. The work would be completed in 2022 itself, he said. “Traffic congestion is witnessed at many areas across the State, especially from Thrissur towards northern districts. A permanent solution will be found,” the Minister said. The PWD would develop a calendar for repair works according to the climate. While paperwork would be completed during the rainy season, works would be done during dry months. Details, including office numbers of the Minister and that of the contractor, would be given on the main centres of completed roads. People could raise complaints if the roads developed damage. Estimate of Rs. 32.67 crore The 9.88-km Kechri-Akkikkavu bypass will be constructed with Rs. 32.67 crore from the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. The bypass passing through Choondal, Chovanur, Kadangode, and Porkkulam panchayats is one of the main bypasses on the Thrissur-Malappuram route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traffic-lights-signals-installed-at-kuthiran/article37532371.ece
17 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Devotees allowed into Guruvayur Nalambalam||After a long break, devotees have been allowed to enter the Nalambalam of Sreekrishna Temple, Guruvayur. Devotees started entering the Nalambalam right from the morning. Choroonu ceremonies also started. Many devotees conducted the ceremony on Tuesday. Mandala Puja began on Tuesday, as the month of Vrischikam started. Many Ayyappa devotees reached for Mandala Puja. Separate queue system was arranged for them. Around 4,000 people had food at the Prasada Ootu ceremony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/devotees-allowed-into-guruvayur-nalambalam/article37532426.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Taking a stand||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taking-a-stand/article37532246.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Traditional ritual||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traditional-ritual/article37532283.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Caught unawares||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caught-unawares/article37532305.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back to school||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-to-school/article37532374.ece
17 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘PFC, REC officials arriving to recover loans from Discoms’||Andhra Pradesh Public Accounts Committee Chairman Payyavula Keshav on Tuesday said that officials of the Power Finance Corporation Ltd. (PFC) and the Rural Electrification Corporation Limited (REC) would be arriving in Vijayawada “either tonight or tomorrow (Wednesday)” to recover the loans given to the power distribution companies (Discoms) in the State. Addressing the media here, Mr. Keshav, who is also TDP Uravakonda legislator, said that the officials were forced to come from New Delhi to recover the instalments as payments were due for a long time. “Usually, it happens when the loans turn NPAs after crossing the 90-day limit,” Mr. Keshav said. “Details of the loan amounts and the exact instalments to be paid annually must be made public by the government,” he said. “Blaming the TDP for everything does not solve any problem,” he said, and added that the government must explain what it was doing through its actions. “The loans obtained from the PFC and REC seem to have vanished into thin air as no development is visible on the ground. Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy must explain why such a situation has cropped up,” Mr. Keshav said. “There is no problem in availing of loans for development, without crossing the RBI’s Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) limits. If the loans are gainfully invested, people will reap the fruits,” he observed. The PAC Chairman objected to the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulation Commission (APERC) approving in a single day a Rs. 30,000-crore proposal, which he said usually takes one year in other States. Mr. Keshav further said that the government should give more clarity on the 9000 MW power procurement proposal from the Solar Energy Corporation of India Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pfc-rec-officials-arriving-to-recover-loans-from-discoms/article37532355.ece
17 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Burglars kill woman, decamp with gold, cash in Anantapur||One woman was killed and another suffered critical injuries when burglars allegedly attacked them in their houses and decamped with gold ornaments at NGO Colony in Kadiri in the early hours of Tuesday. Minutes after Shankar Reddy, a teacher, left his house for a morning walk, the accused entered his house and snatched the gold necklace and bangles from his wife, Usha Reddy. When Usha tried to resist the burglary attempt, the accused allegedly hit her hard on the head leading to bleeding injuries and her instantaneous death. The burglars then entered the neighbouring house of one Ramana, who runs a tea stall in the town. Mr. Ramana had left home to open his tea stall, while his son and daughter-in-law were asleep in one room and his wife in another room. The burglars attacked Ramana’s wife, Shivamma, and snatched her gold ornaments too. They locked the door of the bedroom, where Ramana’s son was sleeping. When Ramana’s domestic help came to their house, she found his wife Shivamma in a pool of blood and immediately opened the bedroom door to shift her to a private hospital in Anantapur, where she is said to be in a critical condition. According to the Kadiri police, Mr. Ramana’s son informed the police about the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/burglars-kill-woman-decamp-with-gold-cash-in-anantapur/article37531953.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red alert for Chennai, neighbours tomorrow||At a time when Chennai is still recovering from the impact of the previous downpour, the Meteorological Department has forecast a very heavy spell of rain over the city and its surrounding districts on Wednesday and Thursday. A red alert has been issued for Chennai and its neighbouring districts — Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Ranipet — for Thursday. Extremely heavy rain, measuring above 20.4 cm, is likely in one or two places. Officials of the Department said the low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal, with an associated cyclonic circulation, persisted. It may move westwards and reach west-central and southwest Bay of Bengal, off south Andhra Pradesh and north Tamil Nadu coasts, on Thursday. As the system begins to move towards the Tamil Nadu coast, the intensity of rain may go up. On Wednesday, rain may be heavy or very heavy in some places over the city, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram. Delta districts, Puducherry and five other districts can expect heavy rain in one or two places. Many other places are likely to experience light to moderate rain till Saturday. On Thursday, when the system nears to Tamil Nadu coast, rain may be extremely heavy in isolated places in Chennai and its neighbouring districts. On Tuesday, Harur and Palacode in Dharmapuri district received 5 cm and 4 cm of rainfall, respectively, between 8.30 a.m. and 7.30 p.m., apart from many other weather stations. During the past 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday, Madukkur in Thanjavur district and Chettikulam in Perambalur district recorded heavy rain of 10 cm each. S. Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology, Chennai, said there was little chance for the low-pressure area to intensify. There is also another low-pressure area over the Arabian Sea, and the interaction between the weather systems in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian sea will induce heavy rainfall, he said. Both the systems will feed moisture into each other, and a trough line, running between the systems, will bring fairly widespread rain, and particularly over north Tamil Nadu, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/red-alert-for-chennai-neighbouring-districts/article37532003.ece
17 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor parishad polls see poor voter turnout||Less than 50% of voters turned out to exercise their franchise in the polling to the seven MPTCs and one ZPTC in Chittoor district on Tuesday. The Bangarupalem ZPTC registered the lowest voter turnout of 37.81%. Gudupalle, K.V. Palle, Kuppam, Nagari and S.R. Puram MPTCs saw over 65% voting. Gudipala and Shantipuram MPTCs saw a steady flow of voters to the polling booths. Police heaved a sigh of relief as no untoward incident was reported. In neighbouring Kadapa district, heavy polling (84.49%) was witnessed for three MPTCs. The Muddanur MPTC saw a highest of 85.91% polling, which was followed by Jammalamadugu (85.34%) and Proddatur (83.70%). In all, 3,422 people had exercised their franchise. Chittoor Collector M. Hari Narayanan said that barring stray incidents of disturbance, polling was peaceful in Kuppam. Police made elaborate arrangements for counting of votes for the 24- ward Kuppam Municipality on Wednesday. N. Prabhakar Reddy, an IAS officer, was posted as special officer to monitor the counting in Kuppam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-parishad-polls-see-poor-voter-turnout/article37532356.ece
17 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man absconding after wife’s ‘murder’||A man allegedly murdered his wife and went absconding at Parkalva village of Ramachandrapuram mandal, 20 km from Tirupati, in the early hours of Tuesday. According to the police, Bhaskar (45) and Ammulu (42), natives of adjoining Vadamalapeta mandal, had been working at a poultry farm at Parkalva since a year. Owing to reported financial problems, the couple allegedly kept quarrelling frequently. The couple reportedly had a bitter tiff on Tuesday night. The woman’s body was reportedly found wrapped in a mat at the couple’s shed in the farm. The body bore deep gashes on her head. The police registered a case and took up investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-absconding-after-wifes-murder/article37531954.ece
17 November 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cyclone alert issued in West Godavari||West Godavari Collector Kartikeya Misra on Tuesday issued a cyclone alert for the district and directed officials to be on guard to prevent loss of life and damage to property in view of the heavy rains predicted by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) in the next 48 hours. As per the cyclone warning issued to West Godavari district, heavy rainfall, with strong gales, may occur in the coastal mandals in the next two days due to the impact of the cyclone. Officers were asked to stay back in their headquarters and monitor the situation round the clock, Mr. Misra said on Tuesday. Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla, who reviewed the situation, said that a District Control Room has been opened at Eluru, and officers or public may dial 1800-233-1077 in case of an emergency. He directed officers to set up control rooms in Narsapuram, Kukunur, Kovvur and Jangareddygudem divisions. People living in cyclone and flood-prone villages in Narsapuram, Yelamanchili, Mogaltur, Bhimavaram, Kall, Peravali, Polavaram, Velerupadu and Achanta mandals were asked to stay alert in view of the heavy rains prediction, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cyclone-alert-issued-in-west-godavari/article37531957.ece
17 November 2021||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||70.14% polling in W. Godavari parishad polls||About 70.14% polling was registered in in Penugonda ZPTC segment and 14 MPTC segments in West Godavari district on Tuesday. MPTC elections were held for Chagallu, Ambarpeta, Denduluru, Eduru, Kovvali, Lakkavaram, Tallapalem, Vegeswarapuram, Satyavolu, Ramasingavaram, K. Kumudavalli and other segments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/7014-polling-in-w-godavari-parishad-polls/article37532405.ece
17 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SIPB gives nod for setting up five industries||The State Investment Promotion Board (SIPB), in a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, on Tuesday gave clearance for setting up five industries with an investment of Rs. 2,134 crore in the State. The industries envisage providing direct employment to 7,683 people. During the meeting, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials to take appropriate measures in the allotment of land to the proposed industries, duly considering their expansion plans in future. He asked the authorities concerned to ensure that there were adequate resources available for the future expansions. The five industries include Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail Limited, which would invest Rs. 110 crore in a garment factory for blouses and trousers at Pulivendula in Kadapa district. The factory has plans to create employment opportunities for 2,112 people. The Century Plyboards India will set up a plywood unit at Badvel with an investment of Rs. 956 crore, creating direct employment for 2, 266 people. The unit would benefit farmers immensely by purchasing eucalyptus trees grown in an extent of 22,500 acres. And this would fetch the farmers about Rs. 315 crore. The SIPB also gave a green signal for a manufacturing industrial chemicals factory in East Godavari district. The Grasim Industries has proposed to set up a unit with an investment of Rs. 861 crore. It would create jobs for 405 people. The board gave the clearance only after it withdrew the plan for setting up a thermal power unit which was opposed by the local residents. In Kopparthi EMC, the AIL Dixon Technologies Private Limited has proposed a camera manufacturing unit with an investment of Rs. 127 crore, providing direct employment to 1,800 people. The same company would establish another unit for manufacturing computers and tablets at an investment of Rs. 80 crore and employment generation for 1,100 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sipb-gives-nod-for-setting-up-five-industries/article37532359.ece
17 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kia India surpasses targets||Managing Director and CEO of Kia India Tae-Jin Park, along with his team, called on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office here on Tuesday, and thanked him for extending support to the company during the COVID-19 crisis. On the occasion, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy dwelt on the favourable conditions for investments in the State and the incentives being provided to the industrial sector. The delegation told the Chief Minister that with the support of the government the company was able to surpass their production and marketing targets. The Chief Minister felicitated Mr. Tae-Jin Park and presented him a memento. Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, Kia India Chief Administrative Officer Kub Dang Lee, Legal and Corporate Affairs HODs Jude Lee and Yang Gil Ma were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kia-india-surpasses-targets/article37532358.ece
17 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. disburses Rs. 22 cr. to ryots hit by Cyclone Gulab||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday disbursed a compensation of Rs. 22 crore into the accounts of 34,586 farmers towards crop loss they suffered due to Cyclone Gulab in September. The Chief Minister said the government had been providing compensation to the farmers affected by natural disasters within the same season. “A sum of Rs. 1,070 crore has so far been disbursed into the accounts of 13.96 lakh farmers towards crop loss in 18 lakh acres,” he said. The Chief Minister asserted that the welfare of the farmer was important for the welfare of the State, especially to the rural economy, as over 62% of the population was relying on the agriculture sector. “The government is paying compensation for the crop loss during the same season in a transparent way after a thorough social audit,” he said. In the last two-and-a-half years, Rs. 18,777 crore had been disbursed under ‘YSR Rythu Bharosa’; Rs. 1,674 crore under ‘Sunna Vaddi Panta Runalu’; Rs. 3,788 crore through ‘YSR Bima’; Rs. 18,000 crore under nine-hour free power supply scheme; and Rs. 1,520 crore towards power subsidy for aqua farmers, the Chief Minister said. Alleging that the TDP government had not paid arrears of Rs. 960 crore for paddy procurement, Rs. 9,000 crore for power bills, and Rs. 384 crore for seed procurement, the Chief Minister said the YSRCP government had cleared all the arrears. He said that a natural disaster fund of Rs. 2,000 crore and a price stabilisation fund of Rs. 3,000 crore had been set up to ensure that farmers did not get into trouble. Deputy Chief Minister D. Krishnadas, Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu, Agri Mission Vice-Chairman M.V.S. Nagireddy, Government Adviser (Agriculture) A. Krishnareddy, Agriculture Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah, Principal Secretary (Revenue ) V. Usharani, and Agriculture Commissioner H. Arun Kumar were present.  A sum of Rs. 1,070 crore has so far been disbursed into the accounts of 13.96 lakh farmers towards crop loss in 18 lakh acres Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-disburses-rs-22-cr-to-ryots-hit-by-cyclone-gulab/article37532351.ece
17 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bogus voting bogey’ Naidu’s creation: MP||YSRCP MP P. Mithun Reddy has said that the TDP is convinced of its defeat in the maiden poll to Kuppam Municipality and this is why N. Chandrababu Naidu, along with media houses favourable to him, is drumming up the ‘bogus voting bogey’. Speaking to reporters on Thursday, Mr. Mithun Reddy said that each and every polling booth had a TDP agent and there was not a single complaint from any of the 48 booths set up in Kuppam Municipality. “Mr. Naidu placed his faithfuls in every booth. Not a single complaint was received, so this appears to be an act of preparing for what is in store (defeat in the election). None of the voters which the TDP alleges to be fake has the indelible ink mark on their fingers,” said Mr. Mithun Reddy. To gain entry into the polling booth, one needs to show some identification failing which the agent can question and complain, he said. “No such incident was reported. The bogus voting theory is the creation of Mr. Naidu and his friendly media houses,” he said. Bogus voters shown by TDP from Ramakuppam were identified by police as TDP activists, he said. The YSRCP complained that there are over 8,000 bogus voters. But the TDP has not a single complaint which indicates that it is staring at defeat,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bogus-voting-bogey-naidus-creation-mp/article37532360.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||UN tourism body’s honour for weavers hub Pochampally||Pochampally village in Telangana is set to be named as one of the best Tourism Villages by the United Nations World Tourism Organisation. “On behalf of the people of Pochampally in particular and Telangana, I am grateful that the award has been bestowed on the village,” Union Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy said after receiving the news. India had nominated two other villages in the same category Kongthong in Meghalaya and Ladhpura Khas in Madhya Pradesh. Pochampally about 50 kilometres from Hyderabad is an artisanal village known for its exceptional ikat weaves and textures. Visitors throng the village to see the weavers at work on their handlooms, creating fabric with complex geometric designs and colours. Reacting to the news, Telangana Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao said: “I am delighted to know that Pochampally village was selected as one of the Best Tourism Villages by the United Nations World Tourism Organisation. Recent UNESCO heritage tag for Ramappa Temple and now the Best Tourism Village Award to Pochampally will significantly boost tourism in the State.” The UNWTO’s 24th annual meeting is set to open on November 30 and will run till December 3 in Madrid, Spain. The UNWTO is a world body for promoting sustainable tourism and its meetings are considered the biggest tourism events in the world. The Tourism Villages is a global initiative to highlight villages where tourism preserves cultures and traditions, celebrates diversity, provides opportunities and safeguards biodiversity, according to UNWTO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/un-tourism-bodys-honour-for-weavers-hub-pochampally/article37531902.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Surprises in TRS pick for six MLC seats||There were a couple of surprises, including sitting Rajya Sabha Member Banda Prakash and former cricketer Padi Kaushik Reddy, in the list of candidates picked by the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) for six MLC seats certain to be retained unopposed in the MLAs’ quota. However, as expected, TRS has also announced the candidature of P. Venkatarami Reddy, who on Monday resigned from service and as District Collector of Siddipet, the home district of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, among the names finalised for as many vacancies in the MLAs’ quota in the Legislative Council. Other leaders who found favour with the TRS leadership for the MLC seats are former Chairman of the Legislative Council Gutha Sukender Reddy, former Deputy Chief Minister Kadiyam Srihari, who are also the outgoing members in the same quota, and party leader Takkallapalli Ravinder Rao. The selection of Mr. Prakash has come a big surprise for many, including those in the party, as his Rajya Sabha term expires only in April 2024. He belongs to the same backward classes’ community as that of former minister Eatala Rajender, who got re-elected from Huzurabad recently on BJP ticket after being removed from the State Cabinet in May this year. A native of Warangal, Mr. Prakash is tipped to be inducted into the State Cabinet soon to fill the vacancy caused by Mr. Rajender’s removal. Interestingly, Mr. Kaushik Reddy has been picked up by the party despite the fact that the State Cabinet had unanimously recommended his name to the Upper House of the State Legislature under the Governor’s Quota only a few months back. The file is still pending with the Governor, who recently said that she needs more time to go through his nomination. All the six candidates went to the Legislature Secretariat immediately after the announcement of their candidatures and filed their nomination papers for MLC seats in the MLAs’ quota. Ministers K. T. Rama Rao, T. Harish Rao and others were also present on the occasion. Later, they were complimented by party president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao before the start of Legislature Party meeting at the party office – Telangana Bhavan. The biennial election to the six MLC seats in the MLAs’ quota has been necessitated following retirement of Akula Lalitha, Mohammed Fareeduddin, G. Sukender Reddy, Nethi Vidyasagar, Bodakunti Venkateshwarlu and K. Srihari on June 6 this year on completing their term. However, the election could not be held in time due to COVID-19 pandemic situation. The TRS leadership did not pick four of the outgoing members, Ms. Lalitha, Mr. Fareeduddin, Mr. Vidyasagar and Mr. Venkateshwarlu. Meanwhile, the notification for filling 12 MLC seats in the Local Authorities’ Constituency (LAC) quota, falling vacant on January 4 next, has been issued on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/surprises-in-trs-pick-for-six-mlc-seats/article37531891.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre adopting double standards: KCR||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has accused the Centre of adopting double standards on the issue of rice procurement without giving clarity even on lifting the paddy/rice produced in the Khairf (Vanakalam) this year. He stated that he would write to the Prime Minister as also Union Minister of Food and Public Distribution on Wednesday on behalf of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi Legislature Party, seeking Centre’s clarity on procuring rice produced this Kharif season, on the rice to be produced in Rabi (Yasangi) season as the Centre lifts entire paddy/rice produced in Punjab. The Legislature Party meeting of TRS held here on Tuesday also decided to hold a ‘maha-dharna’ at the Dharna Chowk near Indira Park on November 18, seeking Centre’s clarity and State BJP’d stand on the issue. All MLAs, MLCs, MPs, Zilla Parishad Chairpersons, Cooperative Bank chairpersons, nominated post holders (chairpersons of various corporations) would participate in the protest from 11 am to 2 pm and submit a memorandum to the Governor. In case there was no response from the Centre in two days after the protest, the State Government would give clarity to the farming community whether to raise paddy in Rabi or not as farmers would start raising nurseries immediately after ‘anuradha karthi’ later this month. He stated that farmers would suffer loss by raising paddy if the Centre refused to procure rice produced in Rabi. While educating the farmers to go for alternative crops, the TRS would also wage a struggle against the Centre and State BJP at every appropriate forum, questioning Centre’s discrimination against States in the matter of rice procurement. He pointed out that the Centre had forced the State Government to give an undertaking on not supplying boiled rice in Rabi from this year as a pre-condition to lift the rice produced in the last Rabi season. Visit questioned Questioning the rationale behind State BJP president Bandi Sanjay’s visit to paddy procurement centres, the Chief Minister sought to know for what purpose he had undertaken the visit when the procurement of paddy produced in Kharif had already commenced. He stated that harvesting was done only in 10% of the extent so far out of 62 lakh acres in which paddy was raised in Kharif. About 4,500 procurement centres were already opened out of over 6,600 proposed in spite of lack of clarity on the quantity of rice to be lifted by the Centre (FCI). They had agreed to lift rice produced in Kharif but had not specified the quantity so far, in spite of repeated requests, the Chief Minister said. Criticising the Bharatiya Janata Party for allegedly instigating attacks by its activists and goons on farmers at the procurements centres, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said it would backfire seriously on the party in the days to come. On the presence of TRS workers there, he sought know whether TRS workers won’t have lands, can’t produce paddy and bring it to procurement centres for its disposal when the party had about 60 lakh membership. “They will definitely question Bharatiya Janata Party leaders, asking whether they stand by the call given to farmers to go for paddy cultivation itself in Rabi and whether they will convince the Centre to lift rice (boiled) produced in Rabi”, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-adopting-double-standards-telangana-cm/article37531931.ece
17 November 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Proddatur MLA alleges plot against Kadapa MP||Proddatur MLA Rachamallu Sivaprasad Reddy on Tuesday alleged that the CBI was trying to implicate Kadapa MP Y.S. Avniash Reddy in the Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy murder case. He said that if the involvement of Mr. Avinash Reddy in the murder was proved, all the nine MLAs of the YSRCP in Kadapa district would resign and permanently quit politics. He said that it was during the TDP government that the FIR was filed in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/proddatur-mla-alleges-plot-against-kadapa-mp/article37531955.ece
17 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two persons arrested on charge of theft||The Kakinada city police arrested two persons on charges of theft and reportedly recovered jewellery worth Rs. 16.4 lakh and two two-wheelers from their possession. Y. Suribabu of Peddapuram mandal has been involved in 30 theft cases in East Godavari district. Another accused, K. Appanna, was involved in over 80 theft cases in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, East Godavari ASP Karanam Kumar said. “The duo was arrested on Monday at the Kakinada bus stand. The total gold recovered from the duo is 351 grams, which is worth over Rs. 16 lakh. They were produced before a local court on Tuesday and an investigation is on,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-persons-arrested-on-charge-of-theft/article37532394.ece
17 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3,100 farmers receive aid||As many as 3,100 farmers growing paddy, cotton and black gram received Rs. 3.24 crore financial aid on Tuesday for the damage of their crops in over 2,168 hectares during Cyclone Gulab that lashed East Godavari district in September. District Collector Ch. Hari Kiran said that the enumeration of crop loss due to the rains is in progress in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3100-farmers-receive-aid/article37532395.ece
17 November 2021||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sumit Kumar is new E.G. Joint Collector||Sumit Kumar has taken charge as the new East Godavari Joint Collector (Revenue and Rythu Barosa) on Tuesday here at the Collectorate. East Godavari Collector Ch. Hari Kiran, Joint Collector Ch. Keerthi and other senior officials in the district administration congratulated Mr. Sumit Kumar, who had previously served as Joint Collector of Srikakulam district, on his new posting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sumit-kumar-is-new-eg-joint-collector/article37532396.ece
17 November 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Satyagraha’ organised demanding implementation of Sribagh Pact||On the 84th anniversary of the Sribagh Pact, members of Rayalaseema Saaguneeti Sadhana Samiti held a ‘Satyagraha’ at Nandyal on Tuesday demanding implementation of all provisions of the pact and action from the political class on the issue of development of Rayalaseema. Members of the Samiti, led by Bojja Dasratharami Reddy, submitted a memorandum containing their demands to Nandyal Sub Collector Chahat Bajpai, which would later be passed on to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The irrigation water rights of the region must be protected and the Krishna River Management Board office be set up in Kurnool instead of Visakhapatnam as proposed by the State government, the RSSS members said. In Kurnool, advocates held a meeting and criticised the successive governments for failing to set up the High Court at Kurnool and demanded the shifting of the A.P. High Court from Amaravati to Kurnool.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/satyagraha-organised-demanding-implementation-of-sribagh-pact/article37531952.ece
17 November 2021||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polling peaceful in Kurnool, Anantapur||The polling for a few MPTC and a couple of ZPTC seats in Kurnool and Anantapur districts went off peacefully on Tuesday, with police personnel helping the elderly and the infirm to reach the polling booths by supporting them in the last mile, where others are not allowed as per Election Commission rules. In the Kurnool district, 64.34% of voters exercised their franchise in the polling for seven MPTC seats and the lone Nandyal ZPTC seat. In all 41,018 persons cast their vote. District Collector P. Koteswar Rao said everything was in place for the counting on November 18. In Adoni Mandal at Danapuram, Sub-Inspector Vijayalakshmi helped elderly women reach the polling booth from the road by carrying them in her hands. In the Anantapur district, for the Chilamattur ZPTC and 17 MPTC seats polling was conducted, and 64.67% of voters cast their votes for the ZPTC, while 69.86% voters exercised their franchise in the election for the MPTC seats. District Collector Nagalaskhmi Selvarajan reviewed the arrangements for the counting of votes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/polling-peaceful-in-kurnool-anantapur/article37531950.ece
17 November 2021||MALAPPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heritage dhow to shine on beautiful game||Taking pride of place among the exhibits at Qatar during the FIFA World Cup next year will be a special dhow built far away in a village in Kerala. Recreating the vessels used by Arab traders about 800 years ago when they sailed to Kerala, the dhow being made at Chaliyam in Kerala’s Kozhikode will not have a single nail or metal piece. Instead traditional coir ropes will hold together the teak pieces. In the special dhow nearing completion at the Pattermadu dhow-making unit, hundreds of metres of coir ropes are used. “It is going to be the pride of not only Qatar, but our tradition as well. We have been making dhows for centuries, and the impression our craftsmanship and skills made in the world was quite deep,” said P.O. Hashim, managing director of Haji PI Ahamed Koya boat builders. Mr. Hashim’s company has made over 200 dhows. “This is a prestigious one not because of its size, but because of its uniqueness. Nowhere in the world is such a vessel being made now,” he said. A dozen-odd craftsmen under the leadership of Gokul Edathumpadikkal have been working for over three months for the 27-ft-long coir dhow. The six-foot deep vessel has a width of seven feet. Hundreds of holes were made on the teak wood, specially acquired from Nilambur. Using a traditional technique, coir rope is run through the holes to tie the pieces together. A special marine oil will be applied on the ropes before the dhow is launched into the water. “The marine oil will add more strength to the rope when it comes in contact with the seawater,” explained Mr. Gokul. The dhow will set sail for Qatar in a few weeks. Mr. Hashim’s company has had a long association with Qatar and other Gulf nations. According to him, it was that association that fetched him this prestigious contract to showcase the traditional dhow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/heritage-dhow-to-shine-on-beautiful-game/article37531973.ece
17 November 2021||MANGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala-Karnataka border witnesses chaos||Thousands of regular travellers, including students, from the border areas of Kerala to Dakshina Kannada district, particularly Mangaluru, are forced to endure a lot of difficulties daily owing to a lack of passenger trains and inter-State bus services. Students and regular travellers from Uppala, Manjeshwar, Hosangadi, Kunjathur, and other places are forced to travel in buses, private as well as government-run, till Talapady on the Kerala-Karnataka border. They have to alight at Talapady, cross the border, and board buses for their onward journey towards Mangaluru and other parts of Dakshina Kannada. The Karnataka Government is yet to allow inter-State bus services. Kavyashree, an undergraduate student of Besant College in Mangaluru, who was waiting for a connecting bus at Talapady on Tuesday, told The Hindu that she used to travel by the Cheravathur passenger train pre-COVID-19. “I spent a total of Rs. 20 on my daily commute that used to take a maximum of 45 minutes in each direction. Now, I have to shell out more than Rs. 100 each day for bus fare and also wait at Talapady for a connecting service, and I am forced to travel in crowded buses,” she said. Mohammed Suhaib, a student of Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management near Mangaluru, travels from Hosangadi in Kerala to Mangaluru daily by road. He is forced to change buses at Talapady. “When things have drastically improved and classes from LKG have resumed, there is no rationale in barring inter-State bus services. Almost every senior student is vaccinated and everyone wears a mask,” he said. Ganapathi Educational Institutions Correspondent Mahesh Bondal told The Hindu that not less than 2,000 students from areas bordering Kerala travel to Mangaluru every day to pursue courses in St. Aloysius, University College, Government First Grade College, Besant Institutions, and several other private colleges. His institution also runs a high school and a PU college at Someshwar near the Ullal railway station. Despite repeated pleas to Railways, passenger train services are yet to resume, thereby forcing students and parents to incur a high expenditure on the daily commute. Even though the respective RTCs issue student passes, they are of little use as students have to change buses at the border, said an official of KSRTC. Social activist Gopalakrishna Bhat sees the chaos every morning and evening at Talapady when hundreds of students jostle for space inside cramped buses. They spend Rs. 100 to Rs. 150 each day on commuting as against a maximum of Rs. 30 by a passenger train in the pre-COVID-19 days. “Railways should have resumed passenger train services when it commenced normal train operations from November 15,” Mr. Bhat said. Puttur train Southern Railway is yet to resume passenger train services between Mangaluru Central and Puttur, a major commercial and education centre in Dakshina Kannada. Kukke Sri Subrahmanya-Mangaluru Commuters’ Forum convener Sudarshan Puttur, who has made several representations to people’s representatives and Railways, criticised the apathy of Railways. The samiti has also demanded extension of these services till Kukke Subrahmanya (Subrahmanya Road), a popular pilgrim centre. “The resumption of services would have helped thousands of regular travellers, including students,” Mr. Sudarshan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-travel-curbs-hit-kerala-students/article37531899.ece
17 November 2021||Mangaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six arrested for harassing students||Mangaluru police arrested six persons allegedly involved in yet another case of moral policing of two students belonging to different religions at Idya village, near Surathkal, on Monday night. The police gave their names as Prahalad, Prashant, Guru Prasad, Prateesh, Bharath, and Sukesh. They are all said to be activists of the Bajrang Dal. According to the police, a II year BSc girl student from a college at Mukka had prepared to relocate from Mukka to an apartment at Idya on Monday. As it was 10 p.m., she decided to call her senior college mate Mohammed Yaseen for help in moving articles to the apartment. When Yaseen stopped to fill petrol on the way, a few motorcycles started following them. The two students were waylaid just before they entered the apartment complex around 10.30 p.m. After asking the name of Yaseen, the members of group abused him for moving with a woman from another faith. They slapped him and abused the girl and her mother. They reportedly touched the girl inappropriately and pushed her around, according to the complaint. On being alerted by apartment residents, the police reached the spot and took the six activists into their custody. Two of these accused were sporting T-shirts of a popular food delivery firm. Complaint Based on a complaint by Yaseen, the six arrested persons were booked for offences under various sections of Indian Penal Code. The police said the action taken by them was as per the recent directions of the Supreme Court on vigilante attacks. The moral policing incident on Monday night is the seventh one reported since September in Dakshina Kannada. While police sources said these incidents were to gain sympathy of a community in the run-up to the Assembly elections, Bajrang Dal activists said that local people were “reporting” more about movement of interfaith couple. “For the last few days, we are getting more information from parents and other people,” claimed Vishwa Hindu Parishad Mangaluru divisional secretary Sharan Pumpwell. Activists try to “dissuade women falling into the trap” of persons from another faith, he said. “In this process there might be some heated exchange in some cases,” he said, and claimed activists were “falsely accused” of assaulting and harassing the victim woman at Idya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-arrested-for-harassing-students/article37531900.ece
17 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers vow to step up stir for one capital||Farmers taking part in the ‘maha padayatra’ from Amaravati to Tirupati vowed to intensify their stir to exert pressure on the YSRCP government to announce Amaravati as the sole capital of Andhra Pradesh, as their agitation completed 700 days on Tuesday. Eighty-year-old Rangammma, who had parted with her land for the capital in Amaravati was the cynosure of all eyes as she, along with other ryots, took part in the walkathon. The long march got a good response in Kandukur town of Prakasam district on Tuesday evening. The morale of the Amaravati ryots got a boost with leaders of various parties including CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna, CPI assistant secretary Muppala Nageswara Rao and former TDP MLA Divi Sivaram walking in tandem with them. Mr. Ramakrishna urged the Centre, which had provided funds for the construction of capital in Amaravati, to direct the State government to drop the move of setting up three capitals. Perplexed as to how the leaders of the BJP could give ‘conflicting suggestions’ to party cadre, he said while Union Home Minister Amit Shah had reportedly asked the BJP workers to actively take part in the farmers’ stir, BJP national secretary in-charge of Andhra Pradesh Sunil Deodhar had made a suggestion to the contrary. Instead of conceding the agitating farmers’ demand for continuing with the decision of previous TDP government on the capital based on a ‘consensus among all parties, including the YSRCP’, the ruling party now was planning parallel padayatras and public meetings, lamented Mr. Sivaram. Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti Convenor A. Siva Reddy expressed confidence that the farmers would get justice as the High Court resumed hearing in the case challenging the Capital Regional Development Authority Repeal Act and the A.P. Decentralisation of the Development Act. Meanwhile, blind-folded farmers joined by different sections of people including youth and women staged a demonstration during the 16th day of the maha padayatra. An all-region prayer meeting was also organised to mark the protracted struggle. Support swelled for Amaravati farmers as the march resumed from Vikiralapeta. Local people including farmers taking a little break from rabi sowing operations, showered flower petals on the Amaravati farmers, broke coconuts and pumpkins before offering worship to the chariaot of Lord Venkateswara which was in forefront of the padayatra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmers-vow-to-step-up-stir-for-one-capital/article37532361.ece
17 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Moderate rush of pilgrims at Sabarimala on Day 1||Braving inclement weather conditions, devotees began trekking the Sabarimala hillock to offer prayers at the Lord Ayyappa temple on Tuesday. The pilgrims were permitted entry to the hillock after Melsanthi N. Parameswaran Namboothiri opened the temple portals in the morning. In view of a regulation on the entry of devotees due to heavy rain, the day witnessed only a moderate crowds. Only those who have booked slots in the virtual queue system are being permitted to the temple from the base camp at Pampa-Triveni. Arrangements reviewed Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan held a review of the arrangements in place at Pampa and the Sannidhanam along with Travancore Devaswom Board president K. Ananthagopan. According to the Minister, over 13 lakh people have already booked slots for darshan through the virtual queue system and the pilgrim footfall is expected to improve as the weather conditions stabilise. “As more devotees begin to arrive, the traditional Sabarimala path via Neelimala-Apachimedu may be opened to devotees. The departments concerned have been directed to set up two health centres along this route and make arrangements to ensure adequate lighting,” said the Minister. He promised that roads which were damaged due to rain would be restored soon. During the visit, the Minister inaugurated the Punyam Poonkavanam programme, a cleaning initiative, that entered into its 10th year this season and the distribution of free meals to devotees at the Sannidhanam. The Akhila Bharatha Ayyappa Seva Sanghom has deployed volunteers at the Sannidhanam, Marakkottam and Pampa. Special ward at MCH The Health Department has opened a special Sabarimala ward at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Pathanamthitta, which has 18 beds besides four ICU beds. Five specialist doctors, nurses and attendants have been deployed to man the ward, where other tests, including cath lab and laboratory tests and CT scan, will be made available. The hospital additionally offers the services of a physician, surgeon, orthopaedic and anaesthesiologist specialists and other staff from various hospitals in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/moderate-rush-of-pilgrims-at-sabarimala-on-day-1/article37531897.ece
17 November 2021||SRIKAKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reading about freedom fighters will inspire kids, says former MP||Former Member of Parliament D.V.G. Sankara Rao on Tuesday said that reading books on freedom fighters would inspire youngsters and help inculcate a sense of patriotism in them from a young age. He asked teachers and parents to present biographies of great personalities such as Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Bhagat Singh so that students understand the struggles undergone by them in achieving freedom for the country, and also develop a reading habit. Mr. Sankara Rao was attending the 54th Grandhalaya Varotsavalu, held at Srikakulam District Library, as the chief guest. Senior writer and journalist Bendalam Krishna Rao released an anthology of poems authored by the former MP. Jatiya Kala Vedika general secretary Vavilapalli Raja Rao, district library secretary K. Kumar Raja, librarians G. Tirumala Kumari, S.V.Ramana Murthy, and P. Eswara Rao were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reading-about-freedom-fighters-will-inspire-kids-says-former-mp/article37532401.ece
17 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Kaisika Dwadasi’ celebrated at Tirumala||Fervor marked the ‘Kaisika Dwadasi’ celebrations at the Lord Venkateswara temple here on Tuesday. Immense significance is attached to the festival which is also known as ‘Uttana Dwadasi’ as it marks the awakening of Lord Vishnu from his four-month-long ‘yoga nidra’ on this auspicious day of Karthika Shukla Dwadasi. In connection with the festival, Lord Ugra Srinivasa, who is brought out of the sancum sanctorum only once in a year on this day, was taken out in a procession around the Mada Streets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kaisika-dwadasi-celebrated-at-tirumala/article37531956.ece
17 November 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Alipiri footpath to be closed for two days||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has decided to close the twin footpaths leading from Alipiri foothills to the Lord Venkateswara temple atop Tirumala hill for two days on November 17 and 18. The decision was taken following a cyclone alert issued by the Indian Meteorological Department which predicted heavy rains for the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alipiri-footpath-to-be-closed-for-two-days/article37532362.ece
17 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘COVID-19 has badly affected children’||A joint study taken up by UNICEF and AP Alliance for Child Rights, revealed gross violation of child rights and shocking incidents of child abuse and rise in child marriages during the pandemic. ‘Many orphaned’ Many children were orphaned during the first and second waves of COVID-19. School dropout rate is on the rise and the virus has severely impacted on the health condition of kids, the study says. State SC and ST Commission Chairman M. Victor Prasad, Adviser to Education Department (Nadu-Nedu) A. Murali, District Education Officer Tahera Sultana, Women Development and Child Welfare Department Assistant Project Director S. Jaya Lakshmi released the study report here on Tuesday. The study was conducted in Visakhapatnam, Krishna and Kurnool districts. To know the pre and post-COVID situation, the study focussed on health & nutrition, child protection and education, said UNICEF communication specialist Prosun Sen. Enumerators gathered information from 335 children, aged between 6 and 18, of which 266 were studying in government schools, 69 in private schools and colleges. Information related to continuing education, child protection and health and nutrition aspects were also gathered, said Alliance for Child Right convener P. Ramesh Sekhar Reddy. Of the 335 children interviewed, 264 said they had stopped studies (school dropouts), 44 said they were working as child labourers, 25 expressed that they might get married off and complaints of trafficking were also reported. Lockdown has seen an increase in child rights violations. Childline, an NGO and also supported by Ministry of Women and Child Development, received 4,60,000 calls in first 21 days of the lockdown. Of them, 30% were related to sexual abuse, child labour and minor marriages, Mr. Sen said. Child labour The pandemic has increased stress among children due to loss of parents, and the children were forced to take up daily wage jobs to feed the other family members, said ACR State coordinator Gode Prasad. According to the analysis, 175 of the 335 child respondents said that they were not attending online classes, only 11 children said that they have been studying online. Of the 175, 104 students said they have neither laptop nor desktop and 39 students said they do not have any type of internet connection facility, Mr. Reddy said. Most of the children were suffering with psychological problems by staying at home for a long time. Due to fear of infection of COVID-19, they were not attending classes or meeting or playing with friends and were not having any physical activity for the last two years, Mr. Prasad added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-has-badly-affected-children/article37531946.ece
17 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NEET first ranker felicitated||Vice-Chancellor of Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences P. Shyam Prasad on Tuesday felicitated Mrinal Kutteri, who bagged all-India first rank in NEET UG 2021, at a function organised by Aakash Educational Services Ltd. Mrinal said he followed a well-balanced routine coupled with focussed sessions of study with adequate breaks. A student of Aakash Institute, Hyderabad, he scored 720 marks in the entrance exam. His initial interest in Chemical Engineering faded when he was in Class 9. “I realised that the medical field would give me a better opportunity to serve the society and a career in healthcare sector will be interesting,” he said. “Mrinal was one of our brightest students, very confident and consistent. We wish him all the best with his higher studies and a fulfilling career in medicine,” said Aakash Choudhry, Managing Director, Aakash Educational Services Ltd.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/neet-first-ranker-felicitated/article37532456.ece
17 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rising raw material prices cause for concern: CREDAI||Representatives of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) Andhra Pradesh chapter have expressed concern over the rising costs of raw material on which the real estate and construction industry are dependent. In a press conference here on Tuesday, CREDAI president K. Rajendra Prasad and secretary K. Ramesh Ankineedu said the COVID pandemic had badly hit the construction industry, causing non-availability of skilled workers and labourers, demand for higher remuneration by the available workers and decrease in home buying potential among the public. They said lack of proper supply and availability of sand, which is a key raw material required for the construction industry, had been a cause for concern. In addition, 30 to 35% increase in prices of cement, steel, paints, electrical equipment, plumbing and sanitary equipment, fuel and transport charges had led to an increase in the cost of construction. Treasurer V. Sridhar said that the situation of developers was in direstraits as they were not in a position to bear the increased expenditures or pass on the same to the buyers. According to a report by CREDAI, A.P., between October 2020 and October 2021, steel price increased by 52.4%, cement price by 34.9%, artificial sand price by 44.9%, electrical cable price by 60% and the aluminium price increased by 65.8%. The association appealed to the State government seeking its intervention and support in issues related to sand, cement prices and others within its ambit for the construction industry to tide over the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rising-raw-material-prices-cause-of-concern-credai/article37531949.ece
17 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leaders have forgotten people’s mandate: Brinda||The BJP leaders have forgotten the mandate given to them by the people, and they have sold their souls to the corporate sector, CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat has alleged. Ms. Karat was speaking at the birth centenary meeting of party leader Manikonda Suryavathi, organised here on Tuesday. “Only one mantra – Adani, Ambani and corporate – is heard at Parliament now. The mandir of democracy, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi once described Parliament as, has turned into a mandir of corporates,” Ms. Brinda Karat said. “The Centre is destroying the rights of the farmers and the workers. The farmers have been agitating against the farm laws for the last one year. But the BJP leaders are silent on it,” she alleged, and extended her party’s support to the agitation of the workers and the peasants on November 26. “I do not know what Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is going to do. In Kerala, our Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has declared his full support to the agitation,” she said. Stating that real nationalism and patriotism could be understood from the life of Suryavathi and not from what the RSS and the BJP preach, Ms. Brinda Karat said, “Suryavathi had worked for the poor, rural women. She had fought against the feudal forces. She did not look at caste or religion during her struggle as she considered that real patriotism and nationalism was in mobilising women, peasants, workers and the toiling masses.” “What was the role played by the ancestors of the RSS-BJP during the freedom movement? They had acted as agents of the colonial regime that promoted caste system and religious animosity,” she alleged. “Today, people at the helm are promoting sectarian policies and linking nationalism to religion. We condemn this,” Ms. Brinda Karat asserted. She released a book on Suryavathi on the occasion. Party State Committee secretary P. Madhu and AIDWA leader Rama Devi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-leaders-have-forgotten-peoples-mandate-brinda/article37532365.ece
17 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI conducts raids in Tirupati, Kanekal in child abuse case||Officials of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) conducted a series of simultaneous raids in Tirupati and Kanekal in Anantapur district in the State as part of a nationwide investigation into online child sexual abuse cases. A special unit, called ‘Online Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation Prevention/Investigation (OCSAE), was created in the CBI to probe the child sexual abuse cases. The OCSAE will coordinate with other agencies and is investigating the related cases. On Tuesday, teams of the CBI conducted searches on houses of two techies in Tirupati and in Kanekal. They seized the mobile phones of the suspects, laptops and other electronic material of the NRIs, who allegedly shared the child pornography and child sexual exploitation material through various social media platforms. As part of the nation-wide raids, OCSAE conducted raids on 77 locations in 14 States, including Andhra Pradesh. It was revealed that about 5,000 persons of 50 gangs were allegedly involved in the racket across the country. The accused were allegedly having links to some organised gangs of various countries. During investigation, it was revealed that the accused were sharing the sexual exploitation material with about 100 countries. Investigation is on, the CBI officials said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cbi-conducts-raids-in-tirupati-kanekal-in-child-sexual-abuse-case/article37531947.ece
17 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC wins medal for its rooftop solar project||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has bagged a silver medal for its rooftop solar plants project in the transport sector category, at the 76th SKOCH Summit that was conducted by SKOCH State of Governance on Tuesday. The Corporation’s Chief Mechanical Engineer (Maintenance) G. Vijaya Ratnam delivered a presentation on rooftop solar plants installed by the APSRTC. Vice-Chairman and Managing Director Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao congratulated the team for achieving the first SKOCH State of Governance award. Representatives from departments like Transport, Police, Roads and Buildings, Health, Municipal Administration, Transco, Smart City Ltd. and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) participated in the summit. APSRTC won a silver medal from among 100 semi-finalists. Executive Director (Engineering) P. Krishna Mohan and Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineer (Works) Ch. Vimala were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-wins-medal-for-solar-projects/article37531958.ece
17 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two more die of virus; 191 new cases in State||The State reported two more deaths due to COVID-19 and 191 infections in the 24 hours, ending Tuesday morning. The overall tally and toll reached 20,70,286 and 14,418 respectively, with a recovery rate of 99.17% and death rate of 0.70%. Recoveries increased to 20,53,134, with 416 recoveries in the past day. The daily test positivity rate of the 26,514 samples tested in the past day was put at 0.72% while that of the total 3.0031 crore samples tested so far was 6.89%. Krishna and Prakasam districts reported one death each. Krishna district reported 41 infections, the highest among the districts. It was followed by Chittoor (37), West Godavari (19), Guntur (18), Visakhapatnam (17), East Godavari (13), Nellore (13), Srikakulam (11), Anantapur (10), Prakasam (4), Vizianagaram (4), Kadapa (2) and Kurnool (2). District tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,94,408), Chittoor (2,47,621), West Godavari (1,79,377), Guntur (1,78,517), Visakhapatnam (1,58,137), Anantapur (1,57,948), Nellore (1,46,660), Prakasam (1,38,636), Kurnool (1,24,172), Srikakulam (1,23,291), Krishna (1,19,832), Kadapa (1,15,781) and Vizianagaram (83,011).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-more-die-of-virus-191-new-cases-in-state/article37532353.ece
17 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDLP bats for 15-day Assembly session||The Telugu Desam Legislature Party (TDLP), at its meeting presided over by party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, on Tuesday demanded that the Assembly session be conducted for a minimum of 15 days so as to discuss contentious public issues. The TDLP criticised the government for displaying an “escapist mindset” by deciding to conduct the session for just one day on November 19. “The one-day session is being organised to fulfil the constitutional obligation, as the last session was held six months ago on May 20. The ruling YSRCP should stop disrespecting the law-making bodies, which have a big role to play in a democracy,” the TDLP said.  Farmers’ padayatra It also objected to the manner in which the YSRCP was trying to “undermine” the ‘maha padayatra’ of the Amaravati farmers. “A large number of people are extending support to the padayatra, which indicates the rising resentment against YSRCP rule,” the TDLP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdlp-bats-for-15-day-assembly-session/article37532363.ece
17 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Energy Secy. told to ‘clear air on solar power deal’||TDP leader and Public Accounts Committee (PAC) Chairman Payyavula Keshav has written to Energy Secretary N. Srikant requesting him to ‘clear the air’ on the 9,000 MW power procurement from the Solar Energy Corporation of India Limited (SECI). He also wanted the Energy Secretary to provide all supporting documents and decisions made relating to the power procurement. Releasing a copy of the letter to the media on Tuesday, Mr. Keshav said there were contradictions in the statements issued by the Energy Secretary at a recent press meet. “Why does A.P., despite being an energy surplus State, want an additional capacity of more than 100% into the existing grid? The approval of the 9000MW offer made by the SECI is atrocious and imprudent,” he said. It was also surprising to see the speed at which this proposal was received from the SECI (September 15, 2021) and was accepted in less than a day (Spetember 16, 2021). It is puzzling that the manufacturing bid has not been subscribed by any State for over 22 months. All of a sudden, the entire capacity of 9000 MW was offered urgently to A.P. by the SECI and was accepted by the government with the same urgency,” said Mr. Keshav. The SECI had brought down the price per unit with falling trend in the prices. To the utter surprise, the Andhra Pradesh government has not even attempted to probe into this issue, he said. ‘Burden on consumers’ Although, the SECI has offered a price of Rs. 2.49 per unit along with certain incentives, the ultimate cost of the incentives has to be borne by the consumers in the State in form of true-up charges, price impact due to customs, socialisation charges, GST charges and etc., as the project is not being set up in Andhra Pradesh,” said Mr. Keshav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/energy-secy-told-to-clear-air-on-solar-power-deal/article37532366.ece
17 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan pats A.P. police for winning 20 SKOCH awards||The Andhra Pradesh police have won 20 SKOCH awards in utilising technology. Of the 150 awards announced by SKOCH group, the State police won 20, said Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang. The A.P. Police had won 75 awards earlier. Of the 20, the Police Headquarters bagged six, Anantapur, Chittoor and Krishna three each, Tirupati Urban and Kadapa two each and Police Battalions got one award. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, on Tuesday, appreciated the police officers and staff for winning the SKOCH awards, he said. Awards were announced for HAWK Vehicle, COVID Treatment Tracker, COVID Cell, Operation Samaikya, Technical Ayalysis Wing, Tech Support on One Click, Village Defence Squads, Integrated Command Control Centre, Trinetra, Automated Police Online System, Police Welfare during the pandemic and other projects, Mr. Sawang said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-pats-ap-police-for-winning-20-skoch-awards/article37532449.ece
17 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SRKR Engg. College gets Foreign Languages centre||Katharina Gorgen, Director, Goethe-Institute (German) at Max Mueller Bhavan, Chennai, on Tuesday inaugurated Center for Foreign Languages established at the SRKR Engineering College at Bhimavaram in West Godavari district. Addressing the students on the occasion, Dr. Gorgen said learning a foreign language would give students an added advantage in their careers. He said the centre would help create awareness among students to have an inter-lingual approach for the proficient understanding of literatures, irrespective of boundaries of languages and barriers of regions. Informing that many such German-learning centres were established across the country, she said students should utilise this opportunity by learning a new foreign language. College Principal M. Jagapathi Raju said in the last 40 years, the college had been adding new facilities like research centres, technology and incubation centres and idea labs for the benefit of the students. Secretary and Correspondent S.V. Ranga Raju, CEO SRK Nishant Varma and Director K. Jeevasagar spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srkr-engg-college-gets-foreign-languages-centre/article37532457.ece
17 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CBI must question YSRCP MP in Viveka murder case’||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national spokesman K. Pattabhi Ram has demanded that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) question YSR Congress Party Kadapa MP Y.S. Avinash Reddy and his father Y.S. Bhasker Reddy for their alleged role in the murder of former Member of Parliament Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy. “The finger of suspicion is pointed at several members of the YS family as per the confessional statement of Vivekananda Reddy’s former driver Dastagiri,” Mr. Pattabhi Ram said while addressing the media here on Tuesday. “The CBI should investigate and question the key conspirators,” he said. The Central agency should also question Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy too, he demanded. “The Chief Minister changed the Special Investigation Teams (SIT) formed to probe the case twice. Further, he also downgraded it by replacing an additional DG-rank officer with an Superintendent of Police,” the TDP spokesperson alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cbi-must-question-ysrcp-mp-in-viveka-murder-case/article37532458.ece
17 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPT results on APPSC website||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has uploaded on its websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.inthe results of the Computer Proficiency Test (CPT) held from October 10 to 30 this year at 10 district centres for employees of village/ward secretariats i.e. Panchayat Secretary Grade-V in P.R and R.D. Department, Village Revenue Officer Grade-II and VRO Grade-I in Revenue Department, employees who are appointed on compassionate grounds in all HoDs/Directorates/AP Secretariat after May 12 in 2014 and compassionate VROs/in service VRAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpt-results-on-appsc-website/article37531959.ece
17 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State to get more rain as low pressure persists||South Coastal and Rayalaseema regions of the State are likely to receive heavy rain at isolated places, while the entire State is likely to receive light to moderate rainfall at many places on Wednesday, as the low pressure formed in the Bay of Bengal off south Andhra Pradesh and north Tamil Nadu coasts persists. A similar weather condition may prevail till Saturday, as per India Meteorological Department. IMD advisory Following the IMD forecast, AP State Disaster Management Authority has warned people to be cautious in view of the heavy rains. Fishermen have been asked not to venture into the sea till Thursday as the coast will witness wind blowing at a speed of 50 to 60 kmph.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-to-get-more-rain-as-low-pressure-persists/article37532450.ece
17 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ZPTC, MPTC polls peaceful in Krishna||Polling for elections to leftover ZPTC and MPTC seats in various mandals of the district concluded peacefully on Tuesday. Krishna District Collector J. Nivas said polling for elections to three ZPTC and seven MPTC seats was conducted in 179 polling stations and an overall voter turnout of 63.44% was witnessed. Polling was conducted for ZPTCs of Visannapeta, G. Konduru and Pedana and MPTCs of villages in Nagayalanka, Mudinepalli, Gannavaram, Penugranchipolu, Nuzvid and Gannavaram mandals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zptc-mptc-polls-peaceful-in-krishna/article37532451.ece
17 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP candidates file nominations||YSRCP candidates Palavalasa Vikrant of Srikakulam, Ishaq Basha of Kurnool and D.C. Govinda Reddy of Kadapa district on Tuesday filed their nominations for elections to the A.P. Legislative Council under the MLA quota. Withdrawal of nominations will be accepted up to 3 p.m. on November 22. Polling will be conducted on November 29 from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and counting will be taken up at 5 p.m. the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-candidates-file-nominations/article37532452.ece
17 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No jumbling of students in Inter practicals||The State government has accorded permission for non-jumbling of students for the Intermediate practical examinations, to be held in March 2022. Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) Secretary M.V. Seshagiri Babu instructed the principals of the government, aided and private junior colleges and degree colleges offering two-year Intermediate course to ensure adequate lab equipment and apparatus in good condition and observe the guidelines in respect of dimensions of laboratory halls, furniture as prescribed in the BIE handbook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-jumbling-of-students-in-inter-practicals/article37532367.ece
17 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Construction cost hits the roof as input prices shoot up: CREDAI||The construction sector, which has already been hit by the pandemic, is being pushed into a crisis due to the steep hike in the cost of sand, cement and steel, apart from the abnormal increase in transportation costs, say Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) chairman Bayana Srinivasa Rao and president K.S.R.K. Raju. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, they said that the price of steel, which was between Rs. 43,000 and Rs. 46,000 in March 2020, now ranges between Rs. 67,000 and Rs. 70,000, a ton. The corresponding rates for cement, which ranged from Rs. 230 to Rs. 260 for a 50 kg bag, now costs between Rs. 370 and Rs. 400 and river sand which was Rs. 3,500 a unit, now costs Rs. 6,000. Similarly, the cost of materials used in secondary stage construction like tiles, electrical materials, fabrication, putty and paintings, plumbing, sanitary and wood have all increased. They wondered as to why the cost of steel and cement should be hiked, when there was no increase in taxes. An additional burden of about Rs. 500 per sft. was being borne by the builders and this was resulting in a steep increase in the final cost of the flat and causing burden on the consumers, they said. Mr. Raju said that delays in the issue of various clearances were also leading to delays in the completion of housing projects and leading to cost escalation. The increase in petrol and diesel prices has a cascading effect on material prices due to the high transportation cost. The builders were paying high interest on the loans taken from banks and they sought that it should be reduced to around 7% in view of the crisis in the industry. CREDAI-Visakhapatnam honorary secretary E. Ashok Kumar was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/construction-cost-hits-the-roof-as-input-prices-shoot-up-credai/article37532460.ece
17 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man accused of setting ablaze woman succumbs to burns||Twenty-one-year-old P. Harshavardhan, who had allegedly set ablaze his classmate and also immolated himself in a lodge at Suryabagh here on November 13, succumbed to the burns, at King George Hospital (KGH) on Tuesday morning. According to Inspector of II Town Police Station K. Venkat Rao, the doctors from KGH declared Harshavardhan dead at around 5 a.m. The youth had suffered severe burns and his vital organs were also affected, as per the doctors, he said. The 20-year-old woman victim in the case is still undergoing treatment, he said. Harshavardhan and the girl were pursuing B.Tech., in a renowned college in Punjab. Since COVID-19 pandemic, they were attending online classes from home. As per the statement given by the girl, she treated Harshavardhan as one of her friends, but however he had been proposing her, but she had rejected. Harshavardhan who hailed from Warangal in Telangana, had come to Visakhapatnam on November 12. On November 13, both met in a lodge and after which Harshavardhan had allegedly poured petrol on the girl and set her ablaze, for reportedly rejected him. Then he set himself afire to end his life. Meanwhile, the man in his statement had claimed that the duo were in a relationship earlier, but she had started to refuse him of late due to various reasons. The body has been sent for post-mortem and the police have registered cases. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-accused-of-setting-ablaze-a-woman-succumbs-to-burns/article37532404.ece
17 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speed up smart city works, GVMC Commissioner tells officials||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Lakshmisha conducted a review meet over the status of smart city works being taken up here on Tuesday. Mr. Lakshmisha instructed the officials to speed up the works, especially in the sewerage network system. He said that contractors should cooperate and take part in the tenders which were called for development of 40 schools as part of CITIIS (City Investments to Innovate, Integrate and Sustain) project. In a presentation, the officials informed him that 46 projects were completed, two projects are in various stages and one project is yet to go for tenders. He inspected Town Hall, Multi-Level Car Parking Project (MLCP) and a few other project works in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/speed-up-smart-city-works-gvmc-commissioner-tells-officials/article37532466.ece
17 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||MPTC, ZPTC elections record 75.28% polling||An overall poll percentage of 75.28 was recorded in the MPTC and ZPTC elections, which concluded peacefully in the district on Tuesday. Earlier, during the day, District Collector A. Mallikarjuna went round the polling stations in the morning and inspected the arrangements at different polling stations. The total voters in the Anandapuram ZPTC were 49,336, of whom 24,639 were women and 24, 693 were men. The votes polled were male – 18,135 and female – 18,364 and the poll percentage was 73.98. There were a total of 63 polling stations for the ZPTC. The number of voters in MPTC (Dalivalasa) was 3,574. The total votes polled were 2,719, which is 76.08 %. In MPTC( Janakayyapeta), the total number of electors was 2,438 and the votes polled were 2,060, which is 84.50 %. In MPTC(Vantarlapalem), the total voters were 1,785 and the votes polled were 1,375, which is 77.03%. In MPTC(Nagulappalli-2), the total voters were 2,397 and votes polled were 1,864 and poll percentage was 77.76. In MPTC( Bheemaboinapalem), the total voters were 2,964 and votes polled were 2,495, which is 84.18 %. In MPTC(Dibbapalem-3), the total votes were 1,921 and votes polled were 1,497, which is 77.93 % and in MPTC – Palakalapadu (PS no. 29 and 30), the total voters were 1,437 and votes polled were 1,062, which take the poll percentage to 73.90.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mptc-zptc-elections-record-7528-polling/article37532461.ece
17 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Compensation given to 7,684 cyclone-hit ryots||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna has said that about Rs. 293.72 lakh has been deposited in the bank accounts of 7,684 farmers from the district by the State Government to compensate the agriculture and horticulture losses faced by them due to Cyclone Gulab that affected them during the last week of September. Plantations in 4,761.95 acres were destroyed due to rains and winds under the influence of the cyclone. He was speaking after Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy disbursed the amounts during a programme held online from Tadepalli on Tuesday. Several farmers who attended the programme expressed happiness on the occasion and spoke to the Chief Minister during the programme. S. Mahalakshmi of Anakapalle said that he had suffered agriculture losses in about 1.75 cents. He thanked Mr. Jagan for giving compensation of Rs. 10,500 in about 50 days. Joint Director (Agriculture) Leelavathi was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/compensation-given-to-7684-cyclone-hit-ryots/article37532464.ece
17 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Body of 11-year-old boy retrieved from river||The body of the 11-year-old M.Yashwanth Kumar, who went missing in Gosthani river at Pandrangi village under Padmanabham Police Station limits on Monday, was retrieved here on Tuesday early morning. The body was shifted to King George Hospital for autopsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/body-of-11-year-old-boy-retrieved-from-river/article37532467.ece
17 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to Gandhian||The 99 birthday anniversary of late K.S. Sastry, freedom fighter, trade union Leader and founder of Gandhi Centre, was celebrated at Dr L. Bullayya College here on Tuesday. The meeting was presided by former vice-chancellor and the president of Gandhi Centre Balamohandas. The other speakers included B.S. Sastry, former scientist and pollution control expert, and G.S.K. Chakravarthy, Principal of Dr. L. Bullayya College. Gadi Sreenu, who is engaged in serving the rural farmers in Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts, was presented the K.S. Sastry Young Social Service Award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-gandhian/article37532470.ece
17 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Housing beneficiaries told to use OTS scheme||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna called upon the beneficiaries of Jagananna Sampoorna housing scheme to make use of the One-Time Settlement (OTS) scheme. At a review meeting at the Collectorate on Tuesday, Dr. Mallikarjuna said housing beneficiaries from 1983, who had constructed houses, can clear a mere Rs. 10,000 of their loan and get the houses registered on their names by paying Rs. 1. He said that 132 persons in the district have utilised OTS, so far and freed themselves from the burden of paying huge loan amounts. He commended the officials concerned for completing the data entry pertaining to 56,214 beneficiaries. He called upon them to create awareness among housing beneficiaries on the OTS scheme. He said that mandal-level meeting would be conducted on November 17 and village secretariat-level meetings on November 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/housing-beneficiaries-told-to-use-ots-scheme/article37532463.ece
17 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man found murdered||A man aged around 25 years was allegedly murdered with a sharp-edged weapon at Thatichetlapalem area under IV Town Police Station limits here on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Srinu, a resident of ASR Nagar near Thatichetlapalem. According to sources in police, the accused is suspected to be a family member of the deceased. The accused allegedly committed the crime due to some disputes over extramarital relationship. It was learnt that the accused is in police custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-found-murdered/article37532469.ece
17 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held on charge of illegal sand transport||The district police arrested three persons while they were allegedly transporting sand in three tractors illegally at Makavarapalem area here on Tuesday. According to the police, the accused have procured the sand from a nearby riverbed and were heading towards K Agraharam village in Makavarapalem mandal. The worth of the three units is said to be around Rs. 18,000 to Rs. 21,000. Cases were booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-on-charge-of-illegal-sand-transport/article37532468.ece
17 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Real estate sector seeks helping hand from State government||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India’s (CREDAI) State general secretary K.S.C. Bose on Tuesday urged the State government to come to the rescue of the construction sector, stating that it has been facing tumultuous challenges in the wake of a sharp rise in prices of input materials such as cement, steel, tiles, and bricks. Addressing a press meet in Vizianagaram, Mr. Bose said that raw material suppliers have increased their rates sharply citing a hike in fuel prices in the past few months. “The cost of a tonne of steel was Rs. 43,000 last year, but it now costs nearly Rs. 70,000. A cement bag which was available for Rs. 230 is now priced at Rs. 400. The cost of bricks and sand has hit the roof, with over a 50% hike in rates,” Mr. Bose said, adding that the slump in the construction sector would adversely impact the State’s economy with a drop in registrations and sale of raw materials which fetches taxes for the government. “After agriculture, the construction sector is a major employer and contributes a significant amount to the country’s GDP. Healthy growth of the sector would create more employment and ensure a steady income for the government,” Mr. Bose said. CREDAI Vizianagaram district chairman V. Parthasarathy and president S.N. Raju urged the raw material suppliers to reduce prices as the government had reduced fuel prices significantly. Association secretary R.N. Murthy said that the State body was planning to meet Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and other Ministers to place on record the grievances of the builders. CREDAI executive body members Gudisha Shivakumar and G.B. Anand Kumar attended the meeting. Earlier, the association members discussed the impact on individual buyers. They said that an additional cost burden of Rs. 500 per sft had impacted the sale of apartments in the Fort City. Many CREDAI members said that builders now would not dare to take up new ventures if the prices of raw materials did not stabilise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/real-estate-sector-seeks-helping-hand-from-state-government/article37532398.ece
17 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TSNF threatens to take up Chalo Assembly on Nov. 18||Telugu Nadu Students’ Federation-Vizianagaram district president Taraka Ramanaidu and general secretary Madugula Bhanuprakash on Tuesday said that the association would take up a ‘Chalo Assembly’ agitation on November 18 if the government failed to roll back its decision of stopping financial assistance to aided colleges. The association organised a protest at Maharaja College, asking the government to withdraw its GOs 42, 50 and 51 alleging that the orders had turned into a bane for lakhs of students studying at aided colleges located in different parts of the State. Mr. Bhanu Prakash said that students from poor financial backgrounds would be denied access to college due to the sudden decision of the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tsnf-threatens-to-take-up-chalo-assembly-on-nov-18/article37532399.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vantage view||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vantage-view/article37532472.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Taking cover||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/taking-cover/article37532454.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Margasira masotsavam’ from December 5||The annual ‘Margasira masotsavam’ festival of Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi at Burujupeta in the Old Town, will be held from December 5, 2021 to January 2, 2022, according to the Executive Officer of the temple S.J. Madhavi. The month-long festival draws lakhs of devotees not only from the city and district but also from other parts of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/margasira-masotsavam-from-december-5/article37532462.ece
17 November 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Two die in ‘suicide pact’||A 22-year-old married man and a 14-year-old minor girl, from Seethaigudem village in Chandrugonda mandal, allegedly committed suicide by swallowing poison in a bus at the bus at Aswaraopeta on Tuesday. Sources said the man, Jagga Rao, an autorickshaw driver, allegedly fled with the minor girl after "luring" her on the pretext of love on Monday. The police registered a case. (Roshini: Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-die-in-suicide-pact/article37532410.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NREGS person days plummet: Study||Employment generated by the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS) has come down by 1.16 crore person days for the first six months of the financial year 2021-22 when compared to the corresponding period in the previous year, clocking a 10 % reduction. An analysis carried out by Libtech India has noted that only 11.73 crore person days of employment has been provided between April and October this year, vis-a-vis the 12.89 crore person days for the same period last year. All the districts in the State except eight have recorded a reduction in the number of person days, the study said. Kamareddy recorded the highest number of person days, but with lower employment generation than last year. Nalgonda district, with 83 lakh person days, has generated more employment in the current financial year compared to the last two financial years. Mahbubabad, Kumram Bheem Asifabad, Mancherial, Jogulamba Gadwal, Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Mulugu, and Hanmakonda were the other districts which have recorded higher employment. Jayashankar Bhupalpally has the highest number of panchayats where employment generated was less than half the State’s average person days, the study noted. Six districts have almost 10 % panchayats falling into this category. Meanwhile, two NGOs — Dalita Bahujan Front and Upadhi Hami Phone Radio — the parent organisation of Libtech India, have addressed a letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, urging him to seek enhanced budget allocation from the Central government for the NREGS, and also to increase the funding from the State government. While the actual demand and need for work has increased on the ground, the programme has run out of funds mid way through the year, they noted. More than 90 % of the Central budget allocation for the programme has already been exhausted with five months still remaining in the current financial year. The situation at State level is grimmer, with about 97 % of the allocated budget having been spent. Only Rs. 120 crore of the allocated funds remain unspent, they pointed out. Further, the letter sought provision of at least 150 days of work for each job card-holding household, and reinstatement of field assistants. Chief Ministers of Orissa and Rajasthan have already written to the Central government on the issue, the letter signed by P.Shankar from DBF and Venkateshwarlu Kuruva from Upadhi Hami Phone Radio added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nregs-person-days-plummet-study/article37532209.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Now, drones to mend power lines||Drones can take pictures, videos, transport vaccines and drop munitions too. Soon, we are likely to have drones taking up complex repairs or maintenance of high-power transmission towers and lines with help of a robotic arm. This particular giant drone can also be fitted with a sophisticated gyroscope camera for panoramic 360 degree view to distances as far as 14 km for surveillance purposes, useful for security forces. A city-based firm ‘HC Robotics’ is in the final stages of configuring the robotic arm with the drone while pilot project was done for TSTransco in the inspection of three power lines and 10 towers and also in identifying faults at Shivarampally-Gachibowli, Sangareddy and Warangal. “We should be going in for full-scale production of these drones within the next few months. We have also obtained a patent for the product in US,” informed founder and president Venkat Chundi, in an exclusive interaction on Tuesday. Repair and maintenance of power transmission towers is a risky business as they need to be cleaned of ash, dust or bird nests and droppings, lest they snap or short-circuit. In US, they make use of helicopters with a person shooting the water jet sitting precariously outside the chopper on a makeshift platform. “Here, power sector authorities make use of fire engines in places where there are thermal plants to remove ash and dust. With our drones we can clean and detect faults accurately and efficiently with the aid of AI-based image process technology. These can be remotely operated or pre-programmed to do the job,” he explained. The firm has also just acquired a manufacturing licence for Gyro Stabilized Gimbal’ controlled EOIR - electro-optical/infrared cameras with thermal and visual sensors with technology sourced from a French firm ‘Merio’. “We plan to make these sophisticated cameras under the government’s ‘Make in India’ programme. We have different cameras suited to different circumstances with reach up to 14 km. These can be attached to drones and helicopters,” adds director P. Radhakishore. Some of the products have been showcased to the defence authorities and the firm has a partnership with IIIT- Design & Manufacturing Kurnool, for research collaboration on Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV). A technocrat for the last three decades, Mr. Venkat’s bread and butter business is in telecom engineering services through his ‘Centillion Networks” with 500 plus engineers and projects across the globe. With new age drones and cameras which have a “huge business” potential, he is confident of upscaling his business in the years ahead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/now-drones-to-mend-power-lines/article37532186.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TDRs make property acquisition easy||Transferable development rights (TDRs) issued in lieu of compensation for property acquisition have been gaining traction in the city gradually. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has issued a total of 864 TDRs so far, which, in area terms, translate into 16,95,449 square yards or about 350 acres. The State government, with a view to avoid payment of increased compensation for land acquisition as per the new Land Acquisition legislation, has enhanced the TDR extent to four times the original area forgone for public utility projects. The rights may be exercised by the property owners at the same place or elsewhere, by construction of additional floors in relaxation of the norms pertaining to set back spaces. Instead, they can sell the rights to others who need to construct additional floors. An online TDR bank has been created by GHMC for trading in the TDRs. So far, a total of 553 TDRs have been issued for road widening, 128 for Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) works, 49 for link roads, 41 for nala widening works, 77 for beautification of tanks, and three for other works, a statement from GHMC informed. The statement also said, during the past five years, 89 roads have been taken up for widening, of which 55 roads have been completed and 1,805 properties acquired. Under SRDP, a total of 1,100 properties have been acquired, while the same for link and slip roads stands at 192. For general road widening, a total of 511 properties have been acquired. Major projects for which property acquisition has been completed include the Biodiversity junction flyover, Shilparamam Road Under Bridge, Rajiv Gandhi Flyover at JNTU, Cable Stayed Bridge at Durgam Cheruvu, flyover at Road No. 45, Road Under Bridge at Hitech City, Chintalkunta underpass, LB Nagar flyover and underpass, flyover near Kamineni junction, Nagole Flyover, elevated corridor at Uppal, Amberpet flyover, Bahadurpura flyover, Kandikal Gate flyover, Uppuguda flyover, flyover at Owaisi Junction, road between Balapur junction to DRDL via Hafeez Baba Nagar, Shaikpet flyover, Khajaguda flyover, link road from Bapu Ghat to Attapur Bridge, link roads between Road No.70 and Road No. 78, Jubilee Hills, between Old Bombay Highway and Road No. 45, Jubilee Hills, slip road from Old Bombay Highway and Delhi Public School via ESCI, link road between Novotel and RTA office, Kondapur, link road between Nizampet Road to Bombay Highway, and between Zohra Bi Dargah to Rakshapuram. Property acquisition is under way for the elevated corridor on Chanchalguda and IS Sadan Road, Shastripuram road and Aramghar to Zoo Park.  GHMC’s Town Planning wing is involved with preparation of road development plans, identification of properties, preparation of individual sketches, issue of notices, negotiations with property owners, and acquisition of properties. Government has designated GHMC Commissioner as Special Collector-Land Acquisition for the city, which expedited the process of land acquisition, the note said.  A total of 553 TDRs have been issued for road widening, 128 for SRDP works, 49 for link roads, 41 for nala widening works, 77 for beautification of tanks, and three for other works. GHMC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tdrs-make-property-acquisition-easy/article37532206.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Forensic doctors dissect resources needed for post-sunset autopsies||Forensic medicine doctors in Telangana have started to dissect the list of requirements to conduct post-mortems after sunset. Issues being discussed are about the mortuaries which need renovations, number of autopsies that can be conducted in a day, pros and cons of conducting the procedure after sunset and others. Improved conditions Sources said that the discussions have gained momentum after Union Ministry of Health allowed the Post-Mortem Examinations (PME) to be conducted after sunset, effective from Monday. They hoped this could lead to better mortuaries and working conditions at major government hospitals. “The primary aspect mentioned by most of the doctors is the current State of mortuaries at Osmania General Hospital and Gandhi Hospital. Need for additional human and infrastructure resources: technical staff, lights, generator to ensure there is no power outage during autopsy, and other topics are being talked about,” said sources. Apart from the two major hospitals in Telangana, the autopsies are conducted at some of the District Hospitals, Area Hospitals, and Community Health Centres (CHC). The Union Health Ministry stated that fitness and adequacy of infrastructure etc., shall be assessed by the hospital in-charge to ensure that there is no dilution of evidentiary value. Besides, it should be ensured that at the facility all post-mortems conducted in the night are video recorded, to rule out any suspicion and preserved for future reference for legal purposes. Currently, the PMEs are conducted till 5 p.m. at the tertiary care hospitals. If need be, they are extended till 6 p.m. Power supply “If the autopsies have to be conducted late in the evenings and in the nights, we need to ensure there is constant supply of power, which means a generator has to be provided. More number of technical teams who do the incisions on dead bodies, stitch them up are required. It takes around an hour to conduct one autopsy. And we conduct around 15 post-mortem examinations in a day. The current staff cannot handle additional load,” sources in Osmania General Hospital said. Police too have to be ready to travel in the night and submit inquest and other forms to initiate the procedure. Security becomes an important factor too. Accommodation might have to be provided for doctors, staff, and police. “The mortuary at Osmania General Hospital needs to improve. Leakages, dilapidated false ceiling, additional freezer boxes, and overall look of the mortuary needs to improve. If anyone walks into the mortuary, they will understand why it needs to be renovated,” said sources, adding that requests and requirements at the mortuary were filed earlier too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/forensic-doctors-dissect-resources-needed-for-post-sunset-autopsies/article37532183.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM himself inciting violence, BJP complains to Governor||The Bharatiya Janata Party has complained to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan about the repeated attacks, including stone pelting by TRS supporters, on the convoy of party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar during his two-day tour of interaction with farmers at paddy procurement centres of Nalgonda and Warangal with the police remaining ‘mute spectators’ on Tuesday. “There is a breakdown of law and order as Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao himself has ‘incited the violence with his warnings and statements against our president,” they alleged, in a memorandum submitted to Dr. Soundararajan at the Raj Bhavan. The team led by National OBC morcha president K. Laxman, MLA Raja Singh, senior leaders D.K. Aruna, MP G. Mohana Rao and other leaders accused Mr. Rao of having ‘instigated’ TRS partymen and ‘hired hooligans’ to obstruct Mr. Sanjay's programme through ‘violent means’. The party chief was visiting the procurement centres on coming to know of farmers’ woes of waiting since Dasara and later Deepavali for the Government to start purchasing paddy. Farmers with heaps of paddy produce were forced to spend sleepless nights outside the centres with the fear of rains spoiling the grains, they claimed. The Centre was committed to purchasing 40 lakh tonnes of paddy as agreed upon but the Government had not even begun procurement. Farmers had been pouring out their woes to party president but Mr. Rao wished to spoil the peaceful interactions with TRS partymen throwing eggs and raining stones at many places, they informed her. All the while there was no effort from the police to control the mobs and on the contrary, the BJP supporters rushing to the rescue of the convoy of the party president were prevented from proceeding towards the meeting point, the leaders alleged. “Mr. Sanjay Kumar’s convoy was attacked at least seven times by TRS-sponsored mobs and the Chief Minister planned and executed this,” they charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-himself-inciting-violence-bjp/article37532226.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ADP sponsors kits for visually impaired cricket team||ADP Pvt. Ltd., a leading provider of Human Capital Management Technology and Services based in Hyderabad and Pune, which has sponsored the State-level tournament for the visually challenged held in October 23-24, has also announced sponsoring the entire cricket kit with shoes to the chosen 14 players to play for Telangana in the 4th edition of ‘Nagesh Trophy’ – National T20 Cricket Tournament for the Blind 2021-2022, scheduled to take place till November 25 in Haryana and Delhi. ADP General Manager & Managing Director V. Vijay and HR- Head India Vipul Singh said the sponsorship was through their CSR programme Tarang. The cricket team is being supported through I&EYE, a voluntary organisation providing quality education and health, including rectification of vision for visually impaired children since 2008. “Many children have been groomed into successful individuals and professionals including in IT.Our boys form one of the strongest teams in the national campaign too,” they added in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/adp-sponsors-kits-for-visually-impaired-cricket-team/article37532192.ece
17 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Animation and gaming event IndiaJoy-2021 begins||The fourth edition of the four-day FVX-animation-gaming event called IndiaJoy-2021 began on Tuesday with bullish expectations about the post-pandemic world. “India’s active Internet base is expected to reach 900 million by 2025. The size of the image sector is expected to reach Rs. 3 lakh crore or $44 billion by 2024 or a compounded annual growth of 13.5% which is staggering,” said the IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao while inaugurating the hybrid event with both offline and online presence. “In the last three years, 10 new VFX production houses have set up operations in Hyderabad and 45 gaming companies have chosen Hyderabad to set up their base taking the total to 80 companies in the city over the past two years. An Israeli company called CrazyLabs has partnered with Hyderabad-based Street Lamp Games to develop hyper casual games,” said the Minister reeling out statistics. Mr. Rao accepted that there has been a slip-up on the schedule of the 1.6 million square-foot Image Tower facility but promised that it will be ready by the first quarter of 2023. Earlier, speaking at the event, Rajiv Chilaka of Green Gold Animations said the pandemic had a big impact on VFX industry. “There was a big dip in animation and gaming industry. But VFX was the worst affected as shooting was stopped,” he said. A clutch of MoUs were signed on the sidelines of the event that is being touted as one of the biggest with multiple tracks on VFX, OTT, gaming and animation.  There was a big dip in animation and gaming industry due to COVID. But VFX was the worst affected as shooting was stopped. Rajiv Chilaka,Green Gold Animations chief||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/animation-and-gaming-event-indiajoy-2021-begins/article37532194.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad city police bags award||Hyderabad city police bagged Skoch Award (Silver) for the year 2021 under ‘Police & Safety’ category for its police pre-recruitment training programme project. It was also a finalist for its two other initiatives — Job Connect and Command Control Centre. The pre-recruitment training programme was city police’s community-oriented policing initiative, aimed at imparting skills to police job aspirants. Operational since March 2015, the initiative showed quick results, with as many as 267 candidates featuring in the final list that year. City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar said recognition by Skoch Award management helps public service providers and organisations to raise the bar and pursue best practices for governance. While receiving the award virtually, he noted the 33% reservation for women in police recruitment process has yielded satisfactory results. Transport department In a separate development, the Transport Department bagged the ‘order of merit’ Skoch Award for ‘anytime anywhere’ services. Transport Commissioner MRM Rao digitally received the award. He said that as many as 17 anytime anywhere services have been made available on the T APP Folio app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyderabad-city-police-bags-award/article37532211.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NMDC celebrates Foundation Day||Public sector mining major NMDC on Tuesday said its 64th Formation Day was celebrated at the head office here and at all major project locations. Congratulating the employees, CMD Sumit Deb said with the ambitious projects and initiatives the company is gearing up to build NMDC 2.0 in the coming decade. The largest iron ore producer in the country, it is venturing into new minerals, expanding its value chain while continuing to remain indispensable to the Indian steel industry. “In the coming years, your management would like to make NMDC a sought-after workplace, a compassionate employer that shows its appreciation, not in mere words, but by creating a supportive, nurturing and happy work environment for its employees and their families,” he said. Directors Amitava Mukherjee, Somnath Nandi and Dilip Kumar Mohanty inaugurated the programme at the head office. Employees with more than 20 years of continuous service were presented Long Service Awards. The regional office in Delhi celebrated organised an experience sharing session for the retired officers. NMDC was incorporated on November 15, 1958, the company said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nmdc-celebrates-foundation-day/article37532184.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Haryana youth who banked on SBI for ATM frauds in police net||Five fraudsters literally owned the slogan of State Bank of India, ‘the banker to every Indian’, while cashing in on its advantages and challenges to officially loot at least Rs. 5 lakh through its automated teller machines. Md. Irshad, Md. Asim, Rizwan, Mustak and Asif, all hailing from Palwal of Haryana, had accounts in banks other than SBI. They honed a successful technique to withdraw cash, but the bank records would still show ‘failed transaction’. As a result, the fraudsters would earn a 100% return on their investment, officially, and in a matter of transaction day plus five days, as per Reserve Bank of India’s policy for failed ATM transactions. “Just when the ATM would dispense the notes, they would switch off the machine. They got the requested cash, but the bank record showed it as a failed transaction,” South Zone DCP Gajarao Bhupal explained. Then they would approach bank officials and file a complaint for resolution and those were duly addressed. But, why SBI? Mr. Bhupal said the fraudsters banked on three aspects: “One, SBI has the largest network of ATMs. Two, most of its ATMs or isolated ATMs are not manned by a security guard. And, the communication between different banks, in case of verification, for resolution of failed transactions would take longer time.” In the past three months, the gang performed transactions at 42 ATMs across the three police commissionerates in the city. Their successful operations for nearly two years were in other cities too. But the Hussaini Alam branch ATM in Charminar police limits, which showed ‘genuine-fraud’ transactions to the tune of Rs. 53,000 between August 20 and September 9, was the lead. Reportedly, the bank approached police with the complaint. While five were arrested, three more in the network are absconding. In all, 11 ATM cards, three autos, a two-wheeler were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/haryana-youth-who-banked-on-sbi-for-atm-frauds-in-police-net/article37532197.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP-TRS cadre clash for second day||TS-BJP and TRS supporters clashed repeatedly, pelted stones at each other, used sticks to attack forcing the police to lathicharge at several places at Suryapet and other places on the second day of TS-BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar’s tour of the paddy procurement centres on Tuesday. The violent incidents were more in number and increase in ferocity when compared to the first day as TRS supporters tried to mar the BJP leader’s interactions with the farmers with slogan-shouting and show of black flags. The day began with mild tension when policemen surrounded Mr. Sanjay Kumar’s convoy amid talk of his arrest, however, it was not to be, as the latter continued his tour. BJP supporters from nearby areas made a beeline to join the convoy as word spread about the attack by TRS supporters the previous day, but the police tried to thwart them by preventing them and arresting them at some places. Yet, some managed to hoodwink the police and became part of the party president vehicles as they raised counter slogans and replied in kind when slippers and tomatoes along with stones were thrown by the TRS cadre. Police had to resort to force to disperse the warring groups even as the Karimnagar MP continued his interactions with farmers at their respective farms and also at the procurement centres, enquiring about their crop, when they had come to the procurement centre and whether the minimum support price was being given. Farmers at Jajireddygudem, Suryapet, Chivvem, Atmakur and other areas poured out their troubles and claimed they have been waiting for a fortnight or more for the procurement process and the MSP was not being assured. “If we are not to grow paddy or cotton, how are we supposed to live sir,” questioned an elderly lady. At one point, it started to rain when Mr. Sanjay Kumar was listening to farmers and soon he joined them to cover the paddy mound with waterproof covers. “We are worried about more rains, sir,” they said. “I hope the Chief Minister realises the situation of the farmers and takes up corrective measures at least now,” said party president. Meanwhile, the BJP condemned the attack on the president’s convoy by TRS supporters, criticised the police for not preventing the same and vowed to take up the issue with other constitutional bodies about the situation in TS. The party was not going to be cowed down by such violence and would continue to highlight farmers’ problems, said general secretary G. Premender Reddy. Union Minister Kishan Reddy too condemned the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-trs-cadre-clash-for-second-day/article37532228.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TalentSprint, ISB join hands to train Future-Ready CFOs||NSE Group edtech company TalentSprint on Tuesday said it has entered into a multi-year partnership with the Centre for Executive Education, Indian School of Business (ISB). Stating it would be the strategic outreach partner of ISB, the company said the first programme to be launched under their partnership is meant for CFOs across industry segments. The six month programme, to be offered in a hybrid mode, aims to address the growing need for new-age finance professionals who can lead in a digital-first world. The first cohort will begin, with a visit to ISB campus, on January 28. Aimed at current, new and aspiring CFOs, the programme will empower them with future-relevant digital technologies and financial strategies to become key enablers of business transformation, TalentSprint said in a release. MD and CEO Santanu Paul said the Future-Ready CFO programme will offer a blend of modern finance and disruptive technologies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/talentsprint-isb-join-hands-to-train-future-ready-cfos/article37532212.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PM scared of ordering probe into Rafale deal: AICC spokesperson||All India Congress Committee (AICC) spokesperson Pawan Khera has alleged that that the new evidences that cropped up recently have pointed out that the corruption in Rafale deal lead to the doorstep of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and that was why he feared to order an inquiry into the allegations of corruption. He has also stated that the Prime Minister himself ordered both Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) to stop any further investigation into the deal. “The BJP government has sacrificed national security, jeopardized the interests of Indian Air Force and caused loss worth thousands of crores of rupees. As the Prime Minister himself is involved, he has been not ordering inquiry,” said Mr. Pawan Khera while speaking to reporters here along with TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy, Lok Sabha member N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and spokesperson Dasoju Sravan here on Tuesday. Relevant documents Stating that two former union ministers — Arun Shourie and Yashwant Sinha — and Attorney General of Mauritius had submitted relevant documents to the CBI citing massive corruption in Rafale deal, the AICC spokesperson said that the government was silent for the past 36 month on the issue. He said that several ‘Secret Defence Ministry documents’ were seized from the residence of middleman Sushen Gupta in a raid conducted by ED on March 26, 2019, which includes bench mark price document, record of discussion by Defence Ministry, excel-sheet of calculations, Eurofighter’s counter offer and letter sent to Dassault by Sushen Gupta offering a meeting with political high command. “The Rafale scam is the biggest scam defence scam and only an independent investigation will reveal the scam. UPA government had negotiated purchase of one Rafale fighter aircraft, including transfer of technology for Rs. 526.1 crore after an international tender. Modi government bought the same for Rafale fighter aircraft (off the shelf, without any tender) for Rs. 1670 crore and without transfer of technology. The difference in the cost of 36 jets is about Rs. 41,205 crore,” he said and pointed out that Mr. Narendra Modi abrogated anti-corruption clause and Sovereign Guarantee clause despite appeals by Defence Ministry and Law Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pm-scared-of-ordering-probe-into-rafale-deal-aicc-spokesperson/article37532214.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Haj application depends on quota by Saudi Arabia’||Adviser to the Telangana government on Minorities Welfare A.K. Khan on Tuesday made a surprise visit to the Telangana State Haj Committee (TSHC) where he reviewed arrangements of online Haj application counters and interacted with those who intend to make the pilgrimage. Mr Khan, in a telephonic conversation with Ambassador of India to Saudi Arabia Ausaf Sayeed, discussed the arrangements for Indian pilgrims. The quota of pilgrims to each State, flight schedule and details pertaining to the embarkation point would be finalised after a bilateral agreement between India and Saudi Arabia is finalised, likely in January 2022. The TSHC clarified that submission of online Haj application forms is provisional and contingent upon the allotment of quota by the government of Saudi Arabia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/haj-application-depends-on-quota-by-saudi-arabia/article37532218.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sikhs take out ‘Nagar Keertan’ procession||The Sikh community took out a holy procession or ‘Nagar Keertan’ from Gurudwara Saheb Secunderabad as part of the ‘Prakash Utsav’ — 552nd birth anniversary celebrations of the first Sikh guru - Guru Nanak Dev on Tuesday. The birth anniversary of the founder of Sikh religion is on November 19. The procession passed through the railway station, Sangeet crossroads, Clock Tower before returning to the gurudwara with Guru Granth Sahib, the revered scripture carried on a decorated vehicle while the youth demonstrated their martial skills amid singing of keertans, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sikhs-take-out-nagar-keertan-procession/article37532190.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Family of three held for repeat burglaries||A family of three — a man, wife and their 19-year-old daughter — was arrested on Tuesday for repeat burglaries, with 16.5 tola gold ornaments being recovered from them. The trio were taken into custody at Chandulal Baradari, in Kamatipura police limits, while they were reportedly executing their ‘relaxed but focussed’ plan. “Zakiya, the woman, would casually walk into houses with opened doors and come out with gold or cash. Her daughter Ayesha would keep watch near the gate and the husband Abdul Saleem would keep vigil from a distance. If the situation turned bad, the woman would say she was looking for houses to stay on rent,” sub-inspector G.S. Daniel said. Four earlier offences The family from Mailardevpally has a previous history of four offences in the same police limits. Police said Abdul Saleem, who was into clothes business, took to thievery along with his family for easy money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/family-of-three-held-for-repeat-burglaries/article37532198.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Banks achieve 70% Kharif loan target||The State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC), Telangana, has said crop loan disbursements for the six months ended September totalled Rs. 24,898 crore in the State. “Up to September in the current financial year, banks have lent Rs. 24,898 crore under crop loans and [thereby] achieved 69.81% of Kharif target under annual credit plan,” the SLBC said in a release on its quarterly review meeting held here on Tuesday. Making a presentation on the performance of the banks, SLBC president and SBI CGM Amit Jhingran said as on September 30 total deposits of the banks stood at Rs. 6,17,760 crore, while total advances were at Rs. 6,80,234 crore. The banks disbursed Rs. 6,915 crore as agriculture term loans towards Investment Credit. Minister for Scheduled Castes Development, Minority Welfare and Senior Citizen Welfare Koppula Eswar participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/banks-achieve-70-kharif-loan-target/article37532221.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chief Minister welcomes the international recognition||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has welcomed the international recognition achieved by Bhoodan Pochampally village of Yadadri Bhongir district which is set to be named as one of the best tourism villages by the United Nations World Tourism Organisation. The village was one among the three nominated under the category and the award would be presented during the WTO’s annual meeting slated to be held at Madrid from November 30 to December 3. The Chief Minister said the steps taken for revival of Telangana’s culture under self-rule are ensuring that historic places in the State secured international recognition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chief-minister-welcomes-the-international-recognition/article37532193.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PD Act against habitual ‘white-collar offender’||Cyberabad Police Commissioner M. Stephen Raveendra invoked Preventive Detention Act against one Mirza Khader Baig alias Samar Mirza of Hanamkonda, for habitual offences such as defrauding companies in the name of providing loans. Baig, using tele-callers and staff in his company, would contact reputed firms to offer attractive loans to develop businesses. He duped individuals and organisations in Hyderabad, Warangal and Mumbai to the tune of Rs. 5 crore, police said. For related offences, he has also been frequenting jail since 2010 and was slapped with PD Act in 2015. The ‘white-collar offender’ was remanded to judicial custody at central prison, Cherlapalli, by Gachibowli police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pd-act-against-habitual-white-collar-offender/article37532199.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Traffic curbs today||In view of Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu’s visit to the city on Wednesday and a procession to mark the 552nd birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak, the Hyderabad city police will impose traffic diversion on several routes. Towards the south, the Gurpurab’s celebratory procession between Ashok Bazaar of Afzalgunj and the central Gurudwara Sahib at Gowliguda will begin at 3.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-curbs-today/article37532210.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Case against blocking TSRTC bus||Telangana State Road Transport Corporation said that a man, reportedly in an inebriated condition, was arrested and remanded to judicial custody for objecting to bus stopping in Lakdikapul. A case against the accused under relevant sections, including 353, of the Indian Penal Code and 185 (drunken driving) of the Motor Vehicle Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/case-against-blocking-tsrtc-bus/article37532217.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana records 167 COVID cases||Telangana has recorded 167 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday taking the total to 6,73,889. Out of the 37,283 samples put to test, results of 952 were awaited. One more COVID patient has died. Of the new 167 infections, the highest of 55 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 14 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 12 from Rangareddy, 11 from Warangal Urban. Four districts did not record a single case on the day. From March 2, 2020 to November 16 of this year, a total of 2.81 crore samples were put to test and 6,73,889 people have been detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 3,737 were active cases, 6,66,176 have recovered, and 3,976 people have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-records-167-covid-19-cases/article37532181.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘As farmers die, TRS, BJP are playing politics’||Former Rajya Sabha member V. Hanumantha Rao has alleged that both Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are playing politics while farmers are dying. He said that both parties were least bothered about the problems being faced by farmers. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has been following double standards on farming laws enacted by Parliament. He was silent on the hike of prices. He was also not speaking about the promise of one employment for each house, the promise they made during election campaign,” said Mr. Hanumantha Rao while speaking to reporters at Gandhi Bhavan on Tuesday. He demanded that Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao hold Dharna at Jantarmantar in New Delhi on farmers-related issues and the Congress would also participate in the agitation. He said that he would discuss the issue at the party meeting. Mr. Hanumantha Rao called upon the party to boycott Assembly sessions against the farming laws and the same was conveyed to Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka. On the win of Eatala Rajender in Huzurabad by-election, the Congress leader said the former Minister could have won even as independent and there was no role of BJP in the success of Mr. Rajender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/as-farmers-die-trs-bjp-are-playing-politics/article37532222.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Congress to complain||The Congress leaders have decided to lodge a complaint against Member of Legislative Council (MLC) candidate P. Venkatarami Reddy with returning officer on Wednesday. It was decided at a meeting, presided over by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy, lodge the complaint to reject his nomination as he has been facing several allegations. On Thursday, the party would hold a rally from Public Gardens to Agriculture Commissionarate, demanding that the government procure paddy and submit a memorandum to the authorities. Though the party claimed that it would take a decision on whether to contest MLC elections, it could not do so as there was no sufficient strength.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-to-complain-against-trs-nominee/article37532223.ece
17 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Progress of Grand Trunk route third line on track||South Central Railway has announced the completion of a major portion of the third line and electrification project in the ‘Grand Trunk’ route viz. Kazipet-Balharshah project, covering Telangana and Maharashtra, between 19.2-km Wirur-Manikgarh on Tuesday. The section between Kazipet-Balharshah is a vital rail link situated along the Grand Trunk route connecting the northern parts with the southern region of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/progress-of-grand-trunk-route-third-line-on-track/article37532204.ece
17 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 3/4 Picture briefly Award||Member of Indian Medical Association (IMA)-Nizamabad branch, Vishal Akula has been conferred the IMA Yuva Award. The honour was presented to him at IMA Dr Ketan Desai Yuva leader national award ceremony held in New Delhi, on November 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-34-picture-briefly-award/article37532201.ece
17 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 3/4 brief Regular trains, fares from now||SCR has announced all regular mail/express trains being operated as special and holiday special trains during the past few months due to the COVID pandemic are being restored to regular numbers and fares with immediate effect in view of the current prevailing situation. Up to 76 trains will be running on normal fares, said an official release on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-34-brief-regular-trains-fares-from-now/article37532188.ece
17 November 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Survey begins on Jamuna Hatcheries lands||After a long lull of four months, the Revenue and Survey officials started the process of survey of lands belonging to Jamuna Hatcheries at Achampet and Hakimpet villages in Masapiet of Medak district on Tuesday. The survey process is expected to continue for three days in the lands of the hatcheries belonging to BJP MLA E Rajender’s wife E. Jamuna and other family members. Notices were served on some 100 persons in connection with the lands. It was alleged that the Jamuna Hatcheries had encroached some government land and assignment land and this become an issue of contention between Mr. Rajender and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao leading to byelection at Huzurabad. Survey commenced in some 18.35 acres land belonging to 22 farmers. Officials had not allowed anyone near the survey place except the farmers. Activists of Madiga Reservation Porata Samithi (MRPS) staged a dharna demanding that the government distribute the lands to those who were allotted in the past. Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Bharatiya Janata Party activists also arrived there. However, officials have not disclosed how the survey details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/survey-begins-on-jamuna-hatcheries-lands/article37532224.ece
17 November 2021||Medak,TELANGANA||Woman ends life along with two children||In a shocking incident, a woman ended her life by jumping into a tank along with her two children. The incident took place at Dadayipalli village in Tekmal mandal in the wee hours Tuesday. Argument with husband According to police one Rajitha had an heated argument with her husband Raju on Monday night. Both of them were reported to frequently clash with each other. After a verbal argument, Rajitha left home in the midnight along with children and jumped into the tank. The children were identified as Rashwanth (4) and Rakshita (2). Bodies retrieved Bodies were retreived from the tank and handed over to family members after postmortem. Tekmal police registered a case and are investigating. People feeling low can reach out to Roshni, a suicide intervention helpline, on their number 040-66202000 or 66202001, visit the centre in Sindhi Colony (Secunderabad) or send an e-mail to roshnihelp@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-ends-life-along-with-two-children/article37532202.ece
17 November 2021||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Rain gives jitters to farmers||Unseasonal showers in various parts of the district in the last 48 hours exacerbated farmers’ concerns over disposal of their paddy produce. Incidents of harvested paddy getting soaked in the drizzle were reported from Boppapur, Gollapally, Padira and several other villages in Yellareddypet mandal and other parts of the district, sources said. Cloudy sky prompted the farmers to cover their harvested paddy with tarpaulin sheets at the paddy procurement centres and on the roadside. The farmers’ organisations were demanding speeding up of the pace of paddy procurement and supply of adequate tarpaulin sheets to prevent damage to the harvested paddy Official sources said more than 6000 tarpaulin sheets were made available at nearly 265 procurement centres as part of contingency measures to deal with unseasonal rains. Sources said about 52,000 metric tonnes of paddy produced in the kharif season was already procured from farmers across the district so far in the current procurement season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rain-gives-jitters-to-farmers/article37532232.ece
17 November 2021||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Manair drowning: four more bodies recovered||The death toll in Monday’s drowning incident in Manair river in Sircilla town rose to five with the recovery of four more bodies on Tuesday. A jolly trip to Manair river turned tragic for five boys of Rajiv Nagar in the textile town after they drowned soon after venturing into the water for swimming late on Monday afternoon. In all, six boys, five of them students of a local school, hailing from the power loom workers’ families were washed away in the river. The body of Ganesh, 13, was fished out from the check dam site in the river later in the evening the same day. The search operation launched by the police with the help of swimmers was initially hampered by drizzle on Monday night. Four more bodies of the missing boys were recovered during the strenuous search operation involving a team of expert swimmers and some local fishermen on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Venkatasai, 14, Ajay, 13, Rakesh, 12, and Sriram Kranthi Kumar, 14. Search is still on to trace one more missing boy, who was feared drowned. Two other boys had a miraculous escape from the accident after they dropped the idea of venturing into the river on seeing their friends going down in the river one after another as none of them knew swimming, sources added. The incident came to light after the fear-stricken boys raised an alarm and rushed back to their homes in panic. Heart-wrenching scenes were witnessed on the banks of Manair river at Nehru Nagar as the grief-stricken parents and family members of the deceased sobbed inconsolably over the tragic death of their loved ones. Sources said Sriram met a tragic end just a day ahead of his birthday, leaving his family members crestfallen. Meanwhile, Minister K.T. Rama Rao expressed shock over the drowning incident and conveyed his condolences to the bereaved families. He directed district officials to strengthen safety measures at the water bodies and irrigation projects, and assured all help to the bereaved families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drowning-case-four-more-bodies-recovered/article37532229.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Restoring beauty||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/restoring-beauty/article37532216.ece
17 November 2021||Bihar,||5 relatives of late actor die in accident||At least six people were killed and four others injured in Bihar’s Lakhisarai district on Tuesday when an SUV carrying them collided with an LPG cylinder-laden truck, a senior police officer said. Five of the six deceased were distant relatives of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and all of them were residents of Jamui. “The accident occurred on the National Highway 333 when the SUV driver lost control over his vehicle and hit the truck coming from the opposite direction near Pipara village early on Tuesday. The victims were returning to Jamui from Patna. Six people, including the driver, were killed in the accident,” Superintendent of Police Sushil Kumar stated. According to villagers, the victims, including two women, were returning to Jamui after the cremation of Geeta Devi, the sister of Haryana Additional Director General of Police O.P. Singh. Mr. Singh is married to Sushant Singh’s sister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/5-relatives-of-late-actor-die-in-accident/article37532102.ece
17 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM helps villagers rescue cow trapped in pit||In the run-up to Assembly elections, due early next year, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is leaving no opportunity unturned to ensure that his “common man” image is stamped among the masses. In September this year, after he assumed the charge of his office, Mr. Channi conveyed unambiguously that his Government was all ears to the common man’s problems. He has also been reiterating this on public platforms that he is a “common man”. ‘Common man’ image In an attempt to strike a chord with masses, Mr. Channi has been making all-out effort to exhibit his “common man” politician image by travelling and visiting people, especially the downtrodden section across the State, besides making pro-poor announcements. In yet another such attempt, Mr. Channi live-streamed the rescue of a cow trapped in a pit on the roadside on his Twitter handle. He was on his way back home when he spotted a group of people trying to rescue it. “On my way back to the residence, a cow had fallen in a pit. Efforts are being made for the rescue,” said Mr. Channi on Twitter, while streaming the episode live on the microblogging platform. In the video, the CM could be seen involved in rescuing the cow, by advising the group and holding a flashlight as people pull the cow out of the pit. After successfully rescuing it, he bowed to touch the cow’s feet and sought blessings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/punjab-cm-helps-villagers-rescue-cow/article37532096.ece
17 November 2021||Dehradun,||Kidney racket accused held from Assam||A man allegedly involved in an inter-State kidney transplant racket busted in 2017 in Uttarakhand was arrested from Guwahati, the police said on Tuesday. Akshay Raut, absconding since 2017 and carrying a reward of Rs. 20,000 on his arrest, was nabbed from Guwahati on Sunday and was brought here on a five-day transit remand, said Dehradun SSP Janmejay Khanduri. He is the son of racket kingpin Amit Raut who is among the 17 accused arrested in the case, he said. Akshay lived in different cities including Pune, Bengaluru, Guwahati and Kolkata during the last four years and worked in different hospitals under different names, the SSP said. Mr. Khanduri said hospitals where the accused worked will also be contacted to find out about his activities there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kidney-racket-accused-held-from-assam/article37532103.ece
17 November 2021||GURUGRAM/CHANDIGARH,||‘Haryana murdering RTI Act’||The Right to Information activists from across Haryana staged a demonstration outside the State Information Commission office in Chandigarh on Tuesday accusing the State Government of “murdering” the law. They demanded that vacant posts in the Commission be filled, and the order making the submission of identify proof mandatory for a RTI application be revoked, among other things. The activists alleged that the Government had “murdered” the law by not doing enough for its proper implementation and rather issuing “unconstitutional diktats”. “Instead of appointing those with the knowledge of the law, the Government has appointed people close to the ruling dispensation as the Information Commissioners. The State Information Officials and the First Appellant Authority officials don’t know even the basics of the Act,” said Panipat-based RTI activist P.P. Kapoor. He accused the Government of making the submission of identity proof mandatory through a gazette notification on April 12 as part of its “anti-RTI agenda” and not adhering to the directions of the SIC against this “unconstitutional amendment”. Posts vacant “Of the 11 posts of Information Commissioners, six are lying vacant. It takes two to three years to get the information under the Act. If our demands are not met, we will hold demonstration at district headquarters and burn the effigies of Chief Minister Manohar Lal,” said Mr. Kapoor, president, Jan Abhiyan Manch. The activists also accused the Government of not sharing the public documents such as the educational qualification, experience certificate of Government employees by referring to the “opinion” of the Supreme Court on the matter as its “direction”. This, said the activists, had given a licence to the corrupt to commit fraud in admissions to educational institutes and government jobs appointments. The activists submitted a memorandum to the SIC for the President with a dozen demands including to make public the information related to all Departments under Section 4 of the RTI Act, initiate departmental action against the defaulters for not paying the penalty for violation of the law, impart training to officials, hold workshops and seminars to create public awareness and put in place a system for online filing of the RTI applications and hearing of appeals through videoconferencing. ‘To prevent misuse’ A senior SIC official, on condition of anonymity, said a meeting chaired by the Chief Secretary was scheduled in a week’s time to fill the vacant posts and the process would be over soon. On making submission of the ID proof mandatory, the official said it was to curb the misuse of the Act, and was in keeping with a Punjab and Haryana High Court direction. The official said efforts were on to seek right for deduction of penalty from the salary of the defaulters. “Haryana Information Commission had imposed Rs. 95.85 lakh penalty in 449 cases from April 2019 to July 2020 and ranked the first among all states as per Satark Nagrik Sangathan Centre for Equity Studies report published in October this year. Also, we have ordered Rs.10 lakh compensation, the highest among all states, during this period. The recovery of outstanding penalty has gone up from 31% to 48% and the Chief Minister is serious about it. Our pendency of cases is also very low with only 6,000 pending cases,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/haryana-murdering-rti-act/article37532100.ece
17 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Bribes-for-transfer charges leave Gehlot embarrassed||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday faced an embarrassment when Government school teachers made an allegation at an event that they had to lobby the MLAs and were forced to pay money as bribe for their transfers and new postings. The teachers levelled the charge in the presence of Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasra. Addressing a State-level function at B.M. Birla Auditorium here to honour teachers, Mr. Gehlot himself raised the issue of transfer of teachers and said he had been told that they had to approach the local MLAs, who in turn lobbied with Ministers. He then asked the audience if it was true that they had to pay money for transfers and postings. The teachers replied: “Yes... We have to pay.” A red-faced Chief Minister, who was at a loss for words, said sarcastically: “ Kamaal hai! ” Overcoming the initial shock, he said that the transfer policy should be revisited. “It is really painful that you have to pay money... There is a need to revisit the transfer policy. It should be changed,” he said. ‘Rampant corruption’ A video clip of the interaction went viral on social media, prompting the Opposition BJP to claim that corruption had taken an “institutionalised form” in the government. The BJP State president Satish Poonia alleged that corruption was rampant in every department. Mr. Dotasra, who is also the Pradesh Congress Committee president, later said that any possibility of bribery for teachers’ transfers would be scrapped with the implementation of a new policy. A total of 99 government school teachers were felicitated for their achievements in promoting the quality of education and improving the infrastructure. Cabinet reshuffle Addressing another function of the Secretariat Employees’ Union here, Mr. Gehlot said the Cabinet reshuffle would take place soon in the State. “Now that your oath ceremony has been organised, our swearing in ceremony will also take place soon,” he said. He had met Congress president Sonia Gandhi in Delhi last week to discuss the issue of reshuffle and political appointments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bribes-for-transfer-charges-leave-gehlot-embarrassed/article37532106.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||No clarity on number of new liquor vends opening today||A day before 849 new private liquor vends are supposed to open in the city on Wednesday, there was no clarity from the Delhi Government on how many of these vends will actually be functional. Fewer vends may open The Delhi Government has given provisional licences to only around 350 vends, a spokesperson said. But sources in the liquor business said even fewer vends will open on Wednesday. This could make it difficult for people to buy alcohol in the city. The authorities had earlier itself announced that all Government-run liquor vends will shut down and exit the liquor business on Tuesday. All these changes are part of the new excise policy. “The Delhi Government has given provisional licences to more than 350 shops. At least 206 brands have been registered, 10 wholesale licencees have started working and they have procured 9 lakh litre of liquor of various brands so far,” the spokesperson said. But the spokesperson did not answer questions on how many shops will open from Wednesday. From Wednesday, 849 new liquor vends — all private outlets — are supposed to open in the city with the Government exiting the sale of liquor by Tuesday night, as per Delhi Excise Policy 2021-22, which was announced earlier this year. Change the experience The new vends promise to change the experience of buying alcohol in the Capital, as they will be bigger (at least 500 sq feet), air-conditioned with glass doors for customers to have a walk-in experience. Of the 849 vends, 844 will be operating in markets, malls, commercial areas, local shopping complexes etc. and will have licence under L-7V. However, five of them will be super premium vends (SPVs) which will be at least 2,500 sq feet. and will operate under the licence of L-75P1. These vends will be allowed to sell products only above Rs. 200 in case of beer and above Rs. 1,000 for all other spirits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-clarity-on-number-of-new-liquor-vends-opening-today/article37532085.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Emergency’ measures not imposed despite 8 days of ‘severe’ air in Delhi||Despite Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) being “severe” for eight out of 10 days after Deepavali, measures under the “emergency” category of the Supreme Court-ordered Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) to control air pollution were not implemented by the authorities. “Emergency” steps were not taken as the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas, which has the authority to order measures under GRAP, stuck to the rules that do not consider predictions of deteriorating air quality. In the past, measures under GRAP have been implemented differently from the rules, based on predictions of a spike in pollution. On Saturday, the Supreme Court pulled up the Centre and the State Governments for the rising air pollution and later in the day, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced closure of schools and a ban on construction activities. These two measures are also part of the list under the “emergency” category of GRAP, but the CM’s announcement was separate. “Like in the past, GRAP should have been implemented as a preventive and pre-emptive measure. We cannot wait for the smog to be over to take action. The purpose of it is lost in that case,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/emergency-measures-not-imposed-despite-8-days-of-severe-air-in-delhi/article37532090.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC permits restaurants to serve herbal hookah||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday permitted the use of herbal hookah in restaurants and pubs in the Capital, saying that COVID-19 restrictions cannot be permitted to continue at the cost of livelihood. The High Court clarified that it was granting permission as an interim relief and it was subject to the restaurants and bars, who had approached the court, giving an undertaking to it that they would strictly follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour while serving herbal hookah. Justice Rekha Palli said that the prohibitions imposed on account of the pandemic cannot go on forever and also noted that the authorities have already permitted cinema halls and swimming pools to function at full capacity. The court’s order came while hearing a batch of pleas by several restaurants and bars against the prohibition on the sale or service of herbal flavoured hookahs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-permits-restaurants-to-serve-herbal-hookah/article37532080.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||EDMC to send teachers abroad for skill training||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Tuesday announced that it will finance training programmes for teachers and school heads at foreign universities. The maximum assistance provided to each candidate will be Rs. 75 lakh. “Every year, two teachers from the schools under the EDMC jurisdiction will be sent for a one-year course at a reputed foreign university,” a civic body official said. Those who are not more than 42 years old and have more than 10 years of teaching experience — along with a good performance record — can apply for the programme, which is aimed at skill improvement. EDMC Commissioner Vikas Anand said the candidates can choose from a wide range of subjects, including public education, special education, development of education, and use of digital technology in education. The move is a first by a civic body in the city. Previously, the Delhi Government had implemented a similar initiative under which teachers of Government schools were sent to foreign universities for skill-based training programmes. A civic body official said, “After the completion of their training, the candidates will have to return and serve for a period of at least 10 years at either EDMC schools or Delhi Government schools.” Mr. Anand said that the candidates can avail of the benefits “only once in their entire career”, and if they fail to complete the course “then they will have to refund the entire amount to the EDMC”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/edmc-to-send-teachers-abroad-for-skill-training/article37532086.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. to induct private buses||In an attempt to reduce the number of private vehicles on Delhi roads, which in turn will help cut down on air pollution, the Transport Department is planning to temporarily induct 1,000 private buses to augment public transport. Ashish Kundra, commissioner-cum-secretary, Transport Department, met private operators with fleets of up to 50 vehicles on Tuesday to discuss the proposition, sources said. The buses will be subjected to fitness tests before being inducted for a period of one month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-to-induct-private-buses/article37532087.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks response to plea against Chinese firm’s websites, app||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to respond to a plea seeking to block e-commerce websites and a mobile application being operated by a Chinese company, SPPIN India Pvt Ltd, on the allegation that it may threaten the security and integrity of the country. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh gave the direction on a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha seeking action against the company, alleging that it has been operating in contravention with the Foreign Direct Investment Policy (FDI) and Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) norms. The High Court directed the Centre to respond to the petition and posted the case for further hearing on January 11. The company is operating e-commerce websites, seller.shopee.in and shopee.in, and a mobile application Shopee:Online Shopping. The petition has sought direction to the Centre to investigate the foreign investments received in SPPIN India Pvt. Ltd and other similar entities incorporated here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-seeks-response-to-plea-against-chinese-firms-websites-app/article37532081.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||Air quality dips to ‘severe’ again||The city’s air quality slipped to the “severe” category again on Tuesday and the air quality index (AQI) is likely to be in the range of “very poor” to “severe” level till Thursday, said the Government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). Air pollution of “severe” level “affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases”, according to the Central Pollution Control Board. On Tuesday, the contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5 (a chief pollutant) in Delhi came down to 8%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/air-quality-dips-to-severe-again/article37532088.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||5 held in Rajasthan for online cheating scam||The Delhi Police’s Cyber Cell in a joint operation with its Pune counterparts busted an online cheating scam and arrested five men from Rajasthan, the police said on Tuesday. The accused used to dupe victims by sending them fake messages of the paid amount which used to be much higher than the amount quoted, and would later demand a refund, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) K.P.S. Malhotra said that the accused are all from Rajasthan and were arrested from Jaipur. The police said a Pune resident filed a complaint with the Pune Cyber Cell saying that she gives online classes for which she gets fees through Google Pay. On November 11, one of the participants, Muskan Meena, contacted her on Instagram and said that she wanted to attend her class and asked about the fee payment. The victim said that fees is Rs. 1,800 per month. The accused then sent a screenshot of payment of Rs. 18,000 on Google Pay and asked her to refund Rs. 16,200. Without checking her account, the victim returned the alleged excess amount to the accused via Google Pay and later realised that she had been cheated. A case was registered and probe was initiated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/5-held-in-rajasthan-for-online-cheating-scam/article37532082.ece
17 November 2021||New Delhi,||Facebook to depose before House panel||Facebook India’s public policy director Shivnath Thukral and legal director G.V. Anand Bhushan will depose before the Delhi Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony on November 18. Facebook India was summoned to depose its views on the critical role of social media in preventing the spread of false, provocative, and malicious messages that can incite violence and disharmony. The committee is examining what it had called “unprecedented communal disharmony and violence in Delhi” during the riots in February 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/facebook-to-depose-before-house-panel/article37532092.ece
17 November 2021||Patna,||Bihar CM holds review meeting on prohibition||A decision was taken to strengthen the intelligence network and take stringent action against police officers if illegal liquor is seized in their jurisdiction at a seven-hour review meeting on prohibition by Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar with his Cabinet Ministers and other top officials on Tuesday. Besides a vigorous campaign on prohibition in the State, police and Excise and Prohibition Department officials would also launch a special drive against the reports of home delivery of liquor in Patna, said officials. “If the central team from Patna conducts raid and seizes illegal liquor from a place, the inspector of the police station and the chowkidar [watchman] will be suspended immediately,” DGP S.K. Singhal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bihar-cm-holds-review-meeting-on-prohibition/article37532097.ece
17 November 2021||Pune,||Gadchiroli encounter toll rises to 27||Two days after the Gadchiroli encounter, in which 26 members of the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist) including top fugitive Maoist leader Milind Teltumbde were killed, the body of a Maoist identified as Sukhlal Parchaki was found at the encounter site, said authorities on Tuesday. With this, the number of slain outlaws has risen to 27. The officials said Parchaki carried a bounty of Rs. 25 lakh. Gadchiroli SP Ankit Goyal said Parchaki’s body was found during the searches carried out after the November 13 gun-battle in the Mardintola forest. The police had recovered a number of weapons including five AK-47s, one AK with UBGL, nine SLRs, one INSAS rifle and three .303 rifles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gadchiroli-encounter-toll-rises-to-27/article37532101.ece
17 November 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra transport staffers continue strike||The indefinite strike called by employees of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) entered its 20th day on Tuesday with the agitators refusing to withdraw their main demand for the merger of the loss-making corporation with the State Government. All 250 bus depots of the MSRTC have been shut since November 9. However, since Monday, nearly 7,000 employees among the 92,000 agitating staffers resumed duty. Thus far, the State government has suspended more than 2,000 MSRTC staffers for continuing to agitate even after the Bombay High Court had declared the strike ‘invalid’. According to officials, most of the employees who reported to work on Monday were administrative staffers, followed by workshop employees, and some drivers and conductors. The MSRTC has operated over 100 buses since Monday. Meanwhile, the three-member committee set up by the Government to look into the demands and grievances of the MSRTC employees has asked union leader Ajaykumar Gujar to make a written submission before the panel. Talks inconclusive Remarking that the issue could not be resolved through futile agitation, Transport Minister Anil Parab said that he had spoken with representatives of all 28 employee unions of the MSRTC to no avail. “I have always listened to every grievance put forth by MSRTC employee unions…the question is with whom do I parley now…given that the BJP has been backing this agitation, I have spoken twice with BJP leaders Gopichand Padalkar and Sadabhau Khot. I am not sure now that even they are able to control the agitating MSRTC workers,” Mr. Parab said. Their key demand is an immediate merger of the cash-strapped MSRTC with the State Government as it will accord the status of Government employees to MSRTC staffers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/maharashtra-transport-staffers-continue-strike/article37532270.ece
17 November 2021||HONG KONG,||Biden, Xi agree on need to avoid conflict amid differences||U.S. President Joe Biden and China’s President Xi Jinping on Tuesday agreed on the need to “responsibly” manage a competitive relationship but did not arrive at any significant breakthrough on any of the thorny issues that have led to increasingly confrontational ties. The two leaders on Tuesday morning (Monday evening in Washington) spoke for over three hours in their first virtual summit, convened from the Roosevelt Room in the White House and the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. Mr. Xi greeted Mr. Biden as an “old friend” while the U.S. President noted that the two, from their time as Vice Presidents, had “spent an awful lot of time talking to one another” and had “never been that formal with one another”. The change in tone was obvious from a March meeting in Alaska between senior officials that saw accusations traded in front of the cameras and marked a turbulent start to the Biden administration’s engagement with China. But pleasantries aside, both sides essentially reinforced their positions on many of the core issues that have strained the relationship. Any headway on these issues would have been a surprise, with expectations ahead of the summit focused firmly on what a senior U.S. administration official had described as discussing “guardrails” rather than on any specific deliverables. The main takeaway was a mutual recognition of the need to manage competition amid differences. Mr. Biden called for “common sense guardrails to ensure that competition does not veer into conflict,” the White House said, although its readout did not detail the nature of these measures beyond saying the two leaders talked about how the two sides could continue to engage on a number of areas. The U.S. President also underlined the “importance of managing competition responsibly.” ‘Mutual respect’ Mr. Xi, for his part, said “mutual respect, peaceful coexistence and win-win cooperation” should be the “three principles” guiding ties, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said in its readout. He said the two countries “need to treat each other as equals” and that “no conflict and no confrontation is a line that both sides must hold.” “Drawing ideological lines or dividing the world into different camps or rival groups,” he said, “will only make the world suffer”, calling on the U.S. “to meet its word of not seeking a ‘new Cold War’, with concrete actions.” The unanswered question was how both sides would “responsibly manage” differences when neither appeared to give ground on any of them. The Chinese President said on the one hand that “the key is to manage [differences] constructively so that they don’t magnify or exacerbate” but added that “China will certainly defend its sovereignty, security and development interests.” He added that it was “important that the U.S. properly handle the relevant issues with prudence.” Top of those issues is Taiwan. Mr. Biden said the U.S. “strongly opposes unilateral efforts to change the status quo or undermine peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait”. He also “discussed the importance of a free and open Indo-Pacific, and communicated the continued determination of the U.S. to uphold our commitments in the region,” the White House said, highlighting the “importance of freedom of navigation and safe overflight to the region’s prosperity.” Mr. Biden, in effect, said that the U.S. was committed to the status quo from its side on Taiwan, by underlining the country’s commitment to the “one China” policy, the Taiwan Relations Act, the three Joint Communiques and the Six Assurances. Under its one China policy, Washington recognises Beijing alone as the formal government of China, but under the Taiwan Relations Act, the U.S. will support Taiwan if it is attacked by Beijing. ‘True status quo’ Mr. Xi, in contrast, referred to what he called “the true status quo of the Taiwan question” which was that “there is but one China in the world and Taiwan is part of China.” “We have patience and will strive for the prospect of peaceful reunification with utmost sincerity and efforts,” he said. “That said, should the separatist forces for Taiwan independence provoke us, force our hands or even cross the red line, we will be compelled to take resolute measures.” Mr. Biden also raised “concerns” on China’s actions in Xinjiang, Tibet and Hong Kong and human rights issues more broadly, which brought a response from Mr. Xi saying that “democracy is not mass produced with a uniform model” and “dismissing forms of democracy that are different from one’s own is in itself undemocratic.” “China is ready to have dialogues on human rights on the basis of mutual respect,” he said. Both flagged climate change as one area of cooperation, coming after a recent agreement announced by the two countries at COP26. In his opening remarks, Mr. Biden said the two countries ought to work together where interests aligned, highlighting climate change, while Mr. Xi said climate change “can well become a new highlight of cooperation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-xi-agree-on-need-to-avoid-conflict-amid-differences/article37531715.ece
17 November 2021||KILINOCHCHI,||Kilinochchi farmers dread their first harvest after Sri Lanka’s fertilizer ban||For Muthu Sivamohan, a farmer leader in Sri Lanka’s northern Kilinochchi district, the uncertainty looming over his paddy yield, after the government banned chemical fertilizers, is only comparable to “two other periods of crisis”. “The first was when Prime Minister Sirimavo [Bandaranaike] introduced import substitution in the 1970s,” said the 63-year-old farmer. He vividly recalled the “severe food shortage” during the period, with long queues outside shops as people waited for hours to buy food. “There was hunger all around. We survived on king coconut and manioc mostly.” All the same, offering some respite then was her government’s boost to local production, especially benefiting small farmers growing vegetables and cash crops. Senior farmer representative Subramaniam Kanapathipillai recalled northern farmers garlanding Ms. Bandaranaike with chillies, in appreciation of her support to them. “That is why farmers here [north] of a certain generation have a soft spot for the [Bandaranaike’s] Sri Lanka Freedom Party,” he said. The civil war began a decade later and lasted about 30 years as the armed forces fought the LTTE. The Tamil-majority north and east were stifled with violence, an economic blockade, and no access to markets. “Those were extremely difficult times, but we did not go hungry. We grew our own food and had enough to eat,” Mr. Sivamohan said. The government’s overnight policy shift to organic agriculture in May, farmers fear, might slash their yield so drastically that a food scarcity may not be far. Similar fears surfaced in August, when President Gotabaya Rajapaksa declared an Emergency to ensure distribution of essential food items to prevent irregularities and hoarding. Meanwhile, the government’s ban on chemical fertilizer has heightened farmers’ apprehensions, especially after sowing season began some weeks ago. Now, they are dreading the harvest early next year. Ketheeswaran, 37, has sowed paddy in 20 acres. “Ideally, I should have sprayed the [chemical] fertilizer now, about 30-35 days after sowing. I haven’t been able to do that. The crop will certainly suffer,” he said anxiously. “I doubt if I will get even half the yield I got last time.” The drop in production that the district’s farmers anticipate could impact rice consumption in the entire Northern Province, as Kilinochchi is the largest producer of paddy among the five northern districts, growing about 1.5 lakh tonnes in 2020. The problem, though, is not peculiar to Kilinochchi. Farmers across the country growing paddy and tea are raising alarm. Engaging over a quarter of the country’s labour force, Sri Lanka’s agriculture sector contributes about 8% of the GDP. Farmers in the country’s Sinhala-majority south who voted for the Rajapaksas are protesting, burning effigies of the Agriculture Minister, and raising slogans against what is arguably the most unpopular decision of the Rajapaksa administration in its two years in power. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, however, is determined to keep his poll promise. In his election manifesto that is now his government’s policy framework, Mr. Rajapaksa promised “a revolution” in the use of fertilizer, with a decisive shift to organic farming and focus on home gardening. The initiative, in addition to saving dollars spent on importing chemical fertilizers, was pitched as a response to the prevalence of a rare kidney ailment However, his government did not consult farmers or experts. Challenging the government’s claim that chemical fertilizers caused farmers’ kidney ailments, scientists have dubbed the current crisis “the most turbulent” period in Sri Lanka’s agricultural history. The government’s outright switch to organic fertilizer is a “catastrophe” in the making, senior soil scientists Prof. W.A.U. Vitharana and Dr. W.S. Dandeniya warned in a column for the local Sunday Times, arguing that the damage to the country caused by “such short-sighted decisions” will be “irreversible”. Amid mounting resistance, President Rajapaksa appointed a panel on green agriculture last month. Except, it did not include a single representative from farmers’ organisations. “There are so many farmers’ societies across the country, and they could not consult even one of us while taking such a consequential policy decision?” asked Subramanian Yatheeswaran, secretary of a farmers’ federation in Kilinochchi, baffled by the exclusion. Moreover, the government’s supply of organic fertilizer since the ban has been erratic and unreliable, paddy farmers noted. Gradual transition The transition to organic fertilizers, experts emphasised, ought to be gradual. “We are not opposed to organic farming, but it [the shift] cannot be overnight like this,” said Mr. Sivamohan, recalling that it was during PM Mahinda Rajapaksa’s time as President that the government heavily subsidised agrochemicals. “It was in that decade that farmers became more reliant on chemical fertilizers.” Even the harvest early next year — one of Sri Lanka’s two main harvest seasons tied to the monsoon — may not accurately reflect the impact of the policy shift, said R. Ravindrakumar from a federation of paddy farmers. “Some farmers used chemical fertilizer leftover from last year. You see, we are used to war-time scarcity and intuitively stock up a little. We heard of some others purchasing it in the black market,” he said. “It is the next harvest that will deliver a deadly blow to us.” With no solution apparent, farmers are worried – about their next yield, as well as its impact on the country’s food security. “If our people go hungry next year, the government should not hold farmers responsible. If citizens starve, it will be a shame for the country,” Mr. Sivamohan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kilinochchi-farmers-dread-their-first-harvest-after-sri-lankas-fertilizer-ban/article37531717.ece
17 November 2021||Warsaw,||Polish forces use water cannons on migrants||Polish border forces on Wednesday said they were attacked with stones by migrants at the border with Belarus and responded by using water cannons against them. The Border Guard agency posted a video on Twitter showing a water cannon being directed across the border at a group of migrants in a makeshift camp. Polish police said one officer was seriously injured when the migrants threw objects. He was taken by ambulance to a hospital and it is likely his skull was fractured after being hit by an object. The situation marks an escalation in a tense migration and political border crisis amongst the European Union countries where the lives of thousands of migrants are at stake. The border is also part of the European Union’s eastern border, and the EU accuses the authoritarian regime of Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko of orchestrating a migration crisis at the border to pressure the bloc. Poland’s Defense Ministry said its soldiers and other border forces were attacked with stones and other objects. The Ministry also said that Belarusian forces tried to destroy fencing along the countries’ common border, while the Interior Ministry posted a video apparently showing migrants trying to tear down a fence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/polish-forces-use-water-cannons-on-migrants/article37531713.ece
17 November 2021||Moscow,||Iraq to fly out 200 migrants from Belarus||Iraq’s embassy in Moscow said on Tuesday that it will fly out around 200 people from Belarus, where thousands of migrants have camped on the Polish border in a crisis the West blames on Minsk. “Around 200 people have got in touch with us. An evacuation flight will be organised on Thursday,” a representative of the Iraqi embassy in Moscow said. Many of the migrants that have camped on the Polish border are Iraqi citizens and Baghdad had earlier said it would organise repatriations on a “voluntary” basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iraq-to-fly-out-200-migrants-from-belarus/article37531709.ece
17 November 2021||Kampala,||Suicide bombings kill 3 in Uganda||Three persons died and several dozen were injured in twin suicide bombings targeting Uganda’s capital Kampala on Tuesday, police said, blaming a “domestic terror group” linked to the Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) for the attacks. Two suicide bombers on motorbikes — disguised as local “boda boda” motorcycle taxi drivers — detonated a device near the entrance to parliament, killing a passerby, while a third attacker targeted a checkpoint near the central police station, leaving two persons dead, the police spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/suicide-bombings-kill-3-in-uganda/article37531923.ece
17 November 2021||London,||Pfizer agrees to let other companies make its COVID-19 pill||Pfizer Inc. has signed a deal with a UN-backed group to allow other manufacturers to make its experimental COVID-19 pill, a move that could make the treatment available to more than half of the world’s population.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pfizer-agrees-to-let-other-companies-make-its-covid-19-pill/article37531711.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Kabul, Kashmir and the return of realpolitik||While the return of the Taliban to Kabul may have ended the internecine warfare within Afghanistan, the geopolitical contestation to own the spoils of Taliban’s victory has just begun. In a rather unfriendly neighbourhood, New Delhi’s attempts at forming a regional consensus to stabilise Afghanistan, albeit wise and timely, will only achieve limited success thanks to the China-Pakistan coalition and its interests at play in and over Afghanistan. What is worse, India’s advances to court the Taliban and attempts to evolve a regional consensus on Afghanistan might deteriorate India-Pakistan relations and pose challenges for India in Kashmir. Post-American Afghanistan While the recently-held Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan on November 10, 2021 was an important initiative to help Afghanistan stabilise, the sober reality is that the two countries that are key to stabilising Afghanistan — China and Pakistan — decided to stay away from it. Russia or the Central Asian states have neither the ability nor the desire to pursue a role in Afghanistan autonomous from the larger Chinese or Pakistani designs there. Iran has limited interests in Afghanistan and is unlikely to go against the Chinese plan for the region, especially in the broader context of being under United States sanctions. While China seems to be approaching the Taliban-led Afghanistan in a cautiously slow manner, it is clearly poised to be in the driving seat of the regional, if not global, engagement with the region in the months ahead. It is a matter of time before Beijing recognises the Taliban as the legitimate government of Afghanistan, and it is likely to coordinate its recognition along with that of Russia and Pakistan. China’s long-term vision for Afghanistan revolves around the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) project of which Afghanistan has been a part since May 2016. The China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is also viewed as a key component within the larger Chinese BRI project and Afghanistan could eventually become part of CPEC if and when the Taliban regime stabilises itself in the country. For China, there is a lot riding on the Taliban. Even as Pakistan recognises the challenge to itself from an unstable Afghanistan, its current Afghan strategy reeks of a triumphalist attitude. While it lobbies the international community to help prevent Afghanistan slide into further turmoil, it is determined to keep India as far away from Kabul as possible even though the Taliban would like India to continue the engagement and offer development assistance. For Pakistan, Afghanistan is the mother of all zero sum games. To aid or not to aid The international community is faced with a dilemma in Afghanistan when it comes to deciding to help the country get back on its feet. Taliban and Pakistan refer to the U.S.-led coalition as ‘colonisers’ who just vacated the Afghan territory; and in the same breath, they seek assistance from those very ‘former colonisers’. Second, if the U.S. and the West indeed send aid to Afghanistan, it may or may not reach the people. And yet, if they do not help, Afghans will suffer untold miseries. But perhaps what might bother the West the most is that if they stabilise the country, they would still be called former colonisers, and Pakistan and China will benefit out of it geopolitically, making it, in that sense, a thankless job for the West. So the question before the western leaders is how to offer structured incentives to the Taliban, and when. India’s dilemma India now faces a new dilemma in Afghanistan — the first one was to decide whether to engage the Taliban or not. The successive governments in Afghanistan, including the current Taliban regime, have sought relations with India which has upset Pakistan. Pakistan has always been deeply suspicious of growing India-Afghanistan relations no matter who was/is in charge in Kabul. India’s current dilemma is also along the same lines. The Taliban want India to engage and help the country stabilise, but Pakistan resents that. Not too long ago, the Pakistani National Security Adviser had lashed out against India for (India) reaching out to the Taliban delegation in Doha. And now, Pakistan refused to attend the regional security meeting on Afghanistan called by India. These instances indicate that Pakistan would not like India to either develop close relations with the Taliban or be a part of any regional set up to stabilise the country. More so, it is likely that the more India gets close to the Taliban, the more the Pakistani side will increase the heat (read ‘attacks’) in Jammu and Kashmir. By maintaining ties with the Taliban and convening the regional security meeting in New Delhi, India has indicated that this is an acceptable risk. Let me explain this dilemma a bit more. Very crudely put, if the Taliban regime is stabilised in Kabul without India’s assistance to the country, the more it is likely to do Pakistan’s bidding vis-à-vis India. On the other hand, the more India helps the Taliban-led Afghanistan, the more Pakistan will up the ante in Kashmir. This is a catch-22 situation that India finds itself in. And yet, India has little choice but to engage the Taliban. Pakistan’s Kashmir policy The earlier Pakistani willingness to be conciliatory towards India on Kashmir before and in the run-up to the Taliban takeover of Kabul in August 2021 seems to have disappeared for now. This is at least partly due to the Pakistani triumphalism about the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. The bilateral backchannel conversations in late 2020 and early 2021 had reportedly discussed the reduction of violence in Kashmir in general and a political understanding with regard to Kashmir. The February ceasefire agreement between India and Pakistan and the subsequent reduction in violence in Kashmir (i.e., infiltration of terrorists from the Pakistani side to Kashmir, terror attacks in Kashmir and ceasefire violations on the Line of Control) were a direct result of the backchannel understanding between the two sides. This understanding held until August when the Taliban takeover happened. Since then, violence data show that the backchannel understanding is withering away with violence in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) spiking along all three indicators albeit gradually. More so, sentiments from across the border also indicate that the earlier Pakistani stand that it would accept the Indian decision to withdraw the special status to Kashmir (in lieu of New Delhi restoring Statehood to Kashmir and allowing political activity in the State) has now changed. It now demands that India fully reverts to the pre-August 5, 2019 position on Kashmir. In other words, the Pakistani conciliatory approach on Kashmir lasted only till the Taliban takeover of Kabul. At best, this is a post-facto change in the Pakistani strategy, and at worst, Pakistan was stringing India along. The appointment of Sardar Masood Khan, former Pakistan occupied Kashmir President, as Pakistan’s Ambassador to the U.S. is perhaps yet another indication of the centrality of Kashmir in Pakistan’s foreign policy in the wake of the Taliban takeover of Kabul. If this analysis is accurate, then we are likely to see more war of words and violence in the context of J&K. This will mean that any possibility of India-Pakistan cooperation in Afghanistan would be very hard to achieve. Beijing will play along; so will Iran and the Central Asian countries, for the most part. For New Delhi then, the options are to coordinate its Afghan policy with Moscow, Washington and the various western capitals while steadfastly engaging the Taliban. Happymon Jacob teaches at the Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi and is the founder of the Council for Strategic and Defense Research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/kabul-kashmir-and-the-return-of-realpolitik/article37531696.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The challenges before Akhilesh Yadav||Positioned as the main challenger to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh, Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav plans to fight the 2022 Assembly election with the support of smaller Other Backward Classes (OBC)-based parties without forming a ‘grand alliance’. Considering his unprofitable adventures with the Congress and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in 2017 and 2019, respectively; the prospects of a personality-centred clash with Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath; and the cumbersome process of seat-sharing, this may have been the most pragmatic choice for him. It also ensures that the campaign is centred around his leadership. A strong social alliance needed But to challenge the BJP’s seemingly insurmountable vote share of over 40% (2019), Mr. Yadav has to build a broader social alliance. He has bolstered his party with leaders and legislators, former and present, primarily from the BSP. Most of the new entrants are OBCs and Dalits who hold considerable sway over their communities or regions. Mr. Yadav looks set to seal an alliance with the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) in western U.P. and Om Prakash Rajbhar’s party in Purvanchal apart from roping in two smaller parties. Though smaller parties may not be in a position to win many or any seats on their own, past examples have shown that with their loyal base supplementing the votes gained by a larger party, such transactions tend to be mutually beneficial. This perhaps explains Mr. Yadav’s reluctance to ally with the Congress, which has no loyal community base in U.P. Even if Mr. Yadav keeps his flock together till the election, it is pertinent to ask whether he enjoys the same credibility that the BJP has managed to create for itself, to translate the arithmetic into votes. Apart from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s appeal, the BJP has tried to attract the scattered backward castes through three Rs: Ram (symbolic of the party’s Hindutva ideology and promotion of backward caste icons through that lens); Ration (tangible and timely welfare schemes); and Representation, even though often nominal. Shared anti-Muslim sentiments and antagonism towards dominant OBC castes like the Yadavs have allowed the BJP to successfully bring together disparate groups. Mr. Yadav cannot be expected to have an ideological framework to challenge Hindutva. He also cannot afford to antagonise the dominant ‘upper castes’. Therefore, his best bet is to bypass the BJP’s Hindutva strategy through an alternative narrative that aligns caste mobilisation with economic well-being while fulfilling local political aspirations. Mr. Adityanath’s saffron robes shield him from allegations of ‘Thakur appeasement.’ But as a chief ministerial face, he remains untested, as he was planted as head of government after the BJP secured a majority. Moreover, it is reasonable to wonder how long the BJP’s social arithmetic can stay intact against agrarian discontent, inflation, unemployment, inherent contradictions in its caste mobilisation, competing aspirations of jatis and the tendency of voters in U.P. to vote against the incumbent. Successive setbacks have forced Mr. Yadav to embrace his backward roots without the need to complement it with his ‘forward’ work. He has raised concerns about the dilution of reservation through privatisation, promised a caste census if voted to power, and erected memorials and statues to honour BC leaders and icons. He has exuded confidence that a “revolution of the backwards” would take place in 2022 and tried to reach out to Dalits by eulogising B.R. Ambedkar in his rallies. But despite being better placed than before, Mr. Yadav still has to confront some uncomfortable questions and the baggage of past rule. His first task would be to mobilise the core vote base of Muslims and Yadavs (M-Y) in a watertight formula and accommodate his uncle Shivpal, a potential spoiler. All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen leader Asaduddin Owaisi’s attempts at dismantling the ‘M-Y’ equation might not succeed, but may compel Mr. Yadav to address the Muslim question, which the BJP would prefer. Though the alliance with the RLD in west U.P. looks promising in the context of the ongoing farmer protest against the BJP, the question is whether the Jats and other Hindu communities will rally behind Mr. Yadav, in whose tenure deadly communal violence broke out in Muzaffarnagar in 2013. In recent years, especially after the growth of jati-oriented backward leadership, non-Yadav OBCs have been politically trained to rally against the Yadavs. They have been made to believe that the community is cornering most of the 27% OBC quota and jobs, are disproportionately favoured in recruitment, and utilise this capital to dominate lower-placed castes whenever the SP is in power. In 2018, a committee set up by the Adityanath government recommended division of the 27% OBC quota into three groups. The committee clubbed together Yadavs, Jats and Kurmis in the first category of Pichda, reducing their share to 7%. Implementing this would have jeopardised the BJP’s successful strategy of pitting the non-Yadav OBCs against the Yadavs. The SP cannot openly support this either, since the report bolsters the popular narrative of the BJP’s that Yadavs dominate and also because its core community would stand to lose. The report is still in cold storage. Interestingly, it is Mr. Rajbhar, who had a successful stint with the BJP in 2017 when the party ran an aggressive anti-Yadav campaign, who is demanding implementation of the report. How the support base of Mr. Rajbhar and Mr. Yadav will deal with this contradiction of interests remains to be seen. The BJP’s campaign Then, there is the possibility of Hindu mobilisation in favour of the BJP. From the euphoria over the Ram Mandir to laws and police action directly and indirectly punishing Muslims, the BJP has much to show to its Hindutva constituency. When Mr. Yadav referred to Muhammad Ali Jinnah at a rally recently, the BJP accused him of Muslim appeasement. It sounds implausible that Mr. Yadav, who has strategically distanced himself from Muslim symbolism, would try to woo Muslims through Jinnah. However, such moments provide an opportunity for the BJP to convert the campaign into a communal one. In its campaign, the BJP has tried to reignite memories of the firing on ‘karsevaks’ in 1990 under the rule of Mr. Yadav’s father, Mulayam Singh; and recall the string of communal incidents, controversies over attempts to withdraw cases against Muslim terror-accused persons, the ‘goondaism’, and favouring of Yadavs in recruitment under Mr. Yadav in his first tenure. Meanwhile, the SP has tried to project a fresh outlook through slogans like “ nayi hawa hai, nayi sapa hain (A new wind, a new SP)”. This is an admission that it did need an image correction. But are the voters, especially the OBCs, convinced that that this is a new SP? Even if Mr. Yadav does everything right, will these communities continue to punish him for the perceptions and propaganda built around his social base? Mr. Yadav will need to present a model promising how Akhilesh 2.0 will be different and more inclusive.  omar.rashid@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-challenges-before-akhilesh-yadav/article37531703.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||An outreach to tribals that checks all the boxes||In the Ayodhya kanda of the Ramayana , when Lord Rama is exiled from the kingdom of Ayodhya, and reaches the northern bank of the Ganga at Sringaverapura, he is received by the king of the neighbouring kingdom of Nishadha, Guha. Rama treats the tribal leader, Guha, as his own conscience. Rama stays at Guha’s place and the Nishadha king helps Rama cross the river the next day. In the Mahabharata , Arjuna’s travels in the Northeast lead to his encounter with Ulupi, the princess of the Naga tribe, who he marries and has a son with, Iravan. The Ramayana and the Mahabharata are replete with harmonious relationships between forest dwellers and the “city dwellers’’. Recognition now Despite a place for tribals in Indian culture and history, the enactment of the Criminal Tribes Act, 1871 by the British government, branded the very ‘descendants’ of Guha as criminals. With its racist overtones and the stereotyping of tribes as uncivilised, this Act aimed to create a sense of fear against tribal communities. Various tribes across India resisted British rule vehemently and the law was aimed at dealing with these tribes with an iron fist. From Birsa Munda and Tantia Bhil in the north and central parts, Komaram Bheem and Thalakkal Chandu in the south to the likes of Rani Gaidinliu in the northeast, tribal movements in different regions of the country waged spirited battles against the British colonial rule. A lot of their contributions today are either not known or not fully appreciated. The aim of commemorating November 15, the birthday of Bhagwan Birsa Munda, as Janjatiya Gaurav Divas is to ensure that the freedom fighters from various tribal communities who fought for India’s Independence get their rightful recognition. It will also ensure that the heritage, culture and the values of the 705 tribal communities (Scheduled Tribes) that constitute approximately 10% of our population is protected and is made accessible across the nation. Meaningful representation Since Independence, there have been efforts to improve the social, political and economic conditions of the tribal populations. Ensuring political representation by reserving electoral constituencies with large tribal populations was one such vehicle. However, representation at ministerial levels was still restricted to the odd figurehead Ministry such as Tribal Affairs. The recent expansion of the Union Council of Ministers led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi saw the inclusion of eight Ministers belonging to the Scheduled Tribes representing the States of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha and West Bengal. They represent the Gond, Santal, Miji, Munda, Tea Tribe, Kokana and Sonowal-Kachari communities. The Union Cabinet now has three Ministers who belong to various tribal communities. Contrast this with the period between 2004- 2014, when tribal community political representatives were considered mere figureheads. Under the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, between 2004-2014, the Ministers from the tribal community were fewer and primarily restricted to the Tribal Affairs Ministry. Economic well-being Apart from political representation, it is also important to ensure that tribal communities see economic progress and better human development indicators. This received renewed impetus in 1999, when former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee set up a separate Ministry for Tribal Affairs. Now, under Mr. Modi, imbalances in budgetary provisions are being addressed in mission mode. For the year 2021-2022, the Ministry of Tribal Affairs saw a budgetary allocation of Rs. 7,524.87 crore. This is nearly double the budgetary allocation made in the last UPA Budget of 2013-2014. After close to 90 years, the Indian Forest Act of 1927 was amended in 2017 (The Indian Forest (Amendment) Act, 2017; https://bit.ly/3wR8zSS) so that bamboo is no longer classified as a tree. This has allowed for the economic value of bamboo to be leveraged to its fullest potential and also brought the Act in consonance with the Forest Rights Act of 2006. The biggest beneficiaries of this are the forest dwelling tribal communities who are now able to use such forest produce to make value-added utility products. The role of tribal marketing development corporations in building market linkages is further increasing incomes of tribal communities. Sustainable development also needs to ensure that human development indicators (HDIs) in nutrition, health and education are being improved. The National Education Policy (NEP) acknowledges the additional focus required for tribal communities to address issues such as higher dropout rates. The NEP, by ensuring that the medium of instruction until at least Class 5, will be the mother tongue or local language of the child has ensured that tribal languages are protected and are treated on a par with languages mentioned in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. The expansion of the Eklavya Model Residential Schools, from 90 new schools sanctioned in the UPA years to 472 new schools sanctioned since 2014, will ensure that tribal children will see better education outcomes. This coupled with health interventions in the form of primary health and wellness centres and nutrition programmes will see improved HDIs among tribal communities in the long run. Bhagwan Birsa Munda was only 25 when he died in prison (1900). He fought bravely against the exploitative system of the British Raj and spearheaded a movement against the British colonial oppressive system. It is unfortunate that the contributions of several other tribal freedom fighters including those of tribal women freedom fighters such as Rani Gaidinlu, Jhano Murmu, Helen Lepcha and others have nearly been forgotten. Tribal museums There are records of over 200 tribal freedom fighters across India who participated in about 85 instances of revolts and uprisings against colonial rule. To recognise this, 10 tribal freedom fighter museums are being set up in the States of Andhra Pradesh (Lambasingi), Chhattisgarh (Raipur), Goa (Ponda), Gujarat (Rajpipla), Jharkhand (Ranchi), Kerala (Kozhikode), Madhya Pradesh (Chhindwara), Manipur (Taminglong), Mizoram (Kelsey) and Telangana (Hyderabad) will showcase the contribution of tribal freedom fighters and are at different stages of construction and completion. Commemorating November 15 every year will integrate various stakeholders and allow for a discussion on the achievements and contributions of tribal communities, their cultural heritage, and practices and traditions among the younger generation of Indians. As India celebrates its 75th year of Independence with ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahostav’, this would be a thoughtful gift for our tribal community and a recall to Ram Rajya — where the likes of Guha are given due respect, their cultural diversity is respected, and their contributions celebrated. G. Kishan Reddy is the Union Minister for Tourism, Culture and Development of Northeastern Region (DONER)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-outreach-to-tribals-that-checks-all-the-boxes/article37531699.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Longer term, better impact||The Central government’s decision to give a five-year tenure to heads of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has drawn a lot of flak. The Opposition smells a rat in the ordinances issued a few days ago. This is unsurprising. Any governmental move to strengthen a powerful law enforcement agency is bound to invite questions and raise suspicion. And the CBI’s track record for objectivity and neutrality is anything but straightforward. It is, however, preposterous to probe the intentions of this major move. How can we suspect the bonafides of the government until we have evidence to prove that the decision was motivated by dishonest intentions? No government is a saint, but to question the intentions behind an administrative decision right after it is made seems unfair. If one perceives politics here, let us remember that only 5-10% of the cases registered by the CBI involve politicians. Capricious decisions When I assumed charge of the position 20 years ago, I was the first beneficiary of the apex court’s directive giving a mandatory two-year tenure to the Director of the CBI. This was a fallout of the Hawala scandal. I had an extra four months because my retirement age automatically gave me this benefit. Prior to my appointment, the government was arbitrary and capricious in choosing the Director. It was not rare to see temporary appointments given to favour some individuals. Seniority was often ignored in appointments and Directors were removed frequently. In 1987, C.M. Radhakrishnan Nair was appointed as the Director. This decision was rescinded within days to give an extension to the man holding the post, Mohan Katre. Could there be anything more demoralising to the officer concerned and to the elite organisation? The recent ordinances are timely and merited. A two-year tenure for a CBI head is too short for any officer to make an impact on the organisation. The Federal Bureau of Investigation chief in the U.S. gets a 10-year term. This provides them the much-needed continuity that a Director needs in an outfit charged with the task of conducting highly sensitive investigations, which sometimes impinge on the longevity and stability of a democratically elected government. We will have to wait for a few years to gauge the impact of the change in tenure rules. Any blatantly dishonest interference in the working of the organisation is bound to raise the hackles of those who believe in and carry out straightforward investigations. The government will therefore have to show enormous restraint in its interactions with the head of the CBI. Of course, as a measure of accountability, the Director will have to keep the government informed of all major administrative decisions. He or she should inform the executive but not take orders from it. The only problem with the latest ordinance is that, at the end of the mandatory two-year tenure, the government will have to issue orders granting one-year extensions at a time. It would have better if there was a straight five-year term for the Director. The rule about three annual extensions can be misused by a tendentious government. It may be construed as a reward for ‘good behaviour’, which is a euphemism for an obliging Director. Dependence on State governments Successive chiefs have suggested the drafting of a CBI Act to ensure that the organisation is not dependent on the State governments, many of which have withdrawn consent for the CBI to function in that State. The Supreme Court has recently made caustic references to this objectionable development. Eight States — West Bengal, Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, and Mizoram — have withdrawn the general consent. The Court termed this a “serious issue”. The CBI should be made to derive its authority for launching investigations from its own statute instead of depending on the Criminal Procedure Code, which makes the CBI a police organisation. Apt analogies are the Income Tax Act and the Customs Act, which enable the officers of the two mighty departments to act on their own, without being at the mercy of State governments. R.K. Raghavan is a former CBI Director who is currently Professor of Criminal Justice at the Jindal Global University, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/longer-term-better-impact/article37531706.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Back to square one||The Mullaperiyar dam, which has been a cause of bickering between Tamil Nadu and Kerala for decades, is again in the limelight with two developments kicking up a storm. One is the circumstances under which the release of excess water through two spillway gates began on October 29 and the second is the Kerala government’s decision to retract the permission it had earlier granted to Tamil Nadu to fell 15 trees. Concerns The 126-year-old Mullaperiyar dam, in the Idukki district of Kerala, is an outcome of the 1886 lease agreement between the then Travancore princely state and the British government. It diverts the west-flowing rivers to the east through a tunnel in order to irrigate about 58,650 hectares in the dry southern districts of Tamil Nadu, which owns, operates and maintains the dam. Concerns over the safety of the dam were first raised in 1979, leading to the Centre’s intervention. In November that year, the dam’s water level was lowered to 136 feet from its full level of 152 ft. Since the mid-1990s, Tamil Nadu has been demanding the restoration of the water level on the ground that it had completed most of the strengthening work. The Supreme Court, in February 2006, allowed water to be stored up to 142 ft and asked Tamil Nadu to carry out the balance work. When Kerala enacted a law in March 2006 against raising the water level beyond 136 ft, the matter again went to the Supreme Court, which, in May 2014, reiterated its previous ruling and held the Kerala law unconstitutional. This time, the Court relied on a number of studies undertaken by different agencies such as the Central Water and Power Research Station and the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre. Between July 2014 and March 2018, the Centre, in response to the Court’s orders, formed two committees: a Supervisory Committee for inspecting the dam periodically, keeping a close watch on its safety and recommending measures; and a sub-committee under the National Disaster Management Authority for monitoring the measures to ensure high level of preparedness to face any disaster in relation to the dam. Recent developments But the controversies did not die down. A month ago, during the torrential rains and landslides in Kerala, the safety of the dam again became a matter of concern. It was under these circumstances that the excess water was released from the dam through the spillway gates. The presence of Kerala Ministers Roshy Augustine and K. Rajan during the water release inauguration was viewed by the AIADMK and sections of farmers of the Vaigai basin as unacceptable. Even as the AIADMK planned to hold demonstrations on November 9 and Water Resources Minister Durai Murugan fiercely refuted the AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam’s criticism of the DMK regime’s approach came the news that Kerala’s chief wildlife warden Bennichan Thomas had given his nod for cutting 15 trees as a prerequisite to take up the remaining work. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin swiftly thanked his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan for the clearance. But this was short-lived relief for Tamil Nadu as the Kerala government on November 7 decided to freeze the clearance. Kerala’s Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran later told the Assembly that the development had caught the government unawares. Mr. Thomas has since been placed under suspension. On November 13, when the Supreme Court heard the case, Tamil Nadu, in its written reply to issues raised by Kerala, informed the Court of the developments. There is a talk in certain quarters that the Chief Ministers of the two States may meet soon. It remains to be seen whether the leaders will come up with any solution to the dispute over the water level in the dam. ramakrishnan.t@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/back-to-square-one/article37531708.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Amber on economy||The latest data on inflation, both in retail and wholesale prices as well as industrial output estimates, suggest it would be prudent to adopt caution on the outlook for the economy. October’s retail inflation based on the CPI showed a slight quickening in overall year-on-year price gains to 4.48%, from the 4.35% pace in September, spurred by a persistent acceleration in the prices of certain key food items and transport fuels. Oils and fats logged 33.5% inflation, while meat and fish and pulses and products both saw a marginal easing in the pace of annual gains from September — posting 7.1% and 5.4% increases, respectively. However, the food and beverages sub-index that accounts for over half the CPI, accelerated 2.3% month-on-month, led by vegetable prices that reared up sharply by 14.2% from September’s levels. The sequential trend in the food category is particularly disconcerting as except egg and fruits, all the 10 other items of the 12-component sub-index saw prices accelerate last month. Transport and communication, which encompasses the pump prices of petrol and diesel, logged inflation of 10.9% from the October 2020 level, lending justification to the Centre’s Deepavali-eve decision to cut the excise duty on the key fuels. With the WPI also showing price pressures intensifying at the wholesale-level last month, especially for fuel and power and manufactured products — October’s headline WPI inflation accelerated to 12.5%, from 10.7% in September — the overall outlook on inflation is still far from reassuring. The Index of Industrial Production data from September also points to a sharp slowdown in output. While IIP growth slumped to an annual 3.1% pace, from August’s 12%, overall industrial output, of mining, manufacturing and electricity, actually shrank 2.6% on a sequential basis. While the Finance Ministry has cited monsoon rains for the slump in mining and power generation, which contracted 8.4% and 11% month-on-month, respectively, index heavyweight manufacturing too suffered a 0.5% contraction. Four of the six use-based industrial categories saw output shrink including consumer non-durables, which contracted 0.9%. The only silver lining was that consumer durables posted a healthy 6.7% jump in production from the preceding month, as white goods dealers likely stocked up ahead of the festival season. Automobile manufacturing slumped 9% from a year earlier and shrank 3.3% from August’s output levels as a global shortage of semiconductors crimped production. Automakers have reported more than 20% declines in production for October as well, as the chip scarcity coupled with high input costs abides. And given that manufacturers, who have so far sought to avoid risking the tenuous demand recovery by raising product prices, may not be able to defer increases for much longer, policymakers will have to ensure they do not drop their guard on inflation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/amber-on-economy/article37531691.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||For more than a waiver||The announcement by Russia that supplies of the S-400 Triumf system to India have already begun has set the stage for Russian President Vladimir Putin’s visit in early December. It has also thrown down the gauntlet to the U.S. that threatened sanctions against India. The deal for the air defence system was signed in 2018 during Mr. Putin’s visit then. In 2017, the U.S. had passed its Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) that provided for economic and travel sanctions against countries and officials that transacted significant military and intelligence contracts with Russia, North Korea and Iran. The Modi government has, justifiably, paid little heed to U.S. warnings that the sanctions — slapped on China and NATO partner, Turkey, for buying the S-400 — could also be used against India. In contrast to its cave-in on similar U.S. threats over the purchase of Iranian oil in 2019, Government officials have asserted that the deal is an essential part of India’s defences at a time of challenges on its eastern and western frontiers. In order to protect advance payments for the S-400 from U.S. strictures, India and Russia conducted their transfers through a rupee-rouble system. With the first parts of the system now delivered, and the first squadron delivery likely to completed by December-end, the die is cast. The U.S. has a choice not to allow the S-400 delivery to turn into a showdown with India. U.S. President Joe Biden has been authorised by the Congress to waive sanctions if the waiver is found to be in American “vital national security interests”, or, that India would reduce its future dependence on Russian weaponry. While it is unlikely India would give assurances on the latter, it is easy to argue, as many U.S. Congress representatives have done in a proposed amendment to CAATSA, that India is a prized U.S. partner — of the Quad, the Indo-Pacific and in countering China. Sanctions will cause a rift in India-U.S. ties, and could spur India towards Russia. Above all, the U.S. must recognise that its unilateral sanctions, which are not U.N. endorsed, undermine the multilateral system. The subjective and whimsical manner in which these sanctions were used, withdrawn and then reimposed against Iran, for example, do not inspire confidence in them. For India, acceding to such sanctions amounts to becoming a party to a bilateral dispute, and challenges the nation’s principles of sovereignty and strategic autonomy. Rather than trying to reason with the U.S. for an exceptional waiver to its domestic law, New Delhi must make it clear to Washington that the law should be abandoned, as it negates the very “rules-based international order” that is the foundation of the India-U.S. global strategic partnership.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/for-more-than-a-waiver/article37531690.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||China is a third world country: Chiao||United Nations, Nov. 16: The leader of China’s delegation to the General Assembly asserted that China was a third world country and would never be a super power “subjecting others to its aggression, control, interference and or bullying.” “China is still an economically backward country as well as a developing country. Like the overwhelming majority of the Asian, African and Latin American countries, China belongs to the third world,” Deputy Foreign Minister Chiao Kuanhua said in his delegation’s first speech before the Assembly yesterday. He said the economic backwardness of Asia, Africa and Latin America could be blamed on “imperialist plunder.” “We are opposed to the power politics and hegemony of big nations bullying small ones or strong nations bullying weak ones,” he said. Mr. Chiao said that “the affairs of the world must be handled by all the countries of the world, and that the affairs of the United Nations must be handled jointly by all its member States, and the super powers should not be allowed to manipulate and monopolise them.” He said that revolution has “become an irresistible trend of history”. He said that China was “still comparatively backward,” which prevented it from giving more material aid to developing countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/china-is-a-third-world-country-chiao/article37531700.ece
17 November 2021||MUMBAI,||Recovery taking hold; private investment should resume: Das||Numerous macro indicators suggest that the economic recovery is now taking hold after the beating it has taken during the pandemic, but for growth to be sustainable and reach its potential, private capital investment has to resume, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das said on Tuesday. Mr. Das said the economy has the potential to grow at a reasonably high pace in the post-pandemic scenario, provided private capital investment resumes. Despite many economists revising down their growth forecasts between 8.5% and 10% for the current fiscal, the central bank has not changed its forecast of 9.5% for the year, so far. Addressing a banking function, the Governor asked banks to be investment-ready when the investment cycle picks up, which the RBI expects would begin from the next fiscal. Since 2013, private capital has been missing from the economy and many are of the view that this would begin flowing in from the middle of the next fiscal year. The RBI Governor noted that gross bad loans of banks had come down in the September quarter from the previous three-month period. Capital management Mr. Das also asked banks to improve their capital management process. Lauding tech entrepreneurs, the RBI chief said the country had emerged as a top performer in the start-up landscape, attracting billions in foreign capital. The RBI wants to gradually lower excess liquidity in the banking system but will ensure there is adequate liquidity available to meet the needs of the economy, Reuters cited Mr. Das as saying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/recovery-taking-hold-private-investment-should-resume-das/article37531669.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Goyal urges MNCs to act as whistleblowers||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday asked multinational (MNC) investors to ‘play the role of a whistleblower’ and flag any bottlenecks or harassment they faced in the country, stressing that many States need to work on making approvals and regulations easier for investors. Ten States had already joined the single-window clearance system set up for investors recently, and four more are expected to join by December, while 18 Central Ministries have onboarded so far, the Minister said. Over time, the system will include approvals going down to the level of local bodies and municipal corporations, he assured MNCs. India, he said, had been eyeing a top 25 place in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business rankings had it continued, but will continue to rank its States to encourage competitive policies. ‘Making lives easier’ “We want States to also make lives easier for their stakeholders… like removing redundant laws, decriminalising local laws or implementing central laws more honestly, like the Boiler Regulations or the Legal Metrology Act. They are all managed by the States,” Mr. Goyal said at a session with MNCs hosted by the Confederation of Indian Industry. “[At] our end, we are trying to work with them to take the pressure off industry but it will have to involve them. You can play the role of a whistleblower, tell us where the wrongdoing is happening or where your people are getting harassed so that we can try and resolve each of those,” the Minister said. Responding to a query about clearances getting slower where multiple Ministries are involved, Mr. Goyal said the government would try to see ‘if we can get the principal Ministry to facilitate’ the process. The Centre, he said, took a year-and-a-half to get the single-window clearance system going because of abundant caution. “I was trying to be more and more cautious and didn’t want to have a goof-up like some of the other digital applications which went through a lot of time and iterations before they were fine-tuned. I have done the reverse — we did a lot of tests and checking,” Mr. Goyal asserted. However, once an approval is granted on the system, there’s no need for separate physical approvals, he assured investors, urging them to use the system and give feedback. While India was willing to embrace global standards, it wouldn’t do so blindly, he said, adding the Centre was in the process of opening up the Bureau of Indian Standards’ testing infrastructure to private users.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/goyal-urges-mncs-to-act-as-whistleblowers/article37531672.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Credai seeks cut in GST on building raw materials||Realtors’ apex body Credai on Tuesday expressed concern over an increase in the rates of cement and steel during the past one year and said housing prices could rise 10-15% if the prices of construction raw materials do not fall. The industry body demanded that the government take measures to control the prices and suggested reduction in GST for construction raw materials. Credai pointed out that the prices of construction raw materials have been increasing consistently since January 2020. Moreover, the association said the the delays in construction caused by lockdowns and the shortage of labour resulted in a direct increase in construction cost anywhere between 10-15% in the past 18 months. Developers might not be able to absorb escalating costs and will pass on the burden onto homebuyers, said Harsh Vardhan Patodia, president, CREDAI National.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/credai-seeks-cut-in-gst-on-building-raw-materials/article37531675.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Coromandel to set up sulphuric acid plant in A.P.||Agri-solutions provider Coromandel International Ltd. on Tuesday announced plans to set up a Rs. 400-crore sulphuric acid facility at its existing fertilizer complex in Visakhapatnam. The Murugappa group company said that the new unit would have a production capacity of 1,650 tonnes per day. The investment was in line with a long-term objective to secure key raw materials for fertilizer production, it said in a statement. Coromandel also said that it had entered into technology partnership agreements with Monsanto Enviro-Chem Systems and ThyssenKrupp Industrial Solutions for the project. In line with the PM’s vision for import substitution and promotion of local manufacturing, Coromandel had announced the setting up of a new 1,650 TPD sulphuric acid plant at Visakhapatnam, said executive vice- chairman Arun Alagappan. Considering the essential nature of fertilizers, the firm’s investment would improve self-sufficiency and availability of phosphatic fertilizers in the country, Mr. Alagappan said adding that the project would play an important role in reducing sulphuric acid imports into our country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/coromandel-to-set-up-sulphuric-acid-plant-in-ap/article37531676.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Akasa to buy 72 Boeing 737 MAX airplanes||Billionaire Rakesh Jhunjhunwala-promoted airline Akasa Air on Tuesday announced an order for 72 Boeing 737 MAX airplanes to build its fleet. The announcement was made at the 2021 Dubai Air Show which is underway. The order is valued at almost $9 billion at list prices, the airline said in a statement. However, airlines negotiate heavily and rarely pay list prices.  “We believe that the new 737 MAX airplane will support our aim of running not just an affordable airline, but also an environmentally-friendly company,” CEO Vinay Dube said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/akasa-to-buy-72-boeing-737-max-airplanes/article37531670.ece
17 November 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Firm prices will help tea producers‘||Firm prices of quality tea are likely to provide support for tea producers amid production expenses going up mainly due to a considerable hike in wage rates, Icra said in a report. This year after June, bulk tea prices have declined as production has witnessed some recovery from the lows of last year. It has resulted in easing of supply-demand scenario, Icra said in the report. “Notwithstanding the likely moderation in financial performance of key bulk tea producers in FY22, it would still be substantially better than what they posted in FY20,” Icra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/firm-prices-will-help-tea-producers/article37531673.ece
17 November 2021||CHENNAI,||IOB reports Rs. 700 cr. NPA divergence||Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) has reported a divergence of Rs. 700 crore in gross NPAs for the period ended March 2021. Earlier, IOB had reported gross NPAs for the period as Rs. 16,323 crore, while RBI assessed it to be Rs. 17,023 crore, resulting in a divergence in NPAs to Rs. 700 crore, the lender said in a regulatory filing. The public sector lender posted net NPA of Rs. 4,578 crore, while the same assessed by the RBI was Rs. 5,278 crore. IOB said the divergence in provisioning was Rs. 185 crore, following which the net profit now stands at Rs. 646 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/iob-reports-rs-700-cr-npa-divergence/article37531677.ece
17 November 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI voids 100 redundant circulars||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday withdrew more than 100 redundant circulars following recommendations by the Regulations Review Authority. The circulars relate to certain norms concerning investments by Foreign Portfolio Investors, RTGS, Know Your Customer and Anti-Money Laundering / Combating of Financing of Terrorism – Standards. The Regulations Review Authority (RRA 2.0) was set up by the RBI in April to review regulatory instructions, remove redundant ones, reduce the compliance burden by streamlining reporting structure and wherever possible, obviate paper-based submission of returns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-voids-100-redundant-circulars/article37531679.ece
17 November 2021||Chennai,||Switch Mobility e-buses to BMTC||Switch Mobility Ltd., an arm of Ashok Leyland Ltd., has bagged an order to supply and operate 300 electric buses for Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC). The fleet and charging infrastructure will be supplied and maintained by Switch for 12 years, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/switch-mobility-e-buses-to-bmtc/article37531678.ece
17 November 2021||Mumbai,||MFI's gross loan portfolio dip 1.1 pc to Rs 2,25,331 cr at Sep-end: Report||The gross loan portfolio (GLP) of microfinance lenders marginally dipped by 1.1% to Rs. 2,25,331 crore in the September quarter, as per a report by Sa-Dhan. The gross loan portfolio stood at Rs. 2,27,843 crore in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mfis-gross-loan-portfolio-dip-11-pc-to-rs-225331-cr-at-sep-end-report/article37531681.ece
17 November 2021||Jaipur,||Men in Blue eye a fresh start as Rohit and Dravid take charge||The group stage exit at the recent ICC Men's T20 World Cup came as a shock to the Indian team. It was a sorry end to Virat Kohli’s reign as captain in the shortest format. The time is right to start afresh. Over to Rohit Sharma and Rahul Dravid, who take charge as the new T20I captain and head coach respectively. First test A three-match T20I series against New Zealand, which commences here on Wednesday, provides the first test for the Rohit-Dravid combination. With the next T20 World Cup less than a year away, the two have little time to ease into their roles. The tricky process of identifying players for key positions will be their top priority at this stage. The squad is missing senior players like Kohli, Jasprit Bumrah, Ravindra Jadeja and Mohammed Shami, which will tempt the team management to push a few inexperienced hopefuls into the spotlight. Chennai Super Kings and Maharashtra batsman Ruturaj Gaikwad, the leading run-scorer in IPL 2021, could add to his two T20I caps. Debut for Venkatesh? Venkatesh Iyer, whose exploits at the top of the order were crucial to Kolkata Knight Riders’ ascent to the final, could be handed an India debut. Uncapped pacers Harshal Patel and Avesh Khan will be eager to translate franchise success to the international stage. Leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal, 31, returns to the fold after being dropped from the T20 World Cup squad, while Shreyas Iyer makes a comeback from injury troubles. The search for a fast-bowling all-rounder continues, with Hardik Pandya left out after a disappointing run in the UAE. Schedule demands New Zealand, meanwhile, can be excused for entering the Sawai Mansingh Stadium in a weary daze. For, just three days ago, the side featured in the final at Dubai. There is no time to brood; the schedule requires that you pack your bags immediately and rush to the next stopover. The demands of this packed calendar, however, have scalped a big victim. Captain and batting mainstay Kane Williamson will sit out the T20Is to prepare for the Test series starting on November 25 at Kanpur. “With the opening game of the T20 series on Wednesday evening, followed by games on Friday and Sunday night — the decision was made for Williamson to join the Test specialist group already training in Jaipur as they focus on red-ball preparation,” a New Zealand Cricket media release stated. Tim Southee, who is part of both the T20I and Test squads, will fill in for Williamson as skipper. Pacer Lockie Ferguson is recovering well from a right calf-strain, and is expected to be available for selection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/men-in-blue-eye-a-fresh-start-with-rohit-and-dravid-taking-charge/article37531914.ece
17 November 2021||Paris,||Italy shoots itself in the foot||European champion Italy missed out on automatic qualification for next year’s World Cup after being held to a goalless draw by Northern Ireland in Belfast on Monday, ceding top spot in Group C to Switzerland. The Italians needed to match Switzerland’s result to qualify directly but while Roberto Mancini’s side could only stutter to a stalemate, the Swiss blanked Bulgaria to book their ticket for Qatar. There they will find England, which clinched its qualification with a rampant Harry Kane bagging four goals in 15 minutes in a 10-0 win in San Marino. “The qualification was earned away in Budapest, in Warsaw, in Albania and I’ve got to credit all of our players and staff on a really good year,” said England manager Gareth Southgate. “The mentality, even in a game like tonight, we can’t do anything about the level of the opposition but the way we played was terrific.” Germany, Denmark, France, Belgium, Croatia, Spain and Serbia have also qualified directly from Europe. One more place will go to one of the Netherlands, Norway or Turkey on Tuesday with the remaining spots to be settled through the play-offs in March. The same fate befell Italy in 2018 when it famously failed to qualify for the World Cup after a miserable aggregate defeat to Sweden. “Right now it is what it is, we struggle to score goals, we always have control of the play... It’s a shame because the group should have been finished before this match,” Mancini told RAI. “I have faith, let’s see in March, but we might even win it.” The Italians rarely troubled the home side, only coming to life when news trickled through of Switzerland’s goal-scoring in Lucerne. Noah Okafor’s strike put the Swiss ahead three minutes into the second half and after Xherdan Shaqiri hit the post, Ruben Vargas doubled the score. The Swiss then had two goals ruled out for offside but when Cedric Itten headed in for 3-0 after 72 minutes, it meant Italy needed to win by two in Belfast. Growing frantic As the Italians grew more frantic and almost gave away a goal to Conor Washington, who had a shot scrambled off the line, the Swiss nailed the outcome with Remo Freuler making it 4-0 in added time. England needed just a point from its trip to San Marino, the lowest ranked of FIFA’s 210 competing nations. San Marino had lost 36 of its 37 previous home World Cup qualifiers, losing the last 35 in a row by an aggregate score of 146-7. The one non-defeat came in a 0-0 draw with Turkey in 1993. This time it was unfortunate to come up against a hungry Kane, who scored four goals in the space of 15 minutes in the first half. The outcome was never in doubt once Harry Maguire headed in the opener after five minutes. A Filippo Fabbri own goal made matters worse but that set the stage for Kane. His first came from the penalty spot in the 27th and he netted again with a scuffed effort five minutes later. His second penalty in the 39th minute completed his fourth international hat-trick and his second in four days, having also put three past Albania on Friday. Two minutes later he produced the best of the lot with some neat control inside the box to bag his fourth which took him to 48 goals for England, level with Gary Lineker and behind only Bobby Charlton (49) and Wayne Rooney (53).  The results: Group C: Northern Ireland 0 drew with Italy 0; Switzerland 4 (Okafor 48, Vargas 57, Itten 72, Freuler 90+1) bt Bulgaria 0.   Group F: Austria 4 (Arnautovic 4, 55-pen, Trimmel 22, Ljubicic 83) bt Moldova 1 (Nicolaescu 60); Israel 3 (Dabbur 30-pen, Weissman 58, Peretz 75) bt Faroe Islands 2 (Vatnhamar 62, Olsen 72); Scotland 2 (Souttar 35, Adams 86) bt Denmark 0.   Group I: Albania 1 (Cekici 74-pen) bt Andorra 0; Poland 1 (Swiderski 62) lost to Hungary 2 (Schafer 37, Gazdag 80); San Marino 0 lost to England 10 (Maguire 6, Fabbri 15-og, Kane 27-pen, 32, 39-pen, 42, Smith Rowe 58, Mings 69, Abraham 78, Saka 79) .    List of qualified teams   Host: Qatar  Europe: Germany, Denmark, France, Belgium, Croatia, Spain, Serbia, England, Switzerland  South America: Brazil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/italy-shoots-itself-in-the-foot/article37531971.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The two Rahuls and the regrouping of the golden era||In 2004, Rahul Dravid was leading India in a Test match in Multan, Pakistan, when he declared the innings with Sachin Tendulkar not out on 194. It caused an uproar in India. No one had treated the game as being greater than the individual in this country. And Tendulkar! How could Dravid? Tendulkar himself stoked the controversy by admitting he had felt let down. The players cleared the air between them, but fans never got over it. Dravid, however, was clear in his mind. It was a decision based on cricketing logic. India needed to bowl a few overs before close of play to push for victory, and Tendulkar, who had slowed down post-tea, in the words of the then Indian coach John Wright, “needed to move on.” What was best for the team was not ideal for the individual. In the end India won by an innings, and both the players and the country were given a lesson in putting the team ahead of the individual. It was, as Wright wrote, confirmation of Dravid’s “steeliness and serenity,” as the captain handled the response both from his teammate and fans back home with dignity. Interesting statement In welcoming Dravid as the national cricket coach, India’s T20 vice captain K.L. Rahul has made an interesting statement. “He (Dravid) has always been a team man when he was playing, and that’s the kind of culture he wants to bring in here as well, where everyone’s putting the team ahead of personal goals.” This is true, but there is a suggestion here that putting the team ahead of the individual is not an Indian tradition. And that’s true too. When K.L. Rahul said during an acrimonious Test in England recently, “If you go after one of our guys, all eleven of us will come right back,” it was a powerful message. No Indian player of the past would have articulated this. It was not the Indian way. Great players need to be selfish to succeed, eliminating everything that might interfere with giving their best. This is a sporting cliché. Usually when the individual succeeds, the team does well. But such selfishness can be counter-productive too when it gets in the way. There is thus positive selfishness which is good for the team, and negative selfishness which isn’t. An example of the latter is the quest for individual records. Top players trained to succeed at the highest level sometimes find it difficult to switch from the positive to the negative, especially as fans have often placed individual accomplishments above team performances, and thus perpetuated the system. Some of India’s greatest players extended their careers simply in order to go past a world record or create one that hadn’t seem possible or necessary till they did so. Kapil Dev, closing in on Richard Hadlee’s then world record aggregate of wickets was carried by the team till he went past it. Tendulkar’s pursuit of his 100th international century ended in individual success when he reached the figure in an ODI, but India lost that match to Bangladesh. Worrying interpretation A more worrying interpretation of K.L. Rahul’s statement is that the culture of negative selfishness continues in the Indian team, and it will take someone like Dravid to get rid of it. Perhaps I am reading too much into it. But it’s a thought worth keeping in mind. Modern sport is intensely competitive, and in cricket the individual needs to overcome not only eleven members of the opposition, but often some members of his own team as well. This is not being cynical, merely practical. The re-grouping of the golden era of Indian cricket (otherwise, the Tendulkar era) is a matter of importance too. Dravid and V.V.S. Laxman both retired within weeks of each other after a nightmarish final tour of Australia in 2012. When the stars retired, they were, like all sportsmen, still very young, and still had much to contribute to the game. Within a few years, they had begun to play at the national level — in different but significant roles this time. With the announcement of Laxman as the head of the National Cricket Academy (to take over from Dravid who did a commendable job there), their influence on the game continues. Of that great middle order, Sourav Ganguly is the president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India while down the order Anil Kumble has already served as national coach, and along with Javagal Srinath, held office at the Karnataka State Cricket Association. The transition for these gifted, intelligent players has been remarkably smooth, and in hindsight appears inevitable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-two-rahuls-and-the-regrouping-of-the-golden-era/article37531689.ece
17 November 2021||Melbourne,||Buttler draws inspiration from Pant||Bracing up for the Ashes, influential England player Jos Buttler is drawing inspiration from the “totally fearless” approach, which the flamboyant Rishabh Pant had adopted during the Indian team’s last tour of Australia. “One player I really enjoyed seeing play Tests in Australia was Rishabh Pant when they won there last winter. I love the way he can change his game between the defensive side and aggressive sides, and be totally fearless,” Buttler wrote in his column for the Daily Telegraph . “For any wicket-keeper who likes to be more positive, Rishabh is a good guy to watch — his mindset and commitment to his game plans, whether he’s attacking or defending.” “I’ve played one-day and T20 cricket in Australia but I’ve not played any red-ball cricket. So, it’ll be important, during the preparation phase in the nets and the warm-ups games, to try and understand conditions and work out what shots to play, how much the ball seams or swings and adapting to conditions. “I don’t want to go to Australia with too many preconceived ideas.” He termed the upcoming contests against England’s traditional rivals as the biggest challenge in his career. The Ashes begins in Brisbane on December 8. Australia is a place where lots of our guys have played in the Big Bash. The pace on the ball and the good wickets certainly suit a lot of players in our team. It will probably be the biggest challenge I’ve ever had in my career. “Australia is the one tour that, as an English player, you want to experience, and it’s something to really relish and enjoy — even though it’ll be different without the travelling support. We’re expecting an intense atmosphere with grounds full of Australian fans,” Buttler said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/buttler-draws-inspiration-from-pant/article37532336.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Javia breezes past Karan to make round two||Dev Javia outplayed Karan Singh 6-3, 6-3 in the first round of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the DLTA Complex on Tuesday. Javia served fluently and stroked with diligence, enjoying the contest against the national junior champion. In contrast, Karan was unable to serve well, even though he started sharp by serving two of his five aces in the first game. Javia rode on the early breaks of serve, to pull through without breaking a sweat in the pleasant wintry conditions. Seventh seed Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam warded off a stiff challenge from Aryan Goveas to prevail 3-6, 6-2, 7-5 in a three-hour battle. Goveas who led 3-1 and had chances to go up 5-3 in the decider, but Abhinav delivered two aces to get back on track.  The results: First round: Dusty Boyer (USA) bt Romain Faucon (Bel) 7-6(6), 7-6(2); Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam bt Aryan Goveas 3-6, 6-2, 7-5; Dev Javia bt Karan Singh 6-3, 6-3.     Doubles: First round: Saketh Myneni & Vishnu Vardhan bt Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam & Nitin Kumar Sinha 7-5, 6-3; Ishaque Eqbal & Faisal Qamar bt Ankit Chopra & Sidharth Rawat 6-3, 6-3; Digvijay Pratap Singh & Manish Sureshkumar bt Rishab Agarwal & S.D. Prajwal Dev 6-2, 2-6, [11-9]; Paras Dahiya & Parikshit Somani bt Alexis Canter (GBr) & Dev Javia 6-7(3), 6-3, [10-4]; Romain Faucon (Bel) & Nicolas Tepmahc (Fra) bt Aryan Goveas & Karunuday Singh 6-3, 2-6, [10-5].   Julian Cash (GBr) & Zsombar Velcz (Hun) bt Jatin Dahiya & Dalwinder Singh 6-3, 6-3; Adil Kalyanpur & Rishi Reddy bt Shahbaaz Khan & Siddharth Vishwakarma 4-6, 7-6(3), [10-4]; Anirudh Chandrasekar & Niki Poonacha bt Nishant Dabas & Chirag Duhan 6-3, 6-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/javia-breezes-past-karan/article37532071.ece
17 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Big-time, over-the-board chess is back||In this the birth centenary year of Satyajit Ray, it was perhaps only fitting that Levon Aronian talked about the Apu Trilogy. That too at a function held here in Ray’s hometown. “I am a big fan of Ray,” Aronian said of one of Kolkata’s greatest sons, after the draws were made at Hotel Taj Bengal on Tuesday evening for the third edition of the Tata Steel chess tournament, India’s world-class chess event. The Armenian may have pleasantly surprised many when he spoke about how he enjoyed watching those three classics by Ray (Pather Panchali, Aparajito and Apur Sansar ). Of course, he also talked of chess and the challenges the young Indians posed. It would indeed be interesting to find out how the Indian contingent without its icon Viswanathan Anand, who is here as a brand ambassador and mentor, would take on Aronian and the other stars from abroad at the $40,000 prize-money five-day tournament, the opening move of which will be made at the National Library on Wednesday. Aronian, who has switched allegiance to the United States, is the top seed in the tournament which will have rapid and blitz sections. Some of the young Indians, like Nihal Sarin, are good at playing at lightning speed. Vidit Gujrathi, B. Adhiban, Karthikeyan Murali, Arjun Erigaisi, D. Gukesh, R. Praggnanandhaa, Raunak Sadhwani, D. Harika and R. Vaishali are the other Indians in the fray. Le Quang Liem of Vietnam, United States’ Sam Shankland and Iran’s Parham Maghsoodloo complete the line-up. Only six players — Aronian, Liem, Shankland, Gujrathi, Maghsoodloo and Adhiban — will play both rapid and blitz. This edition may not be as strong as the two previous ones — the last of which was won by World champion Magnus Carlsen — but it still promises top-quality chess. The tournament also marks the return of big-time over-the-board chess in India. Though there has been plenty of activity in the chess world, it was all online. As for Aronian’s love of Ray’s films, he could think of watching — if he already hasn’t — Shatranj Ke Khiladi , which has chess as the backdrop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/big-time-over-the-board-chess-is-back/article37531911.ece
17 November 2021||Jaipur,||Mental, physical health is most important: Dravid||India head coach Rahul Dravid stated that the mental and physical health of players takes top priority, given the stresses of playing in a bubble. Dravid, who takes over from Ravi Shastri, explained that workload management is required to keep players fit and ready for big tournaments. “Workload management is a necessary part of cricket now. We see this in football as well. In a long season, star footballers do not get to play every match. If we play cricket through the year, we will have to practise workload management. Success is priority “The players’ mental and physical health is most important. The team’s success is a priority as well. It is a balancing act. We have to work towards getting everyone fit and ready for the big tournaments,” Dravid said in a media interaction on Tuesday. “We are not looking at picking separate teams for each format. But I will be in conversation with players to ensure that whenever they play, they are fresh and fully switched on. We have to recognise that these are challenging times for players, especially for those who play all three formats,” Dravid said. Still new on the job, Dravid explained that for now, he will sit back, observe how things function and step in when required. “Certain principles of coaching remain the same, but I cannot say that I will simply follow everything I did at the under-19 level. “I will take some time to learn what the players want. It is my responsibility, as part of the coaching staff, to mould myself to get the best out of the player,” Dravid said. Dravid, incidentally, was skipper when Rohit Sharma made his ODI debut in 2007, against Ireland at Belfast. “Time flies, doesn’t it? Even before Belfast, we were playing a Challenger tournament in Madras (Chennai) when Rohit was coming through the ranks as an under-19 player. “We all knew that Rohit was going to be a special talent. That I would be working with him all these years later is not something I envisaged,” Dravid said.  The squads (from):  India: Rohit Sharma (Capt.), K.L. Rahul (Vice-capt.), Ruturaj Gaikwad, Shreyas Iyer, Suryakumar Yadav, Rishabh Pant, Ishan Kishan, Venkatesh Iyer, Yuzvendra Chahal, R. Ashwin, Axar Patel, Avesh Khan, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Deepak Chahar, Harshal Patel, and Mohammed Siraj  New Zealand: Tim Southee (Capt.), Todd Astle, Trent Boult, Mark Chapman, Lockie Ferguson, Martin Guptill, Kyle Jamieson, Adam Milne, Daryl Mitchell, Jimmy Neesham, Glenn Phillips, Mitchell Santner, Tim Seifert, and Ish Sodhi  Match starts at 7 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mental-physical-health-is-most-important-dravid/article37531916.ece
17 November 2021||Jaipur,||Virat’s role will be the same: Rohit||India’s new T20I captain Rohit Sharma stated that his predecessor Virat Kohli will continue to be “a very important player” in the team. Kohli has been rested for the three-match T20I series against New Zealand, which commences here on Wednesday. Impact player In a media interaction alongside new head coach Rahul Dravid on Tuesday, Rohit said, “Virat’s role will remain the same. He is an impact player who leaves an impression whenever he plays. He is a very important player from the team's point of view. When Virat comes back, he will only strengthen our team because of his experience and the kind of batsman he is.” Rohit stressed on the importance of backing players who go through a lean phase. “It is very important to give guys enough assurance so that they can take chances in the middle. If it comes off, it comes off. If it doesn’t, then what happens? This is where we (Dravid and Rohit) will play a huge role to give the individual enough assurance. “In this format, you need to play fearlessly. In doing so, you may not always be successful. Even if he fails, our set-up will instil confidence in him. As long as he is doing his role for the team, we are happy,” Rohit said. Clear roles Each player will be assigned clear roles, Rohit stated. “The Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy and the IPL are the two T20 tournaments that our Indian boys play. A cricketer might play different roles for his franchise and State, but when he comes to the Indian team, we want to assign strict roles that we want him to perform. At the end of the day, what players do here (in the Indian team) matters,” Rohit said. “The template (that the Indian team will follow) is important, and we have some time to set it right. India has been brilliant in this format; it’s just that we have not won ICC events. Yes, there are some holes to fill — that is the biggest challenge,” he said. On New Zealand missing the services of regular captain Kane Williamson, Rohit said, “This team is not dependent on one individual. Williamson is a big player, but they have other individuals who can take the game away from the opposition.”  Things are a lot tougher with bubbles and quarantine, and it does take its toll... hopefully, we won't have to deal with bubbles for too much longer Tim Southee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/virats-role-will-be-the-same-rohit/article37531918.ece
17 November 2021||DHAKA,||Bangladesh rests Mushfiqur for Pakistan T20s||Bangladesh rested batsman Mushfiqur Rahim for the three-match Twenty20 International series against Pakistan starting here on Friday. Mushfiqur was under fire for his below-par performance in the recent Twenty20 World Cup, having scored just one half-century in eight matches. Bangladesh had a dismal tournament, where it lost to Scotland in the qualifiers and failed to win a single game in the Super-12 phase. Six changes It was forced to make at least six changes to the squad for the upcoming series, with all-rounders Shakib Al Hasan and Mohammad Saifuddin ruled out due to injury. Batsmen Liton Das and Soumya Sarkar have been dropped for the series against the World Cup semifinalist, as well as fast bowler Rubel Hossain. Those recalled include batsman Najmul Hossain Shanto and leg-spinner Aminul Islam Biplob. Maiden call-ups There were also maiden T20 call-ups for U-19 World Cup-winning captain Akbar Ali — a wicketkeeper — batsmen Saif Hassan and Yasir Ali Chowdhury, and pace bowler Shohidul Islam. Mahmudullah Riyad was retained captain. Pakistan will also play two Test matches.  The squad:   Mahmudullah Riyad (Capt.), Mohammad Naim, Najmul Hossain, Afif Hossain, Nurul Hasan Sohan, Mahedi Hasan, Aminul Islam, Mustafizur Rahman, Shoriful Islam, Taskin Ahmed, Shamim Hossain, Nasum Ahmed, Saif Hassan, Yasir Ali, Shohidul Islam and Akbar Ali .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bangladesh-rests-mushfiqur/article37532334.ece
17 November 2021||DHAKA,||India makes three team finals||Indian archers booked their slots in three out of six team finals in the Asian archery championships here on Tuesday. In recurve competitions, the men's team, comprising Pravin Jadhav, Kapil and Parth Salunkhe, got a bye before defeating South Arabia 6-0 and Bangladesh 5-4 (27*-27) to set up a title clash with Korea. The Indian women's team of Ankita Bhakat, Ridhi and Madhu Vedwan received a bye and beat Vietnam 6-0 to reach the final. It will also take on Korea in the gold medal match. The recurve mixed team of Ankita and Kapil beat Vietnam 6-0 but lost to Bangladesh 5-4 (20-19) in the shoot-off in the semifinals. India will face Uzbekistan in the bronze medal match. Mixed team does well In the compound division, only the Indian mixed team of V. Jyothi Surekha and Rishabh Yadav could make it to the final against Korea. They got a bye and edged past Kazakhstan 156-154 in the semifinals. The men's side of Aman Saini, Abhishek Verma and Rishabh began with a bye and beat Kuwait 236-218 before going down to Kazakhstan 230-229. India will take on the host in the bronze medal contest. The Indian women's trio of Jyothi, Priya Gurjar and Parneet Kaur received a bye but lost to Iran 227-220. They will play Kazakhstan for the bronze.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-makes-three-team-finals/article37531961.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Youngsters well prepared despite odds||Indian women’s hockey team chief coach Janneke Schopman, who is doubling up as the coach of the under-21 side for the upcoming Women’s Junior World Cup (JWC) in Potchefstroom, South Africa, feels the youngsters are well prepared despite the odds. Janneke — who has been inculcating the same principles in both the senior and junior players and is looking forward to scout youngsters for the 2024 Olympics — said even without overseas tournaments (due to COVID-19) the juniors gained from their experience of playing practice matches against the seniors in Bengaluru. “It definitely showed where the juniors are... We were able to play a team that is potentially better than any team playing in the JWC,” said Janneke in a virtual press conference on Tuesday. Good speed “In terms of energy, we were in a good place. It will be a mind game (in the JWC) where we have to push ourselves in every second of every match... We have good speed and we should use it to chase other teams and tire them so that they start making mistakes.” Janneke expressed confidence about the team’s penalty corner attack and defence, where the seniors were helping out the youngsters. “We are trying to get the knowledge down to the juniors. We have to make sure everything is super clear.” Little knowledge The Dutchwoman acknowledged that except defending champion Argentina, against whom the senior team played a few matches in recent times, there was little knowledge about Russia and Japan, the other two sides clubbed with India in Pool C. “The biggest challenge is: Can we play to our level?” Captain Lalremsiami, who was part of the Indian team that finished fourth in the Olympics, said: “We want to share our experience in the Olympics with the junior team. “Our junior team is good and there are some skillful players.” Vice-captain Ishika Chaudhary said the senior players had been helpful. “The senior team is communicating really well (about) what they have learnt through their journey, how to adapt to pressure of the tournament, how to perform, how to deal with everything on and off the field.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/youngsters-well-prepared-despite-odds/article37531963.ece
17 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Debutant Abhinav scripts Karnataka’s thrilling win over Saurashtra||Standing amid ruins, debutant Abhinav Manohar towered over the Saurashtra bowlers and took Karnataka to a fighting two-wicket victory with a penultimate ball-six for a place in the quarterfinals of the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy here on Tuesday. After Saurashtra’s decision to bat seemed to have backfired on being restricted to 145 for seven despite Sheldon Jackson’s 43-ball 50 (3x4, 3x6), Karnataka found the going tough when reduced to 60 for four in the 10th over. Abhinav (70 n.o., 49b, 2x4, 6x6) shouldered the responsibility well and dominated the match-turning 64-run stand with Aniruddha Joshi (13). Though Saurashtra skipper Jaydev Unadkat (4/22) returned to add two wickets in his fourth over and Kushang Patel scalped one, Abhinav was not to be denied his moment of glory. Soon after the dismissal of K.C. Cariappa in the final over, Abhinav sent the fifth ball from Dharmendrasinh Jadeja into the stands behind mid-wicket to script a thrilling win. In the morning, too, the winning stroke was a six as Vidarbha coasted to a surprisingly easy seven-wicket victory over Maharashtra. Put in, Maharashtra managed a healthy-looking 157 for eight after comeback-man Rahul Tripathi top-scored with a 45-ball 66 (5x4, 3x6). Following the dismissal of Siddhesh Wath to the first delivery, Vidarbha thwarted Maharashtra with a 96-run stand between skipper Akshay Wadkar (58 n.o., 47b, 7x4) and opener Atharva Taide (56, 38b, 6x4, 1x6). Jitesh Sharma (28 n.o., 7b, 2x4, 3x6) put the finishing touches with a hat-trick of sixes off Sunil Yadav. Meanwhile, between the victories of Vidarbha and Karnataka at the Ferozeshah Kotla ground, Kerala cruised to its third successive eight-wicket victory after facing Himachal Pradesh at the Air Force ground. Useful stand After opting to bowl and restricting Himachal to 145 for seven, Kerala covered the distance by riding on a 98-run second-wicket stand involving opener Mohammad Azharuddeen (60, 57b, 4x4, 2x6) and skipper Sanju Samson (52 n.o., 39b, 6x4, 1x6). Though the win came with just three deliveries to spare, Kerala never lost control.  The scores:   Saurashtra 145/7 in 20 overs (Sheldon Jackson 50) lost to Karnataka 150/8 in 19.5 overs (Abhinav Manohar 70 n.o., Rohan Kadam 33, Jaydev Unadkat 4/22).   Maharashtra 157/8 in 20 overs (Rahul Tripathi 66, Yash Thakur 3/17) lost to Vidarbha 160/3 in 17.5 overs (Akshay Wadkar 58 n.o., Atharva Taide 56).   Himachal Pradesh 145/6 in 20 overs (Raghav Dhawan 65, Prashant Chopra 36) lost to Kerala 147/2 in 19.3 overs (Mohammad Azharuddeen 60, Sanju Samson 52 n.o.).     Thursday’s quarterfinal line-up Rajasthan v Vidarbha; Bengal v Karnataka Tamil Nadu v Kerala; Gujarat v Hyderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/debutant-abhinav-scripts-karnatakas-thrilling-win-over-saurashtra/article37531966.ece
17 November 2021||Guadalajara,||Sakkari sends Sabalenka packing||Top seed Aryna Sabalenka crashed out of the WTA Finals here on Monday, losing a gruelling three-setter against Greek fourth seed Maria Sakkari. Sakkari set up a semifinal against Estonia’s Anett Kontaveit after outlasting Sabalenka 7-6(1), 6-7(8), 6-3 in 2hr 47min. “It was a roller-coaster match from both of us,” Sakkari said. “It was just a matter of who took the chances. I think at the end I just played with my heart and fought well, just turned things around.” Sabalenka was left ruing a failure to capitalise on key moments and served 19 double faults that undermined her service game. “I had a lot of opportunities and I didn’t use them,” Sabalenka said. The other semifinal will see an all-Spanish showdown between Paula Badosa and Garbine Muguruza.  The results: Iga Swiatek bt Paula Badosa 7-5, 6-4; Maria Sakkari bt Aryna Sabalenka 7-6(1), 6-7(6), 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sakkari-sends-sabalenka-packing/article37531968.ece
17 November 2021||MANJERI,||Bharath, Aparna win||Thrissur’s top-seeded Bharath Latheesh and unseeded Aparna Sajeev won the under-15 boys’ and girls’ singles titles in State sub-junior badminton championships here on Tuesday.   The results: Boys: Under-15: Final: Bharath Latheesh bt Bjorn Jaison 21-6, 21-10. Semifinals: Bharath bt Thejas Ram 21-12, 21-13; Bjorn bt Arjun Rajasekhar 18-21, 22-20, 21-15. Doubles: Final: P.V. Aathish Sreenivas & Bjorn bt S. Ayush & A. Shuhaibu Malik 22-20, 21-16.   Under-13: Final: Kiran Noguchi bt Ali Zayyan Siddique 21-18, 21-13. Doubles: Final: Javed Rahman & Noguchi bt Hamdal Fikham & Suryadev S. Kumar 21-14, 21-17.   Under-11: Final: Jovin Sojan bt Nandan B. Nair 21-19, 24-22, 21-11. Doubles: Final: H. Alan Dev & Madhav Prasanth bt P. Adwaith & Alexander Nial 21-23, 24-22, 21-18.   Girls: Under-15: Final: Aparna Sajeev bt P.G. Alakananda 21-5, 21-13. Doubles: Final: Alakananda & Ananya Agnus Anil bt K.S. Anjana & Aparna 12-21, 21-9, 21-18.   Under-13: Final: Hitha Maria Jose bt Neha R. Shenoy 21-12, 21-11. Doubles: Final: Hitha Maria & Neha bt Ninu Maria Thomas & Saniya Jose 19-21, 21-18, 24-22.   Under-11: Final: Alexia Elsa Alexander bt Shivani Sivakumar 19-21, 21-13, 21-12. Doubles: Final: Afreen Qathun & Alexia Elsa bt T.R. Diya Sree & Shivani 21-14, 21-15.   Mixed doubles: Under-15: Final: Shuhaibu & Vinny Das bt T.K. Ebij & Eliza Drona 21-15, 21-8 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bharath-aparna-win/article37532275.ece
17 November 2021||Kochi,||Parthiv in semifinals||Parthiv Anilkumar, the top seed and defending champion, blanked Jayaprakash 8-0 and moved to the men’s semifinals in the Ernakulam District tennis championships at the Regional Sports Centre, Kadavanthra, on Tuesday. Meanwhile, 16-year-old Shrijana Thapa will play her aunt Bhavi Sara Sangeeta Thapa in the women’s final. Both came up with comfortable wins in the semifinals.  The results: Men: Quarterfinals: Parthiv Anilkumar bt Jayaprakash 8-0, Amal Joseph bt Martin George 8-4, Bir Thapa bt Rahul Joseph 8-4, Sidharth Menon bt Jai Thapa 8-3.   Boys: Under-18: Semifinals: Karan Thapa bt Parthiv Anilkumar 6-0, 6-2; Sidharth Menon bt Kevin Joe 6-4, 6-3.   Under-14: Quarterfinals: Abel Manoj bt Dhiren George 7-0, Izzak George bt Paul John 7-0. Srinath Menon bt Krish Wariyar 7-3; Srikanth Menon bt Jayden Liju 7-4.   Women: Semifinals: Shrijana Thapa bt Gowri Sagin 10-0; Bhavi Sara Sangeeta Thapa bt Nirupama Ulhas 10-1.   Girls: Under-18: Semifinals: Shrijana bt Manasvi Dholakia 10-0.   Under-16: Semifinals: Poorna Vivek bt Aleena Manoj 9-8 (8-6).   Under-14: Semifinals: Parvana P. Nair bt Saniaa Sunish 8-2, Poorna bt Nehal Maria 8-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/parthiv-in-semifinals/article37532277.ece
17 November 2021||Brisbane,||England, Australia fly Down Under together||England's multi-format Ashes bound players had an interesting flight to Queensland with newly crowned T20 champions and bitter rivals Australia as the two sides prepare for the marquee event, starting next month. The likes of Jos Buttler, Jonny Bairstow, Dawid Malan, Chris Woakes and Mark Wood and members of the English coaching staff landed here on Tuesday alongside the victorious Australian side in same charter flight, cricket.com.au said. The flight was booked to ensure both squads comply with COVID-19 protocols before entering quarantine on the Gold Coast. England were primed to win the T20 World Cup after a splendid Super 12 performance that included an eight-wicket mauling of Australia but the Eoin Morgan-led side fell to New Zealand in the semifinal. Australia, on the other hand, peaked at the right time and defeated New Zealand in the final on Sunday to win their maiden T20 World Cup. ‘Interesting’ "There is one bunch of cricketers who won't be enjoying this, watching on, and that's England's Ashes players. That could be an interesting plane journey," former England skipper Mike Atherton had told 'Sky Sports' in jest after Australia won the final. While Australian pacer Josh Hazlewood had played down the idea that sharing the same flight would be uncomfortable, his English counterpart Mark Wood was nervous with the prospect of flying with an Australian side which has just won its first-ever T20 World Cup just ahead of the Ashes. "It will be fine, we've played a lot of cricket with them — county cricket and IPL," Hazlewood had said on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-australia-fly-down-under-together/article37532332.ece
17 November 2021||Bali,||Lakshya stuns Tsuneyama||Two-time Olympic medallist P.V. Sindhu and in-form shuttler Lakshya Sen made impressive starts at the Indonesia Masters Super 750 badminton tournament, reaching the second round with contrasting wins here on Tuesday. Reigning world champion Sindhu, seeded third, recorded a 21-15, 21-19 win over Thailand's Supanida Katethong in a 43-minute contest to set up a second-round clash with Spain's Clara Azurmendi. However, the highlight of the day was Lakshya's stunning win over World No. 10 Kanta Tsuneyama of Japan in the men's singles. Lakshya displayed tremendous grit on way to a shocking 21-17, 18-21, 21-17 win over Tsuneyama in an hour and 8 minutes. Lakshya will now face top seed and two-time world champion Kento Momota of Japan in the next round.   The results: Men: Lakshya Sen bt Kanta Tsuneyama (Jpn) 21-17, 18-21, 21-17.   Women: P.V. Sindhu bt Supanida Katethong (Ina) 21-15, 21-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lakshya-stuns-tsuneyama/article37531909.ece
17 November 2021||TURIN,||Medvedev edges Zverev||Daniil Medvedev cracked a broad, winning smile after edging Alexander Zverev 6-3, 6-7(3) 7-6(6) in a tense ATP finals encounter on Tuesday. The pale and serious-looking Medvedev missed two match points after struggling from 2-4 down to go up 6-4 in what was a see-saw final set tie-break that he described as “amazing.” Though Zverev won the second after losing the first, it was Medvedev who had the last laugh. The Russian qualified for the semifinals after injured Italian Matteo Berrettini withdrew from the tournament.  Russian Andrey Rublev also impressed with a 6-4, 6-4 victory over 2019 champion Stefanos Tsitsipas and sits behind Djokovic in the standings by virtue of winning one game fewer than the 20-time Grand Slam champion.  The results:   Red Group: Daniil Medvedev bt Alexander Zverev 6-3, 6-7(3), 7-6(6).   Green Group: Andrey Rublev bt Stefanos Tsitsipas 6-4, 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/medvedev-edges-zverev/article37531922.ece
17 November 2021||CHAMPAIGN (US),||Prajnesh bows out||Sixth seed Prajnesh Gunneswaran lost 5-7, 1-6 to wild card Vasil Kirkov in the first round of the $52,080 Challenger tennis tournament.  Other results: $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Singles (first round): Oceane Babel (Fra) bt Jennifer Luikham 6-2, 6-4; Evita Ramirez (Fra) bt Prathyusha Rachapudi 7-6(3), 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prajnesh-bows-out/article37531967.ece
17 November 2021||DUBAI,||Mithali and Smriti remain in the top-10||India’s Mithali Raj and Smriti Mandhana were static at the third and sixth spots respectively in the latest update to the ICC women’s ODI player rankings on Tuesday. Veteran pacer Jhulan Goswami was in the second place among ODI bowlers, while Deepti Sharma stayed at the fifth spot in the ODI all-rounder rankings. West Indies captain Stafanie Taylor moved up in the list of batters to the 12th position after an unbeaten 102 in the third One-Day International in Karachi. Taylor’s compatriot Hayley Matthews was another big gainer, moving up four slots to 25th among batters and up three slots to 20th among bowlers. She was also up two places to 12th in the all-rounders’ list after a four-wicket haul in the second match and a 49 in the third. For Pakistan, Aliya Riaz (up three places to 37th) and Omaima Sohail (up two places to 39th) have moved up the list for batters and Nashra Sandhu (up one place to 21st) and Anam Amin (up four places to 43rd) progressed among the bowlers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mithali-smriti-remain-in-top-10/article37532001.ece
17 November 2021||BENGALURU,||Karnataka in semifinals||K. Prathyoosha (45 n.o.) and S. Shubha (43) led Karnataka to a five-wicket victory over Madhya Pradesh in the quarterfinals of the women’s senior One-Day Trophy here on Tuesday.   The scores (quarterfinals): Madhya Pradesh 169/9 in 48 overs (Pooja Vastrakar 40, Soumya Tiwari 45) lost to Karnataka 170/5 in 42.2 overs (S. Shubha 43, G. Divya 28, K. Prathyoosha 45 n.o.); Delhi 185/5 in 50 overs (Priya Punia 90, Ayushi Soni 52) lost to Bengal 189/9 in 49.1 overs (Dhara Gujjar 75, Jhumia Khatun 36).   Maharashtra 120/9 in 33 overs (M.R. Magre 38, Kanika Ahuja 5/23) lost to Punjab 122/5 in 29.3 overs (Taniya Bhatia 39 n.o.).   Railways 271/9 in 50 overs (S. Meghana 90, Nuzhat Parween 62, Sneh Rana 49, Priyanka Priyadarshini 3/56) bt Odisha 122/7 in 50 overs (Sushree Dibyadarshini 44).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-in-semifinals/article37531682.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Suhas OG gives Bangalore Independents win||R. Suhas’ own goal in the 50th minute handed Bangalore Independents FC a 1-0 win over Bangalore Dream United FC in the BDFA Super Division Football league, on Tuesday.   Sehaj Singh Pawar defeated boys’ sixth seed Vaibhav Krishna 2-6, 6-2, [10-8] to enter the quarterfinals of the FSA AITA CS& U-18 Championship at the Fortune Sports Academy courts here on Tuesday. In the girls’ section, Vanya Srivastava thrashed Vanshika Borkar 6-0, 6-0.    BSA-A defeated Century Club-A 2-1 in a Group D match at the M. Chenniappan Memorial inter-club snooker tournament.  Other results: Group A: KSBA-A bt MRLF 2–1; HBCC-B bt Sadashivanagar Club 2–1; Group B: KSBA-D bt KSCA-A 2-0; East Cultural Assn-B bt Bangalore City Institute-B 2-0; Group C: Catholic Club-A bt Indian Gymkhana-B 2-0; KSBA Juniors bt Malleswaram Assn 2-0; Group D: KSBA Ladies bt Cosmo-B 2-0; Group E: Indian Gymkhana-A bt KSBA-B 2–1; ESA-A bt KSCA-B 2–1; Group F: HBCC-A bt Kings Club 2–0; Bangalore Club bt Bangalore City Institute-A 2–1 .    A five-a-side all-India football tournament for under-15 boys will be organised on December 18 and 19 at FSV Arena here. The league-cum-knockout tournament is open for all schools, clubs, groups, academies and associations. Players born on or after January 1, 2006 will be eligible. There will also be a women’s five-a-side tournament on December 19, also at FSV Arena, but with limited teams. For registrations, email: denzsports@gmail.com or call: 8095810030.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suhas-og-gives-bangalore-independents-win/article37531962.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||SCR qualifies for quarterfinals||South Central Railway scored a 4-2 win over RCF Kapurthala to qualify for the Gooncha 57th Nehru senior hockey tournament quarterfinals at the SCR Sports Complex astro-turf ground here on Monday. Captain M.G. Poonacha led from the front scoring a brace in SCR’s win. It was RCF which took the lead in the 17th minute through Karanpal Singh converting a penalty-corner. However, its joy was short-lived with Poonacha converting a penalty-corner within four minutes. Dominating the first half, SCR scored the second through Lovepreet Singh’s field goal in the 27th minute to take a 2-1 lead at half-time. On resumption, there was hope of a RCF fightback with Abhay scoring through a field goal in the 38th minute. But, SCR’s defence was equal to the task which saw the forwards step up the tempo. Pratap Lakra and Poonacha struck once each once to ensure a 4-2 win for the hosts. In another match, Indian Navy recorded an emphatic 6-2 win over Indian Air Force with three quick goals in the first quarter itself.  The results:   SCR 4 (M.G. Poonacha 2, Lovepreet Singh 1, Pratap Lakkra 1) bt RCF Kapurthala 2 (Karanpal Singh, Abhay).   Indian Navy 6 (Sunny Malik 2, Nitesh, Rajbhar Pawan, Aakib Rahim, Jugraj Singh) bt Indian Air Force 2 (Lovdeep Singh, Sukhdev Singh).   Army XI 1 (Harman Singh) drew with Punjab National Bank 1 (Naveen Anil).    Telangana Open badminton championship in men’s singles and doubles will be held at SLV Badminton Academy (Nizampet) here from November 19 to 21. Entries close on November 17 and for details call 73963 86214/ 93477 77794.   Hyderabad District Kho Kho Association sub-junior selection trials for boys and girls (under-14) will be held on November 18 at the Government High School (Musheerabad) from 3 p.m. The selected players will represent the district in the Telangana inter-district championship to be held from November 22 in Mohibaad (Warangal). For details, call A. Poshappa on 94406 99225 or Kishore Kumar on 81216 45992.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/scr-qualifies-for-quarterfinals/article37532177.ece
17 November 2021||PARIS,||Guanyu Zhou becomes China’s first ever F1 driver||Guanyu Zhou will become China’s first ever Formula One driver after Alfa Romeo announced on Tuesday that the 22-year-old would drive for the team next season.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/guanyu-zhou-becomes-chinas-first-ever-f1-driver/article37531684.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Tree of jnana||The Mahabharata begins with a group of sages meeting in Naimisaranya to perform a yaga, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. The bard (Suta Pauranika) Ugrasrava also comes to the yaga. The sages pay their respects to him, and say to him, “You would have visited many places. Tell us some interesting stories.” Ugrasrava then begins to narrate the Mahabharata to them. He says that Vyasa was the author of the epic. Vyasa worshipped Brahma, and told him about the Itihasa he was going to write. Brahma told Vyasa that he (Vyasa) had knowledge of dharma. Vyasa had jnana, and his work would be pleasing like the moon. And just as the moon gives light, and gets rid of darkness, so would the Mahabharata get rid of the darkness of ignorance and impart jnana to those who read it. Brahma said that the Mahabharata was like a tree. But what does this comparison of a literary work to a tree mean? Observe a tree. Old leaves turn yellow and all off, while new ones come up. Flowers appear and so do fruits, and in time, they too drop off. The tree is witness to all this. But it just goes on doing its duty, which is to sprout new leaves, bear flowers and fruits. Likewise should we be in life. A lot happens in our lives, but we must not allow anything to affect us. If we allow ups and downs to affect us, our lives will be miserable. It is not easy, but this detachment is necessary for an individual. Such detached individuals sustain a family and thereby society itself. We must just go on doing our duty. This is what the Mahabharata shows us. This emphasis on duty is what makes it similar to a tree. If a tree adheres to its dharma, how much more should we as human beings keep to dharma? That is the lesson we draw from the Mahabharata.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tree-of-jnana/article37531874.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 07:58 IST,||Sudoku — November 17, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-17-2021/article37532541.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Lobster bisque and an award||Chef K Damodaran, affectionately known as Chef Damu, is characteristically warm and chatty, despite being in a London cab en route to the airport. On his way home to Chennai, undeterred by airport lounges and transfers, the popular TV show host and cook book author, enthusiastically chats on the phone about his latest triumph: The Culinary Legend Lifetime Achievement Award at the Global Food, Hospitality and Tourism Achievements Award 2021. It is this unflagging enthusiasm that has kept him focussed and driven for the past 40 years in an extraordinary career, which was celebrated at a recent event organised at the House of Commons, British Parliament, Westminster. Damu says it all began when he received a telephone call, a month ago, from the World Tamil Organization UK, requesting details on his career. (A registered charity organisation, the WTO was established in 2005 with the aim of promoting the welfare of the Tamil community, with a focus on arts and culture, in the United Kingdom.) Currently the president of South Indian Chef Association, Damu is a member of the World Association of Cooks Society. He says he has judged over 10,000 cooking competitions, including the popular Cooku with Comali which aired on Star Vijay. The chef has also authored 29 cookery books. Two weeks after that call, the organisers invited him to London, as he had been selected for a Lifetime Achievement Award. “I feel greatly honoured to be selected by the WTO for this prestigious award,” he says, adding that the Global Food, Hospitality and Tourism Achievements Award was instituted this year. He adds, “This category was launched this year by the WTO and I am the first person to be selected for this award.” The award committee recognised Damu’s earlier achievements, Guinness record, academia research and cook books. “I feel elated that I got the chance to meet the who’s who of the hospitality industry from across the world,” he says, adding that over 40 internationally renowned chefs and restaurateurs were invited to the event. This included John Wood, director of Kitchen Cut, who is a former executive chef of the iconic Burj Al Arab in Dubai. Also Chef Sydney Aldridge, the chef director at Fortnum and Mason, and Chef Ellan Prem Appadurai, head of hospitality projects, WTO UK, who was formerly head chef at Harrods, London. He adds with a chuckle that he also enjoyed the dinner that was served at the ceremony. “There was lobster bisque, as well as roast chicken served with mashed potatoes.” The 62-year-old chef who was home through the pandemic and the subsequent lockdowns, says that he made the best use of the time. “Making a meal for my wife and daughter, eating every meal with my family and making periodical visits to my ageing in-laws were the best part during those days. I never had the time to spend with my family all these years and lockdown provided the best opportunity for that,” he says. Ancient recipes He was also working on an upcoming cook book Kalvettu Samayal , which is a compilation of traditional Tamil cooking from the Sangam period. “I spent my time on research and developing recipes. I have documented even 3,000 year-old-recipes which I stumbled upon during my research. meen kartuhakari , originating in Tirunelveli region, and jeera a temple offering for Lord Vishnu, made using rawa and palm sugar are just a few examples,” says Damu. He reached out to a large number of catering students across the globe during the pandemic via online classes. “I also provided consultancy on COVID-19 meals for families and restaurants.” Damu is now working towards popularising traditional South Indian and ancient dishes through his book as well as his You Tube Channel Chef Damu’s Multi Cuisine , where he will prepare simple, healing meals. “Rice with rasam and a thogayal is healthy and high on medicinal properties. Unave marundhu (food is medicine) is our food philosophy,” he says. Damu adds that one of the highlights of this year was participating as a judge in the cooking reality show Cooku With Comali . Well received by audiences across the world, it earned him the nick name, appang (Dad). Even when he landed in London, he says, people were fondly calling him appang.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/lobster-bisque-and-an-award/article37532264.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Aiming for clean energy||It was a few years after the 2004 tsunami had struck. Fisherman and YouTuber M Sakthivel, 29, remembers the day when the main street in his shanty in the coastal town of Thoothukudi, Tamil Nadu, was lit up with five lampposts powered by solar energy. “Until then, electricity was something we had only heard about. After sunset, all our work would be done with the help of kerosene lamps,” Sakthivel recalls. Today, Sakthivel has become a champion of sorts for affordable domestic electrification projects that use solar energy panels. He has invested his earnings from his YouTube channel Thoothukudi Meenavan — which has more than seven lakh subscribers — to install nine domestic solar power units (costing between Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 60,000) in his colony and is looking forward to setting up some more in the coming weeks. Boats be the boon In Kochi, Kerala, boatbuilding company NavAlt, in collaboration with Shell Foundation UK, has been experimenting with ideas for small solar fishing vessels. Having already tasted success with its Aditya solar-powered taxi ferries in Kerala, NavAlt is hoping to come up with boats that will provide a sustainable alternative to the current ones that run on petrol and kerosene guzzling outboard engines. “A conventional three-foot fishing boat uses 3,600 litres of petrolor diesel when it is operated for five hours daily for 240 days in a year. With nearly two-and-a-half lakh boats in operation, approximately one million litres of fuel is consumed, leading to carbon dioxide emissions of two million tonnes per boat per year,” says NavAlt CEO Sandith Thandaserry. Solar energy projects have become a means of empowerment among rural and remote communities, especially those that have never been on the conventional electricity grid.Removing fossil fuels from the picture is one of the ways to signal traditional professions like fishing to a more environment-friendly way of operation. While a traditional ferry boat’s fuel costs come up to Rs. 30 lakh, for a solar boat, it is just less than Rs. 1 lakh per year. “We want to see if we can achieve the same thing in the fishing sector. We are currently working on six models, (three each) of mono-hull and catamaran boats that are being tested by fishermen in coastal districts. If they can be convinced about the initial higher cost of a solar boat that will eventually pay for itself after a few years, then we can hope to make our target price of under Rs. 10 lakh,” elaborates Thandaserry. The NavAlt prototypes use material like aluminium and glass-reinforced plastic (GRP) and have flexible solar panels for stability, an electrical steering unit, and twin outboard motors. The models also have assisted wind power devices for night use. A modular battery design helps in both portability and shore charging. Improving dialogue Like most traditional professions, a fair amount of technology has crept into the fishing industry. Fishermen are more likely to use GPS and apps to find fishing spots rather than rely on old methods honed through years of experience and native wisdom. Despite its advantages, solar power has not been able to make much headway in small-scale fishing due to a variety of reasons, say industry figures. ‘Funding needed’ “Marketing and educating the people about solar power needs funds. Fishermen are not using solar power in their boats. In fact, two fishermen removed the solar panels from their boats when they modified their boat design,” explains Vincent Jain, deputy chief executive, South Indian Federation of Fishermen Societies (SIFFS), based in Karamana, Thiruvananthapuram, that groups nearly 60,000 fishermen in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. “The wide availability of small oil-fuelled generators that cost only Rs. 25,000 compared to solar power panels worth over Rs. 2 lakh, has made many fishermen go for the cheaper option. Solar energy is better as a supportive, rather than the main source of power on a boat,” adds Jain. Companies need to make solar tech products more economically feasible, especially if they want faster and greater adoption of small-scale fishing across Tier 2 and Tier 3 communities. “Having battery storage and getting charged by solar power adds a lot of value without having to run on petrol or diesel,” points out Rahul Kale, founder-CEO of Sunpower Renewables, an Australian developer of renewable energy solutions. The company’s handheld and grid-connected products are being used in fishing and leisure vessels in Thailand, Singapore and Indonesia. While the company’s pre-pandemic presence in India was confined to the B2B segment in mining, hospitality and healthcare, Sunpower Renewables is now looking at B2C solutions in e-commerce and is marketing its products through online traders like Amazon and Croma. Innovative technology has allowed solar energy products to be utilised well beyond daytime. “Traditional solar power products can only be used during daytime, when the sunlight is available, leaving backup to diesel-based generators of bulky battery inverters. But when you have the option to store solar power, they become very useful in multiple sectors,” says Kale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/aiming-for-clean-energy/article37532268.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||A cocktail of sounds||A year ago, an independent Malayalam single ‘Thennale’ composed in Indian and western notes made waves, making its debutant composer Kevin Shaji a name to reckon with in the regional indie music firmament. In the fourth year of BTech degree, Kevin, at that point had no intention of pursuing a career in music; ‘Thennale’ was meant to be a one-off thing. Constant enquiries and accolades on his IG for the song made him realise a musical path was inevitable and prompted him to change his name to Pina Colada Blues. “I didn’t want to use my name; instead I chose the name of my favourite cocktail and colour,” laughs Kevin. A series of singles in the last year saw Kevin experimenting with various sounds and styles. He created his niche by infusing styles from dream, electro-pop, hip-hop, RnB, Carnatic and western notes. Launched by Sony Music India’s new label Day One, the Kochi-based composer recently released his first single in Hindi ‘Kyun?’ — crossing language and genre boundaries. “Right from my first song, I have never seen language or genre as a barrier to my music. If I can understand the words or the language, I then try my best to figure out what it is trying to convey. I improvise on the tune and melody and compose,” say Kevin. ‘Kyun?’ is about relationship conflicts and the ‘unknown’ reasons for people to drift apart. With Kevin leading the track on piano and vocals by Mridul Anil, the ballad-like track is growing to be an earworm. For someone who has not studied specific genres like pop-Latino or Carnatic, Kevin developed an interest in understanding how they work. “Though it is a challenge, it is fun learning and experimenting with different styles,” says Kevin who was introduced to music at the age of five.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-cocktail-of-sounds/article37532349.ece
17 November 2021||November 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Baby’s library date||“Why are there no books for babies?” asks Treesa Tom, a Kochi-based book curator and teacher who began to read the picture book, Busy Animal Alphabet , to her son Christopher when he was still in her womb. She had read that the child in the womb begins to hear from the 26th week of gestation. After her son’s birth, during the pandemic, she continued to read to him and found that he showed signs of recognition to words like toucan and hippopotamus, which she used to read aloud with voice modulations. She found that books for babies were expensive and not easily available, which led her to look for sources of affordable books. She zeroed in on wholesale dealers of imported books. With a network in place, she launched her venture ‘The Book Truck’ on Instagram. Soon, Treesa’s friends wanted her to recommend books for their children. “Being a teacher, I am able to suggest books. The books I buy are not brand new but they are unused,” she says. After assessing a child’s reading pattern and preferences, she curates a set of three books for a month and ships them out. Treesa began with a WhatsApp group and started posting videos of books and tips on reading. Later she structured it to post pictures of books every Monday at 8 am, followed by close-up photos of the pages so that members could see the font, illustrations and get a sense of the texture of the book. Members message her directly and buy a set, if they are convinced with her selection. Her young readers are categorised as Beginner, Proficient, Independent or Pre-Kindergarten and she also asks the parents for their budget. “Roughly, a set of three books costs between Rs. 500 and Rs. 700,” says Treesa. “However professional the parents are, they need help as most don’t have the time for background research on selection of suitable books,” she says. Love for literature With over 2,000 books in stock and collaborations with 800 dealers from across the country, Treesa is now expanding her curation to include novels for “tweens”. “We need many more book curators as people don’t know what and how to read,” says Hyderabad-based Anupama Dalmia who founded Beyond the Box, a platform to promote the love for literature in children, in 2019. She begun mentoring children four and a half years ago in creative writing. As her outfit grew, she founded a team of five who assist children in the seven to 14 age group in different aspects of literature. “Funky Rainbow has been all about curation,” says Bengaluru-based Vidya Mani, one of the founders of a travelling children’s book shop, which she co-founded nine years ago. The red bus with books travels to city schools and to social events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/babys-library-date/article37532265.ece
