18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ex-judge of Punjab HC to monitor U.P. probe||The Supreme Court on Wednesday appointed the former Punjab and Haryana High Court judge, Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain, to monitor a time-bound investigation into the Lakhimpur Kheri murders and violence in order to “ensure transparency, fairness and absolute impartiality” in its outcome. A Bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli further reconstituted the Special Investigation Team (SIT) by appointing directly recruited IPS officers S.B. Shiradkar, Padmaja Chauhan and Preetinder Singh. The court made it a point to note that Justice Jain “may have no roots in the State of Uttar Pradesh” and the three IPS officers do not hail from the State though they were from the Uttar Pradesh cadre. So far, the SIT was “predominantly” made of subordinate and middle-level police officers from Lakhimpur Kheri itself. Officers ‘hand-picked’ The court said the three senior IPS officers have been hand-picked for the SIT to quell any “lurking suspicion in respect of the fairness and independence of such an investigation”. The overhauling of the SIT was necessary to “preserve the faith and trust of the people in the administration of the criminal justice system”. The court stated that Justice Jain’s appointment was meant to assure “full and complete justice to the victims of crime”. “While investigating such offences, justice must not only be done, but also be seen and perceived to be done,” it underscored. The SIT should spare no effort to reach the truth, including the use of the latest technology in forensic science, it stressed. On October 3, vehicles, allegedly belonging to a convoy of Union Minister and BJP MP Ajay Kumar Mishra, mowed down farmers and civilians who were holding a rally at Lakhimpur Kheri as part of a protest against the Central farm laws. The incident led to violence. Eight people, four of them farmers, lost their lives that day. Ashish Mishra, the Minister’s son, is a prime accused in one of the two FIRs registered on the incidents. In its seven-page order, the court described the deaths as a “tragic loss of lives of protesters as well as some other persons”. It observed that it was “equally concerned about guaranteeing an impartial, fair, just and thorough investigation”. The State government had agreed to the court’s proposal to have a retired High Court judge monitor the probe. Waning confidence The suggestion to have a retired judge at the helm came after the court expressed its waning confidence about the fate of the investigation at the hands of the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ex-judge-of-punjab-hc-to-monitor-up-probe/article37552257.ece
18 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Local bodies can go for fundraising, donations||The Local Self-Government Department (LSGD) has asked local bodies to take adequate measures to cut down on extra expenses, especially in bigger projects. It has suggested alternatives including local-level fundraising and donations rather than complete dependency on Plan funds. As per a circular issued to local bodies earlier this week, it is not wrong on the part of local bodies to ensure public participation and collect donations for projects that require large funding. People's participation in local planning is one of the basic principles of the People's Plan movement. Planning and implementation of development projects using local-level fundraising and without depending entirely on Plan funds has to be encouraged, says the circular. Transparency However, the circular says transparency has to be maintained in the spendings, with complete records of all expenses, which have to be made available for audits when required. The circular comes at a time when local bodies are still recovering from the financial strains caused by the extra responsibilities thrust upon them following unprecedented floods and the COVID-19 outbreak. After the pandemic outbreak, the local bodies had to use their network of health staff for contract tracing, in keeping track of quarantined people and in the setting up of community kitchens and running COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) and institutional quarantine centres. All of these had caused severe strain on the finances as well as the human resource of the local bodies, with crores being spent on the upkeep of these facilities in bigger urban local bodies. The urban local bodies also had to take the extra strain of accommodating people from nearby panchayats in their FLTCs. The local bodies have been experimenting with the donation route to generate funds, especially in the running of community kitchens. Several individuals and organisations came forward to contribute in cash and kind to these kitchens. These gestures contributed in no small measure to ease the strain on the local bodies. But, such initiatives have not always been successful.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/local-bodies-can-go-for-fundraising-donations/article37552572.ece
18 November 2021||Mangaluru,||Kerala Govt. urged to print ration cards in Kannada also||Taking exception to a move to print ration cards only in Malayalam as against the earlier practice of printing both in Kannada and Malayalam in Kasaragod district, the Karnataka Border Areas Development Authority (KBADA)has urged the Kerala Government to follow the earlier practice. An official release here said new ration cards were being printed at Akshaya Centres in Kasaragod only in Malayalam. Opposed The same has been opposed by the Kannada speaking people of Kasaragod district, where over 95% people speak Kannada. There are people who cannot read or speak Malayalam in the district, the authority said. It noted that the Union Ministry of Minority Affairs on September 9 this year directed the Maharashtra Government to give preference to Kannada in areas where people who speak the language were in large numbers. The Ministry had directed the Government to print all notifications, identity cards, and other documents in Kannada too at Jattha, Akkalakote, and other areas in Sangli district of Maharashtra. Despite clear instructions, the Kerala Government has resorted to print ration cards in Malayalam and English and has spelled Manjeshwar as Manjeshwaram in English. Taking strong exception to such moves, the authority has urged the Kerala Government to print the cards both in Kannada and Malayalam in Kasaragod district. Authority chairman C. Somashekara has written to the Kerala Food and Civil Supplies Minister as well as the Collector of Kasaragod district to ensure the mistakes in spelling names of places be rectified. Also, all identity cards, ration cards, and other government documents should be made available in both the languages, Mr. Somashekara has said. He has also urged the Karnataka Chief Minister and Chief Secretary to bring the issue to the notice of their respective counterparts, according to authority secretary Prakash Matthihalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-govt-urged-to-print-ration-cards-in-kannada-also/article37552686.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Three-day tech summit starts with V-P urging innovators to ‘share and care’||The 24th edition of the Bengaluru Tech Summit got off to a start on Wednesday, with Vice President Venkaiah Naidu inaugurating it and calling on the tech community to “share and care” and ensure that their innovations reach those who need it the most. Speaking at the three-day event that has participants both online and offline this year, Mr. Naidu said, “This summit is the confluence of the best minds, it is sure to bring the innovation needed. The basic philosophy of India is to share and care. We have to share our experiences and emerge with new ideas. Happiness should be the ultimate goal of any innovation.” Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, who virtually attended the summit, announced that his country would soon establish a consulate-general in Bengaluru. Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennet, who also participated virtually, said Israeli and Indian creativity, imagination, and tenacity had the power to do amazing things. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, addressing the event, said that Karnataka is keen on inviting all innovators “with open arms and open hearts” to come to Karnataka and Bengaluru. The three-day hybrid event is expected to see a virtual address by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 18. More than 30 countries are expected to participate in the summit over the next two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-day-tech-summit-starts-with-v-p-urging-innovators-to-share-and-care/article37552513.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘School enrolment fell during COVID pandemic’||The percentage of rural children who were not enrolled in school doubled during the pandemic, with Government schools seeing an increase in enrolment at the expense of private schools, according to the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2021. Over a third of children enrolled in Classes 1 and 2 have never attended school in person. However, enrolment does not necessarily mean that learning took place. In a survey of over 76,000 households with children aged six to 14, ASER found that while 92% of children had textbooks for their grade, only a third had access to any other learning resources or support. With smartphone availability and access limited, online learning was restricted to a quarter of students, though there were major differences in the experience of students from different States. For instance, 91% of students from Kerala and almost 80% from Himachal Pradesh had online education, but only 10% from Bihar and 13% from West Bengal. Phone survey Due to the pandemic, ASER’s 16th annual report was based on a phone survey assessing enrolment in schools and tuition classes, and access to devices and learning resources, rather than the organisation’s usual face-to-face survey which assesses learning outcomes and children’s competencies in reading and arithmetic skills. In 2018, only 2.5% of children were not enrolled in school. Major shift In both the 2020 and 2021 surveys, that figure had jumped to 4.6%. Government school enrolment spiked significantly from 64.3% in 2018 to 70.3% in 2021, while private school enrolment dropped from 32.5% to 24.4% over the same period. “The shift to government school enrolment could be a result of financial distress, the closure of affordable private schools and the movement of migrants to rural areas,” said ASER Centre director Wilima Wadhwa. “Although it is not clear if this is a permanent phenomenon or will be reversed post the pandemic, it is important to ensure that government schools and teachers are equipped and given the necessary resources for this surge in enrolment,” she added. This is particularly true for Class 1 and 2 students, as 37% of those enrolled in government schools have never even stepped into a physical classroom before.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/school-enrolment-fell-during-pandemic/article37552301.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘School enrolment fell during COVID pandemic’||The percentage of rural children who were not enrolled in school doubled during the pandemic, with Government schools seeing an increase in enrolment at the expense of private schools, according to the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2021. Over a third of children enrolled in Classes 1 and 2 have never attended school in person. However, enrolment does not necessarily mean that learning took place. In a survey of over 76,000 households with children aged six to 14, ASER found that while 92% of children had textbooks for their grade, only a third had access to any other learning resources or support. With smartphone availability and access limited, online learning was restricted to a quarter of students, though there were major differences in the experience of students from different States. For instance, 91% of students from Kerala and almost 80% from Himachal Pradesh had online education, but only 10% from Bihar and 13% from West Bengal. Phone survey Due to the pandemic, ASER’s 16th annual report was based on a phone survey assessing enrolment in schools and tuition classes, and access to devices and learning resources, rather than the organisation’s usual face-to-face survey which assesses learning outcomes and children’s competencies in reading and arithmetic skills. In 2018, only 2.5% of children were not enrolled in school. Major shift In both the 2020 and 2021 surveys, that figure had jumped to 4.6%. Government school enrolment spiked significantly from 64.3% in 2018 to 70.3% in 2021, while private school enrolment dropped from 32.5% to 24.4% over the same period. “The shift to government school enrolment could be a result of financial distress, the closure of affordable private schools and the movement of migrants to rural areas,” said ASER Centre director Wilima Wadhwa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/school-enrolment-fell-during-covid-pandemic/article37552264.ece
18 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Chandy meets Sonia on party restructuring in State||The latest episode in the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee's seemingly unending factional feud unfolded in New Delhi on Wednesday. All India Congress Committee general secretary and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy met Congress president Sonia Gandhi to "express his dissatisfaction" with the KPCC leadership's alleged attempt to disrupt the time-honoured procedure for conducting organisational elections. An ‘A’ group insider said Mr. Chandy was vehemently opposed to reorganising the party in the run-up to the upcoming organisational elections. He said the ‘A’ and ‘I’ groups perceived a bid by KPCC president K. Sudhakaran and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan to control the party's governance structures by arbitrarily placing their nominees in critical posts. AICC general secretary, organisation, K. C. Venugopal, allegedly backed them tacitly. The factions felt the triad had exploited the AICC's mandate for reorganisation to gain an organisational upper hand and stack the decks in their favour ahead of the KPCC elections. PAC role Sources said Mr. Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala, who purportedly heads the ‘I’ group, sensed a concerted bid by Mr. Satheesan and Mr. Sudhakaran to confine the KPCC's political affairs committee (PAC) to an advisory role. Moreover, the factions felt the two leaders had shifted the centre of gravity of organisational power to the restructured KPCC executive, where they ostensibly have more traction than in the PAC. Mr. Chandy also reportedly requested Ms. Gandhi to establish an independent commission to examine disciplinary action initiated against leaders and stop the "skewed" application of the party rule book in organisational matters. Party veterans V. M. Sudheeran and Mullappally Ramachandran had also hinted that the recent KPCC restructuring "sans consultations" was tantamount to an anti-democratic stitch-up to advantage the incumbent leadership in the upcoming organisational polls. The AICC has to walk a political tightrope, forge compromises and perhaps make rule changes to prevent the intra-party dispute from reaching a significant flashpoint. AICC general secretary in charge of Kerala Tariq Anwar is scheduled to arrive in Kerala soon. The hyper-factional atmosphere prevailing in the KPCC has irked a sizeable section of party workers who felt it would blight the party's prospects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chandy-meets-sonia-on-kpcc-row/article37552227.ece
18 November 2021||Mumbai,||Court declares Param Bir ‘absconding accused’||A magistrate court in Mumbai on Wednesday declared former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and two others “absconding accused” in an extortion case against them. The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate allowed an application filed by the Mumbai Police to declare Mr. Singh along with businessman Vijay Singh alias Bablu and Riyaz Bhati as absconding accused. “The court has under Section 82 (proclamation for person absconding) of the Code of Criminal Procedure declared all three as absconding accused,” said Special Public Prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap. On November 13, the Crime Branch of the Mumbai Police had initiated the process to declare Mr. Singh an absconding accused and started the process to suspend him. Extortion charges The case pertains to the complaint filed by builder-hotelier Bimal Agarwal alleging extortion by Mr. Singh and dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. An FIR was filed at Goregaon against all the accused under Sections 384 (punishment for extortion), 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion), 388 (extortion by threat of accusation of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.  Three NBWs On November 10, a magistrate court had issued a third non-bailable warrant (NBW) against Mr. Singh in an extortion case registered at Marine Drive police station in Mumbai by real estate developer Shyamsunder Agrawal. On October 30, a magistrate court had issued the second NBW against Mr. Singh in the Agarwal case and on October 25, the first NBW was issued against him in another extortion case against him. On October 20, the Maharashtra Government had told the Bombay High Court that Mr. Singh is not traceable and that it cannot assure of no coercive action being taken against him. The court was hearing a plea filed by Mr. Singh seeking to quash an FIR filed against him at two places. Two bailable warrants have also been issued by retired judge of the Bombay High Court K.U. Chandiwal, who heads the one-member committee appointed on March 30 by the State Government to inquire into the allegations made by the former Mumbai Police chief in a letter he wrote to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20. Incriminating letter The letter has mentioned several instances where former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh — currently in judicial custody on graft charges — allegedly directed Mr. Vaze to collect Rs. 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/court-declares-param-bir-absconding-accused/article37552645.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC relief for scribe, lawyers in UAPA case||A Special Bench of the Supreme Court, led by Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, protected two lawyers and a journalist booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) from any “coercive action” by the Tripura police. The lawyers had led a fact-finding mission and released a report on the “targeted political violence against Muslim minorities in the State” in October and the journalist had tweeted “Tripura is burning”. Advocates Mukesh and Ansarul Haq Ansar and journalist Shyam Meera Singh had petitioned the court to quash the FIR lodged against them and for protection from arrest. They said the State of Tripura was “monopolising the flow of information and facts emanating from the affected areas by invoking the UAPA against members of civil society, including advocates and journalists, who have made the effort to bring facts in relation to the targeted violence in the public domain”. The petition, filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, asked the court to restrict the vague and wide definition given to what amounts to “unlawful activity” under the UAPA. The definition gave a free hand to the State to crush dissent and free speech with the threat of UAPA, it argued. The Bench, including Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and Surya Kant, issued notice to Tripura. The petitioners said the registration of UAPA cases against them amounted to the “criminalisation of the very act of fact-finding and reporting”. Anticipatory bail was barred under the UAPA and the possibility of bail was remote. “The only facts that will come in the public domain are those convenient to the State due to the ‘chilling effect’ on the freedom of speech and expression of members of civil society. If the quest for truth and reporting itself is criminalised then the victim in the process is the idea of justice,” the petition stated.  The State of Tripura is monopolising the flow of information and facts by invoking the UAPA Petitioners   State is monopolising the flow of information and facts by invoking the UAPA Petitioners||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-relief-for-scribe-lawyers-in-uapa-case/article37552259.ece
18 November 2021||Vijayawada,||YSRCP trounces TDP in civic polls||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) failed to make any significant gains in the just-concluded elections to Nellore Municipal Corporation (NMC) and 12 municipalities and nagar panchayats, as people of Andhra Pradesh reposed their confidence in the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP), which stormed to power in Nellore and won 11 of the 12 municipalities and nagar panchayats. Darsi in Prakasam district was the lone saving grace as the TDP won 13 of the 20 wards there. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy thanked the people for the overwhelming mandate given by them. Mr. Reddy tweeted that people gave his party 97 marks out of 100 and the victory would not be possible without God’s blessings. Clean sweep The YSRCP dashed the TDP’s hopes of recovery by making a clean sweep in Nellore Municipal Corporation, and more importantly demolishing the TDP in Kuppam, which had been former CM N. Chandrababu Naidu’s stronghold for decades. The YSRCP won 19 of the 25 wards in Kuppam, which has been recently upgraded to a municipality. Of the 54 divisions in Nellore, the YSRCP won 46 divisions for which elections were held (it won the remaining nine uncontested). The YSRCP won in Akiveedu in West Godavari, Jaggaiahpet and Kondapalli both in Krishna district, Dachepalli and Gurazala in Guntur, Buchireddypalem in Nellore, Bethamcherla in Kurnool, Kamalapuram and Rajampet in Kadapa district and Penukonda in Anantapur. The ‘Jagan’ wave, which started with YSRCP-backed candidates winning 10,536 panchayats out of 13,031, continued with the party securing a majority of 2,71,592 votes in Tirupati byelection and winning 98% of ZPTCs and 86% MPTCs and its decisive victory in Badvel municipality in Kadapa district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ysrcp-trounces-tdp-in-municipal-polls/article37552218.ece
18 November 2021||Kolkata,||‘BSF to work in synergy with State police’||Senior Border Security Force (BSF) officers on Wednesday sought to allay apprehensions of interference in West Bengal’s law and order situation, stating that it has no powers of investigation or registration of FIR. This comes a day after the State Legislative Assembly passed a resolution against the Centre’s move to extend the territorial jurisdiction of the paramilitary force, calling the step an “attack” on the country’s federal structure as law and order is a State subject. Earlier, the Punjab Legislative Assembly had also denounced the Central Government’s decision. “The apprehensions in certain quarters that BSF will start meddling with the law and order situation is not correct. As before, we will continue to function in complete synergy with the State police,” Additional Director General of BSF (East) Y.B. Khurania said in Kolkata. Mr. Khurania maintained that the powers of BSF involve search, seizure and arrest and there has been no extension in such powers, only the territorial jurisdiction of BSF has been increased from 15 km to 50 km. ‘Disciplined force’ Asked about the remarks made by Trinamool Congress’s (TMC) Dinhata MLA Udayan Guha in the Assembly on Tuesday that BSF personnel touch women “inappropriately” under the pretext of frisking operations, Mr. Khurania said, “BSF is a disciplined force. Any act of misdemeanour is not taken lightly; if proven, stringent action is taken. Whenever such an incident takes place, we order inquiries and also inform the police. We have a zero-tolerance policy on such matters.” The officer said BSF has mahila praharis (women guards) in the Eastern command who are deployed for frisking women. “We have CCTVs. It is unfortunate that such allegations are being made,” he said. Reacting to the BSF officer’s statements, TMC State secretary Kunal Ghosh said the party has the “highest regard” for the border guarding forces and accused the BJP Government at the Centre of using them as “pawns” for politics.  (With inputs from PTI)   Any act of misdemeanour is not taken lightly; if proven, stringent action is taken... We order inquiries and inform the police Y.B. Khurania Additional Director General of BSF (East)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bsf-to-work-in-synergy-with-state-police/article37552643.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,||More rural students have smartphones at home: Study||In rural Karnataka, as online classes became inevitable amidst the pandemic, the percentage of students who have smartphones at home has seen a sharp increase. In 2018, only 43.1% students had smartphones available in their homes. In 2020, after the pandemic hit, it rose to 68.6%. In 2021, it further rose to 71.6%. This was one of the findings in the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2021 which was released on Wednesday. Of the rural students in Karnataka, who reported that they had at least one smartphone available at home, 35.6% said they had access to it at all the time, while 52.7% said they had access to it sometime, and 11.7% said although it was available at home, they had no access. The smartphone availability in Karnataka was significantly higher than the national average. Nationally, in 2021, as many 67.6 % students enrolled in schools had smartphones at home. This is sharp increase compared to 2018 when only 36.5% percent of students had them. The ASER survey was facilitated by the NGO, Pratham.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-rural-students-have-smartphones-at-home-study/article37552295.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi air: bureaucracy’s ‘inertia’ irks SC||Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana on Wednesday reproached the “inertia” of the bureaucracy which waits for the court to pass orders, from stopping vehicles to dousing fires, to clean the polluted air. Justice Surya Kant, on the Bench, in his turn, noted that people sitting in five-star and seven-star hotels in Delhi could not blame farmers for stubble burning and need to understand their plight. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud asked if the Government had any “positive steps” in hand that would help immediately clear the smog. The Bench raised doubts about the efficacy of the measures adopted by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the National Capital Region and adjoining areas in an emergency meeting. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said Meteorological Department scientists who took part in an emergency meeting, had said the “situation would be better after November 21”. He suggested waiting till then before taking “harsh steps” such as a total lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-air-bureaucracys-inertia-irks-sc/article37552265.ece
18 November 2021||ISLAMABAD,||New Pak. law allows Jadhav to file appeal||Pakistan’s Parliament, in its joint sitting on Wednesday, enacted a law to give Indian death-row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav the right to file a review appeal against his conviction by a military court. Mr. Jadhav, a 51-year-old retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. ICJ verdict India approached the International Court of Justice (ICJ) against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Mr. Jadhav and challenging the death sentence. After hearing both sides, The Hague-based ICJ issued a verdict in July 2019, asking Pakistan to give India consular access to Mr. Jadhav and also ensure review of his conviction. The International Court of Justice (Review and Re-consideration) Bill, 2021 is aimed at fulfilling the obligation under the verdict of the ICJ and was presented by Law Minister Farogh Nasim. It was passed by the joint sitting of the House through voice vote. The law allowed Mr. Jadhav to challenge his conviction in the High Court through a review process, which was a requirement of the ICJ verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-pak-law-allows-jadhav-to-file-appeal/article37552266.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Speaker for time frame to decide on Bills||Tamil Nadu Assembly Speaker M. Appavu on Wednesday questioned why the President does not provide reasons for withholding assent and returning a Bill passed by the State Assembly. Pointing to (some) Governors sitting on the Bills passed by the Assembly, he called for setting a binding time frame for deciding on any Bill. Mr. Appavu was speaking at the 82nd All India Presiding Officers Conference in Shimla. A transcript ofMr. Appavu’s speech was circulated to the media. Mr. Appavu asked, “When a Bill passed by the State is reserved for the consideration of the President and if the President withholds the assent and returns the Bill, should not the President give reasons? How will the House know what is the real impediment to the withholding of the assent?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/speaker-for-time-frame-to-decide-on-bills/article37552351.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Kartarpur crossing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kartarpur-crossing/article37552299.ece
18 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||NH 66 to be of six lanes||The State Government on Wednesday said it had secured an agreement with the National Highways Authority of India to lay a six-lane highway from Thalapady in Kasaragod to Karode in Thiruvananthapuram. The 600-km NH 66 connects Kanyakumari with Panvel. The Government would expedite land acquisition for the project and the State would bear 25% of the cost. Landowners who sacrifice their holdings for the highway would receive compensation within six months. "The NHAI has confirmed agreement in 16 out of 20 reaches to speed up the work," Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in a Facebook post. The Cabinet, which convened here, also decided to allow ex gratia of Rs. 1,000 to endosulfan victims. The Cabinet also decided to underwrite the treatment expenses of veteran actor KPAC Lalitha. She is currently admitted to a private hospital following a liver ailment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nh-66-to-be-of-six-lanes/article37552569.ece
18 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Calicut varsity freezes services to Dweep centres||The University of Calicut has frozen all academic services to its study centres on the Lakshadweep Islands. This comes days after the island administration asked Vice-Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj to take steps to migrate students to the undergraduate and postgraduate courses being offered by Pondicherry University. Sources in Calicut University said on Wednesday that the decision to freeze the service was taken by a Syndicate sub-committee chaired by Mr. Jayaraj. The island administration had informed the university that the memorandum of understanding with the university would not be renewed and the expenses for running the three centres at Kadamat, Kavaratti, and Andrott islands. The decision would be in force until any new communication emerges from the island administration. The university has been asked to settle its financial commitments by March next year. However, it is learnt that the authorities are exploring legal options before going ahead with it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/calicut-varsity-freezes-services-to-dweep-centres/article37552586.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Australian consulate to come up in Bengaluru||Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Wednesday said an Australian consulate would be set up in Bengaluru and also announced the establishment of Australia-India Centre of Excellence for Critical and Emerging Technology Policy, while addressing the inaugural session of the Bengaluru Tech Summit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/australian-consulate-to-come-up-in-bengaluru/article37552297.ece
18 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab to cancel FIRs against farmers||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday said all FIRs registered by the Punjab Police against farmers who had been protesting against the Central Government’s three farm laws within the State, would be cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-to-cancel-firs-against-farmers/article37552436.ece
18 November 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. to give rations only to those fully vaccinated||The Madhya Pradesh Government has decided that subsidised or free foodgrains at all fair price shops will be given only to those who have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19. The State Government launched a mega vaccination drive on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mp-to-give-rations-only-to-those-fully-vaccinated/article37552437.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sabz Burj restored to its Mughal-era glory||Sabz Burj, one of Delhi’s earliest Mughal-era monuments, has been conserved and restored over the last four years using traditional materials and building-craft techniques favoured by 16th century craftsmen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sabz-burj-restored-to-its-mughal-era-glory/article37552439.ece
18 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab to cancel FIRs against farmers||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday said all FIRs registered by the Punjab Police against farmers who had been protesting against the Central Government’s three farm laws within the State, would be cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-to-cancel-firs-against-farmers/article37552646.ece
18 November 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. to give rations only to those fully vaccinated||The Madhya Pradesh Government has decided that subsidised or free foodgrains at all fair price shops will be given only to those who have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19. The State Government launched a mega vaccination drive on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mp-to-give-rations-only-to-those-fully-vaccinated/article37552647.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||Chhattisgarh Minister Singh Deo meets Sonia||Amid the ongoing leadership tussle in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, State Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo on Wednesday called on Congress president Sonia Gandhi at her residence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chhattisgarh-minister-singh-deo-meets-sonia/article37552648.ece
18 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab to cancel FIRs against farmers||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday said all FIRs registered by the Punjab Police against farmers who had been protesting against the Central Government’s three farm laws within the State, would be cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-to-cancel-firs-against-farmers/article37552713.ece
18 November 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. to give rations only to those fully vaccinated||The Madhya Pradesh Government has decided that subsidised or free foodgrains at all fair price shops will be given only to those who have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19. The State Government launched a mega vaccination drive on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mp-to-give-rations-only-to-those-fully-vaccinated/article37552714.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||Chhattisgarh Minister Singh Deo meets Sonia||Amid the ongoing leadership tussle in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, State Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo on Wednesday called on Congress president Sonia Gandhi at her residence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chhattisgarh-minister-singh-deo-meets-sonia/article37552715.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,||State records 782 fresh cases, 13 fatalities||Tamil Nadu recorded 782 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. Sixteen of the 38 districts logged fewer than 10 cases each, while Tenkasi and Theni recorded none. Only eight districts reported fatalities due to the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-782-fresh-cases-13-fatalities/article37552786.ece
18 November 2021||Chennai,||State records 782 fresh cases, 13 fatalities||Tamil Nadu recorded 782 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 13 deaths on Wednesday. Sixteen of the 38 districts logged fewer than 10 cases each, while two districts — Tenkasi and Theni — recorded none. Only eight districts reported fatalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-782-fresh-cases-13-fatalities/article37552350.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||India refutes allegations on ‘weakening’ Glasgow pact||Rebutting allegations that it had weakened the Glasgow climate pact by having the final text of the agreement read that coal would be “phased down” instead of “phased out,” Indian officials said it had merely read out a ‘consensus’ statement agreed to by all countries on the final day of the COP conference . India, the U.S. and China are three of the largest fossil fuel emitters in the world though India and China are far more dependent on coal than the U.S. “‘Phase down’ [the term] came from U.S. and China joint statement and we tried to find a consensus. The Chair asked us to introduce the text and that is why we did,” said senior officials, who did not want to be named, adding that the blame on India was ‘unfair’. COP President and Cabinet Minister in the U.K. Alok Sharma has said the change of text by India and China had left him “deeply frustrated”. “We are on the way to consigning coal to history. This is an agreement we can build on. But in the case of China and India, they will have to explain to climate-vulnerable countries why they did what they did,” Mr. Sharma told The Guardian . U.S. climate envoy John Kerry, at the conclusion of the COP 26 on November 13, told reporters: “Did I appreciate we had to adjust one thing tonight in a very unusual way? No. But if we hadn’t done that, we wouldn’t have a deal. I’ll take ‘phase it down’ and take the fight into next year.” “Fossil fuel includes natural gas which much of the developed world is dependent on, so why single out coal? They are just trying to make it hard for those dependent on coal while they themselves are using other fossil fuels,” an official said on Wednesday. The sources also clarified that India has not yet decided on when it would update its Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) and clarified that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Panchamrit or five-fold declarations were only “targets for India”, not its commitment to the United Nations. At the World Leaders Summit on Nov 2, Mr. Modi said India would be net zero by 2070, that India’s non-fossil energy capacity will reach 500 GW by 2030; it will meet 50% of its energy requirements with renewable energy by 2030; it will reduce its projected carbon emissions by a billion tonnes by 2030 and reduce the carbon intensity of its economy to less than 45%. “Prime Ministers speech was not linked to NDCs, they were national goals. He spoke in non-technical jargon,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-refutes-allegations-on-weakening-glasgow-pact/article37551974.ece
18 November 2021||SHIMLA,||Duty should be the only mantra, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said elected representatives should have one mantra for the next 25 years — “duty, duty, duty” — and conduct themselves as per “Indian values”, while virtually addressing the 82nd All-India Presiding Officers’ Conference (AIPOC) held at the Himachal Pradesh Assembly here. Mr. Modi told the conference in its centennial year that the next 25 years were very important as India completes 100 years of Independence in 2047. Inherently Indian In this time, he said we “can fulfil the mantra — duty, duty, duty”. He said democracy was not just a system for India, but an intrinsic part of its nature and life. He said the traditions of Indian legislatures should be “inherently Indian”. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said there was a need for reviewing the functioning of legislatures as the AIPOC marks 100 years since its first conference. The two-day conference was being attended by presiding officers from 26 States, an official said, adding that West Bengal and Chhattisgarh presiding officers were not present. The topics “Journey of a century — evaluation and the way forward” and “Responsibility of Presiding Officers towards the Constitution, the House and the People” were up for discussion, while a report on the anti-defection law would be placed before the conference on Thursday, Mr. Birla said. One nation, one portal Mr. Modi also called for “one nation, one legislative portal”. He called for a portal to be created for all legislatures to give them a technological boost and allow them to be connected with one another. Mr. Modi also said the first-time elected representatives should receive training on the right way to behave in the House. He said the youth, women and members representing aspirational districts should be given more time to speak. He said a few days a year should be set aside to discuss the experiences of those members who are doing something for society and time should be allocated for “quality debate”. Mr. Birla said the decreasing number of meetings of legislatures and the declining discussion while making laws was a matter of concern. He said as India celebrates Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, “there should be a collective resolve to prepare a model document to ensure that when 100 years of our Independence are completed, there should be uniformity in the rules and procedures of all legislatures and the working of the legislative bodies should be according to the hopes and aspirations of the people.” Addressing the Speakers and the Deputy Speakers, Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh said it was time for legislatures to adopt new technologies and be prepared for the future with Artificial Intelligence. He said States were yet to repeal redundant laws at the same speed as the Centre, where about 1,500 such laws had been repealed from 2014 to 2019. Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur spoke of the State’s progress in COVID-19 vaccinations, with 75% of the eligible population having received both doses. Historic resolutions Himachal Pradesh Assembly Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar said Shimla had hosted the conference seven times, including the first one in 1921. Historic resolutions like the one in support of giving women the right to vote in 1925 were passed in the conference, he said. Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said there was a time when Speakers did not attend political events, but the tradition was in decline now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/duty-should-be-the-only-mantra-says-pm/article37551998.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fall in number of those taking first dose||The number of Indians who have got two doses of a COVID-19 vaccine exceeds those who have got only one dose, the Health Ministry announced on Wednesday, hailing it as a “significant achievement”. However, a look at vaccination data shows that this is because of a sharp fall in number of those taking their first dose, and India, despite its high net numbers, has for more than a month been lagging in reaching the unvaccinated. India has administered over 113.68 crore (1,13,68,79,685) doses as of 7 a.m. on Wednesday. Of these, 75.5 crore were administered as “first dose” and 38.1 crore as “second dose”, which is why the number of fully vaccinated individuals (38,11,55,604) exceeds those who have been administered only a single dose or 37.4 crore (obtained by subtracting 38.1 crore from 75.5 crore). However, the official vaccination data show that since the week October 9-15, the number of second doses has been exceeding the first dose. In that week, nearly 1.6 crore first and second doses each were administered. Since then, the number of second doses rose slightly to 2 crore and have fallen to 1.5 crore this week (October 13-19). Correspondingly, the number of first doses have now plummeted to 69 lakh. ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ The numbers suggest that vaccination programme is currently going contrary to the aim of the Har Ghar Dastak (Knock on Every Door) campaign. “The month-long Har Ghar Dastak vaccination campaign, announced on November 3 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, aims to ensure that all of the adult population is covered with the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine, while those who are due for the second doses are motivated to take the second dose. Healthcare workers are conducting door-to-door vaccinations of eligible people across India with a special focus on districts where less than 50% of the eligible population has been vaccinated,” a Health Ministry release noted. The target India, in the aftermath of the second wave, said it would fully inoculate all adults — about 94 crore (or 188 crore doses) — by the year-end. With about seven weeks left for the year to end, that would mean close to 10 crore doses a week. At no point in its vaccination programme has India come close to that mark and the best it has ever done is 6.7 crore (September 11-17). India is set to approve two vaccines for children and when that happens it expects to see a bump in vaccination numbers. Slow progress While India has covered about 27% of its population with two doses, China has covered 74%, the United States 58%, and the United Kingdom 68%. Only 54% in India has got at least one dose, while it is 82% in China, 74% in the U.K. and 68% in the United States. The Union Health Minister said that he was confident that every Indian would be vaccinated by the end of the month-long Har Ghar Dastak campaign. “The staunch political commitment of the Government of India to protect every citizen from COVID-19 through vaccination has enabled the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive to achieve several feats ever since its inception on January 16, 2021,” a statement noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fall-in-number-of-those-taking-first-dose/article37552207.ece
18 November 2021||Srinagar,||Five militants killed in J&K’s Kulgam: police||Five militants, including a ‘commander’ of The Resistance Front (TRF), were killed in two separate operations in Kulgam on Wednesday. “TRF commander Afaq Sikandar was among the two militants killed in the Gopalpora encounter,” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said. Three militants were killed in a separate operation of the security forces carried out in Pombai village. Two joint teams of the police and the Army trapped two groups of militants in Kulgam’s Pombai and Gopalpora village in the afternoon, following “credible information about their presence”. The two villages are just one kilometre apart from each other. “The hiding militants opened fire on the search parties of the security forces. In the ensuing encounter, the militants were killed,” the police said. The identity and affiliation of the militants could not be ascertained immediately. Earlier in the day, Mr. Kumar said a major tragedy was averted in Pulwama when two Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militants were arrested. “Two ready to use improvised explosive devices were recovered from their possession. An investigation is in progress,” the IGP said. Two Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel and two civilians were on Wednesday injured in a grenade attack by militants on a patrol vehicle at the Srinagar-Baramulla highway near Palhalan in Baramulla district. An official said, “The grenade exploded near the CRPF vehicle. Two jawans and two civilians sustained splinter injuries.” Exchange of fire An exchange of fire was reported between infiltrators and the Army near the Line of Control in north Kashmir’s Uri. An official said fire was exchanged at night when movement of infiltrators was noticed near the Dhulanja post in Rewand Nallah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-militants-killed-in-jks-kulgam-police/article37551977.ece
18 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||SP takes all hues along: Akhilesh||In an apparent attack on the BJP’s ‘saffron’ politics, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday said those who had just “one colour” could not add colour to anyone’s life. Pointing to the “rainbow of red, blue, green and yellow” coloured flags and banners visible at a rally in Ghazipur, from where he started a joint rath yatra to Lucknow with his allies, Mr. Yadav said: “We Samajwadi people take along all colours. These people of ek rang [one colour], these chillum jeevi cannot take Uttar Pradesh on the path of happiness.” Chillum is a small pipe used to smoke substances such as tobacco, marijuana and others, and Mr. Yadav usually refers to it to mock his main opponent and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who is also a priest. Mr. Yadav’s rally on the Ghazipur-Lucknow route came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi opened the 341-km Purvanchal Expressway in Sultanpur, which links the State capital to Ghazipur on the eastern fringes where the BJP’s caste coalition is facing a strong challenge from the SP this time. Standing atop a specially designed bus, Mr. Yadav was accompanied by two of his allies in Purvanchal — Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar and Janvadi Party (Socialist) president Sanjay Chauhan. Mr. Rajbhar and Mr. Chauhan are both OBC leaders and key to the SP’s outreach among the numerically dominant backward castes. In recent elections, the BJP has managed to polarise the narrative among the non-Yadav backward castes against the Yadavs, also an OBC community, who form the core support base of the SP. In the 2017 Assembly election, Mr. Rajbhar allied with the BJP, helping it sweep parts of east Uttar Pradesh while his party managed to win four of the eight seats it contested. Now an ally of Mr. Yadav, Mr. Rajbhar said he had “shut the BJP door [of power].” “It will not open again,” he told the crowd, asking them to repeat the slogan, “ Jab tak BJP ki vidai nahi, tab tak koi dhilai nahi [‘till the BJP Government is not dismissed, there must be no complacency’].” Mr. Rajbhar also targeted the background of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, saying “Gujarati people have made Uttar Pradesh paidal [made pedestrian].” Mr. Yadav said he was witnessing a “wave of change” from the Ghazipur border in east Uttar Pradesh to Ghazipur in west.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-takes-all-hues-along-akhilesh/article37551991.ece
18 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Kartarpur corridor reopens for pilgrims||Pilgrims from India on Wednesday went to Gurdwara Darbar Sahib across the International Border in Pakistan’s Narowal district across Ravi river through the Kartarpur corridor as it was reopened after 20 months. The movement of devotees to Kartarpur via the corridor was suspended in March 2020 due to the COVID-19 outbreak. The Union Government had announced the reopening of the corridor ahead of “Prakash Purb” (birth anniversary) of Guru Nanak Dev on Friday. The Land Port Authority of India said the pilgrims were given a warm send-off at the Integrated Check Post (ICP) gate at Dera Baba Nanak in Punjab’s Gurdaspur district. Officials at the Passenger Terminal Building were facilitating the travel of pilgrims through the corridor. The ICP checkpost was set up in 2019. Warm welcome A tweet by the Land Port Authority of India said, “First two pilgrims given warm send-off at ICP gate by the Manager ICP. The pilgrimage to Gurudwara Darbar Sahib through Kartarpur Corridor formally commences today. Gurudwara Prabandhak Samiti welcomed them across the border.” A Pakistan High Commission tweet with a video said, “Indian Sikh pilgrims warmly welcomed by Pakistan on their arrival through Kartarpur Sahib Corridor, today. We look forward to hosting devotees from India and around the world in Pakistan for Birthday celebrations of Baba Guru Nanak.” Guru Nanak Dev spent the last 18 years of his life in Kartarpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kartarpur-corridor-reopens-for-pilgrims/article37552212.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||India to hold first 2+2 with Russia on December 6||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh are likely to hold their first “2+2” format talks with their Russian counterparts Sergey Lavrov and Sergey Shoygu, along with Russian President Vladimir Putin, who is expected to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi for the annual summit on December 6, as well as the inter-governmental joint commission meeting, sources confirmed here. Officials said the India-U.S. 2+2 meeting, with Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin that was earlier to be held in Washington in November, may be put off to January, owing to scheduling difficulties including the winter session of Parliament that ends on December 23. The 2+2 format agreed to during a Modi-Putin phone conversation in April is particularly significant, given that India conducts joint foreign and defence ministerial only with its closest ‘Quad’ partners — the U.S., Japan and Australia. According to an expert, conversely, Russia thus far has the 2+2 format for “problem solving” with countries such as Japan, France and earlier with the U.S. The 2+2 is also expected to look further afield in building India’s ties with Central Asia and Russia’s engagement in the Indo-Pacific, the sources said. Newly appointed Ambassador Pavan Kapoor will join the consultations. According to officials privy to the planning of the intensive India-Russia exchanges, a number of agreements on defence, science and technology and trade are expected to be announced during Mr. Putin’s visit. The most closely watched will be defence agreements that could be launched, given considerable heat in Washington already over India’s purchase of the $5.43-billion S-400 air defence system, and the debate over placing U.S. sanctions for its delivery this month. Outgoing Ambassador to Russia Venkatesh Varma had told Tass news agency earlier this month that orders for additional Sukhoi (Su30-MKI), MiG 29 jets and 400 more T-90 tanks are in the works. He pointed out that a “fundamental change” in the defence relationship since 2018 has taken bilateral contracts from $2-3 billion per year to $9-10 billion, making Russia India’s “top defence partner”. Two major defence deals awaiting conclusion are the AK-203 assault rifles and the Igla-S very short range air defence systems. However, the deal for Ka-226T light utility helicopters, announced by the two leaders earlier, is unlikely to see conclusion, one official said. India and Russia are expected to sign the Reciprocal Exchange of Logistics Support Agreement and a Navy-to-Navy cooperation MoU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-hold-first-22-with-russia-on-december-6/article37551994.ece
18 November 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. Govt. to give rations only to those fully vaccinated||The Madhya Pradesh Government has decided that the subsidised or free foodgrains at all fair price shops will be given only to those who have been fully vaccinated against COVID-19. An order by the Food and Civil Supplies Department dated November 7, 2021, said “beneficiaries must be informed that to draw the benefit of the scheme both doses of vaccine is compulsory”. The State Government launched a mega vaccination drive on Wednesday. “About 6.50 lakh shots were given till 1 p.m.,” said the Madhya Pradesh Department of Public Relations. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that all citizens who have taken the first dose but skipped the second dose should come forward to get vaccinated. Several district administrations and traders have come up with innovative measures to assist the State Government in improving vaccination coverage. An official said that traders of namkeen and sev (traditional savouries) in Ratlam district in western Madhya Pradesh have come together to say that they will serve only customers who have been vaccinated. The district is a hub for manufacture of the savouries. About 76% of the population in the district have been vaccinated, the official said. The administration of the State’s commercial capital Indore has barred entry to several popular spots to those who have not taken the vaccine. Some of the spots include Chappan Dukkan (a marketplace offering local delicacies), the Indore Zoo and public gardens. Those unvaccinated are not allowed to use inter-city and intra-city government buses. In the State’s temple town of Ujjain, pilgrims are not permitted bookings in hotels, lodges and dharamshalas if they are not vaccinated. In Gwalior district, some petrol pumps have started refusing to attend to customers who have not taken both doses. Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday gave 3.51 lakh vaccine doses, taking the tally to 7.62 crore vaccine doses given in the State so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-govt-to-give-rations-only-to-those-fully-vaccinated/article37552002.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘All closed doors of military are being opened for women’||About two lakh girls from across the country have appeared in the admission test of the National Defence Academy (NDA), Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Wednesday, after inaugurating the three-day Rashtra Raksha Samparpan Parv at Jhansi in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, while stating that all closed doors in the military are now being opened for women and there is increased participation of women in all the three Services. As part of the Parv, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to formally launch several defence-related schemes in a grand ceremony on November 19. Stating that bolstering the national security apparatus is of paramount importance to the Government, Mr. Singh said, “Our country is facing many types of conventional and non-conventional challenges — from border threats to sub-conventional threats like terror and extremism. There is a need to create a strong, modern and well-equipped military, along with an equally capable, vibrant and self-reliant defence industry, which can provide low-cost yet top-quality equipment to our forces in a time-bound manner.” Terming the recent decision of the Army to grant Permanent Commission to eligible women officers as a great example of women’s empowerment, Mr. Singh said that in addition to opening the NDA for women, girls are also now being given admission in Sainik Schools. Recalling the advisory issued to all the States when he was the Home Minister that women should have been given 33% representation in the security forces, Mr. Singh said that circumstances had changed and women’s participation has increased in all the police and paramilitary forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-closed-doors-of-military-are-being-opened-for-women/article37551972.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||Singh Deo calls on Congress president||Amid the ongoing leadership tussle in Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh, State Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo on Wednesday called on Congress president Sonia Gandhi at her residence. Ms. Gandhi’s meeting with Mr. Deo comes just days after she met Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his rival Sachin Pilot to resolve the the Congress’s crisis in Rajasthan. The party president’s meeting with the Chhattisgarh Health Minister lasted for about 30 minutes. After reaching Raipur, Mr. Deo told reporters at the airport that he had nothing to say as the Congress president is meeting leaders of different States.“I don’t have anything to say on it. Whenever there will be something, I will let you know,” he said. There is no official word from the Congress on what transpired in the meeting. For several months now, Chhattisgarh has witnessed a leadership tussle between Mr. Deo and Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel over the rotational formula according to which Mr. Baghel was supposed to hand over the chief ministership to Mr. Deo. Power-sharing formula Though there has never been any public announcement by the Congress on rotating the chief ministership, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi is said to have worked out a power-sharing formula in December 2018, when the Congress formed the Government in Chhattisgarh. However, Mr. Baghel’s supporters have consistently dismissed such talk. In the last week of August, Mr. Baghel, in a show of strength, brought close to 40 MLAs to Delhi to convey the message that he enjoyed the support of the majority of the party’s MLAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/singh-deo-meets-congress-president/article37551981.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||ED chief gets one-year extension of service||The Enforcement Directorate chief, Sanjay Kumar Mishra, was given one-year extension in service on Wednesday, days after the Centre issued an ordinance increasing the agency head’s tenure from two years to up to five years. The 1984-batch Indian Revenue Service officer was to retire on November 18. He will now remain the ED Director till November 18, 2022 or until further orders. Retrospective extension About a year ago, Mr. Mishra had got an extension for a year, on completion of the then two-year fixed tenure, after the Union Finance Ministry modified the 2018 order of his appointment as ED chief, with the President's approval. The retrospective extension was challenged before the Supreme Court, which upheld the government’s power to extend tenures, but underlined that such a drastic measure should be taken only rarely. “It can be given to facilitate an ongoing investigation. Any extension of tenure during superannuation should be for a short period,” said the judgment. Two ordinances On Sunday, President Ram Nath Kovind had promulgated two ordinances that allowed the Central government to extend the tenures of the directors of the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate from two years to up to five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-chief-gets-one-year-extension-of-service/article37551989.ece
18 November 2021||Srinagar,||Families of slain J&K men seek return of bodies||Two families of Srinagar, whose kin were among the four killed in the Hyderpora “encounter” on Monday evening and buried at a far-off hillock in Handwara, on Wednesday held a sit-in at the Press Enclave and demanded the return of the bodies of “civilians”. “I am his wife. I know for sure he was not an overground worker [of militants]. I give licence to the police to kill me and my two-year-old daughter if my husband turns out to be a militant. Now, allow my daughter to have the last glimpse of her father’s face,” Dr. Mudasir Gul’s wife, Humaira Gul, said. The police on Tuesday said Dr. Gul, one among the four killed, would “harbour militants” and provide them “shelter”, besides running a call centre. However, the allegations were rejected outright by the family members, who vouch for his innocence. “He was a doctor and was earning his livelihood in a clean manner. Provide us proof of his links,” Ms. Gul said. Family members, accompanying Ms. Gul, sought the intervention of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha to help in the return of the body. Dr. Gul was living in a rented room in the building where the police said the encounter took place which, according to the police, also left a foreign militant Haider dead. The police said it buried the bodies around 70 km away from Srinagar “to maintain law and order”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/families-of-slain-jk-men-seek-return-of-bodies/article37551979.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Ex-judge of Punjab HC to monitor U.P. probe||It observed that it was “equally concerned about guaranteeing an impartial, fair, just and thorough investigation”. The State government had agreed to the court’s proposal to have a retired High Court judge monitor the probe. The suggestion to have a retired judge at the helm came after the court expressed its waning confidence about the fate of the investigation at the hands of the police. The court, in its order, reiterated how it had “disapproved” the slow pace, manner and outcome of the investigation so far. The court said the newly-constituted SIT, acting under the “continuous monitoring” of Justice Jain, would be free to seek assistance or associate with the local police in the investigation. “The SIT shall make all efforts to conclude the investigation expeditiously and file the chargesheet,” it directed. It ordered the suo motu case to be listed again after Justice Jain filed his report on the filing of the charge sheet. “Given the nascent stage of the investigation, we are consciously reluctant to make any observation on the merits of the case, as that would have an impact on the parties involved and influence the prosecuting agencyand the courts which would ultimately look into the case,” the order noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-judge-of-punjab-hc-to-monitor-up-probe/article37551984.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Delhi air: bureaucracy’s ‘inertia’ irks SC||Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said Meteorological Department scientists who took part in an emergency meeting, had said the “situation would be better after November 21”. He suggested waiting till then before taking “harsh steps” such as a total lockdown. “So you are saying, nature will come to the rescue by November 21,” Justice Kant queried. “In the entire country, what I have observed as a judge, and earlier as Advocate General, is that the bureaucracy has developed an inertia, an apathy... They wait for the court to pass an order even on things like how to stop a car or a fire by using a bucket or a mop... This is the attitude developed by the Executive. The meeting should have decided on the steps and said these are our directions to be implemented. We could have completed this hearing in two minutes... It is unfortunate the Executive has come to this... They just say ‘let the court pass the order and we will sign’,” Chief Justice Ramana said towards the end of the hearing. The court would consider the prospect of ordering a complete shutdown after November 21, he stated, but asked why the government had not taken steps earlier to rein in industrial activity, construction debris, etc, which spew pollutants 365 days a year, unlike stubble burning, which was only seasonal. Stubble burning Justice Kant, referring to stubble burning, said the question was not about “percentage”. “Irrespective of the percentage of contribution, the cardinal question was what the government had done to incentivise farmers to stop stubble burning. “Whether it is 10% or 5%, have you looked at the plight of farmers and what prompts them to resort to stubble burning? Under what circumstances they do that? People sitting in Delhi in five-star and seven-star hotels need to understand them...”, he stated. The CJI observed, “We cannot penalise farmers. We have asked the States to persuade the farmers against stubble burning... Farmers do not have the money... Firecrackers also see a spurt after Diwali for 10 to 15 days... Can you say firecrackers is not a contributor to pollution?” The court asked why the Central employees have to come to work. “You do not need 100% staff, all coming in their cars. You had restricted during COVID-19. Instead of 100 people coming, you can have 50,” the CJI said. Mr. Mehta stated that restricting the attendance at Central offices in Delhi would have “pan-India ramifications”. Justice Chandrachud asked about the number of mechanised road sweepers purchased. Previously, the court found that only 69 sweepers were operational. Mr. Singhvi said the municipal corporations have asked for 15 and the government had assured financial support. The court, however, acknowledged Mr. Singhvi’s submission that Delhi’s measures would be fruitful only if the peripheral States joined in the effort. The Punjab counsel stressed that it was in the process of purchasing more machines to remove the stubble. The State was working hard to change the “mindset” of farmers. The number of farm fires had considerably lessened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-air-bureaucracys-inertia-irks-sc/article37551985.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘School enrolment fell during pandemic’||In 2018, only 2.5% of children were not enrolled in school. In both the 2020 and 2021 surveys, that figure had jumped to 4.6%. Government school enrolment spiked significantly from 64.3% in 2018 to 70.3% in 2021, while private school enrolment dropped from 32.5% to 24.4% over the same period. “The shift to government school enrolment could be a result of financial distress, the closure of affordable private schools and the movement of migrants to rural areas,” said ASER Centre director Wilima Wadhwa. “Although it is not clear if this is a permanent phenomenon or will be reversed post the pandemic, it is important to ensure that government schools and teachers are equipped and given the necessary resources for this surge in enrolment,” she added. This is particularly true for Class 1 and 2 students, as 37% of those enrolled in government schools have never even stepped into a physical classroom before. “The habit of going to school, sitting in a classroom, and teaching in a classroom has been disrupted significantly. We need to ask if this disruption can be repaired simply by reopening schools,” said Madhav Chavan, president of Pratham, the educational NGO which is the parent organisation of ASER, emphasising that a “business as usual” approach could not be imposed. Smartphone access was a challenge in the delivery of online education. Although availability almost doubled to 68%, only a quarter of children even in homes with smartphones were able to access it whenever needed. In smartphone owning households, 26% of children had no access at all, while 47% had only occasional access. “Going forward, there is a need for device libraries, so all children can have access to needed devices,” said Rukmini Banerji, Pratham CEO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/school-enrolment-fell-during-pandemic/article37551986.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBI arrests 7 in online child sexual abuse cases||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Wednesday arrested seven accused in connection with 23 cases of online sexual abuse of minors and circulation of child pornographic material. The arrests come a day after the agency conducted searches across 14 States and Union Territories. More arrests are likely as the investigation progresses. The 23 cases have been registered against 83 persons allegedly part of various syndicates which were involved in sharing links, videos, pictures, texts, posts and hosting of child sexual exploitation material (CSEM) on social media groups and third party storage/hosting platforms. Investigations revealed that several accused were being paid for sharing the videos and images on per-view basis. The agency is following the money trail to establish the identities of other suspects. According to the CBI, it has so far gathered information about more than 50 groups comprising over 5,000 offenders. “It is initially learnt that there may be involvement of nationals of about 100 countries spread across various continents. We are coordinating with sister agencies through formal and informal channels,” the CBI said. Given the serious nature of the offence, the CBI is exploring the possibility of taking up the matter with social media websites and hosting platforms to examine their role and liability. It also plans to approach the International Child Sexual Exploitation Database to trace the origin of the child sexual abuse images seized during the operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbi-arrests-7-in-online-child-sexual-abuse-cases/article37551987.ece
18 November 2021||United Nations,||Terrorists enjoy free pass in Pakistan: India||Terrorists enjoy free pass in Pakistan, which has an established history and policy of actively supporting them and holds the ignoble record of hosting the largest number of militants proscribed by the UN Security Council, Counsellor in India’s Permanent Mission to the UN Kajal Bhat has said, slamming Islamabad at the U.N. Security Council. “This is not the first time the representative of Pakistan has misused platforms provided by the UN to propagate false and malicious propaganda against my country and seeking in vain to divert the world’s attention from the sad state of his country where terrorists enjoy a free pass while the lives of ordinary people, especially those belonging to the minority communities are turned upside down,” she said. India’s Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador R. Ravindra had already delivered the national statement at the UNSC open debate on ‘Maintenance of International Peace and Security Through Preventive Diplomacy’. Ms. Bhat took the floor to make a second statement in the Council after Pakistan’s Ambassador to the UN Munir Akram raked the issue of Jammu and Kashmir in his remarks at the open debate. Categorically stating India’s position, Ms. Bhat said the entire Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh were, are and will always be an integral and inalienable part of India.” This includes the areas that are under the illegal occupation of Pakistan.” India called upon Pakistan to immediately vacate all such areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/terrorists-enjoy-free-pass-in-pakistan-india/article37551996.ece
18 November 2021||Mumbai,||Rahul moves HC to quash defamation case||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi has moved the Bombay High Court seeking to quash a defamation case filed by a local BJP leader. The case was filed by Mahesh Shrishrimal before the Girgaon magistrate court in 2018. It states that Mr. Gandhi called Prime Minister Narendra Modi ‘Commander in Thief’. Mr. Shrishrimal felt defamed since he was a member of his party. In July 2021, a magistrate court issued summons to Mr. Gandhi, but he could not appear due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Gandhi, through advocate Kushal Mor, filed a criminal petition before High Court on November 12 to quash the case on the grounds that in a defamation case the party has to be aggrieved personally and directly. The matter is expected to be heard on November 22 before a single bench of Justice S.K. Shinde.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-moves-hc-to-quash-defamation-case/article37552000.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Congress deviated from Nehruvian Secularism’||Lok Sabha member and senior Congress leader Manish Tewari on Wednesday said the party went down a “slippery slope” ever since it deviated from the ideals of Nehruvian secularism. In a series of tweets, Mr. Tewari said the debate between Hindutva and Hinduism missed the Nehruvian ideal of “religion being a private space”. His comments are seen as a counter to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who, on November 14, while virtually addressing party workers, had distinguished between all inclusive Hinduism and the political ideology of Hindutva that the BJP follows. “In Hinduism VS Hindutva debate some people in @INCIndia [Indian National Congress] miss a fundamental point. If I were to believe that my religious identity should be basis of my politics then I should be in A Majoritarian or Minoritarian Political Party. I am in @INCIndia because I believe in Nehruvian Ideal that Religion is a private space activity,” Mr. Tewari tweeted. “Everyone has the right to practice, profess & propagate their religion in their private lives. In Public domain there should be a strict separation of the Church & State. I am a Hindu, I worship my God but that is not my politics,” he added. The Congress leader’s comments came on a day when the party showcased general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s visit to an ancient Shiva temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Chitrakoot. Mr. Tewari, who is among the group of reformists or Congress’ group of 23 (G-23) leaders who wrote to party president Sonia Gandhi to press for reforms, asserted that a larger debate was required on the issue of mixing religion with politics. “When @INCIndia deviated from the Nehruvian ideal of Secularism as interpreted as Separation of Church & State and moved towards Sarv Dharam Sambhav it started down a slippery slope & has not stopped skidding since. Larger debate required,” he said. Mr. Tewari said Jawaharlal Nehru was a Pandit and Abdul Kalam Azad was a maulana. Despite their deep understanding of their respective faiths “they built modern Indian State by designing Constitution on avowedly Secular basis & not on religious identity despite Partition.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-deviated-from-nehruvian-secularism/article37552251.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet nod for mobile services in 7,287 villages||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved provisioning of mobile services in over 7,000 uncovered villages across five States of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Maharashtra and Odisha at an estimated cost of Rs. 6,466 crore. “The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has given its approval for provisioning of mobile services in uncovered villages of Aspirational Districts across five States,” an official release said. It added that the project envisages to provide 4G mobile services in the 7,287 uncovered villages of 44 Aspirational Districts in the five States at an estimated cost of Rs. 6,466 crore, including operational expenses for five years. Funded by USOF The project will be funded by Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF) and is targeted to be completed within 18 months after the signing of the agreement. “The work related to provision of 4G mobile services in identified uncovered villages will be awarded through open competitive bidding process as per extant USOF procedures,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-nod-for-mobile-services-in-7287-villages/article37552213.ece
18 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||Student death: 277 DNA results sent for re-test||The DNA test results of all 277 suspects in the case of alleged murder of a Class 11 student of a Centre-run school in Uttar Pradesh’s Mainpuri have been sent back for re-examination as the Allahabad High Court is unsatisfied with the progress in the investigation. In 2019, she was found hanging from the ceiling fan in her hostel. Her family had alleged that she was sexually assaulted before being murdered as she knew “secret things” about the school and that the police were trying to protect the accused in the case — the principal, hostel warden and another person. The police had prima facie called it a case of death by suicide. In September, a fresh probe was launched after the original inquiry conducted by a special investigation team was found to have “serious lapses,” leading to the suspension of three senior police officers and pending action against another. On November 15, Gopal Swaroop Chaturvedi, senior advocate, for the State, submitted in the High Court that the DNA test reports of the 277 suspects had been received from the CFSL laboratory, Hyderabad. However, they had been referred back for re-testing, the Government informed a Division Bench of Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Piyush Agarwal. The Government had told the court that there were CCTV cameras installed on the campus and DNA samples of all the persons who had been seen moving in the school at the said time of the death were collected. Mr. Chaturvedi, on November 15, prayed before the court for more time to place on record the progress in the investigation, following which the court adjourned the matter to December 2. On that date, the court would also take up the deceased girl’s mother’s writ petition seeking a CBI probe. Security to girl’s family The new probe in the case is being conducted under the supervision of the High Court which, in September, also directed the police to provide adequate security to the girl’s family as well as the petitioner. The accused in the case had been booked for murder, attempt to rape and under Sections 7, 8 and 18 of the POCSO Act on the complaint of the girl’s father. The High Court, on September 16, after summoning the DGP in person, noted that the top police of the State, Mukul Goel, had realised that there were “serious lapses in the investigation of the case and thereby three officers have been placed under suspension.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/student-death-277-dna-results-sent-for-re-test/article37552209.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The upa Agamas||Five-faced Lord Siva, out of his compassion for everyone, gave the world the Saiva Agamas. The Saiva Agamas emanated from Lord Siva’s Isana face. Thirumoolar, in his Thirumandiram, talks of the greatness of the Saiva Agamas, and therein he mentions that 66 devotees learnt the 28 Saiva Agamas. However, according to Thirumoolar, the number of Agamas is immeasurable, said R. Narayanan in a discourse. The 28 Agamas have a total of 207 upa Agamas. The upa Agamas for the first 10 agamas are as follows: Vaktaara, Narasimha (Mrugendra) and Bhairavottara for Kamika; Vinasikhottara, Tara, Santa, Santati and Atmayoga for Yogaja; Sucintya, Sudaka, Vama, Papanasa, Parodbhava and Amruta for Cintya; Kaarana, Paavana, Daurga, Maahendra, Dinasamhita, Maarana and Vidvesa for Kaarana; Prabhuta, Parodbhuta, Parvati Samhita and Padma Samhita for Ajita; Ameya, Sabda, Acchadya, Asankhya, Amritaujasa, Ananda, Madhavodbhuta, Adbhuta and Akshaya for Dipta; Sukshma for Sukshma agama; Atita, Mangala, Suddha, Aprameya, Jatibhak, Prabuddha, Vibudha, Hasta, Alankara and Subodha for Sahasra; Vidyapurana, Vasava, Nilalohita, Prakarana, Bhutatantra, Atmalankara, Kasyapa, Gautama, Aindra, Brahma, Vasishta and Isanottara for Amsuman; Suprabheda for Suprabheda. The first 10 Agamas beginning with Kamika and ending with Suprabheda are known as Siva bheda. Thus we find that for some of the Agamas, which fall under the Siva Bheda classification, there are many upa agamas, or secondary agamas. For some Agamas like Suprabheda or Sukshma, there is only one secondary agama. It is evident from the large list of Agamas and their subsidiary Agamas that Agamic study is in itself a specialised field.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-upa-agamas/article37552003.ece
18 November 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra Cong. wants taxes on fuel reduced||The Congress party on Wednesday said that taxes on fuel should be reduced by the Maharashtra Government to give relief to the common people from price rise and inflation, on the lines of the Rajasthan and Punjab Governments. “The BJP is demanding that the State Government should give relief to the public as the Central Government has done. But in reality, the Central relief is only on paper and has not been extended to the public. The Congress Governments in Punjab and Rajasthan have reduced the taxes. Similar relief should be extended to the people of Maharashtra,” said State Congress president Nana Patole. The Nationalist Congress Party’s Ajit Pawar handles the Finance portfolio. Mr. Pawar is yet to announce a decision. Two weeks ago, he had said that the State was yet to receive GST dues from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-cong-wants-taxes-on-fuel-reduced/article37552649.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Anglo-Indian leaders meet Naqvi||The Federation of Anglo-Indian Associations’ office- bearers on Wednesday met Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and gave him a memorandum on the plight of the Anglo-Indian community, seeking his intervention. “The leaders brought to the notice of the Minister the erroneous census data of Anglo-Indians in the 2011 census and requested to take measures to correct it in the forthcoming census of 2021. They also demanded that a commission be constituted as per Article 338 (10) to study the problems of the Anglo-Indian community,” said Dr. Charles Dias, former Member of Parliament and president of the federation. “The leaders also met John Barla, Minister of State for Minority Affairs, and discussed the problems of the community. The Ministers assured the leaders that they would look into the matter and do the needful,” said Dr. Dias.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anglo-indian-leaders-meet-naqvi/article37552249.ece
18 November 2021||Ahmedabad,||Three more held in heroin seizure case||Three days after the seizure of 120 kg heroin from three persons in Gujarat, the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) of the Gujarat police on Wednesday arrested three more persons and recovered 24 kg heroin from them. ATS officials said that this was a part of the same drug syndicate that was busted by the agency on Monday, when it arrested three persons from a village in Morbi district and seized 120 kg heroin worth Rs. 600 crore from their possession. Together, a total of six persons have been arrested with 144 kg of recovered drugs having an estimated international market value of more than Rs. 700 crore. The three persons arrested include one person from Rajasthan and two from Dwarka district in Gujarat. The officials of the agency have stated that the drugs originated from Pakistan and were smuggled into Gujarat via a sea route. The consignment was reportedly delivered from a Pakistani boat off the Gujarat coast in the last week of October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/three-more-held-in-heroin-seizure-case/article37551975.ece
18 November 2021||Kolkata,||Privilege motion against CBI, ED in WB||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Wednesday moved a breach of privilege motion in the West Bengal Assembly against the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED). It was moved by Minister Tapas Roy for not taking the sanction of the Speaker before filing the chargesheet in the Narada case. The Central investigating agencies had filed the chargesheet against three members of the Assembly, Firhad Hakim, the late Subrata Mukherjee and Madan Mitra. On Tuesday, Speaker Biman Banerjee said the Enforcement Directorate and the Central Bureau of Investigation have shown disrespect, lowered the prestige of House and the Chair by not taking the consent before filing the charge sheet. The motion has been sent to the privilege committee of the House. Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari said the Trinamool Congress was scared of the investigation being carried out by the Enforcement Directorate and the CBI. The agencies are investigating the Narada sting videos along with the Saradha scam. While the CBI is also investigating the allegations of post-poll violence, Central agencies are investigating the coal pilferage case where summons have been issued to Trinamool Congress general secretary and MP Abhishek Banerjee. Assembly attendance Meanwhile, Mr. Biman Banerjee exhorted MLAs to remain present in the House when it is in session. It is the duty of both the ruling and opposition party legislators to engage in constructive participation in the Assembly, which is essential for a democracy, he said. He rued that in the current session, most of the opposition party MLAs were absent during the proceedings.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/privilege-motion-against-cbi-ed-in-bengal-house/article37551982.ece
18 November 2021||Mumbai,||Param Bir ‘absconding’, declares court||A Magistrate Court in Mumbai on Tuesday declared former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and two others “absconding accused” in an extortion case against them. The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate allowed an application filed by the Mumbai Police to declare Mr. Singh along with businessman Vijay Singh alias Bablu and Riyaz Bhati as absconding accused. Special public prosecutor Shekhar Jagtap told The Hindu , “The court has under Section 82 (proclamation for person absconding) of the Code of Criminal Procedure declared all three as absconding accused.” On November 13, the Mumbai Crime Branch initiated the process to declare Mr. Singh an absconding accused and started the process to suspend him. The case is about Bimal Agarwal, a builder-hotelier complaining about alleged extortion by Mr. Singh and dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/param-bir-absconding-declares-court/article37551983.ece
18 November 2021||SRINAGAR,||20 Congress leaders resign in J&K||At least 20 Congress leaders, including J&K PCC vice-president, have submitted a joint resignation letter to the party high command, complaining about “an ineffective Congress leadership in J&K”. Speaking to The Hindu , a senior Congress leader, who is considered loyal to Ghulam Nabi Azad, said, “Congress leadership, including Rahul Gandhi, has been apprised of the grievances of the leaders in J&K in the past. He had promised a meeting to discuss Kashmir affairs, but failed to do it”. Sources said most of the leaders who submitted their resignation to the party high command were close to Mr. Azad. Meanwhile, in the resignation letter, the Congress leaders have mentioned the current J&K PCC chief G.A.Mir. “Entire rank and file welcomed the decision of appointment of Mr. Mir as J&K PCC president in 2015, despite not carrying the desired reputation required for this coveted post in view of his involvement in the sex scandal. Under him, the Congress is heading towards disastrous situation. The party is reduced and with each passing day it is shrinking,” the letter reads. Nobody was ready to hear genuine grievances, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/20-congress-leaders-resign-in-jk/article37551992.ece
18 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab to nix FIRs against farmers||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday said all FIRs registered by the Punjab Police against the farmers who had been protesting against the Centre’s farm laws within the State, would be cancelled. The Chief Minister asked the police to cancel the FIRs after following the prescribed procedure with due diligence. The announcement was made after meeting representatives of the 32 farm unions of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) here. At a press conference, Mr. Channi said all cases on stubble burning registered against the farmers would be sympathetically considered to safeguard the interest of the farming community. However, he appealed to farmers to refrain from stubble burning as it was hazardous for the environment and the human health. Mr. Channi said the State Government is seriously contemplating bringing a comprehensive proposal in the next Cabinet meeting for the formulation of a policy to reserve around 75% of posts in the Government exclusively for Punjabi youth. Loan waiver Referring to the demand raised by the SKM representatives to waive the outstanding loans of all categories of farmers, Mr. Channi said he would have a separate meeting with them after discussions with the Finance Department. He said 5.63 lakh farmers have already benefited from the loan waiver scheme to the tune of Rs. 4,610.84 crore while Rs. 520 crore is being provided to landless farmers and farm workers. On the shortage of diammonium phosphate, Mr. Channi said the problem has arisen due to a hike in the prices in the international market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-nixes-firs-against-farmers/article37551995.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rural road schemes get more time||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs on Wednesday approved continuation of Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY)-I and II up to September, 2022, and Road Connectivity Project for Left Wing Extremism Affected Areas up to March, 2023. The timeline has been extended to ensure works envisaged under the three schemes are completed, according to a press statement. It added that the majority of works delayed under PMGSY-I and II are in the northeast and hill States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rural-road-schemes-get-more-time/article37552208.ece
18 November 2021||Pune,||Pune Film Festival to be held in Dec.||After undergoing postponements owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Pune International Film Festival (PIFF), Maharashtra’s official film festival, is finally set to be held in its physical form from December 2 to December 9, 2021. The 19th edition of the popular film festival was earlier scheduled to be held in March this year (instead of its traditional commencement date in January), but had to be called off again in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic, which hit Pune district hard. The film fest was then held in an online format in March, with only a select few films available for viewing. Filmmakers, distributors, film festival organisers and cinephiles heaved a sigh of relief after the Maharashtra Government finally gave the green signal for the reopening of cinema halls, theatres and auditoriums on October 22 this year. “Now that the State Government has given the permission to open cinema halls, the PIFF can finally be held in its physical format with proper appreciation by the public. Audiences will get an opportunity to watch over 150 curated national and international films,” said PIFF Director and filmmaker, Dr. Jabbar Patel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pune-film-festival-to-be-held-in-dec/article37552210.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Speaker seeks time frame to decide on Bills||Tamil Nadu Assembly Speaker M. Appavu on Wednesday questioned why the President does not provide reasons for withholding assent and returning a Bill passed by the State Assembly. Pointing to (some) Governors sitting on the Bills passed by the Assembly, he called for setting a binding time frame for deciding on any Bill. Mr. Appavu was speaking at the 82nd All India Presiding Officers Conference in Shimla. A transcript of his speech was circulated to the media. Mr. Appavu said, “When a Bill passed by the State is reserved for the consideration of the President and if the President withholds the assent and returns the Bill, should not the President give reasons?” The President had withheld assent to two Bills opposing the National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test adopted by the Tamil Nadu Assembly in 2017 when the AIADMK was in power. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/speaker-seeks-time-frame-to-decide-on-bills/article37552440.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Drone Police Unit to get nine flying devices||Nine drones, including six quick-response special payload flying devices, two long-range surveillance ones and one lifeguard drone will form the new ‘Drone Police Unit’ of the Greater Chennai Police. The State government issued orders sanctioning Rs. 3.60 crore for the formation of the drone unit earlier this month. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had announced in the State Assembly that a mobile drone unit would be formed as part of the Greater Chennai Police. The quick-response special payload drone will be multi-rotor capable of interchangeable payloads and will have a HD camera with thermal/night vision. It will be capable of livestream video and will also have a 100-gram loudspeaker for public announcements. The 2.5 kg drone has a 2 km continuous flying range and 30 minutes flight. The long-range surveillance drone would be a 5 kg hybrid drone (quadcopter & wing plane) for vertical take-offs and landings and would have 100 minutes of continuous flight and 30 km range. The 12 kg life guard drone would be high-powered and heavy lift, capable of 15 minutes of continuous flight and a 1 km flying range. “Other features like optical zoom camera with automatic number plate readers (ANPR), automatic deployment of police personnel, artificial intelligence implemented in the ground station and a dedicated ground station unit for each drone would be integrated,” the G.O. said. The three types of drones are likely to be deployed in the mobile drone police unit initially at Marina Beach (adjacent to Gandhi Statue) within D-5 Marina Police Station limits, at Elliots Beach within J-5 Shastri Nagar Police Station limits or Pondy Bazaar within R-4 S.P. Angady Police Station limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drone-police-unit-to-get-nine-flying-devices/article37552362.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. seeks Rs. 2,629 crore from Centre as relief||The Tamil Nadu Government has requested the Union Government to sanction Rs. 2,629 crore to carry out relief work in 25 rain-affected districts, DMK MP T.R. Baalu said on Wednesday. It sought Rs. 550 crore in immediate relief and Rs. 2,079 crore in permanent relief. In a memorandum to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the State Government said 54 persons died and agricultural crops on 50,000 hectares and horticultural crops on 527 hectares were damaged in the heavy rain. Over 9,600 huts and 2,100 houses were damaged. Speaking to reporters in New Delhi after meeting Mr. Shah, Mr. Baalu said agriculture was affected in 25 districts, and 12 of them were severely affected. “He [the Union Home Minister] said he would send a team immediately. A six-member team of the Union Government will visit the areas,” he said. The Union Home Minister also spoke to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister on the phone. The team is likely to visit the severely affected areas in the Cauvery delta and Kanniyakumari districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-seeks-rs-2629-crore-from-centre-as-relief/article37552406.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City braces for another spell of heavy rain||With Chennai set to get another spell of intense rain on Thursday, Greater Chennai Corporation has kept 769 pumps ready at different vulnerable locations that faced flooding during the rain recently. These included at least 50 heavy duty pumps that were of a capacity of 50 horsepower or more. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the pump operators had been asked to be ready. “Based on the experience from rain on November 7 and 10, we have earmarked the places that are vulnerable, ” he said. Apart from the pumps, 46 boats and teams of fishermen have been kept on vigil for swift deployment in vulnerable locations if the situation demanded evacuation or rescue efforts. The monitoring officers deputed for each of the 15 zones in Chennai would be taking a lead role in all rain-related efforts in their respective zones. Allowance given GCC has disbursed cash allowance to officers in the rank of Junior Engineers and Assistant Engineers for arranging resources for dewatering. The number of lines to attend to complaints on GCC’s primary 1913 helpline has been increased from 30 to 50. Apart from this, the public can use the following numbers for reporting issues: 044-25619204, 044-25619206, 044-25619207, 044-25619208, 044-25303870. Complaints can also be sent via Whatsapp on the following numbers: 9445477205, 9445025819, 9445025820, 9445025821. Mr. Bedi said that the complaints received through the helplines would be monitored by senior officials. “For every complaint, we want to be clear about fixing responsibility on who should be acting on it,” he said. He expressed hope that the steps taken by the Corporation in the past one week would help in mitigating the risks even if the city received high amount of rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-braces-for-another-spell-of-heavy-rain/article37552365.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ECMO helps COVID-19 patients recover||A multidisciplinary team of doctors of Apollo Hospitals has demonstrated that Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) therapy helped patients who had severe lung injury due to COVID-19 and could not be helped with ventilator therapy to recover. Since 2010, the hospital has treated 270 ECMO patients. In ECMO, a patient’s blood is purified and oxygenated through large tubes placed inside large veins (close to the heart) and returned back by means of a pump. This was employed in a variety of situations, including poisoning, trauma and infections such as H1N1, pre and post-transplant patients and most recently, COVID-19, a press release said. “A total of 23 persons infected during the second wave of COVID-19 were placed on ECMO. Of these, 17 are surviving, which is almost 74%. While 10 were discharged from the hospital, two were off ECMO and are recovering in hospital and four are on ECMO. One of them underwent transplantation. We lost six persons,” said K. Madhankumar, senior consultant, Cardiothoracic and Heart and Lung Transplant Surgeon, Apollo Hospitals. Doctors said they had demonstrated that ECMO was “very effective” in patients who were not treated with conventional ventilator therapy. “Lungs recover given enough time in a significant majority of patients with COVID-19, the longest showcased today was a case of a patient who was on ECMO for 116 days. Lung transplant may be appropriate in only a tiny minority of patients,” said Paul Ramesh, senior consultant-Cardiothoracic and Heart and Lung Transplant Surgeon, Apollo Hospitals. It was a 28-year-old doctor from Gujarat who was on ECMO for 116 days. This, he said, was the longest bridge to recovery in India. The average period on ECMO prior to discharge was 60 days. The current survival rate at six months for ECMO patients was 73.9%, which was higher than the global average of 40-50%, he said. “In fact, awake ECMO with physical and nutritional rehabilitation was associated with excellent survival in our experience,” he added. Dr. Madhankumar said that in awake ECMO, patients are awake, extubated and not sedated so that they could eat normally and interact with relatives and cooperate with physiotherapists. The results were better in awake ECMO, he said. The 143-member ECMO team included cardiothoracic surgeons, pulmonologists, perfusionists, nutritionists, technicians and nurses. Suneeta Reddy, managing director of Apollo Hospitals Group, said the experience and learning of the team would help the hospital across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ecmo-helps-covid-19-patients-recover/article37552375.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Government cancels transfer of Salem primary health centre medical officers||A recent move to issue memos to primary health centre medical officers in Salem for not achieving the target for COVID-19 vaccination evoked sharp criticism from various government doctors’ associations. Following objections, the health authorities withdrew the memos. The Tamil Nadu Medical Officers’ Association registered their objection with the Health Secretary and Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine and submitted a representation with a number of demands. M. Akilan, general secretary of the association, said they urged the officials not to put pressure on doctors. “We need manpower. Other departments should be roped in motivating persons to get vaccinated and to provide logistical support. We urged the department to conduct meetings during duty hours as work hours are getting prolonged to 6 p.m. or 10 p.m. due to daily meetings,” he said. He said the officials promised to consider their demands. The Service Doctors and Postgraduates Association strongly opposed the action of the Deputy Director of Health Services, Salem Health Unit District, for issuing memos to the medical officers and seeking explanation from them for not achieving the target fixed for COVID-19 vaccination. It condemned the practice of fixing daily targets for healthcare providers to administer vaccines. They have been on the frontline and were working tirelessly for almost two years in combating two successive waves of COVID-19 pandemic, saving lives and working every weekend for the mega camps, the association said. The association urged the government not to put pressure on doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers to achieve the target when vaccination was not compulsory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-cancels-transfer-of-salem-phc-medical-officers/article37552376.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Book launched in memory of Cre-A Ramakrishnan||The contemporary Tamil dictionary was a magnificent achievement of Cre-A Ramakrishnan, N. Ram, director of The Hindu Publishing Group, said here on Wednesday. While speaking at the launch of Book Culture in Tamil: Essays in Memory of Cre-A Ramakrishnan , he said Ramakrishnan was one of the most outstanding people he knew. “The dictionary was his major work; it was remarkable and was perhaps the kind of work that has not been done in most other South Asian languages. It is possibly the finest contemporary dictionary,” he said. David Shulman, professor emeritus, Hebrew University, said editing was a magical skill, an arduous task and required the kind of pitch and good taste which Ramakrishnan had; without all this, a book will not be a finished one. T.K. Gopalan, a diplomat and linguaphile, said Ramakrishnan was a man of integrity and principles and that his life was truly inspirational. He published books for their intrinsic value in society and not just for their commercial value. T.S. Nagarajan, former communications and marketing research analyst; Dilip Kumar, writer, editor and literary historian; M.A. Nuhman, poet and literary critic, Sri Lanka; and Eric Auzoux, former Director, Alliance Française, Chennai; spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/book-launched-in-memory-of-cre-a-ramakrishnan/article37552378.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health officials worried about slow vaccine uptake||Tamil Nadu has a sufficient stock of COVID-19 vaccines. But health officials are worried about the slow uptake among those who are yet to take the first dose as well as those who are due for the second. The Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine on Wednesday released data to show that an unvaccinated person ran a higher risk of dying of COVID-19 than a vaccinated person. “As per the data available with us on deaths that were collected during August, September and October 2021, a total of 2,011 persons died of COVID-19. Of them, 1,675 deaths — around 84% — had happened among the unvaccinated persons,” said T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. “We technically calculate the risk by the case fatality rate, which indicates the risk of a person dying from a particular disease. As per our own Tamil Nadu data, the risk of an unvaccinated person dying of COVID-19 is 3.5 times higher than that of a vaccinated person. This is one of the substantial evidence available with us which should enable the common man to understand the value of vaccination and take the vaccine at the earliest,” he added. ‘Not showing interest’ Officials said the State had 1.3 crore doses as of now. The worry is about the uptake. “More than 70 lakh persons have not got the second dose and around 1.6 crore persons have not taken the first dose itself. We have a sufficient stock of vaccines and have opened vaccination centres across the State, but people are not showing interest in getting themselves vaccinated,” Dr. Selvavinayagam said. He said over 80% of the deaths were occurring among the unvaccinated. “This is a very critical reason for people to get themselves vaccinated. Even if one is infected after vaccination, the disease will be milder.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-officials-worried-about-slow-covid-19-vaccine-uptake/article37552333.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fly ash leak ruining Kosasthalaiyar, say fishermen||Activists and fishermen have complained about fly ash making its way into the Kosasthalaiyar from the North Chennai Thermal power Station (NCTPS). This was due to a leak in the pipeline carrying ash to the ash pond, said fishermen. “There is at least one leak in the pipeline and it has not been attended to and this despite there being a team to ensure that leaks are plugged immediately. This site is where dredging was done recently, which means the effort has only been a wasted one,” said R.L. Srinivasan, a fisherman of Kattupakkam in Ennore. Desappan, a fisherman of Nettukuppam in Ennore, said the fly ash had ruined the mangroves in the area. “By the time the ash is carried to the pond, it leaks at several places. When it washes into the water, it reaches the creek and spoils the environment. The fish turn grey. Any number of complaints have been made but to no avail,” he said. A senior official of Tangedco, confirming a leak in the pipeline conveying the ash to the ash pond, said the leak was immediately attended to by the maintenance officials of the plant. ‘Regularly monitored’ The official said the NCTPS comprising Stage 1 and 2 had pipelines for the nine thermal plants for evacuating the coal ash stretching for 40 km, which is being regularly monitored by the maintenance staff. As complaints of pipeline bursts were reported regularly, a separate team from the Environment section had been formed and it would patrol the pipelines to inform the senior officials in the power plants in case of any leak in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fly-ash-leak-ruining-kosasthalaiyar-say-fishermen/article37552354.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New contractor to complete Metro work||Metro Rail’s phase I extension project in north Chennai was inaugurated in February this year but some construction work is incomplete. Sources said one of the major reasons for seepage of rainwater in some stations during monsoon was because of the incomplete construction work. Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) will rope in a new contractor to finish the remaining work in six elevated stations and two underground stations of this 9-km stretch from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar, which was built at a cost of Rs. 3,770 crore. Nearly 20% of the structural, architectural and plumbing work had to be completed and they had once again floated tenders looking out for a firm. Some of the contractors in this project were grappling with funds crunch and inadequate manpower and had claimed that they would not be able to finish the work, the officials said. “So, we have reduced the scope of the work in the contracts issued to them. This means, the payment given to them will be far less than the actual amount to be transferred. It would be used for paying the new contractor to finish the job,” an official said. The new firm would have to carry out various tasks, including covering the roof of entry-exit points in elevated stations, closure of staircase, escalator sides, waterproofing for roofs, terraces, toilets, floor slabs and other necessary locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-contractor-to-complete-metro-work/article37552358.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police, industry should jointly deal with cloud security: Jiwal||Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal on Wednesday called upon industries to come forward to jointly handle cloud security issues which are most challenging for law-enforcement agencies to solve. At a session on “Safeguarding Against Financial Frauds In Digital Space” organised by Madras Chamber of Commerce and Industry, he spoke of the possibility of industries, law enforcement agencies and experts in cyber security joining hands to solve the problems. “We can set up Cyber Arangam (Cyber Hall) where we can sit with industry people and solve their issues on a regular basis. They can come up with solutions. They have experts dealing with cloud security issues. A collaboration will help,” he said. The city police have set up a Cyber Cell in each police district and their personnel were the first responders, who were well trained on how to handle complaints on cyber crimes. The cases of serious nature were being escalated to the Cyber Crime Wing, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-industry-should-jointly-deal-with-cloud-security-jiwal/article37552373.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 782 fresh cases, 13 fatalities||Tamil Nadu recorded 782 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. Sixteen of the 38 districts logged fewer than 10 cases each, while two districts — Tenkasi and Theni — recorded none. Only eight districts reported fatalities due to the infection. There were 116 cases in Chennai, followed by Coimbatore with 115. Erode and Chengalpattu logged 72 and 61 infections respectively. In Tiruppur, 50 people tested positive, while Salem saw 41 fresh cases. There were 36 cases in Namakkal and 33 in Tiruchi. The cases took the State’s tally to 27,17,203. According to Tuesday’s data, the State’s positivity rate stood at 0.8%. Chengalpattu and Coimbatore accounted for the highest positivity rate at 1.3%. Six other districts had a positivity rate of 1% and more. Chennai’s positivity rate came down to 0.9%. With 13 more people succumbing to the infection, the State’s toll touched 36,324. Thirty districts recorded no death. There were three deaths in Chengalpattu and two each in Coimbatore, Salem and Vellore. Chennai accounted for a single fatality. Recoveries in State With 907 people being discharged after treatment, total recoveries stood at 26,71,668. Active cases dropped further to 9,211 — of these, Chennai accounts for 1,286 and Coimbatore 1,185. Seventeen districts have fewer than 100 active cases each. Theni has the least number, with 12 patients. There are 15 active cases in Tenkasi and 21 in Ramanathapuram. As many as 1,01,984 samples were tested, and the total count touched 5,29,52,443. Over 3.5 lakh people were vaccinated on Wednesday. A total of 3,58,417 people — including 2,03,303 people aged 18 to 44 and 1,00,151 people in the 45-59 age group — got jabs, taking the coverage of government centres to 6,08,51,877. The cumulative coverage of private centres stood at 27,01,441.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-records-782-fresh-cases-13-fatalities/article37552401.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Durai Vaiyapuri to head MDMK’s IT Wing||MDMK general secretary Vaiko on Wednesday said the party would set up an IT Wing that would be headed by Durai Vaiyapuri, who was appointed the party’s headquarters secretary last month. In a statement, Mr. Vaiko said the headquarters secretary would be responsible for coordinating the party general secretary’s tours, meetings and events. “The duty of the headquarters secretary includes the implementation of orders passed by the general secretary on party activities,” Mr. Vaiko said. Mr. Vaiyapuri is the son of Mr. Vaiko.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/durai-vaiyapuri-to-head-mdmks-it-wing/article37552392.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two persons arrested in misappropriation case||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) on Tuesday arrested two women who were reported to be absconding in a case relating to misappropriation of Rs. 1.5 crore from a grocery store six years ago. The police said C. Velmurugan from Madurai had been working in a grocery shop run by Pandi in Parry’s Corner. As he had been working for long, the shop owner entrusted the day-to-day affairs of the store and handling of daily income to Velmurugan. Velmurugan opened many new accounts in 2015. Pandi recently noticed that funds were deposited in those accounts and lodged a complaint with the CCB. Police arrested Velmurugan last February and launched a hunt to nab others. On Tuesday, the police arrested his wife Poornima, 40, and her sister Vinodha, 40, from Andipatti. They were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-persons-arrested-in-misappropriation-case/article37552353.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three held for robbing food delivery executive||The Avadi police on Wednesday arrested three persons who were accused of robbing a food delivery executive by forcibly transferring money from his digital wallet on a cellphone. The police said Ajith Kumar, 24, of Erumaiyur near Thirumudivakkam, a food delivery executive, was proceeding on a two-wheeler towards Avadi on Monday evening. A person waylaid him on the pretext of getting a lift and suddenly two more persons joined. The three robbed him of a gold ring and a chain. Phone snatched They snatched his cellphone and got Rs. 10,000 transferred from his digital wallet to an account. They fled with his cellphone and motorcycle. The Avadi police took up investigation and arrested three accused — Vignesh, 24, Haridhar, 23, and Dhanasker and recovered Rs. 10,000 and other valuables from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-robbing-food-delivery-executive/article37552374.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajesh Das moves CAT against his suspension||Suspended DGP-level officer Rajesh Das has approached the Central Administrative Tribunal(CAT) seeking to set aside the order of suspension passed by the State government on him and consequently direct the authorities concerned to reinstate him in service with all attendant benefits, including seniority and other benefits. Mr. Rajesh Das is an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer who served for 31 years. He was appointed by the State government as a Special DGP in October 2020, just prior to the Assembly elections. Mr. Das was accused of sexually harassing a woman IPS officer on February 21. He is facing action under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redress) Act, 2013 (POSH) and facing trial in Chief Judicial Magistrate Court. Filing an application before CAT, he submitted that the facts transpired till date in pursuance of the complaint, with evidence and the proceedings before the Internal Complaints Committee(ICC), were conducted in violation of the principles of natural justice and in violation of the mandate of POSH. The entire proceedings of the ICC Committee and the consequential report was vitiated for not following the due process of law, he said. Mr. Das said the charge memo on that basis was therefore perverse and the suspension was ordered based on orders of the High Court. However, when the Supreme Court had cleared the High Court’s adverse observations and directions and further recorded his cooperation as well as proof of not tampering, the respondents (authorities) should have fairly reinstated him by taking note of the orders of the highest court. Hence the entire exercise was mala fide and was infested with arbitrariness, he said. The Central Administrative Tribunal directed the State government to ensure that applicant got subsistence allowance and ordered notices to the respondents, including the Home Secretary and Director General of Police, returnable by December 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajesh-das-moves-cat-against-his-suspension/article37552352.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. school enrolments increase in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu is among the top three States that have recorded a notable increase in the enrolments at government schools in 2021, compared with the last two years, a survey has indicated. The Annual Status of Education Report (Rural) - 2021 shows that there has been a nationwide shift from private to government schools. In Tamil Nadu, which stands third in the trend after Uttar Pradesh and Kerala, the proportion of children aged 6-14 enrolled at government schools rose from 66.7% in 2018 to 76.3% in 2021. Earlier this year, the Tamil Nadu Department of School Education, too, said it had seen a record number of enrolments at government schools, largely of children from families impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Around 5,122 households and 3,923 children aged 5-16 were surveyed. With schools having remained shut for over 18 months, the survey focussed on how these children studied at home through the pandemic, how it had impacted enrolments and the challenges that lay ahead. Access still a problem While the number of enrolled children whose homes had at least one smartphone rose from 40.2% in 2018 to 66.1% in 2021, access still remained an issue. Only 26.8% of the children said they could access this device at all times and 13.7% had no access at all. A majority of 59.5% of children said they could access it sometimes. However, Tamil Nadu was better placed than other states as 26.1% of the children nationwide were found with no access to smartphones. The impact of the pandemic on learning outcomes also meant that the survey delved into support for children at home and whether they were able to get tuition because of the closure of schools. An overall gap was observed across the country between government school students and private school students. In Tamil Nadu, 53.2% of government school students had received support, as against 68.8% of the private school students. While there was a big increase in children getting tuition across the country, Tamil Nadu saw a slight increase from 13.9% in 2018 to 16.6% in 2021. VCK MP Ravikumar said the economic impact of the pandemic had a large role to play in the migration of students from private schools to government schools. “The government should use this opportunity to improve the quality of government schools.” He said the survey showed the number of Tamil Nadu students receiving learning support at home as well as those getting tuition was much lesser than the national average. “This places a lot of responsibility on classroom learning and the focus should be on how this can be made better for the students.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/enrolment-in-govt-schools-up/article37552395.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Record realisation of Cauvery water in Nov.||Tamil Nadu’s realisation of Cauvery water this month has set a record of sorts as it has crossed the monthly average, as worked out on the basis of the 30-year (1991-2020) data and as recorded at Biligundulu. As of November 16, the State received 30.38 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) against the figure of 27.9 tmc ft. Last time when the realisation for November exceeded the average was in 2015 when about 28.44 tmc ft was received. Apart from this year, it was in 11 years that the State realised, in November, a higher quantum of water than the average, according to the data since June 1991, the year in which the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal gave its interim order. So far, the highest amount realised was 61.173 tmc ft in 2010. This was followed by 51.108 tmc ft in 2005 and 41.887 tmc ft in 1991. Since June 1 this year, the cumulative realisation was about 169.7 tmc ft, about 19.4 tmc ft more than the State’s share for the period ending on November 16. In the last one-and-a-half months, the State got 78.66 tmc ft. As the Mettur dam, the most important reservoir of the State, has reached the full level of 120 feet, almost all its inflow has to be let out. On Wednesday morning, the discharge through the river was 42,886 cubic feet per second (cusecs). The dam site, too, registered nearly 6 cm rain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/record-realisation-of-cauvery-water-in-nov/article37552403.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Pandora Papers show only keyhole view of world’||The ‘Pandora Papers’ investigation, undertaken by an international consortium of journalists, provides only a keyhole view of the world, and a glimpse into parallel systems used by the wealthy and the powerful to take money out of the mainstream financial system, journalist Harry Davies said. Speaking at the Asian College of Journalism’s special lecture series, Mr. Davies, who was part of The Guardian ’s ‘Pandora Papers’ investigation team, said it showed that many of the rich and powerful, whose names figure in the investigation, did not play by the rules that everyone else followed. He said it was important for media organisations to think about public interest, which will be served, while gaining access to these financial dealings and data. He said some documents in the ‘Pandora Papers’ told the whole story, while in many cases, documents were used as a launch pad for further reporting. “Find other sources and documents that can build a fuller picture of what that individual was up to, why they had offshore companies, or accounts,” he said. Difficult task Mr. Davies said that reporting on the investigation, in collaboration with an international team of journalists, could be difficult in terms of sharing of data and reports. “The great thing about the ICIJ [International Consortium of Investigative Journalists] is that it brings a great number of journalists together and facilitates [information flow]. The agreement is that you share what you find,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandora-papers-show-only-keyhole-view-of-world/article37552397.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Robotic surgery preserves organ function better||Robotic surgery not only helps in reaching deep into the pelvis but also enables a surgeon to preserve the function of the organs while removing tumours in colon and rectum. At a webinar on robotic colorectal procedures hosted by The Hindu along with Apollo Hospitals, Venkatesh Munikrishnan explained how robotic surgery not only helped the surgeons but also the patients. “We are looking at functional outcome from the surgery. It is more in preserving the function of the rectum,” he said. As a centre that specialises in the surgery, he said he had treated young persons, who must have a near-normal life. It is important to preserve the nerves, muscles and vital functions of the pelvis, he said. Although in India, the incidence of colorectal cancers is low at four per lakh population, in terms of numbers it was huge, he said. Changed lifestyle Young Asian men were more prone to rectal cancers, he said and added that the changed lifestyle could be a reason. Healthy eating, cutting down red meat, exercising, quitting smoking and drinking a lot of water, would prevent cancers, he said. Normally, colorectal cancer takes 10 years to manifest. Once a person is diagnosed with the cancer, he would ask for the family history and suggest screening the siblings immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/robotic-surgery-preserves-organ-function-better/article37552396.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Arun Iyer to speak at AdTalks||Arun Iyer, co-founder of Spring Capital, will address members of the Advertising Club, Madras at the first session of AdTalks at 4 p.m. on November 19 at Hotel Savera in the city. A press release from the club said that it was relaunching its Tea Meetings in a brand new avatar called AdTalks. Entry to the event is restricted to members of the Advertising Club Madras. For details, call 044-42694778 / 28141581 or email admin@adclubmadras.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arun-iyer-to-speak-at-adtalks/article37552377.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Boy drowns in Adyar, another missing||A 12-year-old boy drowned in the Adyar river near Nandambakkam on Tuesday and another boy is still untraceable. The victim was identified as R. Santhoshkumar of Arasu Pannai area who was studying VI standard and the missing boy was identified as P. Harish, who is from the same neighbourhood. On Tuesday afternoon, the boys went to swim in the Adyar. Passersby, who noticed the boys struggling in the middle of the river, alerted the fire control room and personnel from Saidapet, Teynampet and Guindy rushed to the spot and launched a search operation. Santhoshkumar was rescued and rushed to the Government Royapettah Hospital, but he was declared dead. Harish remained missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/boy-drowns-in-adyar-another-missing/article37552379.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Registrations open for SRMJEE||SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST) has commenced online registration for SRMJEEE 2022 (SRM Joint Engineering Entrance Examination). Details can be had atwww.srmist.edu.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/registrations-open-for-srmjee/article37552382.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Holiday for schools, colleges today||A holiday has been declared for schools and colleges in Chennai, Tiruvallur and Ranipet districts owing to the heavy rain forecast in some parts of the State. In Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts, the Collectors have declared a holiday for schools alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/holiday-for-schools-colleges-today/article37552356.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL to promote Tamil language||A public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Centre and the State government to constitute a Tamil language development committee, comprising renowned scholars, to preserve ancient manuscripts, promote the language and conduct research. Justices M. Duraiswamy and J. Sathya Narayana Prasad on Wednesday directed State Government Pleader P. Muthukumar to take notice on behalf of the Chief Secretary. They also ordered notice, returnable by six weeks, to the Centre and called for counter affidavits. World Tamil Research Trust, started by an advocate C. Kanagaraj this year, had filed the PIL petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-to-promote-tamil-language/article37552752.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM opens hostels, school buildings||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday virtually inaugurated buildings constructed for the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department in various districts, at a total cost of Rs. 23.78 crore. Ten hostels for students from the Adi Dravidar and tribal communities and three school buildings have been constructed in Dindigul, Nagapattinam, Namakkal, Pudukkottai, Thanjavur, the Nilgiris, Tiruchi, Tirupattur and Tiruvarur districts, an official release said. Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Minister N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj; Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu; Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department Secretary K. Manivasan; managing director of the Tamil Nadu Adi Dravidar Housing Development Corporation K. Vivekanandan, and Director of Tribal Welfare V.C. Rahul were present. At a separate event, Mr. Stalin handed over appointment letters to 23 people who were given employment on compassionate grounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-opens-hostels-school-buildings/article37552393.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Justice Duraiswamy to perform duties of CJ||The Centre on Wednesday notified the President's order appointing Justice M. Duraiswamy, the senior-most judge of the Madras High Court, to perform the duties of its Chief Justice since Sanjib Banerjee had been transferred to the High Court of Meghalaya. Born on September 22, 1960, Justice Duraiswamy obtained a degree in commerce before pursuing law at the Madras Law College. He enrolled as an advocate in 1987 and served as a junior under former Chhattisgarh High Court Chief Justice A.S. Venkatachalamoorthy. He was appointed as the Central Government standing counsel in 1997 and got elevated as a judge of the High Court on March 31, 2009. The notification issued by the Centre said he would be performing the duties of the Chief Justice till Justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari, who had been transferred from the Allahabad High Court, takes charge in the Madras High Court. After taking charge, Justice Bhandari would be performing the duties of the Chief Justice of the Madras High Court since he would be the senior-most judge here. Meanwhile, the Allahabad High Court on Wednesday bid farewell to Justice Bhandari, who hails from Rajasthan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/justice-duraiswamy-to-perform-duties-of-cj/article37552408.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. announces Pongal gift hampers||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has issued orders for the distribution of Pongal gift hampers to rice ration cardholders and families living in Sri Lankan Tamil rehabilitation camps. Hampers will not have a cash component this year. The announcement will benefit over 2.15 crore families, and cost the State exchequer Rs. 1088 crore, an official release said. Each hamper will comprise 20 grocery items.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-announces-pongal-gift-hampers/article37552404.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pallikaranai marsh to get 16 STPs: Minister||Sewage treatment plants will be set up at 16 points to clean water from major inlets into the Pallikaranai marsh, Minister for Environment Siva V. Meyyanathan said here on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the marsh along with officials and South Chennai MP Thamizhachi Thangapandian, he said that this would be carried out using CSR funds. “Chief Minister M.K.Stalin has expressed his wish to see the marsh get clean water. At present, the oxygen levels are not up to the mark in the 640-hectare marsh,” he said. The water hyacinth in the marsh would be removed at an estimated cost of Rs. 78 lakh and CCTV cameras would be installed in the periphery to prevent trucks from emptying sewage into the vast open space, he said. As far as the work on the eco park was concerned, Mr. Meyyanathan said Chief Minister would soon inaugurate the facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pallikaranai-marsh-to-get-16-stps-minister/article37552355.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Forest archives and data centre soon in Chennai||A Tamil Nadu Forest Archives and Data Centre (TNFADC) will be set up in Chennai as a repository of information on the State’s flora and fauna, and it rich conservation initiatives. The centre will be a repository of forest research reports, scientific publications and documents, old manuscripts and historical references, forest maps, books, handbooks on flora, fauna and herbaria, as well as rare photographs. It will also have forest workings, management plans, annual reports, research publications, forest manuals and SOPs, unique resources covering the conservation movement and forest-related resources from around the world, among other things.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-archives-and-data-centre-soon-in-chennai/article37552746.ece
18 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Child rights commission to hold inquiry into student’s death today||Tamil Nadu State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (TNSCPCR) will conduct an inquiry into the death of the school student who was allegedly sexually assaulted by her teacher. A release issued by the Commission said that Saraswathi Rangaswamy, chairperson of TNSCPCR, and its members Ramaraj, Malligai and Saranya Jayakumar will take part in the inquiry on Thursday morning. The members will hold a sitting at the district collector’s office in Coimbatore on Thursday to discuss further course of action. A release issued by the TNSCPCR said that it has issued summons to persons whom it suspects to have involvement in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-rights-commission-to-hold-inquiry-into-students-death-today/article37552422.ece
18 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Amrita WNA takes up rural electrification projects||Amrita Center for Wireless Networks and Applications (Amrita WNA), part of Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, is running 40 projects in 13 villages across the country to achieve rural electrification with ‘smart grids.’ A press release said that launched in 2006, Amrita WNA began as a research and development centre to promote, develop, and apply the use of wireless technologies to benefit society. It is actively involved in research and development of smart city, smart grid, micro grid, smart building, water conservation systems, etc. Maneesha V. Ramesh, Director of Amrita WNA, who also holds the UNESCO Chair for Experiential Learning for Sustainable Innovation and Development, said the projects come under the school for sustainable development. At present, a project on bio fuel system is going on. The pilot was completed and it would be scaled up.. She added that projects were taken up to address the needs in the adopted villages and the infrastructure created were maintained and operated by the villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amrita-wna-takes-up-rural-electrification-projects/article37552413.ece
18 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not disclose the identity of sexual assault victim’||Coimbatore City Police have warned of action against persons and entities that disclosed the identity of the 17-year-old girl who ended her life following alleged sexual assault by a school teacher. The police said in a release that the media or persons or institutions should refrain from disclosing the identity of sexual assault victims as prescribed in Section 23 and its sub-class of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The police appealed to the print and visual media, vloggers and independent journalists not to disclose the details of the minor girl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-disclose-the-identity-of-sexual-assault-victim/article37552421.ece
18 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Regional Passport Office opens special counter to help Haj pilgrims||The Regional Passport Office has opened a special counter at the Passport Seva Kendra, Coimbatore, to receive passport applications from Haj pilgrims. A press release said that a nodal officer (Haj-2022 Pilgrims) has been nominated at the Regional Passport Office, First Floor, Corporation Commercial Complex, Avinashi Road, Coimbatore, 641 018, for speedy disposal of the applications till January 31, 2022. The facility has been arranged for pilgrims from the districts of Coimbatore, Salem, Erode, Namakkal, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris. Haj pilgrims who have registered their applications online at www.https://passportindia.gov.in and obtained valid application reference number can take appointments, and approach the Passport Seva Kendra on the scheduled appointment time. Police verification Passports would be issued to Haj pilgrims on receipt of a clear police verification report from authorities and subject to other internal clearance. Appointment If the Haj pilgrims face problems in getting early appointment, they can approach the Regional Passport Office with valid application reference number and other required documents in person or through email rpo.che@mca.gov.in., the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/regional-passport-office-opens-special-counter-to-receive-applications-from-haj-pilgrims/article37552429.ece
18 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Arjun Sampath booked||The Bazaar Street police on Wednesday registered a case against Hindu Makkal Katchi founder Arjun Sampath on charges of issuing a threat to actor Vijay Sethupathi in social media. A release issued by the Coimbatore City Police said that a case was registered against Mr. Sampath for his tweet on November 7, wherein he announced cash prize of Rs. 1,001 for anyone who kicks Sethupathi for allegedly insulting U. Muthuramalinga Thevar. A case has been registered against Mr. Sampath under Sections 504 and 506 (i) of the IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arjun-sampath-booked/article37552419.ece
18 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Home and car loan mela||Bank of Baroda is organising a home and car loan exhibition in association with VG Event Management company on November 20 and 21 (Saturday and Sunday) at Suguna Kalyana Mandapam on Avanashi Road in Peelamedu. The expo will be open from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/home-and-car-loan-mela/article37552426.ece
18 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NCC cadet from Coimbatore shines in shooting competition||G. Priya Dharshini, a National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadet from Coimbatore, has stood first among women cadets in the All India G.V. Mavalankar Shooting Championship (AIGVMSC) held recently in Ahmedabad. A press release from NCC said that Flight Cadet Priya Dharshini is from 2 Tamil Nadu Air Squadron NCC, Coimbatore, and is an undergraduate student of Avinashilingam Institute of Home Science and Higher Education for Women. At the AIGVMSC, she stood first among NCC women cadets, and secured the All India ninth place in Prone Position category. She was also ranked all India 16th in the Three Position category, the release said. “Her performance at AIGVMSC has paved the way for her participation in the 64th National Shooting Championship to be held at Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh,” the release said. Meanwhile, a NCC cadet from Erode also participated in AIGVMSC and has qualified for the 64th National Shooting Championship. Cadet Kowshika Venkittu Subiramaniyan of 15 (Tamil Nadu) Battalion NCC, an undergraduate student from Kongu Arts and Science College in Erode, had secured All India 26th rank in Prone Position. Leadership course The 2 Tamil Nadu Air Squadron NCC conducted a ‘Basic Leadership Course’ for the NCC cadets of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for the training year 2021-22 at a private college in Othakkalmandapam. The course consist of lectures on leadership, personality development and general awareness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncc-cadet-from-coimbatore-shines-in-shooting-competition/article37552427.ece
18 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||State told to pay compensation to wife of slain prisoner||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has ordered the State government to pay Rs. 5 lakh as compensation to the wife of a remand prisoner who was murdered by another inmate in Coimbatore Central Prison in 2018. The SHRC, on Wednesday, ordered the State government to pay the compensation to Thangam Karunya, wife of Ramesh from Podanur, within one month. Ramesh, who was remanded in judicial custody in connection with a case, was murdered by remand prisoner M. Vijay on June 5, 2018. An investigation was held on the murder and the SHRC received a report on September 5, 2021. The Commission took the view that the life of the prisoner Ramesh could not be protected by the jail authorities. It was the duty of the State to protect the life of the prisoners inside the prison and the prison officials failed to do so. Therefore, the State was vicariously liable for the death of prisoner Ramesh for the violation of his human rights, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-told-to-pay-compensation-to-wife-of-slain-prisoner/article37552418.ece
18 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports two deaths, 115 fresh COVID-19 cases||A total of 115 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The Health Department said that 113 persons recovered from the disease and the district had 1,185 active cases as on Wednesday. Two more persons from the district died of the disease, taking the toll to 2,442. Mega vaccination drive The ninth mega vaccination drive will be held in Coimbatore district on November 18 (Thursday). The district administration said that the drive will be held through 347 camps in Coimbatore rural and 150 camps in the Corporation limits. Tiruppur district reported 50 fresh cases on Wednesday. The Health Department said that the district had 591 active cases on Wednesday and 67 persons recovered from the disease. Eighteen persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Wednesday and the overall tally rose to 33,868 cases. The district has 187 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-two-deaths-115-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37552428.ece
18 November 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||The 19th edition of Yarnex, India International Exhibition, and 11th edition of TexIndia, textile sourcing fair, will be held at IKF Complex, Avanashi Road, near TEA Public School in Tiruppur on November 18, 19 and 20. The fair is supported by Tiruppur Exporters Association, India Knit Fair Association, Tiruppur Exporters and Manufacturers Association, Tamil Nadu Fabric Manufacturers Association,Knit Cloth Manfacturers Association, Tiruppur Industrial Federation, Bahdur-ke-knitwear Association and Northern India Textile Mills Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly/article37552415.ece
18 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault||A 33-year-old man was arrested on charges of sexually abusing a 20-year-old woman in the city. The police said that the man, a construction worker residing in Kuniyamuthur Police Station limits, was related to the victim. On Monday, the accused came to know that the woman was alone at the house. He went to the house and sexually assaulted her. Based on a complaint lodged by the woman’s parents, Kuniyamuthur police arrested him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault/article37552420.ece
18 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Kurichi sub-station, November 18 (9 a.m. to 5 p.m.): SIDCO, Podanur, Kurichi, Housing Unit, Malumichampatty part, Sundarapuram, Eachanari and LIC Colony.  Sulur sub-station, November 20 (  9 a.m. to 2 p.m.): Sulur, BS Nagar, TM Nagar, Ranganathapuram, Kannampalayam, Kangeyampalayam, MG Pudur and Ravathur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37552417.ece
18 November 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Forest Minister holds meeting with officials||Minister for Forests K. Ramachandran held a regional-level consultation meeting with officials of Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri on Wednesday. Minister Ramachandran said, district-wise consultations are undertaken to examine the functioning of the Forest Department. The consultation is jointly being conducted with officials and the elected representatives of the district. According to the Minister, there have been unresolved, pending cases with the Forest Department for the last 10 years. Special attention will be given to address such pending cases and they will be resolved. The Chief Minister has called for giving special attention to petitions seeking road facility to inaccessible villages abutting forests. Such petitions shall be submitted through the respective department portals and such demands shall be expedited, he said. The Minister also disbursed benefits under schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-minister-holds-meeting-with-officials/article37552499.ece
18 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Cloth merchants begin two-day protest against high yarn price||Stating that high yarn price is affecting their business, members of 18 textile associations under the banner Erode Cloth Merchants Association began their two-day protest by closing shops on Wednesday. Over 3,000 shops in the city situated on Kongalamman Kovil Street, Chokkanatha Street, Ramasamy Street, NMS Compound, Kamarajar Street, Eswaran Kovil Street and market areas were closed affecting daily earners, including loadmen and vehicle drivers. Members said that frequent rise in yarn price had hit the industry hard as they were unable to carry out business. The price of yarn had gone up by 40% per kg in the past one month and is still on the rise forcing manufacturers to halt production, they added. Members wanted the price of yarn to be regulated and fixed once in a month unlike the current fixation on daily or weekly basis. They said that the two-day strike will affect direct business transactions and also other workers indirectly involved in the sector. Most of the textile streets in the city wore a deserted look due to the closure of shops. They urged the Central and State governments to take necessary steps to regulate the price of yarn. Members of bleaching and sizing associations, screen printing, calendaring mill owners association and yarn traders also took part in the strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cloth-merchants-begin-two-day-protest-against-high-yarn-price/article37552502.ece
18 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Compensation sought for damaged crops in Talavadi||With rain causing extensive damage to ragi crops in Talavadi, former Bhavanisagar MLA P.L. Sundaram has urged the administration to provide adequate compensation to the farmers so that they recover from the loss. In a petition submitted to District Collector H. Krishnanunni, Mr. Sundaram said that due to incessant rain in Talavadi taluk, most of the crops cultivated by farmers were damaged. The petition said that most of them were small and marginal farmers who were socially and economically backward. “Crop loss has affected them and they are unable to recover”, the petition said. The petition said that most of the farmers had cultivated ragi, which is also their main food. Rain water affected the maize crop that is cultivated widely, the petition said and added that roots of the turmeric crops were also damaged due to water stagnation. The petition urged the Collector to inspect the crop damage through officials and provide compensation to farmers. The petition said that compensation for crop damage is provided only to farmers in the Delta region and not in hill areas. Hence, the administration should ensure that farmers whose crops were damaged receive compensation, the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/compensation-sought-for-damaged-crops-in-talavadi/article37552511.ece
18 November 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Woman alleges illegal detention of husband and relatives||A 22-year-old woman from the Malai Kuravar tribe has petitioned the district administration alleging illegal detention of her husband and four other relatives by the Chinna Salem police since Monday. In the petition submitted to Collector P.N. Sridhar’s personal assistant Suresh on Tuesday, Bhuvaneshwari of Thillai Nagar complained that a team of policemen in plainclothes from the Chinna Salem police picked up her husband Prakash, 25, and relatives Dharmaraj, 35, and Selvam, 55, on Monday night. She claimed that they were sleeping in the house when the team knocked on the door and took the trio away in a police van. All pleas by his family to the police to at least tell why they were being picked up fell on deaf ears, Ms. Bhuvaneshwari said in her petition. Activists pointed out on Twitter that this brought to life scenes from the recently-released Suriya-starrer Jai Bhim . “When I went to the police station, they were not in the precincts of the station and they were detained illegally. The police again came to Thillai Nagar and picked up two other relatives — Paramasivam, 42, and Sakthivel, 29,” she said. When contacted, a police officer said Dharmaraj, Prakash and Sakthivel were involved in 13 cases of house break-ins and thefts in areas within the jurisdiction of Chinna Salem, Kilkuppam, Kacharapalayam and Kallakurichi town police stations. The fingerprints of the trio matched with the samples and they confessed to their involvement in the thefts. About 38 sovereigns of jewellery were recovered from them. They would be produced before a court today for remand while Paramasivam, 46, and Selvam, 52, have been let off. Fact-finding report Meanwhile, a fact-finding report, by Witness for Justice, a non-governmental organisation based in Madurai, accused the police of framing the names of Prakash and Dharmaraj in 13 cases each. K. Jeyasudha, Executive Director of Witness for Justice said that based on eyewitness accounts, a team of 10 policemen in plainclothes had barged into the house of Prakash on November 14 and forcibly took the trio in a police van. She said that in addition to foisting of cases, various forms of torture were still practised as a means of criminal investigation by the police, especially against those belonging to the Malai Kuravar tribe. The State Government should issue a circular to all police stations to stop such methods of torture and initiate stringent action against police personnel resorting to the practice. The Government should also ensure that cases were not filed against the tribes based on mere suspicion, she said. Witness for Justice also demanded installation of CCTVs in all police stations across the State.  She claimed her husband and her relatives were sleeping in the house when the team knocked on the door and took them away in a police van||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-alleges-illegal-detention-of-husband-and-relatives/article37552390.ece
18 November 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Doctor held||The All Women Police on Tuesday arrested an orthopaedic doctor on the charge sexually assaulting a minor girl. J. Rajinikanth (55), who owns a hospital in the town, had allegedly sexually abused the daughter of a 38-year-old woman employee of his hospital, when the girl came to the hospital for getting Deepavali bonus and gift a few days ago. He had apparently asked the victim to visit the hospital to get the bonus on her mother’s behalf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctor-held/article37552471.ece
18 November 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||41 two-wheelers recovered, five arrested in Shoolagiri||Five persons were arrested and 41 stolen two-wheelers were recovered by a special police patrol here in Shoolagiri. According to a release from the office of the Superintendent of Police E. Sai Charan Tejaswi, the arrests were made by the special team constituted to investigate the recurrent incidents of two-wheeler thefts in the area. On Monday, the team was patrolling in Shoolagiri, when five persons on two-wheelers were intercepted. The five persons- G. Dakshanamoorthy (26), Tiruvengadam (31), Satish alias Satishkumar (24), Santosh (19), and Arasan (24) during interrogation admitted to lifting two-wheelers in Shoolagiri, Bargur, Krishnagiri and Hosur, besides other districts. According to the police, the men led the team to 41 stolen vehicles that were worth Rs. 25 lakh. They were arrested and produced before the judicial magistrate court in Hosur and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/41-two-wheelers-recovered-five-arrested-in-shoolagiri/article37552498.ece
18 November 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Minister inaugurates office complexes of agri societies||Minister for Handlooms and Textiles R. Gandhi inaugurated office complexes of various Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies here on Wednesday. The infrastructure included Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies in Thally, Udhanapalli, and Nallaralapalli. They were built at a cost of Rs. 75 lakh. The foundation for these were laid in 2019-20. Similarly, the Minister also inaugurated the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society building in Anchetty constructed at a cost of Rs. 25 lakh. The project was initiated in 2020-21. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Gandhi said, the DMK government had always accorded priority to the cooperatives, which was an important department. However, it had been put in the backburner during the last decade, he said. Under the DMK’s term in 2006, of the 7,000 crore farm loan waiver, Rs. 244 crore was in Krishnagiri, he said. There are 170 Primary Agricultural Cooperative Societies in Krishnagiri, 22 Central societies, and 57 other credit societies. In 2021, Rs. 230.79 crore was waived to benefit 28,400 beneficiaries of 120 societies in the district. Further, a waiver of Rs. 376 crore in various societies is pending consideration, Mr. Gandhi said. Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy was present at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inaugurates-office-complexes-of-agri-societies/article37552500.ece
18 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Demand for more trains to southern districts gets louder||With Southern Railway announcing restoration of train services due to decline in number of COVID-19 cases, the demand for more trains connecting southern districts with rest of the State has grown stronger. Even years after completing the Chennai-Madurai doubling project, which has increased track availability manifold, only Tejas Express has been introduced as an additional train service. “We have been demanding additional train services on the sector to meet its potential. At least, the railways should keep its promise of introducing a double-decker day train,” says S. Rethinavelu, senior president, Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Similarly, after more than five years of completing the gauge conversion work between Madurai and Coimbatore, the railways has not restored the train services that were connecting southern districts with the western region. Rajya Sabha MP Vaiko has sought train services between Shencottai and Coimbatore, which has not seen many train services for many years after gauge conversion. He has also sought a train service between Rameswaram and Coimbatore. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has appealed to Southern Railway General Manager to start train services on the new broad gauge section of Madurai-Theni where train services have remained suspended for the last 10 years. Mr. Vaiko has reiterated the demand for expeditious completion of Madurai-Aruppukottai-Thoothukudi new railway line by allocating adequate funds. Issues such as new railway line proposed earlier to connect Dindigul with Sabarimala and additional railway stations on Madurai-Shencottai section are likely to be taken up by MPs from southern districts at a meeting with Southern Railway General Manager here on Thursday.  At least, the railways should keep its promise of introducing a double-decker day train S. Rethinavelu Senior president, Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demand-for-more-trains-to-southern-districts-gets-louder/article37552682.ece
18 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bid by college students to stage stir||Scores of students from various colleges were picked up at different places in the city on Wednesday when they tried to take out processions seeking conduct of semester examination in online mode. After the State government clarified that examination for all arts and science, engineering, polytechnic colleges and universities would be held only in offline mode on Tuesday, police stepped up vigil in the district. Police pickets were also posted in the colleges to prevent students holding agitations there. Students who were planning to take out a procession from Chinna Chokkikulam were picked up when they were hiding in a mall. All of them were later let off by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-by-college-students-to-stage-stir/article37552684.ece
18 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Isha founder seeks external audit of temples under HR&CE dept.||Isha Foundation founder Jagadish Vasudev has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the State for an external audit of temples coming under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan sought a response from the State to the petition that demanded an external audit of over 44,000 temples to ascertain their present status. The petitioner said the status of temple structures, lands, properties, possession and occupation of temple properties, rents received and dues, other assets like temple chariots, rituals and spiritual practices associated with the temples had to be ascertained. Apart from this, the funds received from the public, donations, fees and the state of expenditure of these funds also needed to be ascertained. The petitioner claimed that the situation prevailing in these temples might not be to the expected standards. It was necessary that the temples were maintained properly so that the spiritual process and the rituals were performed for the people to experience the purpose for which these temples were consecrated, the petitioner said. He also sought a direction to set up a commission comprising eminent people and experts to examine devolution of the temples to the community. The court adjourned the hearing by four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isha-founder-seeks-external-audit-of-temples-under-hrce-department/article37552486.ece
18 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure compliance to safety norms at Kunnathur Chathiram’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought a response from the State in a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to authorities to ensure compliance to safety standards at the new Kunnathur Chathiram building. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan sought a response to the petition filed by S. Rajendran of Madurai. The petitioner said that compliance to all safety standards and basic amenities should be ensured. The new building was all set to be opened to the public. But, he had doubts about the safety standards in place. The building had a capacity to accommodate around 200 shops, but it is said that close to 300 shops would be accommodated, he contended. The 300 shops in Pudu Mandapam and about 20 shops from the old Kunnathur Chathiram building would be accommodated in the new building. He said he had made enquiries about the new building and also visited the venue. He complained that there were anomalies with regard to safety standards. Also, the building lacked basic amenities. It had only two main entrances, which could turn out to be chaotic for the public. There was no proper emergency exit. The entire building was built in violation of the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act. The passage inside the building was not in accordance with the rules and it could lead to overcrowding. Further, parking facilities at the shopping centre were not adequate. There was every chance of waterlogging at the basement due to lack of proper drainage facilities, the petitioner said. He further added that the authorities should ensure compliance to safety standards and also provide basic amenities at the new building. The court adjourned the hearing by two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-compliance-to-safety-norms-at-kunnathur-chathiram/article37552676.ece
18 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Change in pattern of train services||Due to landslips in Kanniyakumari–Nagercoil Jn–Thiruvananthapuram sections, the following changes are made in the pattern of train services: Train No. 06426/06427 Thiruvananthapuram Central- Nagercoil Junction special train, Train No. 06425 Kollam Junction– Thiruvananthapuram Central Special train and Train No. 06435 Thiruvananthapuram Central– Nagercoil Junction special train are cancelled on Thursday. Besides, 20 trains have been partially cancelled/short-terminated at different stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/change-in-pattern-of-train-services/article37552491.ece
18 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man, cow electrocuted||A farmer and his cow died after thwy were struck by lightning near Parambupatti on Wednesday. R. Balu, 31, of Valayapatti was returning home after grazing his cow when lightning struck them, killing them on the spot. In another incident, K. Ajith Kumar, 23, was killed when a tree fell on him when he was cutting it at Theerthakarai near Vandiyoor. Anna Nagar police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-cow-electrocuted/article37552679.ece
18 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea seeks protection of temple ponds||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought the response from the State to a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to the authorities to maintain temple ponds and prevent waste materials from going into them. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan sought the State’s response to the petition filed by K.K. Ramesh of Madurai, which said those who polluted the temple ponds should be fined. The petitioner complained that the temple ponds were not being maintained properly by the authorities. Waste was getting mixed with the water. These ponds had been polluted and had to be renovated, he said. The court adjourned the hearing by four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-seeks-protection-of-temple-ponds/article37552677.ece
18 November 2021||Madurai/Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Special camps for voters’ list revision on November 20, 21||Additional special camps for inclusion and deletion of names in/from electoral rolls will be held on November 20 and 21. The Election Commission (EC) had instructed the States to hold special camps on November 13, 14, 27 and 28 as part of special summary revision of electoral rolls. The EC has now ordered holding of two more special camps on November 20-21, Madurai Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar said in a statement. The voters’ list revision, with January 1, 2022 as qualifying date, is under way from November 1 in all seven Assembly constituencies in Virudhunagar district. Residents can submit their applications seeking inclusion and deletion of names, and incorporating corrections and changes in address till November 30 at the polling station locations, taluk offices, divisional revenue offices, municipal offices and the Collectorate. Field enquiry Action on the applications will be taken after due field enquiry and the final voters’ list will be published on January 5, 2022. Taking into consideration the impact of the north-east monsoon, additional special camps will be held at all polling station locations on Saturday and Sunday. People can collect the required forms from the booth-level officers and submit the filled-in applications along with relevant documents. They can also apply through website www.nvsp.in for inclusion of names through Form 6. The applicants should submit applications along with photographs, proof of age and address. Non-resident Indians should use Form 6A for inclusion of their names. People can also use the mobile application ‘Voters Helpline’ for inclusion of names. For clarifying any doubts, toll-free number 1950 can be contacted, according to the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camps-for-voters-list-revision-on-november-20-21/article37552681.ece
18 November 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Rain continues to lash three districts||Mangalapuram in the district received 106.80 mm rainfall on Wednesday. Rainfall recorded at 7 a.m. in the district at other places were Senthamangalam - 43 mm, Kolli Hills - 14 mm, Kumarapalayam - 7.80 mm, Rasipuram - 4.30 mm, Mohanur - 4 mm, and Collectorate - 3.50 mm. In Erode district, Nambiyur recorded the maximum rainfall of 48 mm, followed by Kodiveri - 42 mm, Chennimalai - 20 mm, Bhavanisagar - 18.2 mm, Perundurai - 17 mm, and Gunderipallam - 16 mm. Salem district recorded a total of 352.30 mm rainfall with Gangavalli recording 83.6 mm. Rainfall recorded at other places were Mettur - 59.4 mm, Kadayampatti - 37 mm, Attur - 36.4 mm, Yercaud - 31.4 mm, Veeraganur - 26 mm, Omalur - 17.1 mm, Anaimaduvu - 17 mm, P.N. Palayam - 15 mm, and Thammampatti - 10 mm. Meanwhile, the low-level bridge across River Thirumanimutharu at Sengal Anai was submerged but people continue to use the same. Shevaroyan Hills has been receiving good rainfall over the past two weeks and the river that originates from the hill is carrying copious water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-continues-to-lash-three-districts/article37552509.ece
18 November 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Rise in suicides among teens and young adults in U.T.||In disquieting signs of the extended impact of COVID-19 driving more youths to suicidal thoughts, there has been a sharp rise in suicide attempts among those aged 14-35, according to data sourced under the Right to Information Act from health and police records. Between January 1 and December 31, 2020, 1,573 suicide attempts by teens and young adults were registered at the State-run Indira Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute (IGMCRI) alone, according to the data sourced from medical records by the Trust for Youth and Child Leadership (TYCL), a youth-oriented organisation with special consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council. More women (857) than men (716) accounted for the suicide attempts in the 14-35 age group. “These numbers suggest an alarming jump from previous years for the 14-35 age segment and perhaps can be correlated with the psycho-social impact of the pandemic,” said TYCL administrator Suresh Krishna. Given that the data was sourced from just one government hospital, the magnitude of the problem could be much more, counsellors said. While precise figures of suicide attempts in this demographic segment for a pre-pandemic year to quantify the extent of increase in 2020 were not immediately available, the estimation in some studies that suicidal attempts are 20 times higher than the completed suicides offers a pointer to the magnitude of the multi-dimensional malaise. In fact, the increase in suicide attempts among the younger age segments presents a depressing sub-text to the relative improvement in the overall mental health situation in the Union Territory. After topping the country’s suicide death charts a few years ago, Puducherry has improved to the fourth place, according to new data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) under the Ministry of Home Affairs. Puducherry, which had the country’s highest suicide rate of 43.2 per lakh of population in 2015 against a national rate of 10.6, has registered suicide rates of 33.3 per lakh in 2016, 40.1 in 2017, 33.8 in 2018, 32.5 in 2019 and 26.3 in 2020. Meanwhile, research literature from JIPMER points to two broad trends of the pandemic phase — the demographic shift in suicides, completed or attempted, involving the age groups between 31 and 50 years, and the mode and setting chosen for the extreme step, said Vikas Menon, a faculty member at the Department of Psychiatry, JIPMER. Dr. Menon, who co-authored four papers on various aspects of COVID-related suicides in the Asian Journal of Psychiatry and the Australian & New Zealand Journal of Psychiatry during 2020-21, said one of the studies that analysed media reportage on suicides in India and Bangladesh — that went into lockdown virtually at the same period — found that the two most common modes of death by suicide were hanging (47.6%) and jumping from height (19.2%). Besides, of all suicides, 35.7% occurred in institutional settings, 13.9% in homes, 9.9% at places near their homes and 40.3% in places like hotel, railway tracks and wells. Deeper examination “The figures are certainly worrisome, even accounting for the fact that a large proportion of suicide attempts reported to a large hospital such as IGMCRI or the General Hospital may involve those from places falling in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. We have asked psychiatry and mental health experts to undertake a deeper examination into the reasons for these high numbers and devise interventions,” Director of Health G. Sriramulu said. A combined analysis by TYCL of RTI data, media reports and its own Youth Helpline call records suggests that though suicide rate is declining, suicides among Puducherry’s youths, including attempts, seems to be rising gradually as borne out by the figures for 2015-2020. TYCL also found that the major triggers for suicide ideation were frustration in life, family problems, economic and health issues. The analysis also showed that the youth in rural regions were at an equally high suicide risk but were worse off than the urban youth in terms of access to mental health resources and services. Police records showed that rural suicide deaths in the 14-35 age segment accounted for 111 of the total 221 deaths in 2018, 137of the 223 deaths in 2019 and 105 of the 235 deaths in 2020. Towards addressing the lacuna of access in rural areas, TYCL recently introduced a mobile mental health clinic. The aim is to identify and sensitise vulnerable people through effective outreach of first-line mental health services and address the root causes of suicide among the rural young people. The mobile clinic will be deployed across all commune panchayats of Puducherry and provide mental health counselling, career and entrepreneurship guidance and education-related support. “We have piloted the mobile unit on a thrice-a-week schedule to cover one commune a day. Depending on need, we will expand it to a week-long operation,” Mr. Krishna said. TYCL’s Youth Helpline had been initiated as a safe space for youth and address socio-economic and emotional determinants of youth suicide with the support of professionals and community stakeholders. Between 2017 and June 2021, the helpline has logged more than 1,040 calls primarily relating to general counselling, job assistance, academic/career guidance and entrepreneurship enquiries, said YuvaYazhini, coordinator of the mobile clinic. Apart from TYCL’s helpline 9655507090 (9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Monday to Saturday), those in mental distress can reach out to Sneha’s round-the-clock suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rise-in-suicides-among-teens-and-young-adults-in-ut/article37552750.ece
18 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||One death, 25 new cases reported in Puducherry||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death and 25 new cases on Wednesday. Puducherry reported the sole fatality to take the cumulative toll in the Union Territory to 1,867. The toll by region is Puducherry (1,460), Karaikal (250), Yanam (108) and Mahe (49). Puducherry logged 15 of the new cases, which were detected from 2,425 tests, followed by Karaikal (7), Yanam (1) and Mahe (2). With 27 patients recovering from Covid in the past 24 hours, the active cases totalled to 317. The tally comprised 92 patients in hospital and 225 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.03%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.3%. The Union Territory has to date recorded an aggregate of 1,28,520 cases against 1,26,336 recovered patients. Meanwhile, 4,695 persons took the jab against COVID-19. The Union Territory has so far administered 11,65,059 doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-death-25-new-cases-reported-in-puducherry/article37552748.ece
18 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘No gain for Puducherry from meet’||Former Puducherry Chief Minister and Congress veteran V. Narayanasamy said the recent south zonal conference of Chief Ministers and Governors in Tirupati had failed to produce any constructive outcome or commitment to the demands raised by the Union Territory. Addressing a virtual media conference, Mr. Narayanasamy said that the Union Home Minister Amit Shah who chaired the conference had not responded to any of the proposals put forth by Chief Minister N. Rangasamy. Pointing out that the fiscal health of the Union Territory was in a dire state, Mr. Narayanasamy said even with this being the case, there had been no positive response from Mr. Shah to the plea for higher Central grants to implement the Centrally-sponsored schemes in Puducherry. “The Centre is mobilising revenue from the Union Territory on several fronts and proportionately the government was entitled to receive Rs. 3,200 crore. However, only about Rs. 1,720 crore was provided as Budgetary allocation. This went to show that the Centre is neglecting the development of Puducherry,” Mr. Narayanasamy claimed. Even on the plea for Statehood raised by the Chief Minister and plea for inclusion of the Union Territory in the Central Finance Commission, the chair remained mum, he claimed. Referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s election campaign catch-phrase that the NDA, if voted to power, would ensure that Puducherry emerged as the BEST hub (business, education, spirituality and tourism), Mr. Narayanasamy alleged that far from taking any steps to make it ‘BEST’ Puducherry, the place was turning into ‘worst’ Union Territory since the AINRC-BJP government assumed office. In short, nothing had changed as far as the plight of Puducherry was concerned, he said. The Congress leader also said the Puducherry Home Minister A Namassivayam submitting a separate memorandum to Mr. Shah instead of making a joint submission with Mr. Rangasamy, exposed the lack of cohesion in the NDA administration. Alleging that Mr. Rangasamy was announcing welfare dole on a piecemeal basis to salvage his ‘populist reputation’, Mr. Narayanasamy claimed that several of the Chief Minister’s key promises, including raising the wages of breakfast scheme workers, had not been fulfilled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-gain-for-puducherry-from-meet/article37552747.ece
18 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Resume talks, fishers’ forum urges Centre||The National Fisherfolk Forum (NFF) has urged the Centre to initiate dialogue between fishermen representatives of India and Sri Lanka in the wake of the rise in incidents of incarceration of Indian fishermen and impounding of their boats by the Sri Lankan Navy. Talking to reporters, NFF chairperson M. Ilango said that bilateral talks between fishermen representatives had been stalled since 2017. The Centre should revive the bilateral consultations to devise an acceptable protection of the right to livelihood of the fishermen of both countries. Mr. Ilango also demanded the Centre to prevail upon the Sri Lankan government to release two boats impounded by them. The Indian Government should immediately intervene and get the boats released, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resume-talks-fishers-forum-urges-centre/article37552751.ece
18 November 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||6,000 additional buses are being operated in T.N.: Minister||Ever since the DMK came back to power, around 6,000 additional buses were being operated in the State, said Transport Minister R. S. Rajakannappan. Speaking at a special camp held for patta-related issues at Keezhamudi Mannarkottai near Kamuthi here on Wednesday, Mr. Rajakannappan said while only 14,000 buses were being operated during the previous AIADMK regime, over 19,290 buses were now being operated following public demand. “This government is not for profit-making through transport corporations, but operating buses as a service to the people. Additional buses were being operated despite increasing diesel price, cost of spare parts and administrative expenses,” he said. By making available all spare parts, all the buses that were operated during Deepavali reached their destinations without any trouble. While the government expected only 40 per cent women to make use of the free travel in town buses, around 61.4 per cent women were making use of it, he said. Speaking on the occasion, Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu said the government was reaching out to the people at their doorstep. “Earlier, people had to go to the taluk office or office of the Revenue Divisional Officers and the Collectorate to get patta-related issues redressed. But, now the government and its officials are coming to your villages for the same,” he said. He also pointed to the health services at doorstep being implemented by the DMK government. He promised that more welfare schemes were in the pipeline in the near future. Collector Shankar Lal Kumawat, MLAs Kader Batcha Muthuramalingam and S. Murugesan, District Revenue Officer A. M. Kamatchi Ganesan, Additional Collector (District Rural Development Agency) K.J. Praveenkumar and Paramakudi Revenue Divisional Officer R. Murugan were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6000-additional-buses-are-being-operated-in-tn-minister/article37552490.ece
18 November 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Only 37 tanks in Ramanathapuram are brimming with water||While low storage in tanks in Ramanathapuram district under Lower Vaigai Basin has given a cushion for the district administration to absorb more rainwater during the monsoon, farmers want the officials to seek release of water from Vaigai dam to fill the tanks to ensure uninterrupted agricultural operation. As on Tuesday, only 37 of the 500 tanks under Lower Vaigai Basin – mostly in R.S. Mangalam, Tiruvadanai and Keelakarai taluks – have water to their full capacity. Storage is above 75 per cent in 105 tanks and 171 other tanks have got storage above 50 per cent of their capacity. “Most of the tanks that have got full storage following the recent widespread rain are small,” a Public Works Department engineer said. The flood water that was released for the last few days from Vaigai dam through the river did not help much as a good amount of water was tapped in the districts upstream of Ramanathapuram. However, with more rainfall predicted in the north-east monsoon, the official exuded confidence of the storage in tanks going up. “Besides, the rainfall experienced in the ayacut has kept the demand for water release lower,” he said. The rain has helped the district cultivate paddy on around 1.30 lakh hectares according to Joint Director of Agriculture Tom P. Silas. “We can get our share of Vaigai credit of water from Vaigai dam next month when the demand for irrigation will peak,” the PWD engineer said. However, M. Madurai Veeran, general secretary of Vaigai Irrigation Farmers Association, said water from Vaigai dam for irrigation should be released immediately. “Even in the past, we had demanded that water should be released for river wetting in October to recharge drinking water projects and in the first week of November for irrigation purpose,” Mr. Madurai Veeran said. He said if water was released now, more water under Vaigai credit could be stored in the dam for future usage. Out of 141 tanks under Gundar Basin, only 60 tanks have water above 50 per cent of their capacity, sources said.  If water is released now, more water under Vaigai credit could be stored in the dam for future usage M. Madurai Veeran General secretary of Vaigai Irrigation Farmers Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-37-tanks-in-ramanathapuram-are-brimming-with-water/article37552493.ece
18 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Discharge stepped up to 45,000 cusecs in Mettur||Following increase in inflow at the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur, the discharge was stepped up from 40,000 cusecs to 45,000 cusecs on Wednesday. The water level at the reservoir continues to be at 119 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 120 feet while the discharge was maintained at 20,000 cusecs on Wednesday. At 8 a.m., the water level stood at 120.10 feet against the full reservoir level while the storage was 93.63 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) against the capacity of 93.47 tmcft. About 22,000 cusecs is discharged through power houses while 23,000 cusecs is discharged through 16-vent Ellis Saddle surplus channel. Also, 500 cusecs is discharged through East-West canal. Rainfall recorded in the area was 59.40 mm. Public Works Department officials said that the discharge was increased at 10.15 p.m. on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the water level at the Bhavanisagar dam in Erode district stood at 103.84 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 105 feet. At 8 a.m., the inflow into the dam was 3,968 cusecs while the discharge was 2,000 cusecs into the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal and 100 cusecs into the River Bhavani for drinking water purposes. The storage was 31.82 tmc against the capacity of 32.80 tmc. Rainfall recorded in the area was 18.2 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharge-stepped-up-to-45000-cusecs-in-mettur/article37552507.ece
18 November 2021||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Fireworks unit owners held||Sivakasi Town police have arrested a fireworks unit owner, T. Maniraj (35) in connection with the blast at a tube-making unit at Nehruji Nagar here on Monday that claimed lives of two female workers. They booked Ramanathan and his wife Panchavarnam, owners of the unit, and Maniraj and his brother, T. Marimuthu. They stocked raw materials for making crackers in the tube-making unit that led to the explosion that killed two workers and injured two others.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fireworks-unit-owners-held/article37552685.ece
18 November 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Revival of original train schedule sought||The Train Passengers Association, Papanasam, has sought the revival of pre-COVID fare long-distance train services with original schedule and not by merely dropping the ‘special train’ status of the services being operated with modified train schedule. Though shedding of the ‘special train’ status for the services being operated from May 2020 would result in revival of old train fair structure, it said that continuing with the current services with the modified ‘special train’ schedule would not be fair. For instance, the halts for Mayiladuthurai-Mysuru Express (16231/32) and Tiruchendur-Chennai Express (16106/05) services at Papanasam were withdrawn when these services were operated as ‘COVID Specials’ during the last one-and-half years in spite of the Papanasam Railway Station’s passenger ticket revenue collection crossed Rs. 1.50 crore during the 2019-20 financial year. The withdrawal of halt at Papanasam for 16231/32 and 16105/06 trains had baffled the Papanasam commuters as the patronage for other trains such as the Uzhavan Express which was also operated as COVID Special with higher fare did not witness steep fall during the pandemic period, said T.Saravanan, secretary, TPA, Papanasam. As the repeated pleas to revive the halt for Mysuru and Chendur Express COVID Special trains had failed to break the ice, the association hopes that the restoration of old train number should be executed in toto so that the withdrawal of certain halts for the trains operated as COVID Specials was also done away with, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revival-of-original-train-schedule-sought/article37552473.ece
18 November 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Briefly - tan 2 and city||An advocate, V. Madan, 38, of East Gudalur, was hacked to death by an unidentified gang at Uthamapalayam on Wednesday. Police said the armed gang waylaid Madan when he was proceeding towards Uthamapalayam bus stand on his motorcycle and hacked him indiscriminately. He was rushed to a hospital where he succumbed to injuries. Police suspect that he could have been murdered due to previous enmity.      Sivakasi Town police have arrested a fireworks unit owner, T. Maniraj (35) in connection with the blast at a tube-making unit at Nehruji Nagar here on Monday that claimed lives of two female workers. The police had booked Ramanathan and his wife Panchavarnam, owners of the paper tube manufacturing unit, and Maniraj and his brother, T. Marimuthu, in this connection. The police said that the brothers had stocked raw materials for making crackers in the tube-making unit that led to the explosion that killed two workers and injured two others. The police are on the look out for other three accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly-tan-2-and-city/article37552494.ece
18 November 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Stalin should fulfil his earlier demand on crop loss compensation: Annamalai||Chief Minister M. K. Stalin, who had batted for a crop loss compensation of Rs. 30,000 per acre when he was the Opposition leader, should fulfil that demand now, BJP State president K. Annamalai said. Speaking to reporters at the airport here on Wednesday, Mr. Annamalai, who was on his way to Kanniyakumari district to visit rain-hit areas, recalled that Mr. Stalin, who had demanded a crop loss compensation of Rs. 30,000 per acre as the leader of the Opposition following Cyclone Nivar, had announced a crop loss compensation of only Rs. 20,000 per hectare, which amounted to only Rs. 8,000 per acre.  He also criticised Mr. Stalin for paying only “lightning visit” to the rain-hit areas, including Kanniyakumari district. “ If Mr. Stalin had entered the distorted fields and held the damaged crops in his hands, he would have announced a compensation of Rs. 30,000 per acre,” Mr. Annamalai noted. The BJP leader also came down heavily on Minister for Health Ma. Subramanian for his demand of Rs. 5,000 for every affected family of Chennai from the Centre as “rain relief”. “Chennai got flooded as the DMK government miserably failed to desilt over 1,400-km-long drainage channels. Hence, the Stalin-led administration is solely responsible for this deplorable failure,” he said, adding the BJP would stage demonstrations in all 11 districts in the Chennai region demanding a relief of Rs. 5,000 per family from the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-should-meet-his-earlier-demand-on-crop-loss-relief-bjp/article37552680.ece
18 November 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Diesel, ration rice seized||The Civil Supplies CID police seized 28,400 litres of diesel and nine tonnes of ration rice in two surprise raids in the district on Wednesday. Following information about illegal sale of diesel to mechanised fishing boats, a Civil Supplies CID police team, headed by DSP Elangovan and Inspector Thillai Nagarajan, conducted surprise check in a godown on Madathur–Sorispuram Road on Wednesday. A tanker with 28,000 litres of diesel had been parked in the godown without proper documents and a mini cargo vehicle with 400 litres of diesel was about to leave the place. The police confiscated the vehicles with diesel. During investigation, the police found that the diesel had been brought from Chennai and other places to be sold to the customers illegally. Diesel samples were lifted from the tanker and the cargo vehicle to be sent for analysis to find if it was adulterated.  In another incident, Mr. Thillai Nagarajan and his team seized nine tonnes of ration rice from a private godown at Ariyanayagipuram on Ponnankurichi–Peikulam Road. Steps have been taken to arrest the ration rice smugglers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diesel-ration-rice-seized/article37552472.ece
18 November 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Narikoravas will soon get permanent houses: Collector||‘Narikoravas’ living in the district will soon get permanent houses, promised Collector K. Senthil Raj here on Wednesday. As the State government had recently sent letters to all Collectors to conduct a comprehensive survey about the living conditions of ‘narikoravas’ and other marginalised sections of society and take steps for ensuring proper distribution of welfare schemes to them, Dr. Senthil Raj visited the narikoravas who are living near the new bus stand on Wednesday. The Collector said a comprehensive report would be sent to the government by November 25. Dr. Senthil Raj interacted with the narikoravas to ascertain their living conditions and needs. “A special camp will be organised shortly at their place to give them Aadhaar cards, ration cards, voter ID cards and orders for getting old age pension. We will select the right place near Thoothukudi within a week for constructing permanent houses for them,” Dr. Senthil Raj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narikoravas-will-soon-get-permanent-houses-collector/article37552788.ece
18 November 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||25 kg ganja seized in Thoothukudi, one held||Police have arrested a driver from Madurai for allegedly smuggling 25 kg of ganja worth Rs. 3 lakh from Madurai in his mini cargo vehicle. The vehicle was stopped, when a police team, led by Inspector of Police, Thoothukudi North (in-charge), Murugan, was conducting a vehicle check at State Bank Colony on Wednesday. As the driver, P. Alex Pandi, 29, from Vandiyoor in Madurai, gave contradicting replies, the police checked the cargo. They found 25 kg ganja kept in a bag along with other parcels. The police seized the ganja with the vehicle, and arrested Alex Pandi. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar said 369 persons had been detained this year with 316 kg of ganja and 309 cases had been registered in this connection. He also said 172 persons had been detained under the Goondas Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-kg-ganja-seized-in-thoothukudi-one-held/article37552787.ece
18 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Delay in commissioning barrage at Upper Anicut||The heavy flow due to diversion of surplus water into the Kollidam has delayed the commissioning of new barrage being built across the river at Upper Anicut (Mukkombu). The barrage is being constructed at an estimate of Rs. 387.60 crore after a portion of the old barrage across the river collapsed in August 2018. The regulator is being constructed 75 metres away from the damaged structure on the downstream of the riverbed. The work began in June 2019 and was scheduled to be completed it in two years. The Public Works Department was hoping to complete the bridge by this month. But construction had to be suspended intermittently due to release of surplus discharge in the Kollidam and the COVID 19 lockdown. The work has been affected again due to release of surplus water in the Kollidam right at the beginning of the north east monsoon. On Tuesday, over 40,000 cusecs of surplus waters was diverted into the river at Upper Anicut. With the Mettur Dam reaching its capacity forcing the release of surplus flows, the water diversion is expected to continue for some days. With the heavy water flow coming right at the beginning of the north east monsoon, officials feel that there could be intermittent, if not continuous, flow in the river over the next couple of months. According to sources in the PWD, construction of the new barrage has almost been completed and only some finishing works were pending. “Shutters have been erected on all vents and the diverted water is actually flowing across the new barrage. But in view of the water flow, it would take some more time to complete the remaining work. The barrage is likely to be fully completed and ready for commissioning by March,” they said. Work on strengthening and developing the river bund from Mukkombu to the Tropical Butterfly Conservatory in Srirangam,taken up as part of the construction of the barrage, too has to be completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delay-in-commissioning-barrage-at-upper-anicut/article37552477.ece
18 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IIM-Tiruchi felicitates best performers||Indian Institute of Management Tiruchi (IIM- Tiruchi) felicitated the best performers of PGPM 2018-2020, 2019-2021 batches, and PGPBM 2017-19, 2018-2020 batches with gold medals and certificates at a ceremony held recently. Urging students to be worthy of praise and receptive to criticism, Pawan Kumar Singh, Director, IIM Tiruchi, oriented them on the levels of authority and responsibility that would be bestowed on them during the course of their career. Attaining physical and mental health and spiritual peace was vital, he said. From PGPM 2018-20 batch, J.Navisa was awarded the Chariperson’s gold medal and ICSI Signature Award for securing first rank, and Punjab National Bank gold medal for first rank among women Students. Vadlamudi Swetha was awarded Director’s gold medal for securing second rank and Kotak Securities gold medal for the Best all round performance. R.Karthigeyan was awarded Canara Bank Gold Medal for securing Third Rank. From PGPM 2019-21 Batch Narala Tejaswini was awarded the Chairperson’s gold medal and ICSI Signature Award for securing First Rank, Punjab National Bank gold medal for first rank among women students, and HDFC Bank gold medal for academic proficiency in marketing. Karusala Srivaishnavi was awarded Director’s gold medal for securing second rank. In PGPBM 2017-19 batch, S.Kayalvizhi was awarded Chairperson’s gold medal for securing first rank. From PGPBM 2018-20 batch, S.Arasuprakash was awarded Chairperson’s gold medal for securing first rank and T.Kamalaganesh was awarded Director’s gold medal for securing second rank. Deepak Kumar Srivastava, Dean-Academics, spoke of how the medal winners functioned as the the bridge between the institute and the industry, applying classroom learning in real life. The ceremony was followed by tree plantation activity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iim-tiruchi-felicitates-best-performers/article37552784.ece
18 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to halt Rockfort Express on first platform||The Chennai-Tiruchi Rockfort Superfast Express, which had long been arriving on platform 1 at the Tiruchi Railway Junction, now arrives frequently on 4th or 5th platform much to the inconvenience of passengers. This train between Tiruchi and Chennai caters to commuters of Tiruchi and its suburbs. Nearly 2,000 to 2,500 passengers travel in the train per single trip. Since the departure and arrival time between Chennai and Tiruchi seems to be convenient for the people of Tiruchi, many prefer to travel in it. Considering the convenience of the public, the train was halted on the first platform for long. But in the recent past, except on some days, the train is halted either on the 4th or 5th platform in Tiruchi junction. Though it does not pose problems to the young passengers, elders, women and physically challenged, face hardship in walking out of the railway junction by carrying luggage. The escalator in the junction serves the passengers to reach 2nd and 3rd platforms. There is no escalator facility for 4th or 5th or other platforms. In the absence of an escalator, the passengers have to walk through the subway to go out of the junction. It has really troubled the passengers. The passengers of above 60-years of age and those, who have knee pain or knee-related issues, have been the worst hit. They find it extremely difficult to climb up and climb down on the subway by carrying luggage. “The train is often halted on the 4th or 5th platform. It is not an easy task to climb up on steep steps. We have been forced to come out of the junction with the help of others,” says A. Justin, a senior citizen of Tiruchi, who travelled from Chennai to Tiruchi in Rockfort Express recently. The passengers are of the view that since the Rockfort Express is a premium train, the authorities should give priority to halt it on the first platform. Other passing trains can arrive at other platforms as passengers alighting in Tiruchi may be less.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-halt-rockfort-express-on-first-platform/article37552475.ece
18 November 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Drop in cases||The central region reported 106 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, a dip compared to the previous days. Two patients succumbed to the viral infection in the region- one each from Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur district. In Tiruchi, the total number of patients reporting COVID-19 positive continued to be high compared to other districts in the region. A total of 33 patients had reported COVID-19 positive on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the other eight districts reported less than 25 cases. In Thanjavur, 23 patients tested COVID-19 positive. Karur reported 15 fresh COVID-19 cases, and Tiruvarur, 14. Nagapattinam meanwhile, registered nine fresh cases and Pudukottai district, six. Perambalur district reported three COVID-19 cases, Mayiladuthurai, two and Ariyalur district reported one fresh COVID-19 case- the lowest in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drop-in-covid-19-cases/article37552482.ece
18 November 2021||TIRUCHI / THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers upset over ‘meagre’ relief for crop damage||Farmers in the Cauvery delta districts have expressed disappointment over the quantum of relief announced by Chief Minister M.K.Stalin for the rain affected crops, especially the decision to provide only inputs for the inundated samba / thaladi crops. Farmers’ representatives demanded that affected farmers should be compensated suitably for the yield loss in kuruvai crop as there was no crop insurance for the season and given cash relief for the damage to the standing samba / thaladi crops caused by the heavy monsoon rain. The input supply for the samba / thaladi crops, announced by the government, would not be of much use to farmers, they said. “The Chief Minister’s announcement has caused a lot of confusion and belied the expectations of farmers as the relief is not commensurate with the losses suffered by them,” said P.R.Pandian, general secretary, Tamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam. Arupathy Kalynam, general secretary, Federation of Farmers Associations of Cauvery Delta Districts, observed that there was no clarity on whether the relief has been sanctioned from the State or national disaster response funds and on what basis / norms. Both the farmer leaders insisted that the inputs offered in view of the samba / thaladi crop damages would be of no use to the affected farmers and instead cash relief should be given. Mr.Pandian said it would not be possible to revive the affected crops using the inputs given by the government. Mr.Kalyanam felt that it would be highly difficult for farmers to take up cultivation afresh in canal irrigated areas as they would have to first wait for the rain to stop. Reclaiming the inundated fields for fresh cultivation would cost more, said G.Srinivasan of Ganapathi Agraharam in Thanjavur district, who also sought relief for horticulture crops. Pointing out that farmers have taken up kuruvai cultivation without crop insurance, Mr.Kalyanam urged the government to sanction a relief of Rs. 50,000 a hectare (ha) to farmers who suffered yield loss during the season. “For the affected samba / thaaldi crop, the government should sanction Rs. 20,000 per ha for irrigated crops, Rs. 10,000 per ha for rainfed crop and Rs. 25,000 per ha for perennial crops as was done by the previous AIADMK government after the Nivar and Burevi cyclones last year,” Mr.Kalyanam demanded. Summing up the situation, V.Jeevakumar, vice-president, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, Thanjavur, said samba / thaladi farmers were not just disappointed but desperate. “The Chief Minister should sanction Rs. 30.000 a hectare for the affected samba/thaladi crop as that is what he had demanded last year when in Opposition,” he said. Mr.Pandian also expressed disappointment over the exclusion of ‘karumbu’ in the Pongal gift hampers announced by the government on Wednesday. Many farmers had grown the crop anticipating procurement by the government for being included in the hampers as was done over the past few years, he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-upset-over-meagre-relief-announced-for-crop-damage/article37552386.ece
18 November 2021||TIRUCHI/PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No approach road to burial ground’||Dalit residents of Peruvalappur near Lalgudi struggle to reach the burial grounds allotted to them during rainy days every year as they have to wade through a supply channel, locally called Nandi river, which passes through their village. Several requests from the people for construction of a bridge across the channel have gone unheeded. Velusamy, a resident of the village, said that the issue was pending for the last 10 years. ‘Even last week, we waited with a body for at least two hours to cross over to the other side. Had we stepped in before, we would have all drowned,’ he said. While the burial grounds allotted for people belonging to backward classes are by the road, those for the Christian and Hindu Scheduled Castes are on the other side of the channel. Whenever there is a death in the village, where at least 1,000 people reside, the biggest concern is if the people carrying the body would be able to cross the canal, he said. It is difficult for the pallbearers to hold the casket and walk through the water without slipping, he said. A revenue official said that there was a bridge over the supply channel constructed by the State Highways connecting Kanakiliyanallur and Peruvalappur less than 100 metres away. It would be more feasible to lay an approach road to the burial ground from the bridge than to construct another bridge for this purpose, he said. “We have informed the people of this plan and will start work soon,” he said. Meanwhile, a similar problem faced by the people of Puduvalasal in Karambakudi Block in Pudukottai district came to the fore on Wednesday. The burial ground for over 100 families, who lived nearly 1.5 km away, is accessible only by crossing a supply channel, which had been flowing at full capacity due to the recent rain. The people took to the streets to stage a protest along with the body of an old woman who was to be buried, after several petitions to the district administration seeking an approach road allegedly failed to evoke any response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-approach-road-to-burial-ground/article37552484.ece
18 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Green drive on top gear as 11,000 seed balls to be thrown in Ervadi||As part of the district administration’s ongoing afforestation programme, Collector V. Vishnu participated in the ‘seed balls’ throwing exercise organised by TVS Srinivasan Services Trust at Gandhi Nagar area near Ervadi on Wednesday. Along with the students, Mr. Vishnu threw the seed balls to mark the inauguration of the programme, which will ensure throwing of 11,000 seed balls with 44,000 seeds of native trees like neem. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating the exercise, Mr. Vishnu said the district administration, which started ‘Nellai Neervalam’ (Tirunelveli Water Resources) with the active participation of volunteers to conserve waterbodies, had prepared a Digital Water Atlas, the mapping of water resources and restoration. As part of ‘Nellai Neervalam’, afforestation and extension of greenery had been initiated. He said, “Since the north-east monsoon has become active in the district, we are using this conducive climatic condition for intensifying our afforestation programme through seed balls throwing exercise. It will be replicated in various parts of the district during this monsoon season through school and the college students by creating a ‘Green Brigade’ in the educational institutions,” Mr. Vishnu said. The Collector said crop damage survey in Radhapuram, Valliyoor and Nanguneri areas would commence once rainwater drained. Compensation had been given to owners of 10 damaged houses in Radhapuram and Nanguneri taluks. “Since most of the irrigation channels have been desilted, 45 of the 49 irrigation tanks getting water from Hanuman river are now overflowing after three decades,” Mr. Vishnu said. Later, Mr. Vishnu inspected Ervadi primary health centre and the anganvadi at Ervadi Panchayat Union Primary School and its kitchen without announcement. The Collector also inspected Nanguneri Big Tank bunds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/green-drive-on-top-gear-as-11000-seed-balls-to-be-thrown-in-ervadi/article37552790.ece
18 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Heavy downpour in Tirunelveli||After several years, the district, especially the twin towns of Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai, experienced heavy downpour for more than an hour on Wednesday evening. The rain that started with mild drizzle around 4.15 p.m., became a heavy downpour at 4.30 p.m. Within next 15 minutes low-lying areas like Manakaavalanpillai Nagar were inundated. Rainwater also entered the Sivan Temple in Palayamkottai. Seven persons who took shelter under a bus stop shelter at Seythunganallur near Palayamkottai swooned due to heavy thunder. They were rushed to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. Their condition is said to be stable. Vehicular traffic along one of the four lanes near Sivanthipatti hillock was affected after the downpour triggered a fall of stones from the mound. Collector V. Vishnu declared holiday for schools on Thursday following the heavy rain||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-downpour-in-tirunelveli/article37552488.ece
18 November 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Wednesday stood at 139.20 feet (maximum permissible level is 143 ft.) with an inflow of 2,543.92 cusecs and a discharge of 1,898.20 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 90.90 ft. (118 ft.) with an inflow of 750 cusecs and a discharge of 10 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37552792.ece
18 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Fire service personnel rescue elderly man from treetop||Personnel from the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS) Department on Wednesday rescued a 75-year-old man who was stuck atop a 600-ft-high coconut tree, after suffering electric shock, at Kundadam in Tiruppur district. According to the TNFRS officials, P. Aayimuthu was a tree climber by profession and was engaged in collecting coconuts at a grove in Nandavanapalayam in Kundadam on Wednesday morning. As he reached atop a tree, his sickle came into contact with an electric line that was close to the tree. As his body was tethered to the tree trunk with a rope, Mr. Aayimuthu got stuck atop the tree. His right hand was injured due to the electric shock, officials said. Following a call from the locals at around 9.50 a.m., personnel from the Palladam Fire Station led by Station Officer P. Sureshkumar reached the spot and commenced the rescue operations.  After Tangedco workers temporarily stopped power supply to the electric line, Special Station Officer K. Thangavel rescued the senior citizen from the tree top.  Mr. Aayimuthu was hospitalised for the burns and his condition was stable, officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-service-personnel-rescue-elderly-man-from-treetop/article37552414.ece
18 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Steps initiated to preserve language of the Badagas||The Nelikolu Charitable Trust, which has been spearheading a campaign to document the language of the Badagas -- the single largest ethnolinguistic group residing in the Nilgiris, has initiated steps to protect the language of the group from extinction. “According to the UNESCO survey on endangered languages, the language of the Badagas is in the third of the five stages towards extinction - the definitely endangered stage,” said R. Sivakumar, secretary of the Nelikolu Mother Tongue Protection Co-ordination Committee. Recently, a discussion was held in Udhagamandalam involving N. Sunderadevan, Additional Chief Secretary (Retired), and R.K. Haldorai, from the Directorate of Tamil Etymological Dictionary Project, who detailed the issues. Following the session, a four-pronged approach was advocated for the protection of the Badaga language. The strategy includes measures “to create awareness among the community about the importance of one’s mother tongue. This propaganda should be conducted in such a way so that it reaches almost all the Badaga households. Its primary focus should be on eradicating the ignorance that the Badaga language does not have the status of another tongue due to its lack of a script of its own. The idea should be driven home that Badagas speak the Badaga language at home and in their hamlets,” the press release said. The initiative also aims to prepare primary school lessons for children in the Badaga language so that they can learn their lessons in school using their own mother tongue. “To address the issue of lack of a script for the Badaga language, the Trust has developed a writing system for the Badaga language through the Tamil script by slightly modifying four letters in the Tamil alphabet to suit the phonetic requirements of Badaga language. Using this script, the Trust has already published quite a few ballads and stories…above all, a state-of-the-art Badaga-Tamil-English trilingual dictionary running to more than 900 pages has been compiled and is named ‘ maatterisi’. In this dictionary, Badaga words have been written both in Tamil (including the four modified letters) and Roman letters,” the press release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-initiated-to-preserve-language-of-the-badagas/article37552412.ece
18 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Kumkis deployed to prevent makhna elephants from raiding houses||Over 20 Forest Department staff and two kumki elephants have been deputed to Gudalur in the Nilgiris to deal with problematic interactions between humans and two makhna (tuskless) elephants in the region. The two elephants, aged between 15 and 20, are usually seen together and have moved into the Gudalur division over the last two years, officials said. Elephants in Gudalur division have to cross many human settlements during their seasonal migration or in search of food. As these settlements lie along important elephant corridors, many elephants begin by raiding the houses for food. They become habituated to high-calorie foods inside the houses, a Forest Department official said. Over the last few months, the two makhnas, as well as another elephant translocated from Coimbatore, have been blamed for damaging houses. Recently, residents staged a protest in Gudalur demanding the Forest Department to chase away the elephants far from human settlements. P. Ganesan, Forest Range Officer (Gudalur division), said the two makhnas move between Gudalur, Nadugani and O-Valley forest ranges frequently, and were at present resting in a small patch of forest in Puliyampara. “Two kumkis from the Theppakadu elephant camp have been brought to Gudalur and are moved everyday to chase away the elephants when they get too close to human habitations. Awareness campaigns are also conducted advising people in the areas where the elephants are spotted to not leave their homes after nightfall,” said Mr. Ganesan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kumkis-deployed-to-prevent-makhna-elephants-from-raiding-houses/article37552432.ece
18 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Three boulders on hillock to be blasted||Three huge boulders, including the one that took two lives on last Sunday, on the foothills of Kagithapattarai, off the Bengaluru Highway (NH 48), in Vellore, will be blasted using dynamite by the Mines Department soon. The decision to blast the select boulders in the hillock comes after a site inspection by Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian, with a team of experts from the Mines Department in the district administration on Monday, the day after a mother and her daughter died when a boulder rolled down the hillock onto the houses on the foothills on Sunday. Subsequently, the mines experts have identified three boulders that need to be removed immediately due to weak hold on the soil. These identified boulders are located one above the other on the foothills in Kagithapattarai. “We are ready to extend our support in removing the boulders from the hillock as it involves public safety. We will work closely with the district administration on the issue,” Prince Kumar, District Forest Officer, Vellore, told The Hindu . The hillock falls under the limits of the Forest Department with the land on its foothills belonging to the Revenue Department. Over the years, the foothills have become thickly populated with more than 2,000 structures, mainly houses. Most of these pucca houses, especially those above the foothills, are encroachments. Census Sunday's incident has forced the district administration to conduct a census of the number of houses between Kagithapattarai and Saidapet, a distance of around two km. Officials said that people residing in these houses on the foothills, especially around the three boulders, will be relocated before the boulders are blasted. Meanwhile, Ranipet, Vellore, Tirupattur and Tiruvannamalai districts witnessed continuous rain on Wednesday with excess rainwater in the Palar river breaching low-level bridges in Ambur. Due to increased inflow, 2,797 cusecs of water has been discharged from Mordhana reservoir in Vellore as of 6.30 p.m. on Wednesday.  A mother and her daughter died when a boulder rolled down the hillock onto the houses on the foothills on Sunday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-boulders-on-hillock-to-be-blasted/article37552794.ece
18 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Diabetic foot treatment centre inaugurated||A diabetic foot treatment centre was inaugurated at Naruvi Hospitals in Vellore on Wednesday to mark the World Diabetes Day, celebrated on November 17 every year. An interaction of doctors with diabetes patients, an awareness camp by nutrition experts on the right type of food for diabetics and simple physical exercises to tone up their health were organised as part of the event. On the occasion, Aravindan Nair, Chief of Medical Services (Naruvi Hospitals), Paul Henry, Executive Director, Simon Rajarathnam, Head of Diabetics Department, and Chief Financial Officer Venkatrangam, took part, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/diabetic-foot-treatment-centre-inaugurated/article37552795.ece
18 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Special camps for electoral roll revision to be held on Nov. 20, 21||Additional special camps for inclusion and deletion of names in/from electoral roll will be held at polling station locations in Virudhunagar district on November 20 and 21. In a statement, Collector J. Meghanath Reddy said special summary revision of electoral roll, with January 1, 2022 as qualifying date, was under way from November 1 in all the seven Assembly constituencies in the district. Residents could submit their applications seeking inclusion of name, deletion of name and incorporating corrections and change of address till November 30 at the polling station locations, taluk offices, divisional revenue offices, municipal offices and the Collectorate. Action on the applications would be taken after due field enquiry and the final voter list would be published on January 5, 2022. Taking into consideration the impact of north-east monsoon, additional special camps would be held at all polling station locations on Saturday and Sunday. People could collect the required forms from the booth-level officer and submit the filled-in applications along with relevant documents. They could also apply through website www.nvsp.in for inclusion of names through Form 6. The applicants should submit applications along with photographs, proof of age and address. Non-resident Indians should use Form 6A for inclusion of their names. People could also use the mobile application ‘Voters Helpline’ for inclusion of names. For clarifying any doubts, toll-free number 1950 could be contacted, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-camps-for-electoral-roll-revision-to-be-held-on-nov-20-21/article37552495.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||72 positive cases in Erode district||Erode district on Wednesday reported 72 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,05,410. While 74 persons were discharged, 777 continue to be under treatment. Salem district reported 41 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 1,00,739. While 51 persons were discharged, 533 continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll to 1,694. Namakkal district reported 36 cases taking the tally to 52,933. While 43 persons were discharged, 452 continue to be under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/72-positive-cases-in-erode-district/article37552504.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nightmare||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nightmare/article37552424.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Speaker for time frame to decide on Bills||Mr. Appavu said, “When a Bill passed by the State is reserved for the consideration of the President and if the President withholds the assent and returns the Bill, should not the President give reasons?” The President had withheld assent to two Bills opposing the National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test adopted by the Tamil Nadu Assembly in 2017 when the AIADMK was in power. A Bill to admit students to undergraduate medical courses on the basis of their Plus-Two marks, instead of the NEET score, passed by the DMK government earlier this year was sent to the Raj Bhavan. But its fate remains unknown. Mr. Appavu contended that since the House reflected the will of people, withholding of assent to a Bill “amounted to rejection of the will of the people of that State”. If the House was made aware of the reasons, it could enact another Bill correcting the shortfalls that caused the President to withhold the assent. When a Bill was passed by the majority and sent for the assent of the Governors, “the Governors sometimes sit on it without giving their assent or returning it for an indefinite period, though the Constitution requires it to be done as soon as possible”. When a Bill is required to be reserved for the consideration of the President, Governors “are taking months together” to do so. This eroded the authority of the legislatures, he said. ( The speech can      be accessed at      https://bit.ly/Appavu )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speaker-for-time-frame-to-decide-on-bills/article37552409.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Construction Network of India: Inaugural of Coimbatore chapter of CNI, Hotel Park Elaza, Dr. Nanjappa Road, Ram Nagar, 6.30 p.m.  KPR College of Arts Science and Research: MoU signing ceremony with JD Education and Training, 11 a.m.  Liferay Foundation: ‘ Ignite India’ by S. Selvanagarathinam, Superintendent of Police, chief guest, Nava India, opposite Ramakrishna Dental College, 11 a.m.  New Century Book House: 36th National book expo, Nehru Stadium, 9.30 a.m.  Kathir College of Arts and Science: KOC 360 inaugural, 1 p.m.  KG College of Arts and Science: AAC sponsored two-day national Seminar on ‘Defining, Designing and Developing Learning Outcomes-Based Curriculum Framework in Arts and Science Colleges’, 9.45 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Expert Talk on ‘Introduction to Extended Reality and Deep Dive into Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality’, 10 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Seminar on ‘Food Waste Management’, 3.15 p.m.    IKF Complex : Yarnex and TexIndia fair, IKF Complex, Anaipudur bus stop, near TEA public school, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37552416.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||18-11-2021-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA Rasika Ranjani Sabha (Regd.) Mylapore, Chennai - 600004. In association with Anmajothi Cultural wing of Saraswathi Vidyalaya Vadapalani, Chennai Yovotsav - 2021 Celebrating Young Talent KALABHARANAM Series of concert. Today at 04.30 pm Anirudh Subramanian - Vocal, R Raghul - Violin, Kallidaikurichi Sivakumar - Mridangam, - 06.15 pm Rangappriya Sankaranarayanan - Violin, Aswini Srinivasan - Mridangam, Sivaramakrishnan - Khanjira. Ph. No: 86103 57987. Entry as per Govt. Covid SOP Guidelines. Our programs can be watched on https://www.rrsabha.org at later dates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-11-2021-city-cinema/article37552366.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||ERODE    Nandha College of Technology and Eye Foundation Hospital: Eye screening camp, 10 a.m.   Nandha Naturopathy and Yoga Medical College: 4th National Naturopathy Day, free mega naturopathy medical camp, Bhuvaneswari, Medical Officer, Yoga and Naturopathy Department, Government Medical College and Hospital, Coimbatore, chief guest, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37552505.ece
18 November 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Officers directed to prevent electoral malpractices||Officers in the district are taking steps to prevent electoral malpractices in the Legislative Council polls scheduled for December 10. Senior officers held a meeting in Belagavi on Wednesday to discuss preparations. R. Venkatesh Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, gave instructions to officers to conduct free and fair elections. “No one should take these elections lightly. If there are any doubts about the standard operating procedures to be followed, you can always discuss with senior officers. All teams should work in coordination and implement the code of conduct in a proper manner. No time should be wasted in addressing complaints,” he said. He asked officers to follow the COVID-19 protocol strictly at all levels. He said 511 polling booths have been set up at gram panchayats, municipal corporations, and other local bodies. Ashok Dudagunti, Additional Deputy Commissioner, said that no new civil works could be started as the model code of conduct was in force. As many as 48 video surveillance teams and 50 flying squads were formed to enforce the code. “Members are being trained. Polling officers will also be trained. Nodal officers have been appointed to oversee the code enforcement.” City Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan, SP Lakshman Nimbaragi, zilla panchayat Chief Executive Officer Darshan H.V., Additional SP Amarnath Reddy, and other officers were present. The Vijayapura district administration has set up control rooms at district, sub-division, and range levels to prevent the illegal transport, sale, or distribution of liqour. Complaints and alerts can be sent to the office of Deputy Commissioner of Excise Azmat Afreen (08352-244602 - 9449597164). Other officers can be contacted at 08352-244602, 9449597166, 08352-252451, 9449597167, 08352-252451 , 9449597168.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officers-directed-to-prevent-electoral-malpractices/article37552519.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM promises to monitor road restoration||From planting paddy in deep craters to growing flowering plants in others as well as performing ‘pothole pujas’ that have become ubiquitous, citizens have resorted to various tactics to draw the attention of the authorities to the poor condition of roads. Traffic police personnel, who are fed up with slow moving vehicles, have also taken it upon themselves on several occasions to fill potholes with construction debris. On Wednesday, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he would personally monitor repair and restoration of pothole-riddled roads, which will be taken up on a war-footing. Speaking on the sidelines of the Bengaluru Tech Summit, he said the continuous spell of rains in the city and other districts due to the depression in Bay of Bengal had left its trail of damage on Bengaluru’s roads. “I have already issued instructions with regard to road repair works,” he said. Work will be taken up for comprehensive repair and improvement of roads immediately after the current spell of rains. Orders had been issued to utilise NDRF teams for relief works in low-lying areas which have suffered damage to roads, houses and properties. Four special teams of State Disaster Management Teams (SDRF) would be constituted for the purpose in Bengaluru. The Chief Minister added that the civic body had been directed to take up repairs on roads that were still under the defect liability period if the contractors concerned failed to do so and deduct the cost incurred from the contractors’ bills. The government had recently approved Rs. 280 crore for taking up underground drainage works in 110 villages on the city’s outskirts. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which is the custodian of city roads, wants at least three rain-free days to take up the work. But there seems no respite with rains lashing the city intermittently in November as well. Citizens remain unamused, with many questioning the quality of road repair work. “The condition of the roads has nothing to do with rains. It’s all about the quality of the work. Why do some roads not have any potholes even many years after they were tarred? BBMP, instead of giving assurances, should monitor the quality of road work,” said Praveen Kumar, a resident of Banaswadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-promises-to-monitor-road-restoration/article37552311.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Surge in demand for pvt. tuitions in rural Karnataka, says report||Rural Karnataka saw a sharp increase in the percentage of students taking private tuitions in 2021. Experts and educationists say the demand for tuition classes rose during the pandemic as schools stopped conducting physical classes. This was one of the findings of the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2021 conducted in rural India for the 2020-21 academic year. According to the report, as many as 20.5% of students studying in schools in rural areas enrolled for private tuitions. This is a sharp increase – of 9.8 percentage points – when compared to the ASER 2018 report where only 10.7% of students sought help from private tutors. In 2020, only 8.4% students had enrolled in private tutoring classes. Education expert Niranjanaradhya V.P. attributed this trend to the fact that primary and upper primary schools had remained closed for nearly 18 months due to the pandemic. “The rise in demand for tuition centres is not a healthy development as it shows that learning in schools is problematic. The mushrooming of these centres will force students into a rat race that defeats the purpose of education,” he said. A similar trend was seen across rural India as well. In other states, the difference in percentage points of students taking tuitions from 2018 to 2021 ranged from 19.6% to (negative) -9.4%. In fact, the average percentage of students taking tuitions from rural areas across the country was 39.2% in 2021, a 10.5% increase compared to 2018 when only 28.6% of them were enrolled for private tuitions.  The report also showed a rise in enrolment in government schools in rural areas. As of 2021, 77.7% of the students between the age of 6 and 14 were enrolled in government schools, while 78.6% of girls and 76.8% boys enrolled in government schools. In 2020, 68.6% of rural students enrolled in government schools. Rishikesh B.S., associate professor at Azim Premji University, said government schools had an outreach programme during the pandemic through the Vidyagama programme which helped them get more admissions than private schools. Another reason for the rise in enrolment was the inability of families to pay private school fees due to financial distress on account of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/surge-in-demand-for-pvt-tuition-in-rural-karnataka-says-report/article37552331.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress seeks judicial probe into bitcoin scam||The State Congress on Wednesday alleged that there was no transparency in the way bitcoin scam was being handled and demanded that the State Government hand over the case to a judge of the Supreme Court. ‘Big people’ Congress MLA and former IT Minister Priyank Kharge and MLA and former Home Minister Ramalinga Reddy alleged that the government-controlled agencies had not been conducting a fair investigation into the scam to protect the involvement of the “big people” in the multi-crore cryptocurrency transactions. “BJP leaders are yet to answer the questions we posed on the scam and we have found more discrepancies on how the BJP Government is handling this case,” Mr. Kharge said. At a press conference here, the Congress leaders claimed that the case was being hushed up to save the the Basavaraj Bommai-led Government. Allegation questioned If Congress leaders were involved in the scam as alleged by the BJP, why did Mr. Bommai not order a probe when he was the Home Minister for nearly two years in the Government led by B.S. Yediyurappa, they asked. While Mr. Bommai claimed that the scam occurred in 2016, the Congress Government was unaware of it then, Mr. Kharge and Mr. Reddy said. Kateel’s silence The Congress MLAs questioned the silence maintained by State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on the scam and alleged that the whole BJP Government wanted the scam to be closed without any investigation. Mr. Kharge later tweeted claiming that police in plain clothes attended their press meet. “Looks like the BJP Govt. is under immense pressure ... Why else would they send police officers in plain clothes for INC Karnataka press conference on bitcoin?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-seeks-judicial-probe-into-bitcoin-scam/article37552344.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Australian PM announces consulate office, centre of excellence in Bengaluru||Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Wednesday said an Australian consulate would be set up in Bengaluru and also announced the establishment of Australia-India Centre of Excellence for Critical and Emerging Technology Policy, while addressing the inaugural session of the flagship Bengaluru Tech Summit – 2021 (BTS – 2021). “I’m pleased to let you know that Australia is also seeking to establish a new consulate general in Bengaluru. Bengaluru is the world’s fastest growing technology hub, of course we want to be part of it,” said Mr. Morrison. To deepen ties Australia’s new mission in Bengaluru, which is home to a third of startup unicorns, would expand the country’s diplomatic presence in India to five posts in total. “Australia will deepen our ties to India’s innovators, to your technologists and entrepreneurs — as well as India’s governments at all levels,” he noted. Elaborating on the new centre of excellence, the Prime Minister said it would bring together Australian and Indian technologists, policy practitioners, academics, researchers, and thought leaders. “The centre will also promote investment opportunities and innovation between Australia and India in technology, and amplify our policy influence globally,” Mr. Morrison said in his virtual address to BTS – 2021. Israel-India ties Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett, who also participated virtually, said Israeli and Indian creativity, imagination, and tenacity had the power to do amazing things. “So to all of you at this conference I say keep doing great things. Keep dreaming and keep making those dreams a new reality. The future belongs to those who innovate. And the future is right here sitting in this room,” said Mr. Bennett. “India is one of the biggest countries in the world. One of the biggest economies in the world…vast digital expertise. And Israel is one of the leading innovation nations of the world… Startup nation. When Indians and Israelis come together, amazing things happen,” said the Israeli Prime Minister. He recalled that he ran a company in the past which later merged with an Indian firm and he had a wonderful experience of a different culture. Mr. Bennett expressed his desire to visit India soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/australian-pm-announces-consulate-office-centre-of-excellence-in-bengaluru/article37552335.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘India’s GCC model, innovation, tech expertise attractions for global markets’||The GCC (global capability centre) model is redefining what it means to operate as influencers and innovative thought leaders within global organisations, said John Waldron, president and chief operating officer, Goldman Sachs Group, in a virtual meet on Wednesday. In his keynote address on ‘Harnessing the Global Innovation through Capability Center Model’ at Bengaluru Technology Summit–2021 (BTS), he said, “We are encouraged by the significant progress across India in applying cutting-edge technology to build products and solutions to serve the domestic and the world markets.” India is home to over 1,000 GCCs of global companies and almost half of them are in Bengaluru. “Goldman Sachs’s success in building best-in-class GCC and deep fintech hubs in Bengaluru and Hyderabad have been driven by a couple of critical factors. The first and most important one is the investment we make in our people, and the talent of this country while the other key enabler of our success has been connectivity,” Mr. Waldron said. Goldman Sachs’s GCC currently has over 8,000 employees across Bengaluru and Hyderabad. “Together, they represent one of the firm’s deepest fintech hubs, with established track records across engineering, emerging technologies as well as business execution,” he said. Also speaking at BTS, Martin Schroter, chairman and CEO, Kyndryl, the $19 billion infrastructure services business of IBM which was recently spun off as a separate entity, said, the world had been increasingly turning towards India as a leader in pushing innovation and nurturing technical expertise. “India is burning with innovative ideas and the country has helped industries transform globally. The BTS reflects the tech mindset of Karnataka. We are keen to partner with India in building next-gen of digital infrastructure for the entire country,” Mr. Schroter said. Kyndryl was working towards building the next-generation digital infrastructure across India by supporting complex infrastructure in areas such as banking, telecom, and supply chain that were key to providing citizen-centric services across the country, he said. “It is important for people to have access to digital tools that will offer them economic opportunities. After all, we all compete in an economy, but live in a society,” he said. The company found purpose in the country’s robust mission for digitisation and it had invested in creating 1,000s of jobs in Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, and Gurugram, it said.  The BTS reflects the tech mindset of Karnataka. We are keen to partner with India in building next-gen of digital infrastructure for the entire country Martin Schroter,chairman and CEO, Kyndryl||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/indias-gcc-model-innovation-tech-expertise-attractions-for-global-markets/article37552343.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pet dog barks up a storm, raises alarm after fire in apartment||Tragedy was averted on Wednesday afternoon when a pet dog’s furious barking alerted an elderly woman and her neighbours of a fire that had broken out in an apartment at Electronics City. The dog’s incessant barking roused other residents to investigate, and everyone evacuated their apartments safely before the fire could spread. No injuries were reported. Around 2.46 p.m. on Wednesday, the fire broke out in a first floor apartment of the three-storeyed residential complex situated in Sampige Nagar, Electronics City Phase II. Cardiac patient, 74-year-old Kathyayini, was alone in the apartment with the dog while the rest of her family members had gone to work. When the dog did not stop barking in the afternoon, neighbours decided to investigate. “They saw smoke billowing out of Ms. Kathyayini’s apartment and got her out to safety,” said a fire official. Meanwhile, two youths, working as delivery personnel, were passing by the area and saw flames and smoke billowing out of the window. They immediately alerted the fire control room. Two fire tenders arrived at the spot at around 2.55 p.m. By then, all residents in the complex, which has 106 flats, were safely out of the building. “We managed to contain the fire, and luckily no one was hurt,” said Nagesh P.M., district fire officer, Electronics City. He added that they suspect the fire was the result of a short circuit, but are waiting for the report. “A team from the Forensic Science Laboratory and electrical inspectorate visited the spot and conducted a probe,” he added. Had the dog not sounded the alert, it could have ended in tragedy. In September, a mother and her daughter were killed in a blaze when they were trapped in their apartment in a residential complex in Devarachikkanahalli near Bannerghatta Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pet-dog-barks-up-a-storm-raises-alarm-after-fire-in-apartment/article37552314.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BCIC flags key issues to alleviate pandemic-struck businesses||Industry body Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce (BCIC) on Wednesday urged the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to immediately address five key issues — credit flow to industries, MSMEs and funds, job incentivisation, revival of Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs), and demand creation. “The Government of India through the RBI brought out a slew of measures to alleviate the problems faced by small businesses. However, the measures suggested by the RBI are yet to make a significant impact on the ground,” said the BCIC in a statement. The industry body released a report titled ‘BCIC’s recommendation on RBI economic policy implementation post pandemic’ and highlighted that COVID-19 affected the world on an unprecedented scale. It noted that the pandemic had an enormous negative impact on individuals (proprietary concerns/firms), MSMEs and SMEs, large organisations, both private and public, including untold hardships to a few business segments. To address gaps According to the industry body, the goal of this report is to address the gaps in implementation of the apex bank’s policies and recommend measures for consideration. “This report shares risks that weigh on the RBI’s policy implementation dilemma, challenges that the RBI has to keep an eye on revival of NBFCs/ HFCs/MFIs, MSME and funds, job creation, incentivisation and demand creation with recommendations for each area to be considered for adoption by RBI,” the BCIC added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bcic-flags-key-issues-to-alleviate-pandemic-struck-businesses/article37552340.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nov. 26 deadline for Govt. to fix reservation to wards of 56 ULBs||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday set a deadline of November 26 for the State Government to publish the final notification reserving seats for the 56 urban local bodies, elections for which are due following expiry of tenure of the elected body. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition initiated suo motu by the High Court last year over failure of the Government to conduct timely elections to several of the ULBs. The Government, in the afternoon session, assured the court that final notification of reservation of wards in all the 56 local bodies would be published by November 26 after the Bench, during morning session, took serious exception for not even specifying the outer limit for issuing notification even though time granted by the court had lapsed. Initially, the court on July 2, 2021 gave three months time to the Government to complete the process of reservation. However, the court on September 16, on the request made on behalf of the Government, granted two months to issue both the draft and the final notification on reservation. Meanwhile, the Bench recorded the submissions made on behalf of the State Election Commission that process of holding elections to 56 ULBs would be completed by December 30 based on the reservation notification to be made available to the commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nov-26-deadline-for-govt-to-fix-reservation-to-wards-of-56-ulbs/article37552338.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Residents up in arms over sewage in Doddakallasandra lake||Residents who live near Doddakallasandra lake, which had been taken up for rejuvenation, are up in arms over sewage entering the lake’s wetland instead of flowing into the rajakaluve after the diversion channel was reportedly blocked with sandbags. While the problem was resolved on Wednedsay, they are worried that it will occur again. “On Sunday (November 14), we saw that one of the two inlets linked to the sewage diversion channel was discharging water into the wetlands,” said a resident Raghavendra B. Pachhapur. Despite the unusually heavy rains in the past few months, there was very little discharge from the inlet during the monsoon. When they inspected the other end of the inlet, they saw that untreated sewage, instead of flowing into the sewage diversion channel and into the ‘rajakaluve’, was entering the wetland. Purpose defeated Another resident, Soundarajan, who is part of the Doddakallasandra Lake Protection Committee, checked a connecting manhole and discovered that sandbags had been placed to stop sewage water so that it could be diverted to the wetland. “The authorities have spent about Rs. 5 crore on the lake rejuvenation project. The fact that sewage is once again entering the lake, defeats the very purpose of the exercise,” he said. After the residents’ welfare association escalated the matter, sewage inflow into the lake had stopped by Wednesday evening “There needs to be a more permanent solution. The RWA has submitted a list of pending works to the authorities,” said Mr. Soundarajan, alleging that at least 30% of the lake is sewage water. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike officials from the lakes department, however, argued that a separate sewage diversion drain had been constructed to ensure sewage doesn’t enter the lake or the wetland. “During the rains, there is a lot of waste that flows in and is dumped, which creates blockages. We regularly clear these blockages to ensure free flow of water,” the official claimed. As per ActionAid’s Biodiversity Report, Doddakallasandra lake hosts 71 bird species, 37 butterfly, 42 tree and 43 plant species. This monsoon season, Doddakallasandra lake has witnessed the arrival of many bird species, and we fear the impact of the worsening water quality on the lake’s ecosystem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-up-in-arms-over-sewage-in-doddakallasandra-lake/article37552316.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Infosys Foundation cardiac facility inaugurated at Jayadeva||With the inauguration of the 350-bed Infosys Foundation cardiac hospital complex on its premises, the State-run Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research is now better equipped to accommodate increasing daily caseload for cardiac emergencies and elective cardiac care. With the addition, Jayadeva Hospitals will have a total of 1,800 cardiac beds making it the largest heart care destination in the country, including the ones at Bengaluru, Kalaburagi, and Mysuru centres. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar inaugurated the complex in the virtual presence of Infosys Foundation chairperson Sudha Murthy and Infosys founder N.R. Narayana Murthy on Wednesday. The facility will start functioning from November 22. Mr. Bommai said the government will expand its Primary Health Centres (PHCs) upgrade project with funds from the centre. “We are upgrading 250 PHCs this year. We will take up upgrade of 250 PHCs with financial assistance from the centre next year,” he said. Jayadeva director C.N. Manjunath said the new facility is a great relief as patient load has been increasing day by day resulting in overcrowding in the hospital. “We are shifting departments of paediatric cardiology, vascular surgery,, and cardiothoracic surgery to the Infosys Foundation hospital complex. The casualty in this complex will run from 8 p.m. to 8 a.m.,” he said. “With an influx of both inpatient and outpatient, functioning with existing infrastructure posed a major challenge, especially during the night. We see 70-80 admissions during the night for either heart attack, heart failure, or other cardiac emergencies making it difficult to handle the load,” Dr. Manjunath said. “The new facility has two cardiac cathlabs, two operation theatres, and one hybrid operation theatre, with 100 ICCU beds and 250 general ward beds. With this, Jayadeva hospitals will have 15 cardiac cathlabs,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/infosys-foundation-cardiac-facility-inaugurated-at-jayadeva/article37552322.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police launch search for ‘hacker’ Sri Krishna after providing security||The police on Wednesday were looking for ‘hacker’ Sri Krishna after a gunman who was assigned to him to provide security found that he was not in his house at Jayanagar here. Family members said he had not returned since he was released on bail last Thursday. The decision to provide security cover in the form of a gunman was taken after considering the threat perception, a concern that had been raised by Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah. “A police officer was sent to his house on Tuesday but he was not there. He left but returned again on Wednesday to check on Sri Krishna. But his family said that he had not come home,” said a senior police officer, adding that his relatives said they were unaware of his whereabouts. “His family has been asked to inform us soon after they establish contact with Sri Krishna,” the officer said. However, Sri Krishna or SriKi, as he is called, had not been residing in his family home when he was picked up the second time when he allegedly got into a drunken brawl with his associate at a star hotel on HAL Airport Road in the first week of November. Police Commissioner Kamal Pant confirmed the development and said a gunman would be provided to Sri Krishna. The police are now checking hotels and other places where he was known to visit. “As he did not have a phone on him, it will be difficult to track him,” said another police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-launch-search-for-hacker-sri-krishna-after-providing-security/article37552345.ece
18 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Meet discusses trend in livestock, fisheries sectors||A webinar on ‘Emerging Managerial Opportunities in ALPF: An Industry-Academia Perspective’, organised by the Indian Institute of Plantation Management Bengaluru recently focused on the current and future trends in the sector, and the need for trained and skilled managers. IIPM said, the institute proposed to launch a first-of-its kind 24-month programme on PGDM in Animal Husbandry, Livestock and Fisheries Management from next academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meet-discusses-trend-in-livestock-fisheries-sectors/article37552312.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kollur temple: HC sets aside election of managing panel chief||The High Court of Karnataka has set aside the election held to the post of the chairperson of the managing committee of Kollur Sri Mookambika temple in Udupi district. While declaring the election of Chandrashekara Shetty as chairperson as null and void, the court said both Mr. Shetty and one Ganesh Kini had ceased to be members of the committee prior to the elections as they had resigned from the position. Justice Krishna S. Dixit passed the order while allowing a petition filed by Gopala Krishna and three others. Though Mr. Kini and Mr. Shetty resigned as members of the committee on March 24, 2021, and April 15, 2021, respectively, the executive officer of the temple had not only allowed them to participate in the meting held on April 26 but Mr. Shetty was elected as chairperson of the committee even after having resigned from the post. Though the State Government and the Rajya Dharmika Parishath defended the legality of allowing the duo to attend the meeting, the court rejected the contention the that their participation in meeting was legal as their resignation was not accepted by the Commissioner for Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowments. The counsel could not point out anything to support their contention that the envisaged resignation involves bilateral act, namely the submission of resignation letter and its acceptance in the provisions of the Karnataka Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowments Act, 1997. Refusing to accept contention that they had withdrawn their resignation before the meeting, the court said that the principles of the law that gives an opportunity of withdrawing the resignation to an employee who depends on job for livelihood is not available to the members appointed to the managing committee of a temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kollur-temple-hc-sets-aside-election-of-managing-panel-chief/article37552689.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Reva University launches outreach programme ‘Education on Wheels’||A student outreach programme called “Education on Wheels”, that will provide an immersive learning experience to students of community schools in rural areas was launched by Reva University on Wednesday. According to a release from Reva University, this initiative will take modern education to the doorsteps of the students through a mobile lab with 15-seater facility, equipped with learning infrastructure such as projector, computers, wi-fi connection, smart TV, among other facilities. The lab will introduce students to basic and advanced learning in emerging domains like block coding, designing, and other areas. A university bus has been converted into a lab centre for this purpose. Nearly 1,000 students of government schools will benefit from this. Fifteen computer monitors, chairs, keyboards, mouse, tables, desks have been set up in the lab. “Education on Wheels” facility will be available for students of government schools on weekdays between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. Speaking about the initiative, Chancellor of REVA University, P. Shyama Raju, said it was an effort at taking digital learning to the doorsteps of students at community schools and aim to provide a unique learning exposure to students from all walks of life. The “Education on Wheels” lab will be stationed at the 10 government schools adopted by REVA University. For details, visit https://reva.edu.in/event/education-on-wheels||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reva-university-launches-outreach-programme-education-on-wheels/article37552319.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Free treatment, surgery for epilepsy patients||On National Epilepsy Day, Sakra World Hospital announced phase 2 of the Epilepsy Prevention and Integrated Care (EPIC) Program, which has been initiated in association with Rotary International and First Meridian. The year-long programme aims at providing quality treatment and education about epilepsy to BPL patients for free. It will focus on refractory epilepsy (uncontrolled epilepsy). The programme was launched in September 2020 by then Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. 500 patients Satish Rudrappa, director of Neurosciences at the hospital, said more than 500 epilepsy patients from different parts of Karnataka have undertaken treatment so far. “Over 12 million (1.2 crore) people in India suffer from epilepsy. There is a treatment gap. Around 75% of the patients fail to receive treatment due to poor patient workup (evaluation of a patient) and follow-up at Primary Health Centres, and various other reasons,” he said. App developed Rotary Bangalore IT Corridor has launched a mobile application based on the EPIC Program (EPILEPSY-Rotary App). The app was developed by First Meridian under their CSR program. The app is available in Kannada and English for Android and iOS users.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-treatment-surgery-for-epilepsy-patients/article37552320.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Screening for ROP not hit during pandemic||While all non-COVID-19 services came to a standstill during the pandemic, screening of newborns under the Karnataka Internet Assisted Diagnosis for Retinopathy of Prematurity (KIDROP) continued without any glitch. ROP is an eye disease that could causes blindness in premature babies. KIDROP is the flagship tele-ROP programme started by Narayana Nethralaya in association with the Karnataka Government in 2009. It is a tele-medicine platform that helps pre-term babies born in neo-natal intensive care units (NICUs) who do not have an ROP specialist to screen and treat babies on time.   Addressing mediapersons in Bengaluru on the occasion of World Prematurity Day on Wednesday, Anand Vinekar, professor and Head of Department of Pediatric Retina Service at Narayana Nethralaya Eye Institute, said no baby that required treatment for ROP was deprived of medical attention even during the pandemic. “From April 2020 to December 2020, we screened 4,956 premature babies of which 232 needed treatment. All of them got treatment. Likewise, in 2021 from January to September, 5,412 babies were screened and 258 needing intervention got treatment,” he said.  Dr. Vinekar, founding programme director of KIDROP, said during the peak of the pandemic, it was a challenge as special permissions had to be sought to shift babies across hospitals for treatment, as some government hospitals had been converted into dedicated COVID-19 facilities. Pointing out that COVID-19 modifications of the Indian ROP guidelines by the Centre helped in altering the screening profile, the doctor said, “We worked with the local police and the Bengaluru Police Commissioner to get special access for inter-district travel.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/screening-for-rop-not-hit-during-pandemic/article37552324.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Scholarship for 16 students||Sixteen girl students from the border district if Athani in Belagavi district, who have excelled in Kannada in school, have been awarded a one-time scholarship by ‘Keli Katheya’, a Kannada audiobook initiative. Keli Katheya was started in 2014 to bring alive some Kannada short stories in an audio format though film artistes’ voices. Profits generated from the sale of the audio book go towards supporting the education of girls in the border areas of Karnataka. This is the second tranche of scholarship. In the first edition, nine girls were supported with a one-time scholarship that covered their fees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/scholarship-for-16-students/article37552317.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to unveil R&D policy||Karnataka will soon come out with a new Research and Development (R&D) policy that will be an integral part of schools, colleges, universities, and even private institutions, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, he assured full cooperation for those keen to set up their R&D units in Karnataka. He said Karnataka had created infrastructure and very good ecosystem to accommodate initiatives. “We want those already here to scale them up,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-to-unveil-rd-policy/article37552336.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gym-goers told not to panic||Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Wednesday said regular gym-goers are not at a risk of heart attack. “There is a panic among people following the death of Kannada star Puneeth Rajkumar, who suffered a cardiac arrest soon after his workout in the gym. But regular and moderate exercise is good for the body and regular gym-goers are not at risk. Anyone who has cardiac issues should undergo medical checks regularly,” he said at the inauguration of the 350-bed Infosys Foundation cardiac facility on the premises of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research. He said the state is contemplating starting of regional centres of Jayadeva institute in the districts, including one at Hubbali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gym-goers-told-not-to-panic/article37552323.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Digital service outlet launched||Union Bank of India, on the occasion of the 103rd Foundation Day, launched Union Digi Connect, a fully digital service outlet at Market Square Mall, Madiwala, recently. It was virtually inaugurated by Raj Kiran Rai G., MD and CEO, Union Bank of India. The bank said customers can visit the outlet for availing various banking services, such as account opening, cash deposit, and cash withdrawal in the digital mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/digital-service-outlet-launched/article37552305.ece
18 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on Thursday in the following areas for carrying out work relating to conversion of 11 kV OH line to UG cable. According to a release, the areas to be affected are: Electronics City, Konappana Agrahara, Doddathoguru, 10.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m.; BDA Layout, Banashankari 6th Stage, 10.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.; 27th Main Road, HSR Layout, Kalena Agrahara, Meenakshi Layout, Royal Park, Avalahalli and surrounding areas, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article37552306.ece
18 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water adalat today||Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board will hold a water adalat on Thursday in the following sub-divisions between 9.30 a.m. and 11 a.m. (South East-6), (East-2)-2, (East Village -2), (South Village-1), (West-3), (South West-3), (South East-3), (North West-6), (Central-3), (North West-2), (North-3), and (North East-2). According to a release, the adalat is being held to settle the grievances connected to water billing, delay in providing water supply and sanitary connections, and delay in converting from domestic connection to non-domestic connection. For any problems regarding the water supply, consumers can contact helpline number 1916.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/water-adalat-today/article37552307.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to save Rs. 48,000 a month with solar rooftop system in Rajajinagar||A solar rooftop system has been installed at the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) office in Rajajinagar at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh. The building houses the civic body’s local engineering, health and revenue offices, apart from Bengaluru Electricity Supply Company (Bescom), Bangalore One, Regional Transport Office, Nada Katcheri (district revenue office) and Jindal Hospital. This is, probably, the first such system to be installed on a government building in Karnataka, according to the BBMP. The solar rooftop system was inaugurated on November 17 by former Minister S. Suresh Kumar. It is expected to generate 40KW, or approximately 160-200 units of power every day. In the first phase, the power generated will be utilised by the BBMP’s engineering, health and revenue offices in the building. This will help save approximately Rs. 48,000 per month in power bills. On days when the offices will be closed, such as second and fourth Saturdays and Sundays, the power generated will be transferred to Bescom’s grid. Mysore Sales International Ltd., also known as MSIL, will maintain the solar rooftop system for five years. Bescom and MSIL have entered into a power purchase agreement, according to which the power utility will buy power generated by the solar rooftop system for 25 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-to-save-rs-48000-a-month-with-solar-rooftop-system-in-rajajinagar/article37552309.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 308 cases, eight deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 308 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,92,584. Bengaluru Urban reported 207 cases and two deaths. With eight deaths, the toll rose to 38,161. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 384 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 29,46,985. The State now has 7,409 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.29%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.59%. As many as 1,04,090 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 84,881 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 5,23,40,172. As many as 6,72,413 doses of COVID-19 vaccine were administered on Wednesday, observed as ‘Lasika Utsava’ day. With this, the state has so far administered a total of 6,92,67,576 doses of which 2,58,26,448 are second doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/308-new-covid-19-cases/article37552325.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1.6% students not in school||The Annual Status of Education Report survey revealed that only 1.6% students in the age group of 6 to 14 in rural Karnataka did not enrol in schools in 2021. This is an improvement from the previous years. Last year, the same survey noted that 6% of students were not in schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/16-students-not-in-school/article37552326.ece
18 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||House burgled||Miscreants took away valuables worth over Rs. 12 lakh from a house on Bagur Road in Channarayapatna town on Monday night. Syed Kutub Alam, owner of the house, had been to his relative’s place with his family members on Monday afternoon. When he returned home on Tuesday night, he noticed the burglary. The miscreants had broken the lock and had taken away gold jewellery and silver items.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/house-burgled/article37552703.ece
18 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Cong. MLC files nomination||Congress MLC R. Prasanna Kumar, on Wednesday, filed his nomination papers as a candidate for Shivamogga Local Authorities’ Constituency of the Legislative Council. The Congress is yet to announce the candidate officially. He filed his papers without a B-form. He was accompanied by former Ministers Kagodu Thimmappa, Kimmane Ratnakar and others. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Prasanna Kumar said he filed the papers as per the instructions from senior leaders in the party. Another set of papers would be submitted once the party issued his B-form, he said. He also exuded confidence that he would win a second term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-mlc-files-nomination/article37552710.ece
18 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Postponement of Mayoral polls is a murder of democracy: Cong.||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson Sharan Prakash Patil termed the decision by the Regional Commissioner of Kalaburagi to postpone elections for the posts of Mayor, Deputy Mayor and members of various Standing Committees in civic bodies of Kalaburagi and Ballari as ‘murder of democracy’. N.V. Prasad, Regional Commissioner (Kalaburagi division), on Tuesday postponed the elections, which were scheduled for Thursday and Saturday , respectively, stating that the Kalaburagi and Ballari district administrations were busy in elections to the Legislative Council. “I have spoken to senior functionaries in Election Commission of India who clearly stated that the mayoral polls were not in conflict with polls to the Legislative Council. They also clarified that neither the Election Commission of India had directed postponement of the mayoral polls nor did any Returning Officer seek any clarification or direction on the issue. Neither the Kalaburagi district administration nor the Ballari district administration has expressed difficulty in holding mayoral elections during the ongoing process of polls to the Legislative Council. Yet, the Regional Commissioner of Kalaburagi postponed the mayoral polls on the pretext of polls to the Legislative Council. It is very much clear that he is acting as a puppet of the ruling party, which wants to buy time to plot a path to gain control of these civic bodies,” Mr. Patil told mediapersons at the Congress office in Kalaburagi on Wednesday. Terming the Regional Commissioner’s decision to postpone the mayoral elections as an afterthought, Mr. Patil said that the decision was taken only after Congress moved a court against the ‘illegal and unethical’ bid by the BJP to take control of the Kalaburagi civic body. “BJP is making all efforts to capture power in these civic bodies even though it does not have a majority. In Kalaburagi, it is trying to include seven of its MLCs [Members of Legislative Council] in the electoral rolls of Gulbarga South Assembly constituency to make them eligible to vote in the mayoral polls. The Congress has moved court against the BJP’s bid to grab power by illegal means. In Ballari, the ruling party is trying to prevent the Congress, which has clear majority, from taking control of the civic body. The postponement is a clear move by the ruling party to buy time and plot a path to capture power in these civic bodies,” Mr. Patil alleged. He claimed that the Regional Commissioner’s decision was a violation of constitutional provisions on elections to rural and urban local bodies. “As per the 73rd and 74th constitutional amendments passed by Parliament in December 1992, elections to the posts of mayor and deputy mayor should be conducted within six months of completion of elections to the city corporation. Elections to Ballari City Corporation took place more than six months ago, and the mayoral elections should be conducted immediately. But, the Regional Commissioner postponed the elections scheduled for November 18. This is a clear violation of the Constitution,” he alleged. Mr. Patil added that the Congress would move court against the decision of Regional Commissioner N. V. Prasad, whom he accused of sacrificing the ethics expected of Indian Administrative Services officers to satisfy the ruling dispensation by acting as per its whims and fancies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/postponement-of-mayoral-polls-is-a-murder-of-democracy-cong/article37552516.ece
18 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Congress allegations on bitcoin scam are baseless, says Housing Minister||Responding to Congress criticisms against the ruling BJP in the bitcoin scam, Housing Minister V. Somanna said that the allegations were baseless. “Congress leader Siddaramaiah was an experienced politician. He was the Chief Minister of the State. He should mind his words when criticising the Government. Spreading lies for political gains would not suit his stature. There is no bitcoin scam as the Opposition is alleging. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Health Minister K. Sudhakar have already made it clear that there was no scam. Yet, Congress is spreading lies and misleading people. If the Congress has any substantial documents to make their claim, let it release it and the Chief Minister would decide on taking action within the legal framework,” he said during his brief interaction with mediapersons in Kalaburagi on Wednesday. He said that Congress’ “baseless allegation” was the result of its desperation. “Congress leaders had thought that the Bommai government would not take off. Contrary to their expectation, the Government is working well. Unable to digest the fact, the Congress leaders are making these allegations. I suggest they discuss the issues related to the governance and the welfare programmes instead of finding faults with the Government. Congress which had ruled the country for 70 years to create anarchy is frustrated to have lost power for two years in the State. The allegations are the manifestations of its frustration,” he said. When asked about the questions raised by Congress spokesperson Priyank Kharge on the bitcoin scam, Mr. Somanna advised Mr. Priyank Kharge to know things before making allegations. “I was in the Congress and I know veteran Congress leader M. Mallikarjun Kharge. Mr. Priyank Kharge is a young man and he should know things before making allegations. He was the Minister for Information Technology and Bio-Technology in the Siddaramaiah Government and might be able to understand the Bitcoin case. But, it is wrong to make allegations against the Government without substantial information about it,” Mr. Somanna added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-allegations-on-bitcoin-scam-are-baseless-says-housing-minister/article37552520.ece
18 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||MLCs in voter list: Court seeks Govt. response||The High Court of Karnataka told the State Government to file its objection before November 29 on a writ petition filed by Congress corporators of Kalaburagi Mahanagara Palike questioning the legality of inclusion of seven Members of Legislative Council of the BJP in the electoral rolls of Gulbarga South Assembly constituency. The Kalaburagi Bench of the High Court also directed authorities to serve notices in-person to all seven MLCs seeking their responses. The seven BJP MLCs are Laxman Savadi, Tulasi Muniraju Gowda, Bharati Shetty, Saibanna Talwar, Lehar Singh, Pratap Naik and Raghunath Malkapure. They had applied online to the Election Commission of India seeking inclusion of their names in the electoral rolls of Gulbarga South Assembly constituency. They had provided rent agreements as proof of residence. The Congress had alleged that inclusion of the MLCs in the Kalaburagi city electoral rolls was intended to make them eligible to vote in elections for the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor of Kalaburagi Mahanagara Palike where the BJP does not have a majority. Congress members Varsha Jane and Tripti Lakhe had approached the High Court questioning the legality of the move. A single-judge bench of Justice M.I. Arun directed the State Government’s pleader to submit his objections and asked court authorities to serve notices to the MLCs in person. Senior advocate A.S. Ponnanna represented the petitioner through video conferencing. The next hearing is scheduled for November 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mlcs-in-voter-list-court-seeks-govt-response/article37552517.ece
18 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Udupi to launch door-to-door COVID-19 vaccination drive||Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao on Wednesday directed healthcare workers to visit every household in the district and coax eligible people who have not yet taken the COVID-19 vaccination to obtain one. Chairing the district task force meeting on vaccination at the district office in Rajatadri, Manipal, Mr. Rao said vaccination was the only weapon to fight the pandemic and hence everyone should get vaccinated. The DC said the district has 2,95,375 households and healthcare workers, including ASHAs and Anganwadi volunteers, should visit every household. They should convince those who have not undergone vaccination to get vaccinated and create awareness about the benefits of vaccination. During the door-to-door visit, the healthcare workers should obtain all details of the residents and their contact phone numbers. The DC said households in at least seven gram panchayats of every taluk should be surveyed twice. Respective tahsildars, taluk panchayat executive officers, and taluk health officers should lead the survey. The workers may obtain details of eligible persons from the electoral rolls, he suggested. Vaccination drive would be conducted in the district till this month-end, Mr. Rao said, urging concerned citizens as well as community leaders to prevail upon those who have not been vaccinated to get inoculated. While every department concerned should work in coordination for the drive, focus should be given to vaccinate nomads and immigrants too. Zilla panchayat CEO Y. Naveen Bhat announced that a school where parents of all students get fully vaccinated would be given an award and urged the Education Department to create vaccination awareness among parents through a letter campaign. Pregnant and lactating women and people suffering from ailments appear to have refused to get vaccinated in rural areas. They should be properly educated informing them there would be no adverse effect of vaccination, Dr. Bhat said. Additional DC B. Sadashiva Prabhu, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Nagabhushana Udupa, COVID-19 vaccination nodal officer Rama, and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-to-launch-door-to-door-covid-19-vaccination-drive/article37552694.ece
18 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Association seeks postponement of II PU midterm exam by 15 days||Citing a lack of mental preparedness by II PU students to face the midterm examination and incomplete portions, the Dakshina Kannada Pre-University College Principals’ Association has asked the Pre-University Director to postpone the midterm examination by another 15 days. The examination is scheduled to commence from November 29. In the letter on November 15, the association president and other office-bearers said the students hitherto prepared for the whole year and wrote the annual examination at the end of the academic year. The sudden announcement of the midterm examination has put students off guard and has left them little time to prepare. With online and offline classes because of COVID-19, the students are yet to be completely involved in learning. Guest teachers too have not been appointed in many PU Colleges. For these three prime reasons, portions for the midterm examination have not been completed in many colleges. Students and their parents need a few more days to be mentally prepared to face the midterm examination, which is being held in the annual examination format this year. The association has also pointed the need to simplify the process of evaluation by allowing it to done at the college level. The present process of taking answer sheets every day to the nodal centre and allocation of papers after randomisation is time consuming and involved more manpower, the association said.. As PU lecturers and other staff will be involved in midterm examination, there cannot be any classes during this period for the I PU students. Hence the PU Director should allow colleges to hold midterm examination for 1 PU students too. While the examination for II PU students can be held in the morning, those for I PU students can be held afternoon. Midterm examination for I PU students will help to assess students in a better way, the association added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/association-seeks-postponement-of-ii-pu-midterm-exam-by-15-days/article37552695.ece
18 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||KSPCB directs SKF Boilers to halt painting operations||The Karnataka State Pollution Control Board’s regional office in Mangaluru on Wednesday directed M/s SKF Boilers and Driers Pvt., Ltd., near Moodbidri, to immediately halt painting its products in the open. The company may resume the activity after following necessary guidelines, including installing paint booths, KSPCB said. Board’s Environment Officer Keerthi Kumar visited the SKF premises on Wednesday after a delegation of residents from Padumarnadu village near Moodbidri submitted a complaint against SKF at the regional office in Mangaluru. Mr. Kumar told The Hindu he has asked the company to immediately halt spray painting in the open and resume the same after installing paint booths and obtaining clearance from the board. Earlier, the delegation submitted a complaint to the board stating SKF, located at Bannadka in Padumarnadu, was polluting the air and the water in the locality. They said despite several complaints to the board, no action was initiated against SKF. Residents said SKF did not bother to respond to notices issued by the local gram panchayat. They said if the board does not take action within 20 days, residents would be forced to launch a hunger strike in front of the plant on the Mangaluru-Karkala national highway. The delegation comprised residents Dayanand Pai, Srinath Suvarna, Esthina Rodriguez, and others. SKF is engaged in manufacturing boilers and driers to produce rice and has made name in the field by exporting its products to several countries. Its founder and managing director Ramakrishna Achar was not available for comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kspcb-directs-skf-boilers-to-halt-painting-operations/article37552691.ece
18 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||LHB coaches on Mangala Express||Southern Railway has decided to convert conventional rakes of Ernakulam-Hazrath Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Mangala Lakshadweep Express to LHB (Linke Hofmann Busch) rakes in a phased manner. A release from SR here said Train No. 12617 / 12618 Ernakulam Jn - Hazrat Nizamuddin – Ernakulam Jn Mangala Lakshadweep Express trains would be operated with LHB rake twice a week from both ends. The LHB rakes would have two AC 2-tier coaches, six AC 3-tier coaches, one Pantry Car, eight sleeper class coaches, three general second classcoaches and two luggage-cum-brake vans, in all 22 coaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lhb-coaches-on-mangala-express/article37552688.ece
18 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||One COVID-19 death in DK||Dakshina Kannada reported one COVID-19 death and six new cases on Wednesday. With 12 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 120. Test positivity rate was put at 0.12%. A fine totalling Rs. 1,07,67,870 has so far been collected in 88,749 cases of norms violation. Udupi district reported nine new cases of which eight are from Udupi taluk and one from outside the district. Eight patients are under home isolation and one is in the designated government healthcare facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-covid-19-death-in-dk/article37552696.ece
18 November 2021||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||Power supply in parts of Mangaluru fed by 11 kV Bhagavathi and Pragathi feeders would be affected between 10 am and 5 pm on Friday. Areas affected include Dongarkeri Road, Canara High School, Navabharath Circle, Kodialbail and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article37552697.ece
18 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||briefly||Udupi Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao has prohibited sale of liquor in parts of Kundapur taluk from Thursday 6 am to Friday midnight for the smooth conduct of Kotilingeshwara temple rathotsava. Liquor outlets in Koteshwara, Hangluru and Gopadi villages should remain closed during the time, he said. Also consumption of liquor in these village limits is prohibited, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/briefly/article37552692.ece
18 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Second dose coverage 57%||As the coverage of second dose of COVID-19 vaccination remains around 57 per cent in Mysuru district and nearly 1.90 lakh people are due for their second dose, the health authorities here are now planning to step up their vaccination campaign. They have set themselves a target of vaccinating at least 10,000 people every day for achieving 90 per cent second dose coverage at least by December-end. Mysuru stands sixth in the State in administration of the second dose. As many as 13 lakh people had received their second dose. The coverage, however, saw a drop in the last few days and one of the reasons cited was heavy rains with the district and particularly Mysuru city in the grip of incessant downpour. But the primary reason has been sharp drop in new cases. District Health Officer K.S. Prasad told The Hindu that the vaccination campaign has been stepped up with the health workers making doorstep visits. There are about 1.90 lakh people who are yet to get their second dose even after completing the 84-day gap from their first dose. When compared to other districts, the number is less. Yet, we are on the job and confident of maximising the coverage of the second dose at the earliest, he added. Dr. Prasad said efforts are on to vaccinate at least 10,000 every day so that the target of reaching 90 per cent coverage was achieved by the end of this year. The coverage of first dose in the district stands at 90 per cent. The department had earlier planned to vaccinate 1 lakh people on a single day holding a mega drive. But, it could vaccinate only 30,000 on that day despite their best efforts. The vaccines are available aplenty in PHCs and hospitals, but people are not coming forward to get their second dose despite completing the 84-day gap. “They are simply delaying their second dose and one of the reasons could be a sharp drop in new cases. The normalcy in the pandemic situation has been driving them to delay their second dose. This should not happen as two doses of vaccine are key for protection against the disease,” the DHO advised. “We will continue with our efforts and achieve 90 per cent coverage by the year-end,” Dr. Prasad said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-dose-coverage-57/article37552708.ece
18 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Rangayana’s Bahurupi fest in December||Theatre repertoire Rangayana will conduct the national theatre festival Bahurupi from December 10 to 19 and present a slew of plays to mark the festival. The theme of this year’s festival is motherhood and will feature plays from various States and languages besides seminars, workshops, book exhibition, exhibition of arts and crafts etc at the Kalamandira complex. Giving details of the festival Rangayana Director Addanda C. Cariappa told mediapersons here on Wednesday that the concept of motherhood encompassing a broader aspect to include nature, environment, language etc will instil reverence and respect in such concepts. He said the theatre festival is not merely enactment of plays but is an attempt to reflect the contemporary society and the theme for this year was taken after a prolonged discussion. The festival will explore the concepts of Jaminu (agricultural land), Jala (water), Jangal (forest), Januwaru (animals) and Jana (people) under the broad canvass of motherhood. Mr. Cariappa said the festival will also try to reignite the love and reverence towards mother which was fast eroding in the modern world. Though mother is equated with lofty idealism including nation-building, the concept was diluting and the festival will strive to shore up the sentiment. There will also be a film festival and the State Government has earmarked Rs. 50 lakh grant towards Bahurupi. The folk presentation will feature Jogati Nruthya, Kamsale, Puja Kunitha, Chande Mela, Mallakambha, Gorawara Kunitha, Veeragase, Jade Kolata, Siddhi Kunitha, Dollu Kunitha, Suggi Kunitha, Lavani, Gombe Garudiga, and Gombeyata. Regional flavour The South Zone Cultural Centre, Thanjavur, and South Central Zone ,Nagpur, will present an array of folk performances drawn from different regions including Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Maharashtra, Assam and Manipur. The festival will feature 10 non-Kannada plays including Punjabi, Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Marathi, and Odiya besides 18 Kannada plays. Rangayana productions to be staged include Parva, Sutradhara, Chitrapata, Mookana Makkalu and Chandragiriyatheeradalli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rangayanas-bahurupi-fest-in-december/article37552707.ece
18 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Protest against MP’s remarks||Activists belonging to the Congress party and Dalit organisations held a protest in front of BJP MP Pratap Simha’s office in Mysuru on Wednesday demanding an apology for his remarks against Congress leader Priyank Kharge. The activists, who gathered outside Mr. Simha’s office at Jaladarshini Guest House, raised slogans against the MP for speaking lightly about Mr. Priyank Kharge and his name. The activists sought to point out that veteran Congress leader M. Mallikarjun Kharge had named his children after drawing inspiration from Buddhism. The activists also sought to clarify that Mr. Priyank Kharge does not use any of the ultra luxury cars named by Mr .Simha. Also, Mr. Priyank Kharge had won two elections in 2013 and 2018 and had even served as a Minister. Coming down heavily on Mr. Simha for his “loose and personal” remarks against Mr. Priyank Kharge, the activists demanded that the MP apologise to their leader and the Dalits of the State. Or else, they threatened to gherao him at public functions in the coming days. Meanwhile, Mr. Simha also drew the ire of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) for referring to Muslims’ opposition to consumption of pork while he was condemning music composer Hamsalekha’s recent remarks. SDPI leader Afsar Kodlipet told reporters in Madikeri that Mr. Simha was repeatedly making “anti-constitutional and communally provocative” statements. He said there was no reason for Mr. Simha to make such remarks when Muslims had neither justified nor welcomed Mr. Hamsalekha’s statements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-against-mps-remarks/article37552705.ece
18 November 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Three-day youth festival inaugurated||A three-day youth festival Yuvajanothsava got underway in in the city on Wednesday with a slew of cultural and folk programmes. The festival organised by the University of Horticultural Sciences, Bagalkot, is being held at the KSOU Convocation Hall and was inaugurated by film maker Nagathihalli Chandrashekar. He said such festivals are important for the students to mould their personality and give a platform to showcase their latent talent. Mr. Chandrashekar said the kind of encouragement that agriculture receives by way of funds for research etc is denied to horticulture and this should change. India has a large youth population and a majority of them are in rural areas which is beset with economic and social problems. But the rural issues could be redressed to a large extent by encouraging horticulture in a big way. The youth festival is being attended by students drawn from nine horticulture colleges coming under the UHS. Prior to the inauguration a procession comprising folk troupes and students clad in traditional attires, was taken out from the statue of Kuvempu at the entrance of Manasagangotri campus to the KSOU campus premises. KSOU Vice-Chancellor S. Vidyashankar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-day-youth-festival-inaugurated/article37552709.ece
18 November 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Take welfare programmes of State and Centre to people’s doorsteps: MLA||Venkatareddy Mudnal, MLA, has said that party workers should take development works and achievements of the Central and the State Government to the doorsteps of the people. He was addressing party workers at the executive meeting of the Yadgir Rural Mandal in Yadgir recently. Mr. Mudnal said that the Central and the State Governments have introduced many pro-people programmes. However, many people are yet to get the benefits. Therefore, party workers should take such programmes to the doorsteps of the people, he said. He said that the outgoing MLC B.G. Patil has popularised many development works for the people of Kalaburagi and Yadgir district. “We all have to put effort into electing him again in the coming MLC elections,” he said. Arun Binnadi, divisional organising secretary, Venkatareddy Abbetumkur, Rajshekhar Kadamnor, Siddanagowda Kadamnor, Suresh Ambiger, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-welfare-programmes-of-state-and-centre-to-peoples-doorsteps-mla/article37552521.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Celebration||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/celebration/article37552699.ece
18 November 2021||Hyderabad,KERALA||Inter-State drug-peddling gangs busted||With the arrest of 11 persons, Cyberabad police claim to have busted three inter-State drug-peddling gangs and recovered 50 gm of MDMA, 45kg of ganja, apart from Rs. 22,200 in cash. In the first case, the Special Operations Team of Madhapur zone on November 12, apprehend two persons near Westin Hotel, Madhapu,. which subsequently led to the arrest of three more persons. In another case the sleuths of SOT Balanagar zone on November 16, apprehended one Mareedu Srinivas. In the third case, the SOT Madhapur busted an organised gang smuggling ganja and arrested three persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/inter-state-drug-peddling-gangs-busted/article37552229.ece
18 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Farmers seek damages for disease in paddy variety||A group of farmers under the aegis of the Cheekkallur Padashekhara Samiti is preparing to launch agitations seeking adequate compensation for crop loss suffered by the farmers who had raised “Manuvarna”, a new rice variety released by the Kerala Agricultural University recently, on 240 acres in Wayanad district. Speaking to mediapersons here on Wednesday, spokespersons of the samiti, K. Kesava Marar and E.P. Philipkutty, said that 60 farmers under the samiti had cultivated the new variety of rice on 240 acres of land and it was completely destroyed by the rice blast disease, a fungal disease affecting paddy. But another rice variety, “Athira”, which was cultivated only 30 cm away from the paddy field, was not attacked by the blast disease, they said. They had procured 4,700 kg of ‘Manuvarna’ variety of paddy by paying Rs. 42 a kg. They had spent Rs. 1.25 crore for the cultivation, including rent of the land. Faulty studies The reason for the spread of the disease was faulty researches conducted at the Rice Research Stations (RRS) at Mankombu, Vyttila, and Pattambi under the Kerala Agricultural University, they alleged. The farmers should be provided a compensation of Rs. 60,000 an acre for their loss and the amount should be collected from the scientists of the research stations, Mr. Philipkutty said. March planned The farmers would take out a protest march from the Cheekkallur farm to the office of the Principal Agricultural Officer at Kalpetta by carrying paddy spikes and stage a dharna in front of the office on November 25, raising the demand, Mr. Marar said. Legal measures If the issue is not solved amicably, the farmers would picket the Principal Agricultural Officer, they warned. Moreover, legal measures would be adopted against the RRS, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/farmers-seek-damages-for-disease-in-paddy-variety/article37552590.ece
18 November 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||30 injured as buses collide||At least 30 persons were injured, four of them critically, as two private buses collided head-on on the Mananthavady-Kalpetta route at Cheengadi near the Veterinary Hospital Junction at Varadoor in the district on Wednesday. The accident occurred around 1.50 p.m. as the driver of the bus, plying on the Kalpetta-Mananthavady route, lost control of the vehicle while negotiating a sharp curve, the police said. Those injured were admitted to various private hospitals here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/30-injured-as-buses-collide/article37552591.ece
18 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Research to map risk areas for KFD||With frequent cases of Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD) being reported from areas adjoining forests in Wayanad district in recent years, a research programme to map potential areas of risk, using field data and modelling techniques, has begun. The research, funded by the Science and Engineering Research Board, would be carried out by Assistant Professor Joseph J. Erinjery of the Department of Zoology of the Manathavady campus of Kannur University. 500 cases  Around 500 cases of KFD were being reported in South India every year, Mr. Erinjery told The Hindu.  Many cases had been reported in Karnataka too. Zoonotic diseases had claimed human lives and affected the health of many people around the world in the past few decades. The increase of forest frontier areas due to agricultural expansion and other human activities was one of the major reasons for the increase in such diseases, he explained Increasing forest frontiers had resulted in a corresponding rise in human-wildlife contacts, and due to this, many diseases from wildlife were spreading to humans. Information regarding human movement and behaviour associated with land use, animal and vector behaviour were required to determine the risk areas of zoonotic diseases. However, such studies were rarely conducted to identify the risk areas of any particular zoonotic disease, said Mr. Erinjery KFD that spreads along forest fringes of the Western Ghats offers an opportunity for such a study, he said. Mr. Erinjery said that the disease spread to humans mainly through infected tick bites. The ticks that bite sick or dead primates act as hosts to the KFD virus. It mostly affected people who came in close contact with the forest such as farmers, herders, and forest guards, he said. Funding The study spanning over two years, with a fund allocation of Rs. 33 lakh from the Science and Engineering Research Board, would use socio-ecological modelling, species distribution modelling, and agent-based modelling techniques to produce maps of high-risk areas, he explained. The results would help in formulating vaccination programmes and adopting preventive measures in high-risk areas in the Western Ghats and would provide a baseline for several such studies on zoonotic diseases in forest frontiers, said Mr. Erinjery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/research-to-map-areas-at-risk-of-kfd-infection-begins/article37552585.ece
18 November 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Interview shortlist: violation of norms alleged in Kannur varsity||Kannur University is again in the middle of a controversy following its decision to shortlist and interview Priya Varghese, wife of Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader K.K. Ragesh, private secretary of the Chief Minister, for the post of associate professor in the Malayalam department. The Save University Campaign Committee (SUCC) and a senate member said on Wednesday that the university had shortlisted Ms. Varghese for the post in violation of University Grants Commission (UGC) norms. They alleged that the university was in a hurry to shortlist and interview the applicant before the completion of the tenure of Vice Chancellor Gopinath Ravindran, who is set to retire on November 23. In a petition filed with the Minister of Higher Education and the Vice Chancellor, R.S. Sasikumar, SUCC chairman, said a screening committee prepared a shortlist of six persons, which included Ms. Varghese, inviting them for an interview just a day after the deadline for receiving applications on November 12. UGC norms M. Shajar Khan, SUCC secretary, said a research degree and eight years of teaching experience as an assistant professor were required as per UGC norms for the post of associate professor. Appointed as an assistant professor at Kerala Varma College, Thrissur, in 2012, Ms. Varghese obtained PhD after three years of research while in service, he said adding she was on deputation as the Director of Student Services at Kannur University for two years from 2019. “Section 3-9 of the UGC Act, 2018 stipulates that the time spent on obtaining research degree for associate professors, professors, and appointments may not be considered as teaching experience. However, the screening committee included Priya Varghese on the interview list considering all these periods as teaching experience,” he said. However, Vice Chancellor Gopinath Ravindran said there was no violation of UGC norms. He said the applicant had been shortlisted as she had the required qualification. “It is an unnecessary allegation. The applicant has the required experience of eight years and good publication records. She was also in contract employment, which can be counted,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/interview-shortlist-violation-of-norms-alleged-in-kannur-varsity/article37552630.ece
18 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Petition alleges halal jaggery in Nivedyam||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) and the State Government on a writ petition challenging the use of what is termed “spoiled halal-certified food materials for the preparation of Nivedyam at the Sabarimala temple, violating the Hindu customary rituals and practices.” The petitioner, S.J.R. Kumar, State general convener of the Sabarimala Karma Samiti, submitted that the officials of the board hurt the Hindu religious sentiments by permitting the use of halal-certified materials for the preparation of Nivedyam/Prasadam. The halal-certification is a process peculiar to the Muslim community involving their rituals and practices. Using a material created out of religious practices of another religion as offering to Lord Ayyappa was an insult to the beliefs and customs of Ayyappa devotees, he submitted. Petitioner’s charge According to the petitioner, a section of religious scholars of the Muslim community had proclaimed that saliva was a necessary ingredient for certifying halal in the preparation of food materials. It was highly disheartening to see that food materials prepared following the rituals and religious practices of another religion with its certification was accepted as food material for the preparation of Nivedyam/Prasadam in a Hindu temple having its own rituals and customs, he submitted. Health issues The board should have ordered destruction of the spoiled jaggery instead of auctioning it to an individual. The use of spoilt jaggery would create serious public health issues as it was likely to return to the market, he submitted. The actions on the part of the temple administration were highly illegal and violated the religious rights guaranteed under the Constitution, he submitted. The court will consider the case on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/petition-alleges-halal-jaggery-in-nivedyam/article37552628.ece
18 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Functioning of committee for rejuvenation of canals in limbo||The functioning of the joint committee appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to recommend short-term and long-term measures for the rejuvenation of Perandoor and Edappally canals remains in limbo. The Southern Bench of the tribunal had set up the committee after it took suo motu notice of The Hindu report titled ‘Faecal contamination high in Perandoor, Edappally canals’ published on January 28. The committee included the District Collector or a senior officer not below the rank of Assistant Collector or a Sub Divisional Magistrate, and one senior officer each representing the Kerala State Pollution Control Board, Environment Department, Kochi Corporation, and Greater Cochin Development Authority. The court had asked the committee to inspect the area in question and submit a factual as well as action-taken report to remedy the situation before March 31. The committee had met once and had submitted a report in August. However, it had not mentioned the timeline for identifying and clearing the encroachment. A member of the committee cited the pandemic situation for the delay in holding further meetings. But the Kochi Corporation had initiated steps to carry out a survey to assess the illegal outlets into the canals. Notices were also served on a section of the violators responsible for unauthorised discharge of wastewater/sewage into the water bodies, he said. The collection of periodical samples to ascertain the sewage load in the canals was also delayed. No samples were collected after June by the State Pollution Control Board. The board is now planning to collect samples within two weeks. Board officials stated that the heavy showers in the last few weeks had hampered the sample collection process from the 10 sampling points identified in both the canals. The total coliform count had exceeded the maximum permissible limits by 160 and 96 times in Perandoor and Edappally canals respectively, as per the results available in January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/functioning-of-committee-for-rejuvenation-of-canals-in-limbo/article37552613.ece
18 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Street vending only for licencees, orders High Court||Only those street vendors, who have obtained the certificates of vending from the Town Vending Committee of the Kochi Corporation, will be permitted to carry on street vending activities within the limits of the Kochi Corporation from December 1, the Kerala High Court has ordered. The corporation informed the court that it had issued identity cards to 700 street vendors out of the 876 vendors who were eligible for the issuance of identity cards. Efforts were being taken to trace the remaining eligible ones. The court asked the local body to complete the process of issuance of the identity cards and certificates of vending before November 30. The street vendors, who are operating within the limits of the corporation without obtaining the licences can approach the Town Vending Committee. On receiving the application, the committee should pass the orders on such applications within one month. However, from December 1, such applicants should not be permitted to carry of street vending till they obtained the certificate from the committee, the court directed. The court suo motu impleaded the Ernakulam District Collector and the Commissioner of Police for implementing the directives of the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/street-vending-only-for-licencees-orders-high-court/article37552615.ece
18 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Navy Chief makes farewell visit to city||On his two-day visit to the Southern Naval Command ahead of his retirement from service on November 30, Admiral Karambir Singh, Chief of the Naval Staff, interacted with Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command, besides officers, sailors and defence civilians under the command. The Admiral returned to Delhi on Wednesday afternoon. Admiral Singh, the ‘Grey Eagle’ as the senior-most serving naval aviator is known, completes four decades of service at the time of retirement. During his interactions at the Southern Naval Command, he commended the personnel for their perseverance in maintaining the operational assets combat-worthy. r Admiral Singh also commended the Southern Naval Command for providing assistance to the civil administration in times of emergencies, especially during the pandemic and during natural calamities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-chief-makes-farewell-visit-to-city/article37552610.ece
18 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Synthetic track renovation gathers pace||Preparatory works ahead of the relaying of the synthetic track at the Maharaja’s College ground here have gathered pace after its initial delays. The Public Works Department (PWD), entrusted with the execution of the project, will carry out an assessment of the strength of the track foundation. The college management had earlier formed a monitoring committee consisting of sportspersons, former students, and elected members to execute the relaying of the synthetic track. The government had issued administrative sanction for the Rs. 6.9-crore renovation work. The Directorate of Collegiate Education had included the project among its other proposals in the annual plan for 2021-22. The college authorities pointed out that steps will be taken to avoid any gaps in the preparatory works as the aim is to come up with a synthetic track of international standards. The PWD had suggested an assessment of the strength of the existing foundation in view of the waterlogging near the track. The lack of proper maintenance had affected the overall condition of the track, which was opened in 2007 at a project cost of around Rs. 5 crore. The college management had sought the opinion of experts in the field of athletics on the existing shortcomings. A senior sportsperson in Thiruvananthapuram had provided his inputs on various aspects, including the need to assess the strength of the foundation. The tender proceedings for the synthetic track will also be initiated by the PWD once the preparatory works are complete. Even though the authorities have not been able to set a deadline for the completion of the relaying, they pointed out that the intent is to speed up the process and clear the possible bureaucratic delays that may emerge in the way forward. The stadium is expected to have pits for long and high jump as part of the track relaying work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/synthetic-track-renovation-gathers-pace/article37552624.ece
18 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Hotel owner, 5 others held in Kochi accident case||More than a fortnight after the tragic accident that killed three persons, including two promising models, at Chakkaraparambu, the City police on Wednesday arrested six persons, including the owner of a Fort Kochi-based hotel where the victims had reportedly partied late into the night just hours before speeding to their death. Roy J. Vayalat, owner of the hotel No 18, was arrested under Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code after he was summoned for interrogation for the second straight day. Additional Commissioner K.P. Philip, who is holding charge of District Police Chief (Kochi City), issued the relevant orders after a day-long interrogation. The other five arrested were identified as K.K. Anil, Wilson Reynold, M.B. Melvyn, G.A. Sijulal, and Vishnukumar. They were reportedly IT technicians and employees engaged by the hotel. “The owner could not produce some missing CCTV footage while his employees had also given a statement to the effect that he had asked them to delete it. Cyber cell officials had examined the hotel and drawn up the list of missing items,” said Mr. Philip. A digital video recorder of CCTV cameras from the hotel was allegedly dumped from the Kannamkattu bridge near Thevara. A search in the area conducted by the police proved futile. However, there is no clarity yet on whether any untoward incident took place during the party, following which the victims felt intimidated and were forced to leave the hotel and speed away. Contradictory claims Confusion also prevails over the conversation between Abdul Rahman, the driver and lone survivor involved in the accident, and Shaiju, the driver of another car that was found allegedly tailing them from the hotel. Camera footage along the way had shown them conversing at Kundannoor Junction. While Shaiju reportedly told the police that he had followed the car to ask them not to drive under the influence of alcohol, the statement given by Rahman contradicted it. Rahman was arrested for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and was later released on bail. Meanwhile, the family of Ansy Kabeer, one of the two models killed in the accident, has petitioned the Palarivattom police seeking to resolve the alleged mystery behind the incident. They expressed suspicion about the alleged interventions of the hotel owner and sought to know why another car was found tailing the ill-fated car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hotel-owner-5-others-held-in-kochi-accident-case/article37552636.ece
18 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Words of hope, resilience from a differently abled writer||When life dealt a tragic blow restricting her to bed with rheumatoid arthritis at the young age of 15, Maya Balakrishnan could have easily given up. She never did. And now 35 years down the line, Maya boasts three books to her credit with the promise of more to come. The autobiographical Naalam Viralil Viriyunna Maya was released earlier this week. “It’s about my life from the hospital days to the years on the bed, my sights and insights, my near collapse to depression and how I turned the corner after finding refuge in writing. It talks on behalf of all the differently abled while telling the new generation to realise that we also have an identity and that we should be treated with dignity and compassion,” said Maya spiritedly. Writing proved to be the light at the end of what seemed a very dark tunnel for her. She started keying in on a laptop nearly a decade ago though it wasn’t easy as it sounds. With her joints increasingly getting frozen she had to do it with a single finger. Social media also came as a blessing as it helped her reach out to the world and brought acceptance to her writings. She is now active in several writing-related WhatsApp groups while reading remains another passion. “As writing became more frequent I shifted to a tablet as it was more convenient to write lying down,” said Maya. But still, she cannot keep on writing for long stretches and has to intersperse it with frequent breaks. For someone hailing from Nayathodu near Angamaly, the birthplace of great poet G. Sankara Kurup, poems remain her favourite. She has already penned two collections of poems while more poems and a few children’s stories remain to be published. With her mother, two brothers and their families steadfastly supporting her literary pursuits, Maya remains confident of coming out with more books. “It is my way of motivating differently abled people like me to keep fighting and remain hopeful,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/words-of-hope-resilience-from-a-differently-abled-writer/article37552606.ece
18 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Anupama’s baby to be brought back to Kerala in five days||The baby boy of Anupama S. Chandran, who was allegedly given in adoption without her consent, will be brought back to Kerala in five days. The Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Thiruvananthapuram, issued an order to the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare (KSCCW) in this regard on Wednesday. The KSCCW was asked to bring the baby back as it was given in foster care from the agency. Once the infant is brought back, the CWC will carry out the genetic identification of the baby to decide on its biological parents. A Special Juvenile Police Unit will provide escort for the baby while its brought back to Kerala from a couple in Andhra Pradesh, with whom it was given in foster care. The Deputy Superintendent of Police (Crime Branch), who heads the unit will be in charge of the safety of the baby during its travel from Andhra Pradesh to Thiruvananthapuram, sources said. Stand-in protest Incidentally, Ms. Chandran is on a stand-in protest in front of the office of the KSCCW demanding the sacking of J.S. Shiju Khan, the general secretary of the council, and N. Sunanda, the chairperson of the CWC, whom she alleged were behind the adoption. The District Child Protection Officer has been asked to ensure the safety of the baby. Once the baby is back in the State, it will be put under the charge of a fit person as defined in the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, till a finality is arrived in the case. The CWC will issue orders for putting the baby in the care and protection of the fit person to be identified by the Police Commissioner, sources said. The fit person will be in charge of the baby till its biological parents are identified through a DNA test. The final orders in the adoption case will be issued by the CWC after completing all the legal formalities, the sources said. Incidentally, the Family Court, Thiruvananthapuram, will consider the case on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anupamas-baby-to-be-brought-back-to-kerala-in-five-days/article37552602.ece
18 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Chavittunatakam makes a revival post lockdown||The coastal region from Ezhupunna to Fort Kochi through Kattiparambu, Kandakkadavu, Kannamaly, and Cheriyakadvu is waking up to the songs of artistes rehearsing to stage Chavittunatakam post COVID-19. Musical drama Chavittunatakam is an art form that has been close to the hearts of the coastal people and involves staging of a musical drama with stamping of feet and exotic costumes. The art form used to be a mix of old Tamil songs and Portuguese drama but has been transformed over the decades by local artistes. The art form is seeing a great revival under the aegis of Kripasanam in Alappuzha, which is carrying out research on the art and popularising it. Britto Xavier, a veteran of almost four decades in Chavittunatakam, said on Wednesday that rehearsals for a performance for Emmanuel were progressing near Saudi on Beach Road, close to Fort Kochi. The play was initially scheduled for April 2020. However, the staging was put off due to the COVID-19 lockdown. It was then rescheduled for April 2021. The schedule was again cancelled because of the pandemic. It was now expected that the play could be staged on December 18 this year. The venue of the play would be the Cheriyakadavu church, he said. Stage artistes have said they suffered immensely because of the lockdown and subsequent financial crisis. The new season has brought some hope of revival of the activities, which will be a means of sustenance for the artistes. Josey Kandakkadavu, another Chavittunatakam artiste, said that rehearsal was on for two plays, St. Alex and Manthrikumaran , which will be staged on January 23 and March 18 respectively. He said that the expenses for the rehearsals were quite considerable and the artistes were optimising the opportunities to go through the drama and dances as well as the songs.  St. Alex is a devotional drama that focusses on a life that resembles Lord Buddha’s, who gives up the worldly life for the pursuit of spirituality and truth. 200 artistes There are around 200 artistes involved in the preparations in about a dozen training centres (kalari) at Ezhupunna, Beach Road, near Fort Kochi, Cheriyakdavu, and Kannamaly. The teams are also rehearsing for plays such as Dheerayodhavinte Anthya Yathra , among others, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chavittunatakam-witnesses-revival-post-lockdown/article37552579.ece
18 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Families living on elevated eroding terrain await rehabilitation||Whenever the sky turns overcast, 13 families at Keerelimala in Athani ward of Thrikkakara Municipality start packing their bags. The families, living precariously on the top and foot of a fast eroding elevated terrain, move in and out of the relief camp depending on the ferocity of the rain. Last month, they spent nearly a week at the camp opened at Mar Athanasius High School at Kakkanad in the wake of unseasonal torrential rain. “We have been leading this miserable life over the past two decades ever since sand was mined off the foot of the hill, sparking off gradual caving. We must be spared of this and permanently rehabilitated,” said Manju K.R., a resident of Keerelimala and an Asha worker. A plot of around 50 cents in TV Centre, ward 24 of the municipality, has been identified for their rehabilitation. There was a proposal to rehabilitate the affected families on the plot under the LIFE Mission, a project of the State Government for the homeless, during the term of the last government. “I don’t know why the project got stalled. But it has now been revived and the proposal has been forwarded to the government. A meeting of the District Collector, people’s representatives, and the representatives of the families held on Monday decided to move the families to the plot at the earliest,” said Thrikkakara Municipal Chairperson Ajitha Thankappan. M.J. Dixon, councillor for Athani ward, said that it was highly risky for the families to continue to stay at their place as their houses were in danger of caving in at any time. “Damage to one house could have a cascading effect on the rest of the houses in the area. The situation has gradually deteriorated over the past 22 years and the ground was somehow held together so far probably by the deep entrenched tree roots. Steps have been taken to clear the plot and the surveyor has been asked to measure the plot with each family likely to get 3 cents each.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/families-living-on-elevated-eroding-terrain-await-rehabilitation/article37552622.ece
18 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||KHRA to work with NGO on waste management||The Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Association (KHRA) has taken the first step in the direction of effective waste disposal and management by roping in Stenum Asia, a Delhi-based NGO, which is engaged in creating awareness about best practices in waste management in India and Sri Lanka. KHRA will work in tandem with the NGO to launch a waste management campaign in Kochi. The team was in Kochi recently to identify the kind of waste generated in restaurants and its effective disposal. “This tie-up will not only help us work out ways of effective disposal but also how to recycle waste. Our aim is sustainable development and growth,” says Muhammed Musthafa, CEO of Rezoy, the digital empowerment centre of KHRA. Rezoy was formed to protect the industry and empower it, and the tie-up is part of that. Stenum Asia representatives visited 10 restaurants in the district to assess waste disposal methods in place and energy efficiency. “The feedback from them has been helpful. We are not looking to reinvent the wheel. Stenum has experience working in the field in India and Sri Lanka, and they know what needs to be done. “We want to implement best practices that are current across the world in our restaurants. The technology developed would be highly scalable and can be implemented in restaurants and hotels, irrespective of size, across the State,” Mr. Musthafa said. Usually, waste from restaurants is either disposed of via waste collection by civic bodies or by sending to pig farms in and around. “We are very dependent on these agencies. However, if we have our own means, then it becomes easier for us,” says Manoharan, district secretary, KHRA. Minor changes such as keeping freezers or compressors of air-conditioners away from burners and stoves - the source of heat - suggested by Stenum representatives were implemented immediately. “These are easily implemented and 20-25% energy is conserved,” Mr. Manoharan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/khra-to-work-with-ngo-on-waste-management/article37552611.ece
18 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||COPD Day observed||The Cochin Thoracic Society organised various programmes as part of the World COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) Day on Wednesday. A walkathon was held from IMA House, Kaloor, to Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium to spread awareness on COPD and to empower the public against the ills of smoking and air pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/copd-day-observed/article37552618.ece
18 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held on charge of sexually abusing child||The Binanipuram police on Wednesday arrested a man on the charge of sexually abusing the three-year-old daughter of a migrant worker at Muppathadam. The 22-year-old, a painting worker from Uttar Pradesh, is accused of having committed the crime on Tuesday night. He was arrested on a petition filed by the victim’s mother. A team led by Inspector V.R. Sunil, sub inspector T.K. Sudheer and senior civil police officers Sunil Kumar and Shihab made the arrest. Gang arrested The Kunnathunadu police arrested a three-member gang allegedly roaming around on a stolen motorcycle and plotting a theft. The arrested were identified as Manu, 22, of West Morakkala; Ranjith, 19, of Karimugal; and Joshua, 19, of West Morakkala. They were found riding a motorcycle stolen from Aroor and were allegedly plotting a theft when nabbed at Morakkala. A team led by Inspector V,T. Shajan, sub inspector M.P. Aby, assistant sub inspector C.O. Sajeev, senior civil police officer P.A. Abdul Manaf, and civil police officers U.A. Rafeeque and Edwin Joseph made the arrest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-sexually-abusing-child/article37552620.ece
18 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Fearless journalism tough in times of surveillance’||How is free and fearless journalism possible when surveillance gets mounted on journalists using novel technologies such as the Pegasus spyware, asked Sebastian Paul, former MP and media critic. Fear of such technologies could force journalists to exercise self-censorship, he said at a seminar on “Journalism in the time of surveillance” organised by the Ernakulam Press Club on Wednesday. There was an undeclared emergency in force, which was intolerant to difference of opinion and criticism. But for a country to be truly democratic, it should allow free expression. Cartoon row Those who saw the cow as mother suddenly became intolerant when the cow was shown in a cartoon as representing the country, Mr. Paul said. Senior journalist MG Radhakrishnan spoke of the dual nature of technology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fearless-journalism-tough-in-times-of-surveillance/article37552616.ece
18 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Allot land for Idukki court complex, orders HC||The Kerala High Court has asked the Chief Secretary to coordinate all the departments including Revenue, Home and Local Self Government institutions, to allocate land for the construction of a court complex at Idukki within six weeks. Once the land is allotted, the necessary steps should be initiated by the authorities to construct the court complex at least within one year from the date on which the land is allotted, directed the Kerala High Court. It was on a petition moved by the Idukki Bar Association that the court issued the order. All the authorities concerned should make earnest efforts to move all files quickly to start the construction immediately and to fulfil the aim to complete the construction within the period, the court directed. The petitioners submitted that the courts and the attached offices in Idukki were functioning with limited facilities provided in the civil station at Kuyilimala in Idukki. The demand for a court complex was mooted two and a half decades ago, the petitioners submitted. The court observed that the judiciary cannot function without the proper judicial infrastructure and a proper atmosphere to administer justice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/allot-land-for-idukki-court-complex-orders-hc/article37552607.ece
18 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Babu slams State Govt. over fuel price issue||K. Babu, MLA and deputy leader of the Congress in the Assembly, has accused the State Government of constantly shifting goalposts in the fuel price issue. Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, Mr. Babu reminded how the former Finance Minister Thomas Isaac had kept asking for the Centre to reduce prices before the State Government followed suit. For five years, the State Government managed without reducing prices by blaming the Centre. “The present Finance Minister, K.N. Balagopal, had wanted the Rajasthan Government led by the Congress to first reduce the price. Rajasthan Government has now reduced Rs. 4 for petrol and Rs. 5 for diesel. Where will the State Government shift the goalpost now?” Mr. Babu asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/babu-slams-state-govt-over-fuel-price-issue/article37552625.ece
18 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Seminar on Buddhist cultural trajectories in Kerala||A three-day national seminar on ‘Paths Anew: Polyphonic Buddhist Cultural Trajectories of Kerala’ jointly organised by the Centre for Buddhist Studies of Sree Sankara University of Sanskrit, Kalady, and the SNDP Public Library at Kalady got under way at the SNDP library on Wednesday. Dharmaraj Adat, Vice-Chancellor of the university, who inaugurated the seminar, also released “Buddhism and Kerala”, a compilation of research papers and essays presented at a national seminar on the theme conducted by the university in February last year. The book was put together by Ajay S. Sekher, coordinator of the Centre for Buddhist Studies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seminar-on-buddhist-cultural-trajectories-in-kerala/article37552617.ece
18 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Expedite probe against police officials: High Court||The Kerala High Court has asked the police authorities to ensure that the investigation against the five police officials, who allegedly demanded a bribe from the parents of missing girls, is concluded in the manner as mandated in law and without any delay. Regarding the conclusion of the State that the allegation of the mother against the assistant sub inspector of police demanding a bribe was not substantiated, Justice Devan Ramachandran said that the allegations of a bribe could generally not be proved through direct evidence but through only circumstantial evidence. ‘Saga of torment’ The totality of allegations, which entailed a sordid saga of torment and harassment to the family and the victims, would have to be taken into account. The court felt that it was too early to exonerate the ASI. The court posted the case for December 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-expedite-probe-against-police-officials-in-bribe-case/article37552577.ece
18 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||958 test positive in Ernakulam||As many as 958 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Wednesday. A total of 946 persons got infected through local contact in the district. The source of infection in three cases has not been ascertained. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 10.21%. The regions in which the positive cases were higher than 30 included Puthenvelikkara (58), Thrikkakara (39), Thripunithura (35), and Piravom (32). Some of the regions that reported fewer than five cases were Elamkulam, Kumbalanghi, Thoppumpady, Edappally, Edavanakad, Palarivattam, Vennala, Karuvelippady, Maneed, Ayampuzha, Thammanam, and Panayappilli, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/958-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article37552619.ece
18 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||500 fodder grass units to be launched||As part of its efforts to make dairy farming profitable, the Kerala Livestock Development Board (KLDB) is implementing a scheme to expand fodder grass cultivation through Kudumbashree units. The scheme is being implemented in areas with a fairly good number of livestock and where Kudumbashree workers are very active in the dairy sector. Five hundred units of fodder grass will be launched as part of the project and each unit will be a one-acre plot. A maximum of Rs. 16,000 will be provided to farmers as per conditions for setting up one unit of fodder grass farm. Selected members While selected Kudumbashree members will be provided scientific training in fodder cultivation and maintenance, high-quality saplings of different fodder varieties will be made available by the KLDB. In addition, model fodder grass farms will be set up in seven districts of the State for showcasing the project. A total of 100 model farms will be set up and a financial assistance up to Rs. 70,000 will be provided for setting up one-acre units. Fodder varieties suitable for selected areas will be distributed as per the project conditions. At present Kerala produces only 50% of the fodder grass required for the State’s livestock. Very often the farmers are unable to meet the dietary needs of their animals and are forced to buy expensive fodder. The cost of production increases due to the need to purchase extra fodder and the project offers a permanent solution to the problem by cultivating the grass varieties. The inauguration of the training programme for the beneficiaries selected under this scheme will be held on November 19. Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development J. Chinchurani will inaugurate the programme. Ittiva grama panchayat president Amritha will preside over the function. District panchayat president Sam K Daniel will inaugurate the distribution of planting material on the occasion.  At present, Kerala produces only 50% of the fodder grass required for the State’s livestock||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/500-fodder-grass-units-to-be-launched/article37552573.ece
18 November 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Malakhakoottam project to be launched in Kollam||Kollam district panchayat’s ambitious project Malakhakoottam will take off on November 19. Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes K. Radhakrishnan will inaugurate the project. Panchayat president Sam K. Daniel will preside over the function. Under the project, the panchayat will provide on-job training with stipend for 100 Scheduled Caste women who have completed General or BSc nursing. The District Scheduled Caste Development office has selected the beneficiaries for the project and the duration of apprenticeship will be two years. Women who have completed General Nursing will receive a monthly honorarium of Rs. 10,000 while it will be Rs. 12,500 for fresh BSc Nursing graduates. The nurses will be deployed in various government facilities in the district as per requirement. The District Medical Office has forwarded a list of hospitals facing staff shortage and the selected candidates will be allocated health facilities near their houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malakhakoottam-project-to-be-launched-in-kollam/article37552668.ece
18 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police flayed for case against locals who rescued woman from dogs||Socio-political organisations and elected representatives have come down on the Thamarassery police for registering a criminal case against a group of 20 identifiable persons from Ambayathode who allegedly manhandled a man during their attempt to rescue a 38-year-old woman from the attack of his guard dogs. Leaders of some action committees said they would organise protest meetings at Thamarassery on Thursday to condemn the incident. They also threatened to launch an indefinite agitation if the police failed to withdraw the case. “The woman who was seriously injured in the attack is yet to recover from the shock. It was those 20 persons who swung into action and saved her life. Treating them as criminals is an insult to society,” said a local action committee leader from Ambayathode. Action committee leaders alleged that the police had acted in favour of the dog owner who had no local licence to hold dangerous dogs. Haris Ambayathode, an IUML functionary at Kattippara, said the police had arrested the accused only after local protests last Sunday. “Despite being a grave incident, they cleared his bail within a few hours after the arrest. The strangest development was his counter case against the rescuers which was taken up seriously by the police,” he said. Meanwhile, those who stood by the youth said there were deliberate attempts on the part of a few persons to depict the incident as planned, to trigger clashes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-flayed-for-case-against-locals-who-rescued-woman-from-dogs/article37552583.ece
18 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||LJD continues to be a divided house||Yet to come to terms with its poor performance in the last Assembly polls, the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) is heading for big trouble, with a faction led by State general secretaries Sheikh P. Haris and V. Surendran Pillai seeking the removal of Kerala unit president M.V. Shreyams Kumar for his ‘inimical’ style of functioning. A meeting of the faction in Thiruvanathapuram on Wednesday asked Mr. Kumar to step down and pave the way for a democratic set-up in the party. The development comes ahead of the party’s State working committee meeting in Kozhikode on Saturday. The factional meeting comes hard on the heels of the announcement by LJD general secretary Varughese George a couple of days ago that the warring factions had decided to end their political and organisational differences and stay united. By one account, it revealed that the party is likely to head for a vertical split. Rebels’ charge Mr. Haris accused Mr. Kumar of running the party like a corporate entity. “Violating the directive of the Central leadership, he has taken an arbitrary stand of inducting several of his men into various posts to get a majority in the party forum. Already, senior leaders have lost confidence in his leadership,” he said. He claimed that the lone legislator, K.P. Mohanan representing Koothuparamba, stood for the removal of Mr. Kumar. Six district presidents and eight State-level office-bearers took part in the rebel meeting. Unrest has been brewing in the State unit ever since Mr. Kumar took over the reins of the party following the death of his father, M.P. Veerendrakumar, besides getting elected with the support of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) to complete his Rajya Sabha tenure in 2020. “All the leaders were against a Rajya Sabha member contesting from the Kalpetta Assembly segment. Later, he failed to negotiate to secure a Cabinet berth as well,” Mr. Haris told The Hindu .  On the possible disciplinary action against the rebels, Mr. Haris said they would deal with the situation when the time was right.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ljd-continues-to-be-a-divided-house/article37552627.ece
18 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Nanmanda bypoll to be held on December 7||Two nominations have been filed so far for the byelection to the Nanmanda division of the Kozhikode district panchayat. Nomination papers for the December 7 bypoll can be submitted till November 19, excluding holidays. The submissions can be done between 11 a.m. and 3 p.m. Scrutiny will take place on November 20. The last date for withdrawal is November 22. The bypoll was necessitated after CPI(M) nominee Kanathil Jameela, who was elected to the Assembly from the Koyilandy constituency, resigned as a division member of Nanmanda in May. Earlier, a meeting of representatives of political parties chaired by Additional District Magistrate (ADM) C. Mohammed Rafeeq was held at the district collectorate. To maintain the COVID-19 protocol, it was decided that a maximum of five persons should be present along with the candidate for submitting nomination papers. There are 77 polling stations in the division. The ADM said the Model Code was in force. Voting will take place from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. Counting will begin at 10 a.m. on December 8. Distribution of election equipment and counting will be held at S.N.G. College, Chelannur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nanmanda-bypoll-to-be-held-on-december-7/article37552580.ece
18 November 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||No COVID-19 clusters so far in Govt. schools||No COVID-19 clusters have been reported in Government schools in Kozhikode district so far, two weeks after classes resumed. The Health Department is yet to get information on aided and unaided schools. According to sources, however, isolated cases are being reported from some institutions. Both teachers and students are found to have tested positive for the virus. Some are symptomatic, while some others are not. Department sources said it was not clear if all of them had attended offline classes, or they were in the online mode. Also, it has to be examined if their family members had been infected before. The department is compiling data from various schools. Classes are now being held only till afternoon. All Saturdays, except those falling on public holidays, are working days. Sessions are arranged in such a way that if a school has more than 1,000 students, only 25% of them will be present at a time. Students have been divided into batches, and each of them goes to school three days in a week. Differently-abled students have been exempted from offline classes. Bio-bubbles have been formed in each class to ensure physical distancing. If any of the family members has COVID-19 symptoms, the students should stay at home. Parents are not allowed to enter school premises, while teachers will monitor transport arrangements. Those staying in the same locality have been advised to travel together. Education Department sources said the guidelines would be in force till the Government came up with fresh proposals. Though Class 9 students too started going to school in recent days, the guidelines were not updated. Officials are planning to review the situation in the coming days. School managements are reportedly asking students in bio-bubbles to go into quarantine if either a student or a teacher in the bubble tests positive for the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-covid-19-clusters-so-far-in-govt-schools-in-kozhikode/article37552582.ece
18 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Ghat Road protection panel on the verge of split||The Thamarassery Ghat Road Protection Committee, which has been operational for over six years taking care of the conservation of the scenic mountain pass and issues pertaining to motorists on the accident-prone route, is on the verge of a split thanks to political differences. Official committee functionaries owing allegiance to right wing parties alleged that a few expelled members supported by Left parties were attempting to hijack their roles, besides maligning the committee’s image. Though free service is one of the declared policies of the committee, office-bearers alleged that it was hardly followed by a few opponents who wanted to make it a paid service even for recovering vehicles involved in accidents making use of their personal tie-ups with private crane operators. All those who opposed this unfair tie-up are now facing the wrath of dissidents, they claimed. “Some dissenters are making efforts to form a parallel organisation using their political influence. They are also organising public meetings to mislead our members and the authorities,” said a founding leader of the committee. He alleged that those who had spearheaded the propaganda were not part of any demanding work or rescue operations undertaken by the committee in the first five years. A committee member said it was his team members’ efforts that led to the transformation of Ghat Road into a safe zone. “Video surveillance, 24X7 police patrol, and efficient traffic regulations during emergency situations were all introduced on the neglected route because of the committee’s intervention,” he pointed out. Meanwhile, the dissidents alleged that some founding leaders were seemingly reluctant to hand over leadership roles to the new team for political reasons, which could not be accepted. They also denied the charge of encouraging paid service and tie-ups with private organisations for rescue missions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ghat-road-protection-panel-on-the-verge-of-split/article37552587.ece
18 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Gold seizure at Calicut airport||The Customs Air Intelligence Unit (AIU) recovered about 7.5 kg of gold valued at Rs. 3.75 crore from inbound Gulf passengers at the Calicut international airport on Wednesday. Officials said 1.114 kg of gold in compound form concealed inside the underwear and 1.170 kg concealed in the rectum were seized from Nithin George, 30, hailing from Thrissur. He arrived from Dubai. In another case, the Customs seized gold in compound form weighing 676 gram from Abdul Kader Saya Abdul Rahman, 60, who had hidden the contraband in his underwear. He arrived from Sharjah. AIU officials seized gold in paste form sandwiched between the layers of corrugated carton box from three passengers hailing from Kozhikode who arrived from Dubai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gold-seizure-at-calicut-airport/article37552637.ece
18 November 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Maoist Deepak brought to Nilambur||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) brought Deepak, a Maoist from the Chhattisgarh cadre currently in prison, to the tribal hamlets off the Government Seed Garden Complex at Munderi in Pothukal panchayat, near Nilambur, on Wednesday. The police said he was brought for identification and verification of certain facts. Arrested in 2019 Although he was not handcuffed, a large number of armed policemen were deployed at Munderi and nearby areas as part of bringing Deepak, who had been arrested by the Special Task Force (STF) from a forest near Anaikatti in Coimbatore on November 9, 2019. He has been detained under the National Security Act since then. Deepak had been associated with Battalion-1 of the People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA), the military component of the CPI(Maoist) in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maoist-deepak-brought-to-nilambur/article37552639.ece
18 November 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Elephant calf electrocuted||An elephant calf was found electrocuted at Malampuzha on Tuesday. The carcass was found in a private land close to a forest. An elephant herd had stood guard beside the carcass for several hours. Forest officials later buried the carcass after a necropsy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elephant-calf-electrocuted/article37552741.ece
18 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SDPI imperilling communal peace: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Surendran has accused the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) of undermining communal peace in Kerala by unleashing trained assassins against members of nationalist organisations. Inaugurating a BJP march here on Wednesday in protest against the murder of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh worker Sanjith in Palakkad recently, Mr. Surendran termed the SDPI a terrorist organisation. The SDPI acted as the cat’s paw of the Communist Party of India (Marxist)-led Pinarayi Vijayan Government. Terror campaign He said the CPI(M)-SDPI gambit was to deny BJP and RSS workers political space and organisational freedom in Kerala by unleashing a terror campaign against committed workers and their families. Both parties were in cahoots in scores of local bodies in the State. The State police were yet to make any arrests in the Sanjith murder case. They were soft-pedalling the investigation at the behest of their political masters, he said. Mr. Surendran said the police’s chance discovery of murder weapons purportedly used to kill Sanjith could be an SDPI ploy to mislead the probe. “No honest investigation has taken place so far.” The SDPI’s mafia-style hit-and-run operations had claimed the lives of two RSS activists in Kerala in the past 10 days. The police have made no headway in both cases. he alleged. Mr. Surendran said scores of textile shops and hotels were SDPI fronts. The establishment employed radicalised youths who doubled as assailants for the “terrorist” organisation. The hit teams were also enforcers of a “halal culture” alien to Kerala. Mr. Surendran asked the Government to rein in the SDPI or face public wrath. Nationalist parties knew how to protect their own. The SDPI had let loose terror against RSS/BJP workers in Palakkad, and the district police remained a mute witness. During the LDF reign, the SDPI killed RSS workers with impunity, and many cases remained undetected. NIA probe The State police should book Sanjith's killers under UAPA and hand the case over to the NIA, he said. State general secretaries George Kurien, C. Krishnakumar, P. Sudheer, State vice president C. Sivankutty and State secretaries Karamana Jayan and S. Suresh also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sdpi-imperilling-communal-peace/article37552575.ece
18 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||First ship to arrive at Vizhinjam in May 2023||The first ship will dock at the Vizhinjam international seaport in May 2023, Minister for Ports Ahammad Devarkovil said on Wednesday. Steps had been taken to ensure the supply of granite necessary for the port construction, the Minister said after reviewing the progress of the work on the Rs. 7,525-crore project. The Government had also decided to hold review meetings every two weeks, he said. Acute shortage of granite had hit the construction of the 3.1-km breakwater that formed a major component of the project, which is being carried out by the Adani Group. Of the total requirement of 80 lakh tonnes of granite, 30 lakh tonnes had been supplied to date. Of this, 12 lakh tonnes had been used for the construction so far. Eighteen lakh tonnes of granite were ready at the port site. Five barges had been deployed at Vizhinjam for depositing the rock in the sea, the Minister said. By October 2023, berth operations were expected to turn full-fledged. The 220-kV substation for the port project would be inaugurated in December this year. The gate complex and workshop buildings could be opened by March and September respectively next year. Officials of Vizhinjam International Seaport Ltd (VISL), the State Government company overseeing the project, and Adani Vizhinjam International Seaport Ltd (AVPPL) attended the review meeting. The first phase was to have been completed on December 3, 2019 as per the concession agreement inked in August 2015. Following delays caused by natural calamities, COVID-19 and shortage of granite, the Adani Group had sought an extension.  Acute shortage of granite has hit the construction of the breakwater that forms a major component of the project||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-ship-to-arrive-at-vizhinjam-in-may-2023/article37552665.ece
18 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Veena’s surprise visit at Peroorkada DH||Minister for Health Veena George conducted a lightning inspection at District Hospital (DH), Peroorkada, on Wednesday. The Minister who reached the hospital at 8.20 a.m. in the vehicle of the Director of Health Services spent nearly two hours visiting the emergency, wards, pay wards, outpatient (OP) facility, ECG room, and so on and listened to grievances of patients and employees. No doctors found Since it was still early in the day, there not was much of a crowd at the hospital. Ms. George visited the OP first. Besides opthalmology and dental OPs, others were yet to start functioning. Though a number of patients were waiting at the Medicine OP, there were no doctors there. It was the same situation in the Ortho Department. In the Gynaecology Department, which has seven doctors, a board saying there was no OP had been put up. The Minister visited three gynaecologists in the Gynaecology operation theatre and labour room. When the Minister inquired about the OP doctors, it was learnt that many of them were on rounds. She immediately headed for the wards and perused the case sheets, only to find that the doctors had not reached there either. She also found that doctors’ rounds were not regular in the wards. She perused the attendance of the staff, including the doctors, and directed the Director of Health Services to take strict action. Only the OP counter was functioning till 9 a.m. The ECG room was closed. The Minister directed that shortage of staff be addressed and it start full-fledged functioning. She also directed an ECG technician be appointed urgently. Interaction with patients The Minister also interacted with the patients. One of them complained that treatment benefits were not available from the hospital. Ms. George inspected the patient’s documents and instructed that benefits for which the patient was eligible be made available. The Minister sought a report on the functioning of the hospital from the DHS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/veenas-surprise-visit-at-peroorkada-dh/article37552775.ece
18 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Allow children to meet jailed parents, close relatives: panel||Children should be given permission to meet parents or close relatives who are undergoing imprisonment, the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has said. Direct meetings or those online should be allowed if children ask to meet parents or close kin who were in jail, commission member K. Nazeer said recently, directing the Home Secretary and the Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services to issue directions to jail authorities in this regard. In crime cases However, no such meetings should be allowed if the parent or close relative was in jail in connection with crime against children or it was deemed that meeting them was against the best interests of the child, the commission said. The child rights commission did not pass specific orders on a petition by a man in jail seeking its intervention in allowing him to meet his child. The man had secured bail, it was informed. U.N. Convention Children, whatever be their living circumstances, had the right to meet their parent, the panel said. As per the United Nations International Convention on the Rights of the Child, children should not be separated from their parents unless it was in their best interests, and if separated, they had the right to meet and interact with their parents/guardians. The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Rules, 2016, gave children living in child care institutions the right to meet their relatives at least once a week. The Kerala Prisons and Correctional Services (Management) Act also gave prisoners the right to meet their family members. Legal responsibility It was the legal responsibility of the authorities to allow children to meet their father, mother, or any other close relatives in prison if they wanted to and after ensuring the security of the children, the child rights commission said. It asked for an action-taken report from the Home Secretary and the Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services within 30 days.  No meetings to be allowed if the parent or close relative is in jail in connection with crime against children||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/allow-children-to-meet-jailed-parents-panel/article37552592.ece
18 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Three ecotourism centres opened at Neyyar sanctuary||The Neyyar dam has immense potential for tourism, Minister for Forest and Wildlife A.K. Saseendran has said. He was speaking after inaugurating ecotourism centres at Vettimurichakone, Kottamanpuram, and Kombai in the Neyyar Wildlife Sanctuary under the Thiruvananthapuram Wildlife Division on Wednesday. Source of revenue The Minister said the Forest and Wildlife Department had an important role to play against the backdrop of grave environmental problems faced by the State. Besides environmental conservation, the State Government’s approach was also one that improved the State’s economy, he said. The Government, the Minister said, was attempting to transform the tourism sector into the State’s biggest source of revenue. It was considering if a tourism circuit connecting the hills could be realised and the Neyyar dam would get priority in the project, Mr. Saseendran said. The ecotourism centres were the result of the Forest Department’s attempt to start environment-friendly tourism centres across the State with emphasis on participatory forest management, the Minister said. Neyyar was declared a sanctuary in 1958 and a separate wildlife wing was set up in 1985. Naming The Kombai tourism centre has been named Nestler’s Harbour, Vettimurichakone as Snug Haven’s, and that at Kottamanpuram as Citadel. Night stay inside the forest, complete with food; boating; birdwatching; and trekking are included in the package for each of the centre. C.K. Hareendran, MLA, presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-ecotourism-centres-opened-at-neyyar-sanctuary/article37552776.ece
18 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Trains cancelled, rescheduled||Southern Railway has cancelled four trains on November 18 due to the restoration work on tracks following the landslips in the Thiruvananthapuram-Nagercoil-Kanyakumari section. These include 06425 Kollam Junction-Thiruvananthapuram Central Daily Express, 06426 Nagercoil Junction-Thiruvananthapuram Central Daily Express, 06427 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Nagercoil Junction Daily Express and 06435 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Nagercoil Junction Daily Express. Besides, 12634 Kanyakumari-Chennai Egmore Daily Superfast will commence service from Nagercoil Junction instead of Kanyakumari on November 18, 16525 Kanyakumari-KSR Bengaluru Daily Island Express will commence service from Kollam Junction, 06366 Nagercoil Junction-Kottayam Daily Express will commence service from Kollam Junction, 16127 Chennai Egmore-Guruvayur Daily Express leaving Chennai Egmore on November 18 will be short-terminated at Tirunelveli Junction. Train 16724 Kollam Junction-Chennai Egmore Daily Ananthapuri Express will commence service from Nagercoil, 16650 Nagercoil Junction-Mangaluru Central Daily Parasuram Express will commence service from Thiruvananthapuram Central and 16606 Nagercoil Junction-Mangaluru Central Daily Ernad Express will commence service from Thiruvananthapuram Central. Train 16649 Mangaluru Central-Nagercoil Junction Daily Parasuram Express will be short-terminated at Thiruvananthapuram Central, 16605 Mangaluru Central-Nagercoil Junction Daily Ernad Express will be short-terminated at Thiruvananthapuram Central, 22627 Tiruchchirappalli Junction-Thiruvananthapuram Central Daily Intercity Express will be short-terminated at Tirunelveli and 22628 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Tiruchchirappalli Junction Daily Intercity Express will commence service from Tirunelveli. Train 05905 Kanyakumari-Dibrugarh Weekly Vivek Superfast will commence service from Thiruvananthapuram Central, 09423 Tirunelveli Junction-Gandhidham Weekly Humsafar Express will commence service from Thiruvananthapuram Central and 12633 Chennai Egmore-Kanyakumari Daily Superfast will be short-terminated at Nagercoil. Train 16526 KSR Bengaluru-Kanyakumari Daily Island Express will be short-terminated at Kollam. Train 16128 Guruvayur- Chennai Egmore Daily Express will commence service from Tirunelveli. Train 16729 Madurai Junction-Punalur Daily Express will be short-terminated at Tirunelveli, 16723 Chennai Egmore-Kollam Junction Daily Ananthapuri Express will be short-terminated at Nagercoil and 06318 Srimata Vaishnodevi Katra-Kanyakumari Weekly Humsafar Express will be short-terminated at Thiruvananthapuram Central.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-trains-rescheduled/article37552667.ece
18 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB to bring in prepaid meters||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) is preparing to introduce prepaid smart metering across different consumer categories in a phased manner. The State power utility estimates that the replacement of all existing meters under the high tension/extra-high tension, low tension consumer categories and system metering will cost approximately Rs. 9,216 crore. The KSEB caters to 1.3 crore consumers. Prepaid smart metering is a key component of the ‘reforms-based and results-linked’ Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme (RDSS) approved by the Union Cabinet for improving the efficiency and financial sustainability of State-run distribution companies. The Government of India envisages a shift to prepaid meters (excluding agricultural consumers) by March 2025. The KSEB has decided to inform the Union Power Ministry that prepaid smart metering can be implemented in the State in multiple phases. Four phases The KSEB proposes a four-phase roll-out of prepaid metering. The Rs. 1,123-crore first phase will cover 16 lakh consumers in the following categories: all consumers with a monthly average consumption above 200 units, HT/EHT consumers, government consumers up to block level, and system metering in the KSEB. Phase II will cover 18 lakh LT consumers across all tariff groups and categories in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kozhikode cities at an estimated cost of around Rs. 1,264 crore. Around 32 lakh LT consumers in 60 towns under the Integrated Power Development Scheme (IPDS) will be covered in the Rs. 1,264-crore Phase III. The remaining 64 lakh LT consumers will be covered in the final phase, which is expected to cost Rs. 4,493 crore. Support infrastructure such as billing modules, data management and data analytics will cost additionally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-to-bring-in-prepaid-meters/article37552633.ece
18 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CTCRI celebrates Tuber Crops Day||Jiju P. Alex, Member, Kerala State Planning Board, has stressed the role of tuber crops in food security, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic. Prof. Alex was speaking after inaugurating the Tuber Crops Day celebrations organised by the ICAR-Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (ICAR-CTCRI) here recently. C.A. Latha, Secretary, Agriculture Department, lauded the CTCRI for the technologies developed by the institute and the agricultural entrepreneurship projects for NRIs left unemployed by the pandemic. CTCRI director (acting) M.N. Sheela presided. Traditional healer and Padma Shri recipeint Lakshmikutty and plant genome saviour farmer award winner Reji Joseph were honoured at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tuber-crops-day/article37552666.ece
18 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Guidelines issued for catering services||The Food Safety Commissioner has issued guidelines for catering services in view of reports of food poisoning from food served at various functions and complaints from various quarters across the State. All catering services must have a Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) licence as per the Food Safety Act, 2006. Some catering services have been functioning just with an FSSAI registration. However, this will not be allowed as a licence is mandatory.  Such services must function only as per the guidelines in the Schedule 4 of the Food Safety and Standard (Licensing and Registration of Food Business) Regulation, 2011. The food items have to be maintained in the correct temperature. The refrigerated food items have to be maintained at below 5 degrees Celsius and the hot food items above 60 degrees Celsius, according to the guidelines. Food samples The food samples from catering businesses have to be kept preserved for two days and has to be produced for checks, if demanded. At least one supervisor at a catering business must have completed the FSSAI's Food Safety Training and Certification (FOSTAC). The supervisor must provide training to the rest of the staff. Consumers have to ensure that the catering service or restaurant they are ordering from is functioning with an FSSAI licence, said a press release from the Food Safety Commissioner on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guidelines-for-catering-services/article37552593.ece
18 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Funds sanctioned for upkeep of road stretch||The National Highways Authority of India has allocated Rs. 22.05 crore for the upkeep of the Kaliyikkavila-Vazhimukku stretch. Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas has instructed the highways division of the department to immediately take up the work on the 17.4-km stretch. Mr.Riyas had recently met Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari and requested him to allocate funds to carry out maintenance work on the stretch. The funds were cleared following an assurance given by the Minister. The tender for the works would be issued soon. The tender for the Haripad-Kottankulangara stretch in Alappuzha district has been issued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/funds-sanctioned-for-upkeep-of-road-stretch/article37552768.ece
18 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dec. 7 byelections: review meeting held||District Collector Navjot Khosa on Wednesday reviewed the arrangements for the December 7 byelections in four local body wards in the district. Byelections are scheduled to the Vettucaud ward of Thiruvananthapuram, Pothencode ward of the Pothencode block panchayat, Edakkode ward of the Chirayinkeezhu block panchayat, and Ponnamchundu ward of Vithura grama panchayat. Vettucaud and Edakkode are general wards while Pothencode and Ponnamchundu are reserved for Scheduled Caste candidates. The State Election Commission had issued the notification for the byelections on November 12. November 19 is the last date for filing nomination papers. The papers will be scrutinised on November 20. November 22 is the last date for withdrawing the nominations. On December 7, polling will be held from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. The votes will be counted on December 8. The bypolls will be conducted by strictly adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. Returning officers, assistant returning officers, election registration officers, the district information officer, and other election officers attended the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dec-7-byelections-review-meeting-held/article37552770.ece
18 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Underwater drone for hydrographic survey wing||The hydrographic survey wing is now equipped with a state-of-the-art underwater drone which can be used to study the sea bed and the beds of reservoirs. Minister for Ports Ahammad Devarkovil on Wednesday formally inaugurated the robotic system at a function at Vellayani here. The underwater camera was purchased as part of the efforts to modernise the hydrographic survey wing. The department will be equipped to undertake scientific studies as part of the efforts to combat climate change. Senior officials of the hydrographic survey wing including Chief Hydrologist Gerosh Kumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/underwater-drone-for-hydrographic-survey-wing/article37552771.ece
18 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||App for waste management||A smart garbage mobile application will be launched soon to ensure effective collection and processing of non-biodegradable garbage by Haritha Karma Sena in local bodies, Minister for Local Self-Governments M.V. Govindan has said. Keltron will develop and monitor the application. In the first phase, the app will be launched in 300 grama panchayats, six Corporations and 70 municipalities. The app will provide a bird's eye view of waste management in each local body, including the amount of waste collected from each area. The data will be useful for the respective local body in improving waste management strategies. The app will be launched after a pilot run in local bodies with better facilities. Funds will be allocated for the Haritha Karma Sena to purchase smartphones and laptops for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mobile-app-for-waste-management/article37552588.ece
18 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||6,849 more test positive||Kerala reported 6,849 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday when 69,334 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 36,475 with the State adding 388 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Wednesday. These include 61 deaths that occurred in the past few days and 327 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families. The State’s active case pool had 63,752 patients on Wednesday, with 6,046 persons reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases at 958, followed by Kozhikode 932, Thiruvananthapuram 839, Thrissur 760, Kottayam 700, Kollam 523, Kannur 437, Wayanad 330, Idukki 292, Alappuzha 267, Palakkad 249, Pathanamthitta 240, Malappuram 237, and Kasaragod 85 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6849-more-test-positive/article37552632.ece
18 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB extends tariff concession||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has issued formal orders extending concessions on electricity tariffs as part of a COVID-19 relief package to select categories of domestic consumers. Now, free electricity will be provided to domestic consumers with an average monthly consumption of 30 units with connected load up to 500 watts. The ceiling was 20 units previously. Also, electricity supplied to BPL (below the poverty ine) category consumers with connected load up to 1,000 watts at Rs. 1.50 per unit up to a monthly consumption of 40 units has been extended to 50 units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-extends-tariff-concession/article37552634.ece
18 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SHRC seeks explanation from DME||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has sought an explanation from the Director of Medical Education (DME) on the demand to appoint people from agencies such as the Kudumbashree to help patients reaching the casualty wing of Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic asked the DME to submit a report within a month. The complaint by activist Ragam Rahim alleges that employees were not ready to help patients reaching the casualty wing. The plea also sought that services of permanent doctors be made available in the casualty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-seeks-explanation-from-dme/article37552777.ece
18 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District logs 839 COVID-19 cases||The district logged 839 new COVID-19 cases and 694 recoveries on Wednesday. The test positivity rate stood at 11.1%. The number of active cases stood at 8,975 on the day, the district administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/district-logs-839-covid-19-cases/article37552778.ece
18 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Bank official accused of 2.76-cr. gold loan fraud surrenders||Sunil Jose, 51, chief associate of the State Bank of India (SBI), Karalam branch, who siphoned off Rs. 2.76 crore by fudging documents for pledging gold, surrendered before the Crime Branch on Wednesday. Earlier, the Thrissur district and sessions court had rejected his pre-arrest bail plea. He and the manager of the bank are under suspension. The case Sunil Jose of Karukulangara, Irinjalakuda, conducted the fraud between October 2018 and November 2020. He repledged the gold, already pledged by customers, in the names of his relatives and friends to siphon off money. He created fake gold loan applications in the names of his kin by affixing their signature in the documents to misappropriate Rs. 1,27,59,000. He also allegedly sold gold ornaments pledged by bank customers. In addition to this, he allegedly misappropriated a sum of Rs. 9 lakh given by customers to close their loans. He returned the gold to the customers by manipulating documents, thus causing a loss of more than Rs. 2.76 crore to the bank. He used to keep close friendship with both bank officials and customers. The bank manager, gold appraiser, and the chief associate used to keep the keys of the locker. Audit exposes crime The fraud was unearthed during an audit of the bank. Though the Kattoor police registered a case initially on a complaint by the assistant manager of the bank, it was later handed over to the Crime Branch.  He created fake loan applications in the names of his kin by affixing their signature in the documents||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/loan-fraud-bank-official-surrenders/article37552574.ece
18 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Boy found dead in pond||A 14-year-old boy who left home after he lost money in an online game was found dead in a pond at Irinjalakuda on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Aakash, son of Shafi of Korumbissery. Aakash, who used to play online games on his mobile, left home after he lost money in the game. His parents lodged a man-missing complaint with the police as he had been missing since Tuesday. During investigation, his shoes and bicycle were found near a pond at Koodalmanikyam. Later, his body was recovered from the pond. According to relatives, the boy was disturbed after losing money in the game. Suicide prevention helpline: Disha 1056||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/boy-found-dead-in-pond/article37552672.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Anupama’s baby to be brought back in 5 days||Incidentally, Anupama is on a stand-in protest in front of the office of the KSCCW demanding the sacking of J.S. Shiju Khan, general secretary of the council, and N. Sunanda, chairperson of the CWC, whom she alleged were behind the adoption. The District Child Protection Officer has been asked to ensure the safety of the baby. Once the baby is back in the State, it will be put under the charge of a fit person as defined in the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 till a finality is arrived in the case. The CWC will issue orders for putting the baby in the care and protection of the fit person to be identified by the Police Commissioner, sources said. The fit person will be in charge of the baby till its biological parents are identified through a DNA test. Final orders The final orders in the adoption case will be issued by the CWC after completing all the legal formalities, the sources said. Incidentally, the Family Court, Thiruvananthapuram, will consider the case on Saturday. The case had grown into a socio-political issue in the State with the mother alleging that her parents gave away the baby after falsely obtaining her consent. The State Government and top CPI(M) leaders had intervened in the issue after Anupama her partner Ajith staged a protest in front of the Secretariat.  The CWC will issue orders for putting the baby in the protection of the fit person to be identified by the Police Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anupamas-baby-to-be-brought-back-in-5-days/article37552780.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A burning issue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-burning-issue/article37552595.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-warpath/article37552674.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hurdles cleared||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hurdles-cleared/article37552783.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Gathering dust||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gathering-dust/article37552744.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For Wakf rights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-wakf-rights/article37552773.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Picture of neglect||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/picture-of-neglect/article37552604.ece
18 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP wins 18 of 20 wards in Penukonda||YSRCP candidates won the majority of the wards in Penukonda Nagar panchayat elections, for which counting was held on Wednesday. Out of the 20 ward member seats in Penukonda, the YSRCP candidates were victorious in 18 while the Telugu Desam Party won in two wards- ward nos. 1 and 3. Meanwhile, YSRCp’s Chintakunta Naga Vinutha won the bypoll to ward 17 of Anantapur Municipal Corporation, He got 1,012 votes and his nearest rival, BJP candidate Jerripothula Malleswari, got 155 votes. The YSRCP now has 48 ward members and two Independents in the 50-member council of the Anantapur Municipal Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-wins-18-of-20-wards-in-penukonda/article37552759.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on the farmer: Venkaiah||Communities, which depend on the agriculture sector, are going through turbulent times because of market disruptions and climatic changes; and tech expositions like Bengaluru Technology Summit (BTS) should focus on innovations to solve their woes, said Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu. “I would like this summit to focus more on agriculture, which is the basic culture of our country and also across the globe. So, you must come out with scientific ideas and tech innovations, which will bring happiness and changes in the lives of people of all sections,” he said at the inaugural session of BTS-2021, the annual tech event, on Wednesday. Share and care Mr. Naidu said Bengaluru and India are “happening places” in terms of technology innovations for the entire globe. “I would like to remind people that the basic philosophy of India is share and care. So, we should share knowledge, share success stories and also share our experiences with the world around, and continue to come out with new ideas and new innovations... Eventually, knowledge, research, development, technology, IT, BT and everything should be for the happiness of the people, that was the ultimate goal,” he said. Mr. Naidu said policies and programmes are decided by Parliament. But, at the end of the day, delivery, reaching out to the people is the most important thing. “For that, we must take advantage of tech advancements and constantly look for new ideas,” he said. “Active private sector participation is essential for generating jobs and also to bring in real transformation throughout the country.” He urged entrepreneurs and private sector players to actively participate in creating more jobs by launching innovative ideas and applications that would lead to a digital revolution and technological transformation throughout the country. Touching every section Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said his government was committed to creating a new order through innovations that had the potential to touch every section of the societal pyramid. “We invite all innovators with open arms and open hearts to come, innovate and participate. Success is a small world, but achievement is something much larger. I am looking at bigger and specific takeaways from BTS this time. This event should be something that touches the entire ecosystem,” said the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-the-farmer-venkaiah/article37552220.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chennai continues to be on red alert||The India Meteorological Department has maintained the red alert issued in Chennai and its surrounding districts for Thursday as the city is likely to receive extremely heavy rain. Rain will continue over Tamil Nadu till November 21. The low-pressure area over south-east and south-west Bay of Bengal, with the associated cyclonic circulation, is likely to move westwards and reach west-central and adjoining south-west Bay of Bengal off the south Andhra Pradesh-north Tamil Nadu coast by Thursday. This will be the major trigger for widespread rain over the State, especially in Chennai. On Thursday, Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Ranipet may experience heavy to very heavy rain. One or two places in these districts are likely to get intense rain of 20.4 cm. Nearly 10 other districts are likely to get heavy or very heavy rain. The heavy rain may continue in some districts on Friday and Saturday. In the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m., Thirumoorthy in Tiruppur district recorded the day’s heaviest rainfall of 13 cm. Many other weather stations, too, recorded rain of varied intensity. Many weather stations and rain gauges started recording rain during the day as the system is approaching closer to the Tamil Nadu coast. Among them were Thuvakudi in Tiruchi (4 cm); Thanjavur and Udhagamandalam recorded 3 cm; Kodaikanal (2 cm); and Chennai, Tiruchi, Cuddalore, Yercaud, Madurai and Coimbatore (1 cm each) till 5.30 p.m. IMD officials said the low-pressure area over the Arabian Sea too persists. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, said the intensity of rainfall might gradually increase from Wednesday night and last till Friday morning and begin to dip thereafter. The northeast monsoon this year has brought good rainfall to the State that has so far received 45 cm, 54% more than its average of 29 cm. Chennai, too, has recorded 65% excess rainfall. It has received 82 cm, against its usual share of 50 cm, since October 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chennai-surrounding-districts-continue-to-be-on-red-alert/article37552399.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘I couldn’t demolish the feudal culture completely’||The Madras High Court staff are serving in a feudal culture, according to the outgoing Chief Justice, Sanjib Banerjee, who has been transferred to the High Court of Meghalaya. He has also regretted that he could not demolish such a culture completely ever since he assumed office here on January 4 this year. The Chief Justice left Chennai for Meghalaya on Wednesday morning without even a formal farewell. However, he left behind a signed two-page note on his official letterhead addressed to “My dear family at the Madras High Court”. It had a message to his companion judges, Bar members, court staff and people of the State. To his colleagues on the Bench, he said: “I apologise, first, for being unable to last the distance and second, for not saying goodbye to you in person. Finally, to the few of you who may have felt offended by any of my actions. Please know that they were never personal. I perceived those actions as necessary for the institution.” Hailing the Madras Bar, he said, “You are among the best in the country and have suffered a talkative and sometimes grumpy old judge with more patience, respect and understanding than I may have deserved. My sincere gratitude to you for all your kind words.” Addressing the High Court Registry, he said its efficiency made administration easy. He also acknowledged the sincerity that the staff had shown to improve and better the systems and processes. He urged them to continue their endeavour to bring about transparency and accountability. Apology to staff He apologised to all court staff “for the long hours that you had to keep for me”. Appreciating their cooperation, he said, “My regret is that I could not completely demolish the feudal culture in which you serve.” Finally, Chief Justice Banerjee said he would remain forever indebted to everyone in “this beautiful and glorious State”, which he had the privilege of calling his own for the last 11 months, “for the kindness and warmth” with which he and his family were greeted during the entire tenure. He said he was leaving with the happiest memories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/i-couldnt-demolish-the-feudal-culture-completely/article37552411.ece
18 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR Congress breaches Naidu’s bastion||The ruling YSRCP has won the maiden election to the Kuppam Municipality by bagging 19 of the 25 wards in the civic body, causing severe embarrassment to TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, who has been representing the Kuppam constituency in the Assembly since 1989. Though municipal elections are held elsewhere in the State, the prime focus of the ruling party has been on Kuppam. Amidst heavy police bandobust, the counting of votes began at the Government Degree College in the town on Wednesday. By the end of the first round at around noon, the YSRCP was declared elected in 14 wards and the TDP in one. Later, the Opposition party could post victories in five more wards, mostly located in the heart of Kuppam town. Following the drubbing, the TDP office wore a deserted look, while there was much merriment at the office of the YSRCP. The ruling party had started the poll preparations even before the release of the election notification. It had conducted a series of government programmes that were attended by Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy. The YSRCP had deployed all the 13 MLAs from the district for the election campaign. Basking in the recent victories registered by the party in the sarpanch and MPTC / ZPTC elections, the cadres unleashed a high-voltage campaign and left nothing to chance. TDP’s nemesis In contrast, the mood among the TDP cadres had been sombre till Mr. Naidu made a three-day visit to the town a few days before the election notification. Thousands of activists from across Chittoor district descended on Kuppam. Going by their upbeat mood, it was expected that the TDP would either win the civic body, or, at least, give a neck-and-neck fight to the ruling party. However, the expectation was short-lived as the TDP lagged in the last phase of its campaign. YSRCP activists in Kuppam and Palamaner were of the view that certain “objectionable remarks” made by Mr. Naidu and his son and party general secretary Lokesh against Mr. Ramachandra Reddy proved to be TDP’s nemesis in Kuppam. It is said that the YSRCP campaigners have succeeded in projecting Mr. Naidu as “inaccessible.” In the last 32 years, the nondescript village panchayat has witnessed a total overhaul of voters. The old generation has given way to young blood. The series of poll debacles the TDP has been witnessing since 2019 is also a demoralising factor for the party cadres. It is also felt that the leaders tasked with ensuring the party’s win in Kuppam have completely ignored the aggressive campaign of the ruling party. It is said that they neither took the widening gap between the people of Kuppam and Mr. Naidu seriously nor attempted to match the political strategy of the YSRCP. Meanwhile, the ruling party also made a clean sweep of the municipal polls in Rajampeta and Kamalapuram. The ruling party maintained its lead right from the first round in both the municipalities. In Kamalpuram Municipality, the YSRCP bagged 15 of 20 wards. In Rajampeta, it won 24 of 30 wards and the TDP four. One ward went to an independent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysr-congress-breaches-naidus-bastion/article37552732.ece
18 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Notorious burglar nabbed in Tirupati||The Tirupati Urban police on Wednesday nabbed a notorious burglar allegedly involved in a dozen cases of house break-in, and recovered Rs. 20 lakh worth gold ornaments, 500 gm silver, and Rs. 10,000 cash. The accused, Varadaraja Mani (27), is a native of Jeevakona in Tirupati. A special team that tracked the movements of Mani arrested him at Autonagar bus stop between Tirupati and Renigunta. Additional SP E. Supraja told the media that Mani, who works as an auto driver, used to identify locked houses and commit burglary. An expert in breaking locks, he reportedly used gloves not to leave fingerprints. Mani was reportedly wanted in a dozen cases of house break-in in Chittoor district. He sold stolen property to unsuspecting clients. When nabbed, Mani was carrying stolen property meant for disposal in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/notorious-burglar-nabbed-in-tirupati/article37552717.ece
18 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP will become history by 2024, says Vijaya Sai||YSRCP Parliamentary Party V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has launched a stinging attack on TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, and said the TDP will become a piece of history after the end of elections in the year 2024. Addressing the media at the party central office in Tadepalli, Mr. Vijaya Sai said Mr. Naidu had suffered an ignominious defeat in his home turf Kuppam, as the YSRCP swept the municipal polls. “Now that Mr. Naidu has lost in his home turf and his son has lost in Mangalagiri, it’s time Mr. Naidu shifted to Hyderabad and lived there as an NRI. This elections marked the end of Mr. Naidu’s political career,” said Mr. Vijaya Sai. Mr. Vijaya Sai said the YSRCP had won 628 of the 638 ZPTCs and 8,215 out of 9,583 MPTCs and wrested all municipalities except Darsi in Prakasam district. ‘Voters with us’ “The results have proved that voters in urban and rural areas are with the YSRCP. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had ensured welfare of every section of people during the last two-and-a-half years. People have voted in spite of malicious propaganda by some sections of media,’’ said Mr. Vijaya Sai. The MP demanded that the courts should take cognisance of comments made by Nara Lokesh that he could get bail within 48 hours. He said that Lokesh should be charged under the Contempt Act. “Mr. Naidu is anxious that his son is not able to take up the mantle of leading the party. Leave alone the party, his son was not able to win assembly seat by himself. If Mr. Jagan had exceeded his father in ensuring public welfare, Lokesh has got a name for ditching his father,’’ he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-will-become-history-by-2024-says-vijaya-sai/article37552740.ece
18 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||People of Kuppam have bid Naidu farewell, says Sajjala||The people of Kuppam have bid farewell to TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said. The YSRCP swept the municipal elections with the people’s support, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said while addressing the media here on Wednesday. “Mr. Naidu has suffered yet another humiliating defeat in Kuppam, which has been his bastion for decades,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said. “People have no faith in Mr. Naidu’s words as he betrayed them for years. The TDP has been registering adverse results from the panchayat elections as people have welcomed the good governance of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy,” he said. “Mr. Naidu has already found an excuse for his defeat. He is now alleging that irregularities have taken place in the elections despite the State Election Commissioner denying them,” Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said. It was the TDP leaders who had mobilised people from other mandals to create chaos during the elections and blame the government, he alleged. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said that the YSRCP’s winning streak had started with over 50% votes in the 2019 general elections, which surpassed 90% in the municipal elections. Attributing it to the welfare schemes and the initiatives that benefited people of all sections, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy thanked the voters for supporting the YSRCP and giving it such a massive win.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-of-kuppam-have-bid-naidu-farewell-says-sajjala/article37552738.ece
18 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gear up for NEP from next academic year: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials to focus on the construction of additional classrooms at required locations to implement the National Education Policy (NEP) from the next academic year. Reviewing the reforms introduced in the education sector and the NEP at his camp office here on Wednesday, the Chief Minister instructed the officials to prepare an action plan on construction of additional classrooms and start work on them immediately, besides identifying the required number of teachers. The purpose of NEP was to keep the teacher-student ratio rational and ensure subject-wise teachers, he said. Merger of schools The officials informed the Chief Minister that the NEP would be implemented in three phases over three academic years from 2021–22 to 2023–24, and added that 25,396 primary schools would be merged with upper primary schools and high schools. They said 2,663 primary schools were merged this academic year in the first phase covering 2,05,071 students under the NEP. A total of 9.5 lakh students were covered under the NEP this academic year. CBSE affiliation The officials also informed the Chief Minister that the CBSE had given its nod for affiliation of 1,092 schools for 2021–22 academic year, and added that the students would write their first CBSE Class 10 exams in academic year 2024-25. They said only 24,000 schools had CBSE affiliation globally, and it’s a record that the CBSE affiliation was given to 1,092 school in an academic year to a single State in the country. Aided schools The Chief Minister reiterated that surrendering of aided schools to the government was completely voluntary and the intention was to do good and help the managements, teachers and students of aided institutions by improving their prevailing conditions. Education Minister A. Suresh and School Education Principal Secretary B. Rajashekar were among others present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gear-up-for-nep-from-next-academic-year-cm/article37552733.ece
18 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||People no longer trust Telugu Desam: Botcha||The welfare schemes being implemented by the government have ensured the YSRCP a thumping victory in municipal elections in the State, Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana has said. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Mr. Satyanarayana said the series of wins being registered by the ruling party clearly showed the people’s support to the government. The TDP leaders had hoped that false allegations would have a negative impact on the YSRCP’s chances, but the results showed that people didn’t trust them. “TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu used to blame EVMs for his party’s debacle. Now, he is attributing the TDP’s dismal show to fake votes. It is once again proved that the people have reposed their faith in the YSRCP government and backed its welfare initiatives,” the Minister said. Responding to queries, the Minister said “there is no comparison between the freedom movement and the Amaravati agitation.” He said the government had the right to make decisions for the round development of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-no-longer-trust-telugu-desam-botcha/article37552735.ece
18 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan thanks people||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has thanked the people for the overwhelming mandate in the civic polls. The thumping victory could be possible by the blessings of God and people, he said in a tweet adding that the people had given 97 marks out of 100. Meanwhile, Palakollu Jana Sena leader Gunnam Nagababu joined YSRCP in the presence of Mr. Jagan at the camp office here on Wednesday. Gunnam Subash, son of Nagababu, and Palakollu Jana Sena leaders Veera Srinivas Rao and Vipparthi Prabhakar Rao also joined the YSRCP. Housing Minister Cherukuvada Sriranganatha Raju, Narsapuram MLA Mudnuri Prasada Raju and ZP Chairman Kavuru Srinivas were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-thanks-people/article37552736.ece
18 November 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP candidate loses bypoll in Guntur||The YSR Congress Party suffered a shock defeat at the byelection held for Ward no 6 in Guntur, while the party won comfortably in Gurazala and Dachepalli municipalities. In Guntur, Telugu Desam Party candidate Pothuala Samatha defeated Atmakuri Nageswara Rao of the YSRCP by a margin of 537 votes. Ms. Samatha’s win was unexpected, but the ruling party seemed to have taken the elections a bit too easily. The outsider tag also seemed to have worked against Mr. Nageswara Rao. In Dachepalli, the ruling party won by a comfortable margin with the YSRCP emerging victorius in 12 wards and Gurzaala too, the party won 16 of the 20 wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-candidate-loses-bypoll-in-guntur/article37552269.ece
18 November 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fake bank call centre racket busted, 16 held||Sixteen members of a gang operating fake call centres of RBL Bank, who were involved in 34 cases in Cyberabad, and 166 cases across the country, were arrested on Wednesday. They pretended as RBL Bank employees and cheated the account holders to the tune of Rs. 3 crore, Cyberabad Commissioner of Police M. Stephen Raveendra said while announcing the arrest of the gang members. He said that the cybercrime police busted the call centre racket at Uttam Nagar, Delhi, and raided a hotel in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, and arrested them. Recently, a victim approached the police stating that he got a call from a person who identified herself as a representative from RBL Bank to check whether his credit card was delivered or not. When the complainant informed the caller that he had received the credit card but not the PIN number. “The fraudster asked him to provide PAN card details and also asked him to send the code which he would receive on deactivating the insurance amount of Rs. 24,000. He shared the code immediately and he received a message from the bank that an amount of Rs. 97,996 was debited from his credit card,” he said. Based on his complaint, a case was registered and a probe was launched. Explaining the modus operandi of the accused gang members, Mr. Raveendra said that the fraudsters collected RBL customers data, especially the card details from a bank employee, and established five to six call centres at Mohan Garden and Uttam Nagar in Delhi. With the help of call spoofing applications, they contact the cardholders, who received new credit cards, by posing as bank employees. Then they collect OTPs by misguiding the customers in the name of activation of card or deactivation of insurance or increasing the credit card limit etc. After collecting OTPs, the fraudsters make transactions on their websites using the credit card details of the victims. “They have registered six websites and three Individual Merchants linked them with payment gateways and used them for transferring the swindled amount into their bank accounts,” the officer said. Based on the evidence collected during the investigation, DCP (Crimes) Rohini Priyadarshini sent a six-member team to Delhi who tracked down an office that was running the websites and portals for the fraudsters in Dwarka of the National Capital Region and apprehended six persons. Interrogation of apprehended persons revealed information about a call centre being run by the accused at Uttam Nagar and from there the team has apprehended three more persons and returned to Hyderabad. Further investigation revealed that the prime accused was absconding and the police have started tracking him. “On information, one more team was sent to Ujjain where they apprehended seven persons,” the Commissioner said. Police froze Rs. 15 lakh in a bank account, seized three cars, including a BMW 520, a KTM bike, 865 fake Aadhaar cards, voter and PAN cards, 1,000 SIM cards, 37 cheque books, 34 mobile phones, apart from other material.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fake-bank-call-centre-racket-busted-16-held/article37552253.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Confirm paddy offtake, Rao urges PM||A day ahead of the grand dharna by ruling TRS in the ongoing tussle between State and Centre over paddy procurement, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging the Centre to confirm the target of procurement of rice from the State during ensuing rabi. Mr. Rao also urged the Centre to direct the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to complete the procurement of a balance five lakh tonnes of rice produced in rabi last year and enhance target beyond 40 lakh tonnes for procurement of rice during the ongoing kharif to 90 per cent of the production as done in Punjab. He blamed the FCI for following policies which created confusion for the State governments and farmers. The confusion was created because the target of procurement was not fixed for entire year in one go and procurement not keeping pace even though the production was increasing year by year. Therefore, it was becoming difficult for the States to plan an appropriate cropping pattern and explain the same to the farmers. For instance, even though the production of rice in Telangana during 2020-21 was 55.75 lakh tonnes, the procurement was only 32.66 lakh tonnes which was 59 per cent of production. This was less than the 78 per cent procured in kharif of 2019-20. Such wide variations in procurement levels did not allow the State to implement a rational cropping pattern. To clear these confusions and fix the appropriate target for procurement, Mr. Rao recalled that he had personally met Union Minister for Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal on September 25 and 26 and requested that the annual target for procurement be fixed immediately. It was 50 days since the meeting took place but no policy decision was taken and communicated to the State government. Mr. Rao also highlighted that there was drought and hunger everywhere before the formation of Telangana. Due to enormous increase in irrigation facilities now, the State was not only able to meet its foodgrains requirement but became a huge grain surplus State. The farmers of Telangana were now able to produce for the rest of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/confirm-paddy-offtake-rao-urges-pm/article37552222.ece
18 November 2021||IDUKKI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water level rising in Idukki reservoir||The water level in the Idukki dam in Kerala rose on Wednesday after a shutter of the Cheruthoni dam was closed on Tuesday night. The water level in the Mullaperiyar dam was steady after it rose to 140.65 ft on Wednesday. The level in the Idukki dam increased to 2,399.16 ft at 5 p.m. on Wednesday from 2,399.08 ft at 5 p.m. on Tuesday. As per the rule curve, the red alert level is 2,399.03 ft and the upper rule curve, 2,400.03 ft. Shutter closed After the third shutter of the Cheruthoni dam was closed at 9.15 p.m. on Tuesday, the water level declined slowly and it rose once the inflow increased. The power generation at the Moolamattom power house continued to be at a high on Tuesday. The Cheruthoni dam shutter was opened by 40 cm on Sunday to regulate the water level after the inflow increased following rain. The full reserve level is 2,403 ft. The water level was 140.65 ft in the Mullaperiyar dam at 5 p.m. on Wednesday. The upper rule level till November 20 is 141 ft. The maximum water level is 142 ft. Tamil Nadu continued to draw 2,300 cusecs of water from Mullaperiyar and the average inflow was also the same at 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-level-rising-in-idukki-reservoir/article37552224.ece
18 November 2021||Idukki,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mild tremor felt in Idukki, Kottayam||A mild tremor was recorded at the seismic stations at Aladi, Idukki, and Kulamavu around noon on Wednesday. As per preliminary analysis, it had a magnitude of 1.9 on the Richter scale. According to an official of the Dam Monitoring and Research Station, Vazhathoppe, the tremor was felt at 12.02 p.m. and the epicentre was Kolani, near Thodupuzha. Residents in various parts of Meenachil taluk in Kottayam district said they also felt the tremor. According to natives of the Edamattam, Pala, Bharananganam, Poovarani, Poonjar, Panachippara and Melukavu areas in Kottayam, a shaking experience was felt with a rare sound. Revenue officials said no casualty was reported after the tremor. The epicentre of the tremor was around 300 metres from Kolani, which is at an aerial distance of 26.5 km from the Idukki reservoir. However, the tremor was not felt in the Idukki dam area, said the official. The tremor was recorded at the Aladi, Idukki, and Kulamavu seismic stations at a magnitude of 1.7, 1.99, and 1.8 on the Richter scale and lasted for 20, 25 and 22 seconds respectively at the three stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mild-tremor-felt-in-idukki-kottayam/article37552223.ece
18 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||57,000 litres of jaggery wash destroyed, 30 held||East Godavari police and Special Enforcement Bureau (Sand and Liquor) teams on Wednesday nabbed 30 persons and destroyed 57,000 litres of jaggery wash during joint raids conducted across the district. About 512 litres of ID liquor was also destroyed. Police said counselling and job drives would be held for those involved in the ID liquor trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/57000-litres-of-jaggery-wash-destroyed-30-held/article37552754.ece
18 November 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kakinada bypoll: YSRCP wins 4 wards||The YSR Congress Party has registered victory in all the four wards in the bypolls held to the Kakinada Municipal Corporation on November 15. The counting of votes was done in the presence of Municipal Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar on Wednesday. The winners are Vaddi Manikumar (3rd Ward), Kampara Appa Rao (9th ward), Perla Jogarao (16th ward) and R. Arun Kumar (30th ward). Mr. Dinakar handed over the certificates to the winners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kakinada-bypoll-ysrcp-wins-4-wards/article37552753.ece
18 November 2021||Kasaragod,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalits enter Kerala temple, end age-old entry ban||Three years ago, Krishna Mohana, a Dalit resident of a small village in Kasaragod, did something that was considered unthinkable for a person of his caste. During the annual festival of Jatadhari Devasthanam, a temple at Swarga in Enmakaje panchayat, Mohana climbed the 18 holy steps and entered the temple complex, a centuries-old right reserved for upper castes. A commotion followed, the police intervened and reached a compromise – it was decided that Dalits would be allowed into the temple. In a strange twist that followed, the temple administrators claimed to have lost the keys to the temple, effectively shutting it down for everyone. A few days ago, a group of Dalits, led by Pattikajathi Kshema Samiti (PKS), entered the temple and climbed the very 18 steps that Mohana dared to traverse. In doing so, they effectively declared an end to the age-old custom that had been prevailing in the village, despite the Temple Entry Proclamation, which came into effect in the region in 1947, that abolished the ban on some castes entering temples. More discriminations "It's not just the ban on entry through the holy 18 steps, Dalits are not even allowed to watch the Theyyam performance up close. They need to stand at a distance. Even to offer dakshina to the deity, the Dalits need to hand it over to a higher caste person, who in turn will deposit it before the deity," said B.M. Pradeep, district secretary, PKS. Pradeep said the worst part is the food, considered as prasadam of the deity -- an incarnation of Lord Shiva, being served separately. "The temple authorities call out the names of the lower castes to distribute the prasadam and Dalits are not allowed to consume the food near the temple," he said. Scheduled Castes such Nalkadaya (Kopala), the caste which performs the ritual of Jatadhari Theyyam, Mugera and Baira; Scheduled Tribes such as Koraga and Mayila; and Other Backward Classes such as Tulu-speaking Billava (equivalent to the Malayalam-speaking Thiyyas) are prohibited from using the steps. Though the temple is owned by four Brahmin families, it is established as a trust and funds are collected from the public for its day-to-day functioning.  Minister’s response "There are certain limitations for the Government as it's a private temple and not Government-run. However, the matter has already been discussed with the Malabar Devaswom Board and we will intervene if needed," said Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes K. Radhakrishnan. The PKS has raised three demands: direct access to all devotees, irrespective of their caste and tribe, to the temple be allowed; allow all devotees to directly offer money in the temple and stop the practice of the calling out the names of castes while distributing food and introduce a buffet system for the feast. The PKS has filed a complaint in this regard to the Minister. The temple authorities, when contacted for a response to the PKS demands, declined to comment.  Dalits are not even allowed to watch the Theyyam performance up close. They need to stand at a distance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dalits-enter-kerala-temple-end-age-old-entry-ban/article37552254.ece
18 November 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sabarimala pilgrims can opt for spot booking from today||Spot booking facilities for Sabarimala pilgrims will begin from Thursday, the State Government and the Travancore Devaswom Board have informed the Kerala High Court. The facility will be opened in Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Erumeli, Kumili, Nilackal, Kottarakkara, Pandalam Valiya Koikkal Palace, Chengannur, Ettumanoor and Perumbavoor. It was during the hearing of a petition seeking to transfer the management of the virtual queue system from the police to the board that the State informed the court of the launching of the new facility. Virtual queue The spot booking facility comes in addition to the virtual queue booking system. The spot booking will be allowed in the slots which become open following the cancellation of virtual queue bookings. Aadhaar cards, voter IDs and passports can be used for booking. COVID norms Pilgrims shall also produce certificates for two shots of COVID-19 vaccine or the RT-PCR report taken 72 hours before the pilgrimage. The court will consider the report of the Sabarimala Special Commissioner regarding the pilgrimage on Friday. The court had earlier directed the authorities to ensure the safety of the data provided by the pilgrims for the booking in the virtual queue system. The court said it will look into whether more spot booking counters are needed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spot-booking-for-sabarimala-pilgrimage-from-tomorrow/article37552226.ece
18 November 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka to open silk marketing office in U.P.||The State Government is planning to reopen the Karnataka Silk Marketing Board (KSMB) office in Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh to make available raw silk reeled in the State to weavers in the north Indian city that is known to produce the Banarasi variety of saris. A delegation led by Minister for Sericulture K.C. Narayana Gowda is scheduled to meet Sericulture Department officials at Banaras Hindu University in Varanasi on Thursday. “They are expected to discuss the proposal to reopen the KSMB unit in Varanasi and set up a system for silk marketing,” said a source in the KSMB. Shut in 2002 The KSMB branch in Varanasi was shut in 2002. “But, there was no disruption in the silk trade between reelers of Karnataka, particularly from Siddlaghatta and Ramanagaram, and weavers in Varanasi,” the source said. Silk traders based in Chickpet in Bengaluru also purchased raw silk in bulk for weavers in Varanasi and Surat in Gujarat, another source said. In view of the renewed demand for silk from Karnataka, the State Government wants to reopen the KSMB office in Varanasi, the source added. “It will help the local reelers as well as sericulture farmers of Karnataka.” At one point, the KSMB had almost 30 offices across India, including parts of Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, but the number was brought down to 16 owing to various reasons. The Government’s decision to reopen its KSMB office in Varanasi has been welcomed by the Karnataka State Silk Reelers’ Association president Mohammed Muheeb Pasha. “The move will help reelers in Karnataka,” he said before pointing out that the quantum of raw silk sent to Varanasi from Karnataka had come down in the last few years owing to various issues. N.Y. Chigari, former deputy director of Sericulture, says that silk from Karnataka was sought-after by weavers in Varanasi and Surat. But, in the early nineties when cocoon production was badly hit by pebrine, a disease afflicting silkworms, the weaving industry in Varanasi found itself in the doldrums till the Centre came to their aid by facilitating import of Chinese silk. Mr. Chigari, who is now the Chief Executive Officer of Koppa Sericulture Farmers’ Producer Company, said the Varanasi weaving industry is quality conscious. Officials said KSMB is a price-stabilisation entity of the State Government that intervenes whenever the price of raw silk or cocoons crash. Web portal Welcoming the State Government’s proposal to reopen the KSMB office in Varanasi, Mr. Chigari said there was a need to launch a web portal giving details of availability of raw silk in different parts of India to weavers and traders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-to-open-silk-marketing-office-in-up/article37552221.ece
18 November 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||, suffers setback in Prakasam||The ruling YSR Congress Party swept the urban civic body polls in SPSR Nellore district winning comfortably in the Nellore Municipal Corporation and in Buchireddypalem nagara panchayat as the counting of votes, polled in the elections held on November 15, was taken up on Wednesday. However, the Telugu Desam Party sprang a surprise on the YSRCP by scoring a facile victory in the Darsi Nagara Panchayat in Prakasam district. The YSRCP had a head start as eight of its division candidates won unopposed as TDP nominees withdrew their nominations at the eleventh hour, leaving in quandary the TDP which drew a blank as also other parties including the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Jana Sena Party and Communist Party of India(Marxist). State Irrigation Minister Anil Kumar Yadav, who handpicked the candidates and was in the thick of the poll campaign, ensured the party’s win in 46 of the 54 divisions in Nellore, in his home constituency. The poll officials, led by District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu, took up counting after 50% of the 4.12 lakh voters had exercised their franchise. Dr.Anil Kumar thanked the people for reposing faith in the ruling party. Landslide victory In Buchireddypalem nagara panchayat, the YSRCP scored a landslide victory with its candidates bagging 18 wards leaving just two wards to the TDP. Victory processions were banned and prohibitory orders under 144 Criminal Procedure Code clamped by Superintendent of Police Ch. Vijaya Rao, who oversaw the elaborate security arrangements put at the counting centre at the DK Government College for Women. The Collector thanked the candidates, agents, polling staff for the smooth completion of the elections. However, in Prakasam district the YSRCP suffered a setback in Darsi as it could win only in 7 of the 20 wards at stake. The TDP Chairman nominee, N. Pichaiah, won comfortably from the eleventh ward and 12 other party candidates. Upbeat over the poll results, TDP MLA Dola Balaveeranjaneya Swamy said the results showed that the countdown for the downfall of the YSRCP Government had started. TDP Ongole Lok Sabha unit president N. Balaji termed the TDP’s win in Darsi as “people’s victory”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-continues-winning-streak-in-nellore-suffers-setback-in-prakasam/article37552720.ece
18 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati farmers march braving intermittent rain||Undeterred by rain, farmers from Amaravati continued their long march to Tirupati seeking divine intervention for retaining Amaravati as the sole capital of Andhra Pradesh. Walking in tandem with the farmers on the 17th day of the long march for some distance as an expression of solidarity, Communist Party of India (Marxist) polit bureau member B.V. Raghavulu challenged the YSR Congress Party government to order a referendum on its three capital policy. “Let the people decide whether they want capital at one place or three different places,” he said. “The interest of the people and the State should be paramount and not that of political parties,” he asserted drawing loud cheers from the farmers who resumed their “court to temple Mahapadayatra” from Kandukur town to Gudlur, and covered a distance of 16 km. “Utter confusion will only prevail if a decision taken by one government is reversed by the government that succeeds,” he opined. ‘Amaravati fit for capital’ Mr. Raghavulu, who rode a bullock cart along with former TDP MLA Divisivaram, maintained that Amaravati was best suited for locating the capital being equidistant from all corners of the State. The State government was not in a position to develop the required infrastructure for capital at three different places as it faced a severe cash crunch post-bifurcation, he said. The 157 walkers from the erstwhile capital region marched enthusiastically on the water-logged roads, evoking good response from fellow farmers in villages en route. Local people filled the walkers with enthusiasm by playing “dappu” and “kolattam” and offered refreshments. They also showered flower petals on the walkers and broke coconuts and pumpkins after offering harathi to the chariot of Lord Venkateswara which was in the forefront.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-farmers-march-braving-intermittent-rain/article37552719.ece
18 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gopinath Muthukad calls it a day||Magician Gopinath Muthukad has brought down the curtain on a 45-year-long professional career that made him a household name in the State. Mr. Muthukad who has been instrumental in popularising magic among the masses bid adieu to professional shows to devote time to empowering differently abled children. The magician, who has been of late involved with special children at the Different Art Centre at Magic Planet that was founded by him, says though shows in Dubai and other places have been coming his way, these would require him to be away for days on end. Also, a lot of time and effort would be needed to research and come up with new tricks and inventions for such performances. He could not focus on magic and devote his energy to the cause of differently abled children at the same time. “Four years ago, an incident in Kasaragod turned my attention to differently abled children, and the Different Art Centre was set up to train them in magic. Funds for it were mobilised through my shows. Today, the centre has 100 children, and 1,700 applications are pending. I have seen close up the change in the children at the centre in the past two years. So, I made a choice as it was not possible to take forward both simultaneously,” says Mr. Muthukad, the face of magic in the State. It was a difficult decision for audience reaction and adulation is what matters most to a performer. But he was at a juncture in his life where he felt ready to move on. “It is akin to the decision when I, a farmer’s son, moved from Nilambur to Thiruvananthapuram years ago to pursue magic despite my family not being in favour of it. But at times, you have to take decisions that involve risks.” At the moment, he is working on his dream project that he hopes will be ready by next year—a universal empowerment centre to provide employment to differently abled children, different sports centre that will train such children for the paralympics, and a therapy centre for children with autism. Eventually, he hopes to raise the Different Art Centre to an institution of global standards, a model for the world. Remuneration from his shows was being pumped into the centre, but going ahead Mr. Muthukad hopes that sponsors and corporate social responsibility initiatives will support his cause. The recipient of the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi award and its fellowship for magic and the winner of the Merlin Award of the International Magicians’ Society has only retired from professional magic. He will always have a trick or two up his sleeve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gopinath-muthukad-calls-it-a-day/article37552228.ece
18 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online child sexual abuse cases raise eyebrows||The online child sexual abuse cases, allegedly linked to organised sex rackets being operated from different countries, raised many eyebrows in the State. Child rights activists expressed concern over the cases pertaining to sexual abuse of child and demanded that a strict vigil be maintained on the banned groups, porn websites and stern action against be taken the culprits. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), along with the Delhi police, registered a case against one T. Mohan Krishna, a resident of Yashoda Nagar in Tirupati, and his accomplices in connection with similar offence. They booked a similar case against another person from Kanekal and seized laptops, mobile phones and other electronic gadgets on Tuesday. The Online Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation Prevention/Investigation (OCSAE), a special unit of the CBI, said that Mohan Krishna, the owner of a cyber cafe, was arrested on Wednesday, and he would be produced before the court. During the investigation, it was revealed that paedophiles were allegedly trapping minors for pornography. The accused were allegedly sexually exploiting children and uploading the videos on to various banned websites and social media platforms. Speaking to The Hindu on Wednesday, Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang said the police had registered a few cases pertaining to online pornography and cybercrimes. “The Andhra Pradesh Police will cooperate with the CBI in the probe into the online child sexual abuse cases, which has links to foreign courtries,” Mr. Sawang said. The police are now investigating how the accused trapped children, since how long they had been uploading the porn videos, details of the victims, details of other accused in such cases. Investigation officers are trying to find out the details of the websites and groups to which the videos were sent. Child Rights Advocacy Foundation (CRAF) State programme director P. Francis Thambi appealed to the State government to act tough on the banned websites and social media platforms. “The government should keep a vigil on online child trafficking in Andhra Pradesh and its neighbouring States,” Mr. Francis said. ‘Awareness needed’ K. Sudha Rani, of the Crasa NGO, which is working on child rights, said that more awareness programmes should be organised to protect children from sexual abuse. State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) former member V. Gandhi Babu urged the parents to monitor the activities of their wards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-child-sexual-abuse-cases-raise-eyebrows/article37552268.ece
18 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘A.P. Discoms doing well’||Chairman and Managing Director of Power Finance Corporation (PFC) Limited R.S. Dhillon and his counterpart in the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) Sanjay Malhotra had an interaction with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Wednesday after meeting Chief Secretary Sameer Sharma, Energy Secretary N. Srikant and other senior officials of the power utilities earlier in the day. Briefing the media about the deliberations, Mr. Malhotra said the focus of their visit was on the reforms-based and results-linked Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme (RDSS), and that the State government had prepared an action plan for it. He said they had a discussion on liquidity infusion and that the A.P. Discoms were doing well and geared up to benefit from the RDSS. Mr. Malhotra said they were visiting the States to motivate them to adopt RDSS and other schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-discoms-doing-well/article37552729.ece
18 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||High cement prices push up construction costs by 40%||The cost of construction has increased by 35-40% due to a steep rise in the prices of raw materials such as cement, steel and sand in Andhra Pradesh. Builders are worried about their prospects as they would have to shoulder an additional Rs. 5 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh per unit if the cost escalation were to be borne by them in view of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 (RERA) rules. According to information, the cost of steel has gone up from Rs. 46,000-Rs. 48,000 per tonne to Rs. 69,000-Rs. 72,000 per tonne. “Sand is not available for less than Rs. 1,100 per tonne. Similarly, the cost of cement too has shot up. Cement used to cost Rs. 280 to Rs. 300 per bag depending upon the quality and brand. Now, it costs Rs. 400 to Rs. 450 per bag. The costs of other fixtures such as electricity, plumbing and tiles have also increased. As a result, the cost per square foot (sft) has gone up to Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 5,500. It was about Rs. 3,500 per sft a few months ago,” sources in the construction industry say. When contacted, the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (CREDAI) Convener (Public Relations and Media Affairs Committee) R.V. Swamy says that the cost of construction of a unit has gone up by about 40%. Earlier, a flat used to cost Rs. 40 lakh depending on factors such as square feet and location. Now, the builder has to sell a flat at Rs. 45 lakh to Rs. 50 lakh if the rise in prices of raw materials were to be taken into account, he explains. As the builders have already entered into an agreement with the buyers under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act (RERA), they are clueless as to what to do. For new projects, the increase in prices can be passed on to the buyers but it may not be possible for already existing agreements under the RERA. The construction sector was already hit by the pandemic and related restrictions. The industry is now facing a blow with the steep rise in cost of materials. ‘Govt. action need of the hour’ The government has to take proactive steps to resolve the issue, he says. As per the industry sources, there are 8,000 to 10,000 ongoing projects across the State. In Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam, about 1,200 to 1,400 projects each are under progress. The rest are in cities and towns such as Guntur, Tirupati, Kurnool, Rajamahendravaram and Kakinada. The space of a flat ranges from 800ft to 1,000ft, 2,000ft and 3,000ft. In all, 2,500 to 3,000 builders are likely to be affected, according to sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-cement-prices-push-up-construction-costs-by-40/article37552723.ece
18 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ghantasala birth centenary fete in city on December 4||Minister for Tourism and Culture M. Srinivasa Rao on Wednesday said the centenary celebrations of legendary Telugu singer Ghantasala Venkateswara Rao’s birth anniversary would be organised on a grand scale in Visakhapatnam on December 4. Addressing a review meeting with officials of the Tourism, Culture and Sports wings, the Minister said Ghantasala was born in 1922 at Chowtapalli village under Gudivada mandal of Krishna district, and sang more than 10,000 songs in not just Telugu, but also in Tamil, Kannada and Malayalam. He said there was a need to glorify the great singer who had done the Telugu land proud. Special Chief Secretary, Youth Advancement, Tourism and Culture Rajat Bhargav instructed District Collectors to organise district-level singing competitions, and said a book on Ghantasala’s life and achievements would be released on the occasion. Mr. Bhargava said to mark International AIDS Day on December 1, awareness meetings should be organised in every district against use of drugs by the youth and their harmful impact on their lives, besides blood donation camps and awareness drives on organ donation. He said Vice-Chancellors of universities, principals of colleges in the State should be told to organise awareness events on November 26 that marks Constitution Day, also known as National Law Day. Tourism festivals Minister Rao directed the tourism officials to promote tourism by hosting festivals such as Visakha Utsavam in Visakhapatnam, Gandikota Utsavam in Kadapa district and Lepakshi festival in Anantapur district and find local sponsors to support the events. He directed Mr. Bhargava to write to the Centre requesting it to help promote Lepakshi, Kondapalli, Pedana, Srikalahasti and Venkatagiri regions in the state to acquire world heritage tags for them. He said boating activity in tourist spots like Bhavani Island, Pochavaram and Nagarjuna Sagar should be revived effectively. The Minister wanted the officials to ensure proper infrastructure facilities at the nine command control centres established in the State to ensure safe boat ride for tourists. He said at least 34 of the total 46 hotels belonging to the Tourism Department should be handed over to operation and maintenance agencies by December 1. Mr. Bhargava informed the Minister that the Hyatt Hotels and Resorts had come forward to construct hotels in Tirupati Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam, while the Oberoi Group was ready to establish hotels at Tirupati, Horsely Hills, Pichukalanka, Gandikota and Visakhapatnam (Annavaram) regions and that MoUs would be signed with the respective companies after release of G.O.s on the projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ghantasala-birth-centenary-fete-in-vizag-on-december-4/article37552555.ece
18 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Madhurannam’ a boon for attendants of patients at GGH||The State government provides food to the patients undergoing treatment in the Government General Hospitals across the State. However, the attendants have to make their own arrangements even as they come from far-off places to get their dear ones treated. Usually, the pushcarts and street vendors come to their rescue. However, it was a nightmare for the attendants to manage their food during the lockdown imposed to check the coronavirus pandemic. Moved by the plights of the attendants of the patients during a visit to the Government General Hospital (GGH) in Guntur during the lockdown period last year, district in-charge Minister Cherukuvada Sri Ranganatha Raju decided to provide free food to the attendants from his own pocket. The Madhurannam Society was established for the purpose. The Minister procured kitchen equipment from Coimbatore, and a new ultra-modern canteen was set up to provide food to the attendants. On an average, 1,000 attendants of the patients are being provided with free food now at the Guntur GGH every day. “It all started with providing meals to the people who have lost their livelihood, migrant workers, and children of several government-run schools for 105 days during the first wave of the pandemic last year. Now, free food is being provided to the attendants if they show the attendants’ pass. Sometimes, three to four persons come as attendants to a single patient. But, we impose no restrictions. Food is being provided to everyone,” says the Minister. To ensure better supervision at the canteen, he has connected the CCTV cameras with his iPad. On and off, he monitors the live feed . Mr. Sri Ranganatha Raju donated Rs. 1 crore from his pocket as an initial grant to complete the AP NGOs building. The construction was under way when he planned to start the free meals. He visited the GGH several times to oversee the progress of the work. Asked why did he choose Guntur GGH when he hails from West Godavari, the Minister said, “I am the in-charge minister of Guntur district. More so, patients from five districts come here.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/madhurannam-a-boon-for-attendants-of-patients-at-ggh/article37552271.ece
18 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI asks BJP to make stand clear on Amaravati||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has demanded the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to make its stand clear on the issues pertaining to State capital at Amaravati. Addressing a press conference here on Wednesday, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna alleged that the BJP was enacting a ‘drama’ on the issue. “The BJP leaders are adopting double standards on the capital city issue. BJP national leaders are saying that the capital is a State subject, while the party leaders in the State are supporting Amaravati as the sole capital of the State. Media reports suggest that Union Home Minister Amit Shah, during his recent visit to the State, asked the State leadership to express solidarity to the ppadayatra of the Amaravti farmers. If the BJP is really sincere about the cause, its national leaders should announce Amaravati as the capital. The Chief Minister should respond positively to the padayatra, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-asks-bjp-to-make-stand-clear-on-amaravati/article37552273.ece
18 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||No State has defined ‘judicial capital’ in the past: CJ||Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court Prashant Kumar Mishra, during the third day’s hearing of the petition filed by the Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi against the proposed three capitals on Wednesday, wondered what exactly the proposed ‘judicial capital’ meant, while pointing that no State had come up with a proper definition of it in the past. Mr. Justice Mishra observed that a temporary office of the Institution of Lokayukta had already been opened and functional in Kurnool, which was intended to be developed as the judicial capital. ‘Breach of trust’ Meanwhile, continuing his arguments on behalf of the aggrieved farmers, senior advocate Shyam Divan insisted that the court should have a national perspective of the whole issue, with specific attention to the systematic manner in which the Land Pooling Scheme (LPS) had been destroyed, as similar schemes in the country in the future would suffer badly if there was a breach of trust by the governments like it happened in the present instance. He asserted that the decision-making on the capital at the time of the birth of the successor State of Andhra Pradesh was supposed to be a one-time process, and that the government could not hark back on the location of the capital as the decision thereof was taken previously, huge sums were invested and rights vested in the farmers and, more importantly, the Central government was involved in it by virtue of the passage of the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014, in Parliament. Central funds Apart from that, the funds provided by the Centre (Rs. 2,500 crore) were to be spent on designated infrastructure in Amaravati, and the grounded contracts worth thousands of crores of rupees ought to be honoured. Mr. Divan said that if the government wanted to have decentralised development, there were other ‘less invasive ways’ of doing it, and splitting the capital into three parts on that pretext was unjustifiable. Continuity of governance Basically, the impugned legislations should have passed the tests of reasonableness and rationality, and there was also the principle of non-retrogression that was espoused by the Supreme Court through various judgments. There was a wilful departure from the priorities and timelines laid out in the Amaravati master plan, which was still existent, and the crux of the issue was the destruction of the LPS under which about 30,000 farmers had given away their lands by volition, Mr. Divan said, adding that continuity of governance was the bottom line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-state-has-defined-judicial-capital-in-past-says-ap-hc/article37552216.ece
18 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. conducting one-day session to suit its needs: Yanamala||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) politburo member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has pointed out that the State Assembly will be meeting for mere two days in 2020-21, if the government goes ahead with its plans to conduct the Assembly session for one day this month. So far, only one-day session was conducted. On the pretext of COVID, the government is conducting one-day sessions, he said. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, the former Finance Minister said the Telugu Desam Legislature Party would strongly object and demand in the meeting of the Business Advisory Committee for holding a 15-day session. If the contentious issues of the State were not debated, it would be the people who would suffer greatly but not Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, he said. The Chief Minister has, apparently, thrown M.N. Kaul and S.L. Shakdher rules to the wind and was conducting the Assembly sessions at his whims and fancies. The Chief Minister should realise that his Cabinet was accountable to the Assembly eventually. All the Cabinet decisions and their consequences should come up for debate in the House, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said. ‘No accountability’ The House session should be held for at least 15 days but the government opted for just one-day to suit its ulterior purposes. Apparently, Mr. Jagan was running away from his accountability to the State legislature, the TDP leader alleged. The YSRCP regime was transgressing the special privileges of members to reflect public opinion in the House. The members should be given an oppurtunity to raise issues relating to the people and the State, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-conducting-one-day-session-to-suit-its-needs-yanamala/article37552721.ece
18 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dasari Sudha to be sworn in as MLA in Assembly today||Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam will administer the oath of office to Badvel MLA-elect Dasari Sudha on November 18. Besides, the government will table the Andhra Pradesh Cinemas (Regulation) (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021; AP (Regulation of Trade in Indian Made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021; AP Agricultural Land (Conversion for Non-Agricultural Purposes) (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021; AP Rights in Land and Pattadar Pass Books (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021; AP Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021; AP Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021; AP Self Help Groups (SHG) Women Co-contributory Pension (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021; AP Private Universities (Establishment and Regulation) (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021; AP Higher Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021; AP Education (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021, AP Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021; AP Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2021; AP Bovine Breeding (Regulation of Production and Sale of Bovine Semen and Artificial Insemination Services) Ordinance, 2021; and AP Municipal Corporations (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021. Besides, the government will table, among others, the 2nd and 3rd annual reports of AP State Beverages Corporation Ltd for 2016-17 and 2017-18; annual report of the AP State Minorities Finance Corpn. Limited for 2019-2020; and 43rd annual report of AP State Seeds Development Corpn. Limited for 2019-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dasari-sudha-to-be-sworn-in-as-mla-in-assembly-today/article37552730.ece
18 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTR health varsity convocation on Dec. 8||Dr. NTR University of Health Science will hold its 22nd and 23rd combined Convocation on December 8 at 11.30 a.m. at Tummalapalli Kshetrayyavari Kalakshetram in city. In a statement on Wednesday, University Registrar K. Sankar said the list of candidates who have applied for various degrees “in person” for Ph.D and D.M., M. Ch., courses and winners of medals/prizes only would be called on the dais for receiving the degrees, medals or prizes. The list of candidates receiving various medals and prizes is placed in the University websitehttps://ntruhs.ap.nic.in. He said the candidates mentioned in the list should submit their address, phone number and e-mail ID along with proof of photo identity, copies of degree certificates concerned and Aadhaar card besides giving their willingness to attend the convocation, through e-mail: ntruhsconvocation.com for correspondence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ntr-health-varsity-convocation-on-dec-8/article37552796.ece
18 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||IMA conference at Eluru on Nov. 20, 21||The Andhra Pradesh unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) will organise its annual State conference at Asram Medical College at Eluru in West Godavari district on November 20 and 21. Addressing the media at Eluru on Wednesday, organising committee chairman Chinda Srinivasa Raju said that the science congress, IMA council and inter-organisational dialogue would be organised in the two days. Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas would be the chief patron for the conference. Water Resources Minister P. Anil Kumar Yadav would also grace the occasion. “Given the pandemic situation, we are planning the conference in a hybrid mode—both physical and virtual mode—to ensure compliance with the COVID-appropriate behaviour,” he said. Dr. Srinivasa Raju would be apponited the new president of the IMA, Andhra Pradesh unit. The conference would deliberate on pressing issues pertaining to the medicine profession, medical fraternity, education and public health. A seminar on implications of quackery, mixopathy and crosspathy on public health would be held on November 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ima-conference-at-eluru-on-nov-20-21/article37552272.ece
18 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Koti Deepotsavam at Durga temple today||Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam will organise Koti Deepotsavam on Thursday. Visakha Sarada Peetham seer Swaroopanandendra Saraswati Swamiji would take part in the programme at 6 p.m. The temple authorities have planned to organise a “Giri Pradakshinam” on Friday at 5 a.m. It would start at Maha Mandapam and covers Kummaripalem Centre, Nalugu Sthambalu Centre, Sitara Centre, Kabela, Milk factory, Chitti Nagar, Srinivas Mahal Centre, Brahmana Veedhi and culminates at the temple. The giri pradakshina would cover a distance of about 8 k.m. and takes two and half to three hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/koti-deepotsavam-at-durga-temple-today/article37552274.ece
18 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications invited for gazetted posts||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission has issued notification to fill 25 gazetted posts, inviting online applications for the posts of Fisheries Development Officer in AP Fisheries Service, Sericulture Officer in AP Sericulture Service, Agriculture Officer in AP Agriculture Service, Divisional Accounts Officer (works) Grade-II in AP Works Accounts Service, Technical Assistant in AP Police Service, Assistant Commissioner of Endowments in AP Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Service and Assistant Director of Horticulture in AP Horticulture Service. Applications could be uploaded from December 8 to 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/applications-invited-for-gazetted-posts/article37552724.ece
18 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor tests positive for COVID-19||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan tested positive for COVID-19. He is undergoing treatment at Asian Institute of Gastroenterology Hospitals in Hyderabad. A team of expert doctors are monitoring his health. According to the CT scan findings and previous history of comorbidities, the Governor has been diagnosed with moderate coronavirus. “His condition is stable,” a bulletin issued by the hospital said. Mr. Harichandan fell ill after his return from New Delhi recently. As he complained of cold and cough, the authorities performed RT-PCR test, which indicated minor COVID-19 symptoms, said a release. Earlier, the officials shifted him to Hyderabad by a special flight. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy spoke to hospital chairman D. Nageswara Reddy and enquired about the Governor’s condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-tests-covid-positive-condition-stable/article37552215.ece
18 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nod for recruitment in health sector||The government on Wednesday gave permission to the Director of Medical Education to fill 2,190 additional posts in different categories, including teaching faculty, staff nurses and para-medical staff, to strengthen the teaching medical colleges/teaching hospitals and to provide quality health care, through a Government Order. In a separate order, the government also accorded permission to the Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department to fill up 1,952 existing vacancies of Assistant Professors, staff nurses and para-medical staff in the teaching medical colleges and teaching hospitals to ensure proper functioning of the health institutions and also for effective delivery of health services in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recruitment-in-health-sector/article37552275.ece
18 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Courses in foreign languages||The SRR and CVR Government Degree College (A) is offering certificate courses in French, German and Arabic from December. A certificate course in Indian sign language will start from December first week. For details, dial 9553563955, 7032867645 and 9848170255.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/courses-in-foreign-languages/article37552276.ece
18 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP wins bypoll to 2 wards in GVMC||YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) candidates on Wednesday scored victories in both the wards of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) that went for bypolls. From Ward 61, Konathala Sudha, daughter of Dadi Surya Kumari who died of a massive heart attack three days after being elected earlier this year, defeated her nearest rival Mulampaka Nagaveni of the Jana Sena Party with a comfortable margin of 2,028 votes. The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) did not field any candidate from this ward. Ward 31 saw a close contest between arch-rivals YSRCP and TDP, with the ruling party candidate J. Bipin Kumar Jain wresting the seat from the TDP’s Vanapalli Gayathri Phani Kumari with a slender margin of just 59 votes. While Mr. Bipin Kumar garnered 3,087 votes, Ms. Gayathri secured 3,028 votes. Ms. Gayathri is the widow of TDP corporator Vanapalli Ravi Kumar who died in April this year about a month after being elected. Speaking to reporters after declaration of the results, an emotional Ms. Gayathri said, “The results indicate that my husband is still alive in the hearts of people.” For Ms. Sudha too, it was an emotional victory as she retained the seat that was won by her mother. The total electorate in Ward 31 is 15,835 that includes 7,754 males, 8,080 females and one in the Others category. The total electorate in Ward 61 is 14,089 that includes 6,931 males, 7,156 females and two in the others category. The polling for both the wards was held on November 15, and the polling percentage was moderate in both the wards, with Ward 31 recording a turnout of 41.53% and Ward 61 recording a turnout of 57.53%. The total votes polled in 61 was 8,106 and in 31 it was 6,595. Both the TDP and YSRCP campaigned hard in Ward 31, as it was a battle of prestige for both political parties. It was a close finish and 31 NOTA votes, 90 rejected votes and JSP into the electoral base with 359 votes, had become the deciding factor, said a senior TDP leader. In Ward 61, the votes under NOTA were 127 and 103 were rejected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-wins-bypoll-to-2-wards-in-gvmc/article37552813.ece
18 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vistadome coaches to get the green light soon||The Vistadome coaches, which were lying idle for over a month at the coach depot in the city, are likely to start rolling at last with Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu scheduled to flag off the Visakhapatnam-Kirandul-Visakhapatnam train with the new coaches attached, on November 22. The Vice-President is scheduled to visit Visakhapatnam on November 21and stay in the city till November 24. He is scheduled to flag off the train on November 22, according to a communication received by the District Collector’s Office. “We are yet to get any information from the Railway Board in this regard,” Divisional Railway Manager Anup Satpathy told The Hindu , when asked on Wednesday morning. He, however, said that the plan was to use two new Vistadome coaches till Araku. The two coaches would be detached at Araku and again attached to the Kirandul-Visakhapatnam train in the evenings for the benefit of tourists. New LHB coaches “The train will also get new LHB coaches. The old Vistadome coach will be sent for POH (periodic overhaul) for maintenance,” Mr. Satpathy said.  The Hindu had reported in these columns in the November 11 edition (Denizens’ wait for Vistadome coaches getting longer) that the Vistadome coaches were confined to the coach depot for over a month despite the huge demand, depriving tourists of a pleasant experience during the peak season as well as the Railways of revenue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vistadome-coaches-likely-to-be-flagged-off-on-nov-22/article37552725.ece
18 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free artificial limb camp to be organised in March||A free artificial limb and calipers camp would be organised by Marwari Sammelan, Visakhapatnam, and Rajasthani Sanskritic Mandal(RSM), Visakhaptnam, under the aegis of the National Marwari Federation, in March 2022. The camp is planned to be organised in association with Uttarandhra Journalist Front (UJF), Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), Prema Hospital and the Department for Welfare of Disabled and Senior Citizens. A poster on the free camp was released at the Rajasthani Sanskritic Mandal on Wednesday. Addressing reporters, Chandmal Agarwal, president of AP Pradeshik Marwari Sammelan, said that the first free artificial limb camp was organised by RSM in 2015, when he was its president, to mark the ‘golden jubilee’ of RSM-Visakhapatnam. A total of 180 artificial limbs and calipers were provided to 147 beneficiaries at that camp. The second camp was conducted in 2018, after he became president of the AP branch of the All India Agarwal Sammelan. A total of 528 artificial limbs were provided to 472 beneficiaries. This was the third camp and this time, the screening and registration of patients would be done at Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, Rajamahendravaram, Narsipatnam, Paderu and Araku Valley apart from Visakhapatnam city. The hand and leg measurements of the registered persons would be taken at these screening camps, Mr. Chandmal said. The material required for manufacture of the artificial limbs would be brought from Guwahati. Temporary workshops would be set up in Srikakulam and at Rajasthani Sanskritic Mandal premises in the city for fixing of the artificial limbs and calipers. The free distribution and limbs and calipers and their fixing, for beneficiaries from Vizianagaram and Srikakaulam, would be done at Srikakulam from March 1 to 6 and for those from Visakhapatnam, East Godavari and other districts, it would be done in Visakhapatnam from March 7 to 15. More details on registration can be had from Podeswar Purohit, secretary, AP Pradeshik Marwari Sammelan on 9396711999 or N. Nageswara Rao, general secretary, UJF on 99899 66767.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-artificial-limb-camp-to-be-organised-in-march/article37552804.ece
18 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Include non-schedule villages in Fifth Schedule, say adivasis||Adivasis took out a rally at V. Madugula in Visakhapatnam district on Wednesday demanding that their villages be included in the Fifth Schedule. The rally was organised by the All-India Agricultural and Rural Labour Association (AIARLA) and the CPI-ML (Liberation) Party. Addressing the gathering, Human Rights Forum AP&TS coordination committee member V.S. Krishna explained how the Fifth Schedule dispensation is of a unique and exceptional nature endowed with explicit Constitutional recognition.  He recalled that the State Cabinet, in resolution No 58/76 in the then undivided Andhra Pradesh on March 10, 1976, had requested the Central government to include 805 non-scheduled Adivasi villages in the Scheduled area. Had that been done, adivasis resident in those villages would not have continued to suffer immense injustice. Of these 805 villages, there are 553 in Andhra Pradesh. This includes 91 of them in Visakhapatnam district that are located in the mandals of Ananthagiri, Devarapalli, Cheedikada, V. Madugula, Ravikamatam, Rolugunta, Golugonda and Nathavaram, he said. Adivasis in these villages were deprived of Constitutional guarantees and protective legislation. They were unable to access developmental programmes and welfare measures meant for adivasi residents in the Scheduled Areas, he said. AIARLA national secretary P.S. Ajay Kumar said that the State government had directed all ITDAs to focus upon non-scheduled Adivasi villages and to forward requisite proposals after conducting Gram Sabhas. However, ruling party legislators were obstructing this, he alleged. Consequently, except for villages in Ananthagiri mandal, all others in the remaining mandals were excluded from the list. The stated intention of the government was to render justice to the adivasis, but MLAs of V. Madugula, Chodavaram and Narsipatnam were obstructing these efforts, he alleged.  Many activists of the Fifth Schedule Sadhana Samithi as well as those from non-scheduled villages took part in the rally. A memorandum was addressed to the ITDA PO and Tahsildar seeking issuance of pattas for surplus ceiling land being cultivated by adivasis since 30 years in Jalampalli panchayat of V. Madugula mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/include-non-schedule-villages-in-fifth-schedule-say-adivasis/article37552811.ece
18 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU training for faculty, students||A week-long online short-term training programme on ‘Mastering self-motivation’ and ‘Attitude-Art of living’ is being organised for faculty and students of higher education, by the Department of Electrical Engineering of AU, from November 22. The inaugural meeting will be addressed by AP State Council of Higher Education Chairman K. Hema Chandra Reddy and Vice-Chancellor Prof. P.V.G.D Prasad Reddy. A total of 132 members have registered for the one-week programme and the registration will be closed on November 18. Speakers will deal with various themes like ‘Art of Public speaking’, ‘Art of Effective writing’, ‘Power of Right Attitude’ and ‘Creative Management Skills’. The programme is being conducted in the backdrop of COVID-19 as the majority of the people are victims of emotional deficiency, anxiety and stress. The coordinator of the programme is K. Rama Sudha, professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, AUCE(A) and co-coordinators are Dr. K.Padma and Dr. R.Srinu Naik and Dr. B.Amarendra Reddy, Assistant Professors Department of Electrical Engineering, AUCE(A). For further details and queries, mail can be sent mail tosttp.msma@andhra university.edu.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-training-for-faculty-students/article37552807.ece
18 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Isolated heavy rain likely in next two days||Rain or thundershowers is very likely to occur at most places across the State in the next two days under the influence of the low pressure over the Bay of Bengal and the associated cyclonic circulation. “The low pressure area lies over the southeast Bay of Bengal with the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 5.8 km above the mean sea level. It is likely to move westwards and reach the Bay of Bengal off south Andhra Pradesh and north Tamil Nadu coasts by November 18 (Thursday),” a bulletin issued by the CWC said on Wednesday evening. Isolated heavy rain is likely to occur in Prakasam, Nellore, Chittoor and Kadapa districts on Thursday. Heavy to very heavy rain is likely to occur at one or two places in Krishna, Guntur, Kurnool and Anantapur district. Heavy rainfall is expected at one or two places in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari districts and Yanam on Thursday. Heavy to very heavy rain is very likely to occur in Guntur, Prakasam, Nellore, Kadapa and Kurnool district on November 19 (Friday). Heavy rainfall is likely to occur at one or two places in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, and Visakhapatnam. Collector A. Mallikarjuna had directed the Joint Director of Fisheries to issue a warning to all fishermen not to venture into the sea till November 20 in view of the inclement weather. He sought that all mandal-level officers, RDOs and Sub-Collector open control rooms in the headquarters and stay put at their respective headquarters. Any untoward incident should be brought to the notice of the Command Communication Centre on 1800-425-00002 or 0891-2590102. 2750089, 2750090 or 2560820, or by sending an email to the Collector’s office at drovskds@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/isolated-heavy-rain-likely/article37552277.ece
18 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘First two years a tough time for pre-term infants’||An estimated 15 million preterm babies are born worldwide every year and their number is growing. Premature babies account for about 10% of total births, according to Dr. Sai Sunil Kishore, consultant neonatologist at Medicover Hospitals. A programme was organised at the hospital on the occasion of World Prematurity Day on Wednesday. The theme is ‘Zero separation, act now. Keep parents and babies born too soon, together’. The programme saw the participation of around 50 preterm babies, born at Medicover as well as outside, and their parents. The objective was to raise awareness regarding preterm births, concerns of preterm babies and their families, their possible health issues and the doctor’s role in providing them necessary care for the first few years after birth. Dr. Sai Sunil Kishore expressed his concern on the alarming increase in preterm and low birth weight babies seen in the recent past. Babies born between 22 and 28 weeks of pregnancy are considered critical as “the limits of viability” and chances of survival are minimal even at the best of western standards. The survival of such babies would be of possible only with round-the-clock care supported by state-of-the-art infrastructure and facilities. Such babies need regular follow-up by the doctor for the next two years after birth and any illness would cause serious worry to the family for a while.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/first-two-years-a-tough-time-for-pre-term-infants/article37552805.ece
18 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mukkoti Ekadasi to be a grand ceremony||Arrangements are being made for a grand celebration of ‘Mukkoti Ekadasi’ (Vaikunta Ekadasi) at the temple of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy at Simhachalam on January 13. Executive Officer M.V. Suryakala held a special meeting with officials and held discussions with departmental heads on Wednesday. The EO asked officials about the manner in which the festival was conducted at the temple in the past years and the works needed to be done for conduct of the festival in a grand manner. She asked officials to illuminate the temple and ‘Utsava mandapam’ and to prepare cost estimates for the work. The festival would be followed by Bhogi, Sankranti and Kanuma and hence the arrangements should be special, she said. After the meeting, Ms. Suryakala went to the ‘Uttara Dwaram’ of the temple and discussed with the officials on way to regulate the queue lines without causing inconvenience to devotees as thousands of devotees would visit the temple for ‘Mukkoti Ekadasi’. Later, she visited the ‘Gangadhara’ (waterfall) and directed the engineering officials to construct permanent changing rooms for devotees who bathe there. Temple Asthanacharya T.P. Rajagopal, S. Suryanarayanacharyulu, in-charge chief priest Godavarthi Srinivasacharyulu, E.V. Ramana Murthy, Seetharamacharyulu, Assistant EOs Raghava Kumar, Ananda Kumar, Tirumaleswara Rao, Ramana Murthy and Y. Srinivasa Rao, special invitee of the Temple Trust Board Gantla Srinu Babu, EE Srinivasa Raju, DE Rambabu and AE Tataji were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mukkoti-ekadasi-to-be-a-grand-ceremony/article37552806.ece
18 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU, HPCL join hands for internship programme||Andhra University (AU) Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy inaugurated the ‘HP Harita’ internship programme by students of the Botany Department, here on Wednesday. The programme was organised by Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited and Visakh Refinery. Speaking during the inaugural, Prof. Prasad Reddy said that students should utilise the internship programme offered by HPCL and develop new skills and abilities. HPCL Executive Director V. Ratan Raj said the programme would be useful for students in honing their skills. Launched as a pilot project, the programme will pave the way for more studies in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/au-hpcl-join-hands-for-internship-programme/article37552808.ece
18 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wide range of products on show at Tribal Crafts Mela||A visit to the stalls at the State-level ‘Tribal Crafts Mela’ (exhibition-cum-sale) being organised at GVMC Ground, opposite Viswapriya Function Hall, at RK Beach, here, provides a fascinating insight into the livelihood of tribals from the Agency areas. Dasari Gouri, belonging to the Erukula tribe, was seen weaving bamboo baskets and flower vases in different shapes and hues to meet varied needs. The baskets and vases, coloured with natural colours, are available for prices ranging from as low as Rs. 60. G. Laxmaiah, who comes from Chinturu in East Godavari, was seen explaining to a customer about the Tussar silk saris. The fine silk saris are available for prices ranging from Rs. 6,500 to Rs. 7,500. The organisers are giving a 20% discount. Ippa (mahuva) oil is available at the stall for Rs. 200 a litre. The oil is said to have several health benefits but city folk use it only as ‘puja’ oil. “We also use it for cooking,” he says. Hussainamma of Velugodu in Srisailam makes glass bangles and embellishes them with art work. “We have moulds for making the bangles but the design on the bangles is handmade. They are in good demand during birthdays, weddings and festivals in our areas,” she says. The Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC) stall sells soaps, oils, honey, turmeric and Araku coffee. “Araku coffee, honey and turmeric were in good demand on the inaugural day (November 15),” says the stall organiser. Bamboo lamp holders, jute bags and pouches were some of the other products on display. The mela is being conducted to mark the 146th birth anniversary of Bhagavan Birsa Munda, which is being celebrated as ‘Janajatiya Gourava Divas’, as part of Azadi Ka Amrit MahotsavIndia@75.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wide-range-of-products-on-show-at-tribal-crafts-mela/article37552797.ece
18 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City to be beautified ahead of Fleet Review||District Collector A. Mallikarjuna instructed officials to make elaborate arrangements for the upcoming Indian Navy’s President’s Fleet Review-22 (PFR) and Milan-22 which are scheduled to be held in February and March 2022. He also directed officials to initiate beautification works in the city. He conducted a review meeting with officials from the Navy, Police, GVMC and several other departments concerned. Mr. Mallikarjuna said that a host of VVIPs such as the Prime Minister, President, Union Defence Minister, Chief Minister, Governor, Cabinet Ministers and a number of senior officials will be attending the PFR scheduled on February 21, 2022. The city will also hots Milan 2022 from February 25 to March 3. Delegates from 40 countries and over 20 naval ships will be part of the programme. This was the first coordination meeting for the upcoming events. Sub-committees will be formed for the smooth conduct of the programme, he added. Captain Ambuj Khare gave a powerpoint presentation to the Collector. They also requested officials to take up cleaning of drains and garbage and road repairs as part of the beautification works. Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha, GVMC Commissioner G. Lakshmisha, and Naval officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-to-be-spruced-up-ahead-of-fleet-review/article37552756.ece
18 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Corporator seeks removal of toll gate at Aganampudi||Corporator of Ward 78 and CPI (M) leader B. Ganga Rao has requested Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari to take steps to remove the toll gate at Aganampudi on NH-16 in Visakhapatnam. In a letter to the Mayor, Mr Ganga Rao said that the toll gate was set up at Aganampudi in1997 and has been collecting toll fee since 1998. Though the Aganampudi area was merged into the GVMC in 2005 and Anakapalle in 2012, the toll gate has been operational in the area. He said that in 2019, the Andhra Pradesh High Court had directed the NHAI to remove the toll gate from Aganampudi, for which again the Supreme Court had given a stay order on the writ filed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). He questioned why the municipal corporation had not filed a counter to vacate the stay order till now. The CPI(M) leader also said that per day, the toll gate collects about Rs. 20 lakh. Since 2019, the toll gate had collected about Rs. 170 crore from the public. The officials should react and take appropriate measures to remove the toll gate, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/corporator-seeks-removal-of-toll-gate-at-aganampudi/article37552798.ece
18 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Victory shows people’s trust in YSRCP’||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that the success of the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) candidates in the bypolls has once again proved that the people are solidly behind the party. Lauding candidates who won the bypolls in wards 31 and 61 of the GVMC at a programme here on Wednesday, the Minister said that the elections have proved that the people no longer had faith in the ‘40-year political experience of Mr. Chandrababu Naidu’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/victory-shows-peoples-trust-in-ysrcp/article37552800.ece
18 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||26 new COVID-19 cases reported||The district has recorded 26 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,58,671, according to a health bulletin. The death toll stands unchanged at 1,102 after no COVID-19 death was recorded in the last 24 hours. During the same period, 40 persons undergoing treatment for the infection have recovered. The number of recoveries increased to 1,56,899 and the active cases further declined to 670.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/26-new-covid-19-cases-reported/article37552801.ece
18 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF holds drill near Simhachalam railway station||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) on Tuesday conducted a mock drill simulating a real-time relief and rescue operation at the Yard near Simhachalam railway station here. Over 200 railway employees from various departments apart from the NDRF personnel and the civil administration took part in the mock drill.  The Safety Department led by Senior Divisional Safety Officer Sakya Acharya conducted the relief operations on a real-time basis. ADRM (infra) Sudhir Kumar Gupta was present. The mock drill was an exercise to check preparedness of the railway personnel, said Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ndrf-holds-drill-near-simhachalam-railway-station/article37552802.ece
18 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,500 litres of FJ wash destroyed||About 1,500 litres of Fermented Jaggery (FJ) wash which is used for preparing ID arrack was destroyed by the Rural police at two separate places, here on Wednesday. In one case, a team of Devarapalle police conducted raids at an isolated area near Atchayyapalem and destroyed 1,250 litres of FJ wash. Another team of Ravikamatham police destroyed 250 litres of FJ wash at Kanada village. Cases have been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1500-litres-of-fj-wash-destroyed/article37552809.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mountain shield||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mountain-shield/article37552231.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hanging on a wire!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hanging-on-a-wire/article37552762.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hanging on a wire!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hanging-on-a-wire/article37552758.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily grind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/daily-grind/article37552279.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Need to get to the ‘heart’ of the matter: doctors||The increasing number of deaths due to heart attack among youngsters has become a matter of grave concern. And Wednesday’s case of a young surgeon from Gandhi Hospital dying of heart attack has shocked the State’s medical fraternity. But, doctors are yet to find out the real reasons behind this growing incidence. One of the top cardiologists from Hyderabad underscored that the causes leading to heart attack among the younger population are not yet known. According to senior cardiologist from KIMS Dr. B. Hygriv Rao, there is a need for research into what is leading to heart attack among the youth. The profile of heart attack patients in India is different from other countries. Dr. Hygriv Rao and his team have conducted a study in 18 health centres across the country on patients who suffered heart attacks. The abstract of the study, conducted in 2018-19, was accepted by the American College of Cardiology in 2020. This study found that 25% of heart attacks were among people below 40 years. Stating that the finding is not something new, he said, “The reasons why heart attacks occur among youngsters are not completely known because of lack of published data on this. Heart attacks are major causes of sudden deaths,” he said. He has listed some risk factors for heart attack such as smoking, hypertension, obesity and lack of exercise. The senior cardiologist also said that stress levels among people cutting across age groups and its role behind heart attacks need to be studied extensively. Annual health check-ups after 30, regardless of whether one experiences any symptoms of heart attack, was suggested to avoid unpleasant situations. People who have diabetes, suffer from hypertension, and smokers, were asked not to ignore the first signs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/need-to-get-to-the-heart-of-the-matter-doctors/article37552531.ece
18 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||India and COVID in images||Tamma Srinivasa Reddy, 55, is the only Indian photographer to be recognised as Fellow of Royal Photographic Society, Britain, this year. The announcement was made on November 4 in recognition of his photographs documenting India’s battle with COVID-19. The Vijayawada-based photographer who is on a visit to Hyderabad, is overjoyed with the honour: “To me, this means more than a Pulitzer Prize. I am happy to get this recognition as a photojournalist. Unlike international photographers who specialise in one genre of photography for decades, photojournalists in India juggle multiple assignments in a day — crime to politics, festivities to lifestyle.” Reddy is the 18th Indian and third Telugu-speaking photographer, after the late Rajan Babu and Kusuma Prabhakar, to be recognised by the Royal Photographic Society (RPS), UK. Established in London in 1853, the RPS receives applications from photographers around the globe. “Several photographers might have submitted images pertaining to the pandemic. I tried to present an overview of how India, as a developing nation, is coping with the situation,” says Reddy. The eagerness to document the pandemic began even before the nation-wide lockdown in March 2020. Reddy had travelled to Varanasi and noticed that international tourists were wearing masks. The mask protocol had not yet been enforced in India. “The locals also noticed an increase in dead bodies arriving at the ghats,” he says. Reddy also travelled to Mangaluru, and again, noticed international students wearing masks, “This was a sign of things to come.” He returned to Vijayawada just before the nation-wide lockdown. He wanted to take photographs that could document the pandemic for posterity: “Images supposedly taken during the Spanish Flu of 1918 were surfacing on the internet. We need visual evidence that would tell the next generations how we coped with COVID-19.” Nearly four decades of working with media organisations had helped him forge connections with the authorities and he got permission to photograph Vijayawada during lockdown. He captured the eerie, vacant streets of the city using a drone. Several other photo stories followed — on frontline workers, travails of patients and families in hospitals, and animals during lockdown. For the FRPS, photographers are required to submit 21 images on a theme. He curated a selection from the images he clicked on the streets of Vijayawada, inside COVID-19 ICU wards, and a few images from Varanasi and Karnataka.  (For the longer interview, check www.thehindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/india-and-covid-in-images/article37552544.ece
18 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Drunk man sets father ablaze in Gachibowli||A 55-year-old bed-ridden man was set ablaze by his drunkard son at their residence in Indranagar of Gachibowli here on Tuesday. The victim, Durga Rao, who suffered 65% burns, died while undergoing treatment at Osmania Hospital in the late hours on Tuesday. According to Gachibowli inspector G Suresh, the accused, Naga Babu, 35, along with his mother Mahalakshmi, was working as gardening labour at IDBI Leaning Centre. Rao too used to work there but due to ill-health for the past five months, he quit the job. “Naga Babu was addicted to alcohol and frequently used to pick up quarrels with his parents for various reasons, including for not getting him married,” he said. Due to his addiction to toddy, his salary was also being handed over to his mother, and it was also one of the reasons for his frustration. On Tuesday morning, when Mahalakshmi left home to work, Naga Babu went to the toddy compound and returned home around 2 p.m. “He noticed his father fast asleep, doused him with kerosene and set him on fire. He left home by locking the door from outside” Mr. Suresh said. They live in a rented accommodation on the first flood of a building. Upon noticing the smoke and hearing Rao’s continuous screaming, neighbours broke open the door, doused the flames, and shifted him to OGH, where he succumbed around 11 p.m. A case was registered and teams were formed to nab Naga Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drunk-man-sets-father-ablaze/article37552548.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS seeks Rs. 300 cr. for Ramappa temple||Welcoming the United Nations World Tourism Organisation’s decision to confer the ‘most attractive tourist village’ status on Bhoodan Pochampally, Tourism Minister V. Srinivas Goud has requested the Central government to sanction adequate funds for development of historic and tourist places in Telangana for projecting them as tourist destinations worldwide. The Minister recalled how the State’s historic and tourist landmarks were neglected in the erstwhile united State and said two sites – Ramappa temple and Bhoodan Pochampally – secured international recognition within seven years of formation of the State. The proposed Buddhavanam project, works on which were progressing briskly, was sure to be recognised as an international destination soon. “One wonders why Bhoodan Pochampally, reputed as silk city of the country, did not get the recognition due to it in the last several decades,” he said. He said the village in Yadadri-Bhongir district had the reputation of weaving silk sarees that could fit into a matchbox and every visiting dignitary including Ivanka Trump were gifted Pochampally sarees. There were several places like Bhoodan Pochampally in the State that were fit for recognition worldwide and the Centre should sanction funds for their development. The Minister urged the Centre to sanction Rs. 300 crore for the development of Ramappa temple on a par with international standards. He said he would meet Union Tourism and Culture Minister G. Kishan Reddy and request him for assistance to develop historic and tourist places across Telangana. He wondered about the development that would have taken place had efforts been made to project the historic and tourist places in the State as international destinations. The Central government should treat all the States equally without discriminating them as recognition to these sites as international tourist destinations would enhance the country’s reputation, not just that of the State. “Telangana is a part of the country and the Centre should sanction adequate funds without adopting step-motherly attitude towards the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-seeks-rs-300-cr-for-ramappa-temple/article37552562.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Young surgeon from Gandhi Hospital dies of heart attack||A 28-year-old General Surgeon, who worked at Gandhi Hospital, died of a heart attack early on Wednesday morning. Dr. Purna Chandra Gupta collapsed on the staircase leading to a hostel on the hospital premises. Hospital superintendent Dr. M. Raja Rao said that the young surgeon died of myocardial infarction. “He complained of chest pain six months ago. But, reports of tests done then came out normal,” Dr. Raja Rao said. Fellow doctors said that Dr. Purna’s family has a history of heart attacks. He was lean and did not have any bad habits, they said. The young doctor was doing good in his career. He completed his senior residency (one year work after post graduation) a few weeks ago, and was preparing for a super-speciality course. He planned his engagement at the end of this month, they added. He did his post graduation from Gandhi Medical College, vacated the hostel a few days ago, and was staying outside the campus. Dr. Purna rushed to Gandhi Hospital late on Tuesday night when he had chest pain. “He took a tablet and went to the hostel to get some rest. He was found unconscious near the hostel at around 5 a.m. and was declared brought dead to the emergency ward,” said a doctor from the hospital. The medical fraternity in the State was shaken up with his death. Telangana Junior Doctors’ Association (JUDA) members held a condolence meeting in the hospital on Wednesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/young-surgeon-from-gandhi-hospital-dies-of-heart-attack/article37552533.ece
18 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Private tuition goes up in pandemic: ASER report||Blame it on disruption of classroom teaching due to the pandemic or the inability to adapt to online education, more schoolchildren are opting for private tuition if the data of the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) report is to be believed. The ASER 2021 report released on Wednesday reveals that 40% of schoolchildren are now opting for private tuition classes compared to 30% in 2018. This proportion has increased across both sexes and all grades and school types. The incidence of tuition has increased across all States except Kerala. Interestingly, those opting for private tuition are from the lesser privileged classes. There is an increase of 12.6 percentage points among the children of parents who fall in the low education category where as it is 7.2 percentage points among children with parents in the ‘high’ education category. The report also reveals that fewer children whose schools have reopened are taking tuition. Tuition classes were common among children whose schools were still closed at the time of the survey. The survey was conducted in 25 States and three Union Territories covering 75,234 children in the 5-16 year age group. An interesting aspect of the study outcome was the increase in enrolment in government schools between 2018 and 2021. The report says 70.3% of children enrolled in government schools in 2021 compared to 65.8% in 2020 and 64.3% in 2018. The report says private schooling increased rapidly in India from 2006 to 2014 and from there it hovered around 30%. However, in the pandemic years, private enrolment dipped significantly. In the age group of 6-14 years, enrolment in private schools decreased to 24.4% in 2021 compared to 32.5% in 2018. This shift is seen in all grades and among both boys and girls. Increase in Telangana While the national figures stand at 70.3%, the figures of enrolment in government schools in Telangana stood at 60% only. However, compared to 56.4% in 2018, the figure rose to 60% now. In Andhra Pradesh, the jump has been a bit massive with enrolment at 70.6%, higher than the national figure of 70.3%. In 2018, the enrolment was 62.2% in Andhra Pradesh. In the tuition figures too, there is an increase in both the Telugu states. In Telangana the figure increased from 5.9% to 9.6%, which is an increase of 3.7 percentage points. In Andhra Pradesh, it rose from 14.7% to 22.9%, an increase of 8.3 percentage points. This is being attributed to closure of schools in pandemic and the inability of parents to opt for government schools where the fee is almost nil compared to huge fee structure in private schools. Smartphone use Smartphones became a part of teaching-learning process during the pandemic and it reflected in the enormous increase in its usage. Availability of smart phones was 36.5% in 2018 while it jumped up to 67.6% in 2021. But the digital gap between government and private schools was clearly visible with just 63.9% of children in government schools having access to the gadget compared to homes of 79% of private school going children. Economic status obviously defined the accessibility of the smartphones. In 2021, over 80% children with parents who have studied up to 9th standard or higher had a smartphone available at home, as compared to just over 50% children whose parents had studied till 5th standard or less. However, even among children whose parents are in the ‘low’ education category, over a quarter bought a smartphone for their studies since March 2020, the report revealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/private-tuition-goes-up-in-pandemic-aser/article37552539.ece
18 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Prioritise girls’ education, parents told||Education Minister Sabita Indra Reddy has promised to take up the issue of university status to Women’s College, Koti, with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Speaking at the XVI Convocation of University College for Women on Wednesday, she said that a new hostel would be constructed so that more girls can be accommodated. She exhorted parents to give top priority to education of the girl child. Later, graduates who successfully completed their courses were awarded degrees. Of the total 1,006 students including 12 foreign students who appeared for the exams, 962 have passed with an overall pass percentage of 95.63%. Students of all the three courses fared well (B.A. 95.94%, B.Com 95.86%, and B.Sc. 95.39%). A total of eight gold medals were presented to students who excelled in different courses. Vice-Chancellor of Osmania University Prof. D. Ravinder, who presided, requested the State government to recognise University College for Women as Telangana’s first women’s varsity. IAS officer of Karnataka and alumnus of the college Hephsiba R. Korlapati recollected her college days and urged students to dream big and achieve success in life to make the alma mater proud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/prioritise-girls-education-parents-told/article37552541.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP ready to join TRS to Delhi on paddy issue||Telangana BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar, while accusing Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of ‘orchestrating’ the violence during his visit to Nalgonda and Warangal, appeared to strike a more conciliatory tone on Wednesday. “There was a direct call from the Chief Minister’s Office to the police to allow the TRS supporters to obstruct us using violence. He can keep ‘chasing’ and ‘hunting’ us, but we will continue to highlight the promises made to the people and question the government,” he told a press conference at the party office. Flanked by MLA T. Raja Singh and other leaders, the BJP president said his two-day tour to understand the farmers difficulties was a successful one as it has forced the government to move the procurement process forward after an inexplicable delay. “Farmers told us they were warned not to interact with us or the procurement will be delayed. But, the bigger victory for us and the Telangana people is we have ensured Mr. Rao not only moved out of his farm house, but will now protest at ‘Dharna Chowk’ near Indira Park which was out of bounds for the last seven years,” he claimed. The CM had “clearly instigated the mobs with his comments on hunting us”. However, the party would continue to raise issues like stipends to the unemployed, three acres to Dalits, making a Dalit the Chief Minister, two-bedroom houses and the ‘stalled’ Dalit Bandhu promised by the former, he said. “We will continue to protest and highlight people’s problems in a democratic and peaceful manner. For that, we are ready to face eggs, stones and tomatoes. In fact, it was strange to see police personnel being thrashed by TRS supporters with no response,” he said. The conciliatory tone then came. “This is not an issue between parties but farmers’ distress. We are ready to join you in your proposed trip to Delhi or tell us your problems, we will take up the issue to Delhi. The Centre had never refused to purchase paddy. There is an agreement already in place for 40 lakh metric tonnes. Let us not make the farmers suffer,” he said. “There is no need to divert the main issue by talking of farm laws after shifting the official stance twice already. Farmers are apprehensive about their produce lying in the open so procurement needs to be expedited,” added Mr. Sanjay Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bjp-ready-to-join-trs-to-delhi-on-paddy-issue/article37552560.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC asks police not to take coercive steps against builder||Justice G. Sri Devi of Telangana High Court on Wednesday instructed the Narsingi police not to take coercive steps against S. Sreedhar Rao, a builder and owner of Sandhya Convention in Gachchibowli, in a criminal case. Mr. Rao filed a criminal petition in the HC seeking to quash the FIR issued against him in alleged case of cheating. Lawyer Dammalapati Srinivas appeared on behalf of Mr. Rao before the judge and stated that the case was booked against his client on false charges. Earlier, the Raidurg police of Cyberabad arrested him in a separate case on charges of cheating and presented him before a local court. The magistrate issued a bail order to him stating that the police did not issue notice to the accused Sreedhar Rao as per the procedure under section 41 of Criminal Procedure Code. Meanwhile, Mr. Rao moved the HC seeking to quash the FIR and got an order instructing the police not to initiate any coercive steps against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-asks-police-not-to-take-coercive-steps-against-builder/article37552567.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Land allotments subject to outcome of PIL pleas: HC||All constructions undertaken on the lands allotted by the State government to Jeeyar Integrated Vedic Academy, All India Velama Association, Kammavari Seva Sanghala Samakhya, Sri Sharada Petham-Visakhapatnam and film director N. Shankar would be subject to the outcome of the PIL petitions connected to them, the Telangana High Court said on Wednesday. A bench of Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice A. Rajasheker Reddy made this clear while hearing different pleas challenging the justification in allotment of government lands to these entities and an individual. The bench declined to pass a direction staying the constructions on these lands ‘worth crores of rupees’ as sought by senior counsel Satyam Reddy appearing for all the petitioners. Senior counsel contended that State government was the custodian of lands spread over different parts of the land. These lands belonged to people and the government cannot alienate such valuable properties worth crores of rupees at its whims and fancies to others. He contended that the land of five acres allotted to Velama Association and Kamma Sangham at Khanammet in Ranga Reddy district was worth hundreds of crores of rupees. These two were among the richest communities in the State. A person belonging to one of the communities was ruling the State. Instead of allocating these lands to caste associations, it would have been a better option to use the property for the developing infrastructure for education sector, the senior lawyer said. Mr. Satyam Reddy said the land to Vedic academy at Yadadri and Sharada Peetham at Kokapet was allotted at the price of one rupee per acre while their market value was worth crores of rupees. The allotment of land to film director Shankar at Mokhila village in Ranga Reddy district at the rate of five lakh rupees per acre was a loss to State ex-chequer, he said. Posting the hearing to January 3, 2022, the bench instructed the State government to file counter affidavits in all the four pleas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/land-allotments-subject-to-outcome-of-pil-pleas-hc/article37552556.ece
18 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress wants Venkatarami Reddy’s nomination rejected||The Telangana Congress has represented to the Returning Officer of Telangana Legislative Council elections to reject the nomination of former Siddipet Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy, who filed as TRS nominee in the MLC elections just two days after his resignation from the Indian Administrative Service (IAS). In a letter submitted to the Returning Officer, TPCC president A. Revanth Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, former Minister Mohd. Shabbir Ali and others urged him to reject the nomination as Mr. Venkatarami Reddy violated the All India Service rules by not furnishing details of his assets and liabilities as per the All India Service (Conduct) rules 1968, Lokpal and Lokayukta Act 2013 and Public Servant (Furnishing of Information and Annul Returns of Asstes and Liabilities and limits for Exemption of Assets in Filing Returns) Rules 2014. The Congress leaders argued that Mr. Venkatrami Reddy had misused his public office and the Courts too had admonished him. They said there was a need for a detailed inquiry against him by the Central Vigilance Commission and Central investigating agencies. “A public servant who had close proximity and nexus with the ruling party while performing his duties should not be allowed to contest as MLC when there are serious allegations against him,”, the letter stated. Mr. Reddy said a complaint was also made to the President Ramnath Kovind and also the Union Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions Department on the violation of rules by Mr. Venkatarami Reddy. The President had forwarded the same to the Chief Secretary of Telangana for legal action but it was kept pending. Mr. Reddy said he had also filed a complaint with the Central Bureau of Investigation on September 8 this year on the dubious role of Mr. Venkatarami Reddy regarding the sale of land by the government at Neopolis, Golden Mile, Kokapet and Khanamet through e-auction. In the complaint, Mr. Reddy alleged that undue favour was granted to the Rajapushpa Group, which is owned by the family of Mr. Venkatarami Reddy and the complaint was still pending. So under these circumstances, his candidature should not be accepted. Later, speaking to reporters Mr. Revanth Reddy alleged that the election officials were not furnishing the details of the nomination when the party asked for it. He said the resignation of Mr. Venkatarami Reddy was yet to be accepted by the Central government and the election officials had been requested to accept the nomination only after the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) accepted the resignation. He said a complaint was lodged against the Returning Officer Upender with the Chief Electoral Officer, Shashank Goel alleging that he had failed to place online the information of Mr. Venkatarami Reddy. “We understand that the nomination papers claim there were no pending cases against Mr. Reddy. So it is important that the information furnished by the candidate be posted online as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-wants-venkatarami-reddys-nomination-rejected/article37552565.ece
18 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth from city goes missing from Asaram’s Ahmedabad ashram||A youngster from Hyderabad has gone missing from godman Asaram Bapu's ashram in Ahmedabad. Vijay Yadav, along with 10 friends went to Ahmedabad to attend a shibir between November 3 and 11. While all his friends returned to the city, Yadav did not. He last contacted his family members on November 9 after which he was also not seen in the ashram. Anxious family members reached Ahmedabad and lodged a complaint with Chandkheda police station. They registered a missing case and launched a probe. Sources told The Hindu that during the camp, Yadav informed fellow disciples that he wanted to go to Jodhpur to meet Asaram and seek his blessings. Asaram is currently lodged in Jodhpur prison in Rajasthan after being accused of raping a minor girl, According to the missing man's younger brother Sanju Yadav, from Ahmedabad, the former went to Jodhpur and returned to Ahmedabad ashram and since then he was missing. "In a register at the ashram, my brother's entry was registered, but the exit was not. Where he went from ashram is a million-dollar question. The ashram's CCTV footage of November 11 is missing," he said. On Wednesday, a new twist emerged in the case after the family members received an email from Yadav which stated that he is going into solitary confinement on his own will, and urged them not to level false allegations against the ashram. However, police are yet to verify the IP address and whether Yadav had sent the mail or somebody else was accessing his account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-from-city-goes-missing-from-asarams-ahmedabad-ashram/article37552549.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM to take part in Maha Dharna||Finance and Health Minister T. Harish Rao said that Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, other Ministers, MP and MLAs would participate in the Maha Dharna that would be held by the party on Thursday at Dharna Chowk. Mr. Harish Rao along with Animal Husbandry Minister T. Srinivas Yadav, MLA Jogu Rammanna and others visited the Dharna Chowk near Indira Park on Wednesday and supervised the arrangements. “The Maha Dharna was aimed at bringing pressure on the Union Government to buy paddy from farmers and clarify its stand. The policy of Centre should be common for all states in paddy procurement. In the past, all the previous governments at Centre including UPA and NDA had procured paddy from the state and we are requesting the Union Government to continue the same and there was nothing new in it. The BJP Government has been declining to procure paddy from Telangana whereas it was buying from farmers of Punjab. How can the Centre follow double standards for two states?” asked Mr. Harish Rao. It was the responsibility of the Centre to procure paddy and the TRS was forced to hold dharna as the Centre was escaping from its responsibility. He said it was not new for the party to stand with people and this time the agitation was in support of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-to-take-part-in-maha-dharna/article37552557.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Students stage dharna for RTC services||Scores of students in Aushapur have taken up the cudgels to highlight what they say is an inadequate access to public transport. With fewer and overcrowded buses, they were forced to stage a sit-in and demand more buses to reach their respective colleges. The issue came to light after students who identified themselves a Immarasu Prashanth and Bomma Adarsh, among others, shared video clips of the dharna on Twitter. The latter spoke to The Hindu and explained the lack of easy access to public transport. According to students, there is a paucity of buses along the Ghatkesar – Aushapur route. The Telangana State Road Transport buses which ply the roads are Palle Velugu buses. “Firstly, the frequency of buses is low. Then whenever the buses arrive, they are already packed, meaning we cannot get on them. This is a big problem. It gets difficult for students to board buses and we are late in reaching colleges,” Mr Adarsh said. He also tweeted the issue and tagged Information Technology Minister K T Rama Rao and Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar. Students claim that between 200-300 students grapple with this problem. They also said that students are primarily from Anurag College of Engineering, Aurora’s Scientific and Technological Institute and Vignana Bharathi Institute of Technology. “We staged dharna on Tuesday. There was an exam on Wednesday and so we could not do anything. But the problem is yet to be looked into. On Twitter, the RTC responded saying that the issue is pending,” a student said, adding that they are late to college by at least 30 minutes on a daily basis. Those who are aware of the developments said that most students are bus pass holders which are valid on city ordinary buses, and opined that the general passes be accepted on Palle Velugu buses as well. For their part, TSRTC’s Chengicherla Depot conducted a route survey and earmarked buses which will be available to students at 8.45 a.m., 9.00 a.m. and 9.15 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/students-stage-dharna-for-rtc-services/article37552554.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Biodiversity Board forms 13,759 management panels||Telangana State Biodiversity Board (TSBB) has constituted 13,759 Biodiversity Management Committees (BMCs) across the State and had also prepared 13,165 People’s Biodiversity Registers (PBR) in a digital dashboard. This was informed to the Central People’s Biodiversity Register (PBR) Monitoring Committee of the National Biodiversity Authority (NBA), Chennai, by the TSBB Regional Coordinator Shilpi Sharma on Wednesday. She was making a presentation to the team on a two-day trip in Telangana as per the instructions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to familiarise about the functioning of the biodiversity panels. The NBA committee comprised retired director of the Botanical Survey of India (BSI) Munivenkatappa Sanappa, and Botany professor D. Narasimhan. The duo accompanied by Dr. Sharma visited the BMCs at Chinthakunta, Dharur mandal of Vikarabad district, Mansanpally BMC, Maheswaram mandal of Ranga Reddy district and Chinthakunta BMC, Dharur mandal of Vikarabad district where interactions with the local people was organised for understanding the traditional knowledge of the respective areas. The team was also explained about the functioning of the State-level PBR validation committee and the central PBR monitoring committee, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/biodiversity-board-forms-13759-management-panels/article37552538.ece
18 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Parliamentary panel for ban on alcohol in Tirupati||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture has recommended a ban on alcohol in Tirupati. Speaking in Hyderabad, standing committee chairperson T.G. Venkatesh disclosed this on Wednesday. “Part of our report on tourism deals with ban on liquor near religious places. Gujarat is completely alcohol-free. We have recommended that Tirupati should also be made alcohol-free. The State government will have to take the decision,” said Mr. Venkatesh on the sidelines of the study tour by the standing committee. He shared details of a number of tourism initiatives being taken up by the Central government. Andaman islands “Maldives has islands which are operated and managed by hotels to promote tourism. We have identified two islands in the Andaman group to be used in a similar manner. It will take time but we are on course,” said the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament. The interests of the two Telugu States are close to my heart and I will ensure that more tourism projects come to the two States, said the Member of Parliament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/parliamentary-panel-for-ban-on-alcohol-in-tirupati/article37552550.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New generic drug to treat epilepsy in infants||MSN Labs launched generic Vigabatrin powder for oral solution under the brand name Viganext for use in treatment of infantile spasm, a form of epilepsy that affects children. A therapeutic equivalent, the product has been approved by Drugs Controller General of India.. MSN Labs said it had while seeking the approval pointed how Vigabatrin availability in the country was wholly dependent on grey market imports. Imports were severely disrupted during lockdowns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-generic-drug-to-treat-epilepsy-in-infants/article37552545.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Expedite vaccination in villages: Harish||District Medical and Health Officers (DMHOs) in Telangana were directed to expedite COVID vaccination in villages. Health Minister Harish Rao, who held a video conference with them on Wednesday, instructed all DMHOs to complete the second dose soon. Apart from Collectors, support has to be sought from other departments. Health officials have to be on field and conduct the jab drives, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expedite-vaccination-in-villages-harish/article37552534.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana logs 148 more COVID cases||Telangana recorded 148 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total to 6,74,037. Out of the 35,921 samples tested, results of 1,591 were awaited. One more COVID patient died. Of the new cases, the highest of 52 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 13 from Warangal Urban, and 12 from Medchal-Malkajgiri. Seven districts recorded zero cases. From March 2, 2020, to November 17 this year, a total of 2.81 crore samples were tested and 6,74,037 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 3,712 were active cases, 6,66,348 recovered, and 3,977 people died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-logs-148-more-covid-cases/article37552536.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Book release||Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu will unveil a poetry compilation on ‘Srimad Ramayanam’ written by K. Sasikiran, working as personal secretary to Union Minister for Tourism & Culture G. Kishan Reddy, at Hotel Daspalla, Jubilee Hills, at 4.30 p.m. on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/book-release/article37552537.ece
18 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||GHMC staffer falls to death||An employee of the GHMC accidentally fell to death from the third floor of his residence at KPHB Colony here on Wednesday morning, the police said. The victim, Kamala Raj Mehra, 50, worked in the entomology department of GHMC’s Santosh Nagar circle. His wife, Haritha Mehra, lodged a complaint with KPHB Colony police that around 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-staffer-falls-to-death/article37552546.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Concern over draft rules for labour codes||CITU national secretary and MP Elamaram Kareem has expressed concern that the BJP-led Central Government embarked upon preparing draft rules for the three codes relating to occupational safety, health and working conditions and industrial relations. He recalled how the Centre had taken steps to ensure that 29 central labour laws were subsumed into four labour codes including the Code on Wages. “I moved amendments against the anti-worker aspects of the Code on Wages like floor level wage which is abysmally lower than minimum wages when the Bill was introduced in Rajya Sabha,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/concern-over-draft-rules-for-labour-codes/article37552563.ece
18 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Free coaching at TSSC study circle||Telangana State SC Study Circle is offering free coaching for foundation course for various entrance exams, including BSRB, RRB, SSC., for a period of five months as a residential programme for about 100 SC/ST, BC and minority candidates. TSSC Ranga Reddy district honorary director, K. Sucharitha Roy said in a statement that online applications are invited from eligible candidates of erstwhile Ranga Reddy district from November 16 onwards. Applications are available on:www.tsstudycircle.co.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-coaching-at-tssc-study-circle/article37552552.ece
18 November 2021||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Two file nomination||Two candidates filed nomination for the election to the State Legislative Council from Karimnagar Local Authorities Constituency (LAC) on the second day on Wednesday. The biennial election for filling 12 MLC seats from nine LACs including Adilabad, Warangal, Nalgonda, Medak, Nizamabad, Khammam, Karimnagar, Mahabubnagar and Ranga Reddy will be held on December 10, 2021. Munigala Vijaya Laxmi, mandal parishad vice-president of Choppadandi, submitted her nomination papers to Returning Officer R V Karnan here. She filed her nomination papers as an independent candidate. S Prabhakar Reddy, a Telangana Rashtra Samithi cadre from Vennapalli village in Saidapur mandal, filed his nomination from the Karimnagar Local Authorities Constituencyon Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-file-nomination/article37552566.ece
18 November 2021||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Farmers stage rasta roko||Aggrieved farmers, affected by unseasonal rains, staged a road blockade in Yellareddypet town on Kamareddy main road on Wednesday demanding purchase of soaked paddy. Several farmers from different parts squatted on the main road in the mandal headquarters town to draw the attention of the district authorities to their “ordeals”. They wanted the authorities to make arrangements for prompt purchase of their soaked paddy and avoid huge losses to them due to nature’s fury. The police and revenue officials of the mandal reached the spot and held consultations with the agitated farmers to persuade them. The officials advised the farmers to dry the soaked paddy to facilitate prompt procurement, sources added. The aggrieved farmers called off the stir following an assurance given by the mandal level officials to bring the matter to the notice of the higher authorities for immediate attention. Meanwhile, the district administration has set up a call centre with the phone numbers 6303928692 and 9398684240 at the Collectorate to receive complaints, if any, related to paddy procurement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farmers-stage-rasta-roko/article37552766.ece
18 November 2021||Siddipet,TELANGANA||Hanumantha Rao takes charge as Collector||Collector M. Hanumantha Rao called upon officials to speed up the process of paddy procurement in the district. Participating in a review meeting held after taking full additional charge as Collector on Wednesday, Mr. Rao said that the required number of storage points and number of gunny bags should be made ready.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hanumantha-rao-takes-charge-as-collector/article37552764.ece
18 November 2021||SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Teenager’s body fished out from Manair river||One more body was fished out from Manair river in Sircilla town on Wednesday, taking the death toll in Monday’s drowning incident to six. The body of Manoj, 16, a resident of Rajiv Nagar, who drowned along with five other boys after venturing into the river for a swim on Monday, was recovered at a bridge, about 1 km from the incident site, in the river on Wednesday morning, sources said. All the six boys hailing from the same locality in the textile town met with a tragic end during their jolly trip to Manair river on Monday. The bodies of the remaining five boys were already recovered — one body on the incident day and four others on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Minister for Industries and Information Technology K T Rama Rao consoled the bereaved families of the six deceased at Rajiv Nagar in the town on Wednesday evening. According to sources, he handed over cheques worth Rs. 5 lakh each to the kin of those killed in the drowning incident. He instructed the officials to install caution boards along the banks of the river. Paddy procurement Talking to mediapersons at his camp office in Sircilla late in the evening, Mr. Rao said 52,000 metric tonnes of paddy was already procured from farmers in Rajanna Sircilla district till date. The remaining 3 lakh tonnes of paddy will be procured in the current marketing season, he said, adding that the procurement of paddy (kharif produce) was underway through 4,743 procurement centres across the State. Tomorrow’s (Thursday) Maha Dharna at Indira Park in Hyderabad will expose the ‘double standards’ of the Central government and its anti-farmer stand, Mr Rao said, reiterating that the TRS will continue its agitation until the Centre agrees to buy the Yasangi (rabi) paddy crop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teenagers-body-fished-out-from-manair-river/article37552765.ece
18 November 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. eases COVID-19 curbs||All coronavirus-related restrictions in Madhya Pradesh have been withdrawn with immediate effect, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said here on Wednesday. “There is control over the COVID-19 pandemic. So, we have decided to withdraw all the restrictions,” Mr. Chouhan said in a statement. “Now all events can be held with full capacity,” he added. But it will be mandatory for Government employees and shopkeepers/vendors to be completely vaccinated, Mr. Chouhan said. The number of active cases fell to 78, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mp-eases-covid-19-curbs/article37552655.ece
18 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Boatman mortgages farm to build bridge||A tribal boatman in Odisha’s Koraput district has built a bamboo bridge by mortgaging his sugarcane farm after the country boat he was operating to ferry people was damaged. The 100-metre-long bridge built on the Indravati river by Jayadev Bhatra connects two southern Odisha districts of Koraput and Nabarangpur and has become the lifeline for about 10,000 people of three panchayats. Mr. Bhatra had long been ferrying people on his country boat at Basuli Ghat and was assisted by his son, Banamali Bhatra. The Indravati River separates Koraput’s Gumudi panchayat from Kantasaraguda panchayat of Nabarangpur district. People of Kantasaraguda depend on Kotpad block of Koraput district and hence have to cross the river. A bridge has been proposed at Chirma Ghat but could not be completed due to land dispute and so people come to Basuli Ghat and cross the river on boat. “The boat became too old to carry people on daily basis. People decided to construct a temporary bridge at Basuli Ghat till the Government completed a permanent bridge at Chirma. The first year people contributed to the construction of a bamboo bridge. But, after some months the contributions stopped,” said the boatman. “Since we started the bridge and it was too risky to ferry people by boat, I could not back out. I started completing the bridge, bearing its cost. As I did not have ready cash available for labour cost, I had to mortgage my three-acre sugarcane farm. I have so far spent Rs. 1lakh,” he said. Gumuda gram panchayat sarpanch Sonaru Pujari said the Government had been informed on a number of occasions about the necessity for a bridge. “The Government has made a preliminary survey. But, the current temporary bridge has been built by Jaydev Bhatra out of his own funds. We have not made any contribution,” said Mr. Pujari. Nabarangpur Collector Kamal Lochan Mishra said, “I have come across the report of a bridge constructed by individual effort. It is embarrassing that a person had to build a temporary bridge. I have sought a report from the executive engineer of the Rural Development department.” In a similar effort, a retired livestock inspector had spent Rs. 16 lakh out of his post-retirement fund to build a 270-foot-long bridge near his village in Hatadihi block in Keonjhar district. Though the bridge is complete, the approach road has not been laid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/boatman-mortgages-farm-to-build-bridge/article37552660.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,||‘I couldn’t demolish the feudal culture’||The Madras High Court staff are serving in a feudal culture, according to the outgoing Chief Justice, Sanjib Banerjee, who has been transferred to the High Court of Meghalaya. He has also regretted that he could not demolish such a culture ever since he assumed office here on January 4 this year. The Chief Justice left Chennai for Meghalaya on Wednesday morning without even a formal farewell. However, he left behind a signed two-page note on his official letterhead addressed to “My dear family at the Madras High Court”. It had a message to his companion judges, Bar members, court staff and people of the State. To his colleagues on the Bench, he said: “I apologise, first, for being unable to last the distance and second, for not saying goodbye to you in person. Finally, to the few of you who may have felt offended by any of my actions. Please know that they were never personal. I perceived those actions as necessary for the institution.” Hailing the Madras Bar, he said, “You are among the best in the country and have suffered a talkative and sometimes grumpy old judge with more patience, respect and understanding than I may have deserved. My sincere gratitude to you for all your kind words.” Addressing the High Court Registry, he said its efficiency made administration easy. He also acknowledged the sincerity that the staff had shown to improve and better the systems and processes. He urged them to continue their endeavour to bring about transparency and accountability. He apologised to all court staff “for the long hours that you had to keep for me”. Appreciating their cooperation, he said, “My regret is that I could not completely demolish the feudal culture in which you serve.” Finally, Chief Justice Banerjee said he would remain forever indebted to everyone in “this beautiful and glorious State”, which he had the privilege of calling his own for the last 11 months, “for the kindness and warmth” with which he and his family were greeted during the entire tenure. He said he was leaving with the happiest memories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/i-couldnt-demolish-the-feudal-culture/article37552466.ece
18 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Demand for power in rabi season set to soar in Rajasthan||The demand for power during the rabi sowing season is set to increase in Rajasthan, with the farmers depending on tubewells in their agricultural land for irrigation in the absence of a robust canal system and perennial rivers in the State. There are about 15.70 lakh agricultural power connections in Rajasthan. The State government’s Energy Department has launched an exercise to assess the demand for electricity at agricultural fields during the next two months to ensure adequate supply to farmers. The rabi crops are generally sown in two phases in the State, first in October-November and later in January-February. Additional Chief Secretary (Energy) Subodh Agarwal instructed the public sector power discoms in Jaipur, Ajmer and Jodhpur on Wednesday to make an assessment of the potential demand in the rabi season based on the average demand during the corresponding period in the last three years. The three discoms were also asked to prepare their action plan within the next three days. The present supply of electricity for agricultural power consumers is 10,528 MW against the demand for 11,297 MW, while the demand during the rabi season is likely to soar by 790 MW. The power demand during the peak hours at present has been calculated at 13,864 MW. Discom chairman Bhaskar A. Sawant said the average demand during December last year was 10,533 MW and a roadmap would be prepared for meeting the demand this year. ‘Will meet challenge’ Farmers sow the rabi crops of wheat, barley, gram, mustard, taramira, masoor, pea, flaxseed, sunflower, potato and black mustard during the winter season in different parts of the State. Mr. Agarwal said the discoms, which had worked hard during the recent crisis caused by shortage of coal, would meet the challenge of power management for the agriculture sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/demand-for-power-in-rabi-season-set-to-soar-in-rajasthan/article37552664.ece
18 November 2021||Jammu,||Man attacked by wild bear in JK's Udhampur||An 18-year-old man was injured in an attack by a wild bear in a forest area of Jammu and Kashmir’s Udhampur district on Wednesday, officials said. The man was passing through the forest belt when he was attacked, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-attacked-by-wild-bear-in-jks-udhampur/article37552652.ece
18 November 2021||Jammu,||COVID-19 | Jammu to impose night curfew from today||A night curfew 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. will be imposed in Jammu from Wednesday asCOVID-19positivity rate is on the rise in the region, a top district official said here. Violation of the restrictions will invite strict action, District Magistrate Anshul Garg warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-19-jammu-to-impose-night-curfew-from-today/article37552658.ece
18 November 2021||LUCKNOW,||Student death: 277 DNA results sent for re-test||The DNA test results of all 277 suspects in the case of alleged murder of a Class 11 student of a Centre-run school in Uttar Pradesh’s Mainpuri have been sent back for re-examination as the Allahabad High Court is unsatisfied with the progress in the investigation. In 2019, she was found hanging from the ceiling fan in her hostel. Her family had alleged that she was sexually assaulted before being murdered as she knew “secret things” about the school and that the police were trying to protect the accused in the case — the principal, hostel warden and another person. The police had prima facie called it a case of death by suicide. In September, a fresh probe was launched after the original inquiry conducted by a special investigation team was found to have “serious lapses,” leading to the suspension of three senior police officers and pending action against another. On November 15, Gopal Swaroop Chaturvedi, senior advocate, for the State, submitted in the High Court that the DNA test reports of the 277 suspects had been received from the CFSL laboratory, Hyderabad. However, they had been referred back for re-testing, the Government informed a Division Bench of Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Piyush Agarwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/student-death-277-dna-results-sent-for-re-test/article37552463.ece
18 November 2021||Mumbai,||‘Uddhav Govt. trying to thwart Deshmukh probe’||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday told the Bombay High Court that the Maharashtra government is trying “shamelessly” to frustrate an ongoing corruption probe against former State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and that it does not deserve any relief in the matter. The Central agency urged the High Court not to grant any relief to the Maharashtra government, which is seeking quashing of CBI summons issued to Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte and current DGP Sanjay Pandey related to its ongoing probe against Mr. Deshmukh. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, who appeared for the CBI, told a Bench, led by Justice Nitin Jamdar, that the State government failed to initiate a probe into allegations of misconduct and corruption made against Mr. Deshmukh earlier this year by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. Mr. Lekhi said the State government was bound by law to initiate a probe. However, it chose not to do so, and instead, approached the High Court seeking, amongst other things, that some portions of the CBI’s FIR against Mr. Deshmukh be expunged, he said. “An investigation that was the mandate of law did not take place and that’s why the HC had to pass April 5 order,” Mr. Lekhi said, referring to a previous order of the High Court directing the CBI to initiate a preliminary inquiry into the allegations made against the NCP leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/uddhav-govt-trying-to-thwart-deshmukh-probe/article37552464.ece
18 November 2021||Mumbai,||Police busts mephedrone factory in Maharashtra||The Anti-Narcotics Cell (ANC) of the Mumbai Police’s Crime Branch has busted a mephedrone manufacturing unit being operated at an advocate’s farmhouse in Maharashtra’s Kolhapur district and arrested two persons, the police said on Wednesday. The estimated cost of the chemical used in the manufacturing of the banned drug and other equipment is Rs. 2.35 crore, an officer said. The farmhouse is owned by advocate Rajkumar Rajhuns who practices in Mumbai and has his own law firm, he said, adding the lawyer was the kingpin of this illicit trade. The ANC’s Bandra unit had arrested Christiana alias Ayesha, an alleged drug peddler, from Sakinaka on November 13 with 50 gm of MD, he said. On interrogation, she revealed that she had procured the contraband from a man who brings it from Kolhapur, he said. Ms. Christiana also said that there is a mephedrone manufacturing unit in a farmhouse at Chandgad in Kolhapur, he said. Based on the information, the ANC teams from the Mumbai and the Kolhapur Police raided the farmhouse in Chandgad in Maharashtra, the officer said. During the raid, the ANC team busted the unit and arrested Nikhil Ramchandra Lohar (29), a caretaker of the farmhouse, he said. The team seized 38.7 kg of raw material, he said, adding that the accused could have manufactured MD worth Rs. 19.35 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-busts-mephedrone-factory-in-maharashtra/article37552653.ece
18 November 2021||MYSURU,||Karnataka to open silk marketing office in U.P.||The State Government is planning to reopen the Karnataka Silk Marketing Board (KSMB) office in Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh to make available raw silk reeled in the State to weavers in the north Indian city that is known to produce the Banarasi variety of saris. A delegation led by Minister for Sericulture K.C. Narayana Gowda is scheduled to meet Sericulture Department officials at Banaras Hindu University in Varanasi on Thursday. “They are expected to discuss the proposal to reopen the KSMB unit in Varanasi and set up a system for silk marketing,” said a source in the KSMB. The KSMB branch in Varanasi was shut in 2002. “But, there was no disruption in the silk trade between reelers of Karnataka, particularly from Siddlaghatta and Ramanagaram, and weavers in Varanasi,” the source said. Silk traders based in Chickpet in Bengaluru also purchased raw silk in bulk for weavers in Varanasi and Surat in Gujarat, another source said. In view of the renewed demand for silk from Karnataka, the State Government wants to reopen the KSMB office in Varanasi, the source added. At one point, the KSMB had almost 30 offices across India, but the number was brought down to 16 owing to various reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/karnataka-to-open-silk-marketing-office-in-up/article37552462.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||Empty shelves at liquor vends leave many dispirited on Day 1||On a day when 849 new private liquor vends were supposed to open in the city, a majority of these shops had empty shelves, very low stock, or were under construction, leaving customers high and dry. The Delhi Government had announced that all the 600-odd Government-run liquor vends will shut and exit the liquor business on Tuesday and the sale of liquor will be done completely by private players from Wednesday, as per the Delhi Excise Policy 2021-22. This was announced earlier this year by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia. On Wednesday, the Delhi Government did not give any clarity on how many of the 849 vends are functional with enough stock or when all of them will be fully functional. Till Tuesday, provisional licence was given to only 350 of the 849 vends, as per the Government. Representatives of liquor companies, who were doing rounds of the vends on Wednesday, said that most shops do not have enough supply. Around 1 p.m., at a newly-opened liquor vend in Dwarka Sector 12, almost all the shelves were empty, except for a few beer bottles. “We have nothing other than beer. We are facing issues in getting stock. Our owner has about 10 shops and the situation is same in all of them. Two of them are still under construction. It will take at least a couple of days for things to be normal,” the in-charge of the vend said. A representative of a liquor company, who was at the store, said, “I had been to another shop before coming here and the situation is the same.” Few options Sachin Mehra, 45, who was leaving the vend with a bottle of beer said that he had come to buy whiskey. “I stay in Mohan Garden, about 5 km from here, and the vend over there did not even have beer. Even here, there is hardly any stock and they don’t know when it will come.” Around 2.30 p.m. at INA, another store was still under construction and the manager said they have yet to get the provisional licence. “We got very less time to get the shop ready. After the shop is ready, we have to send a video to the Excise Department and only then will we get the temporary licence,” said Pawan, who is the shop’s manager. The representative of another brand, who was at this vend, said, “I have been to 8-10 shops. At many shops, work is still on and no one has full stock. We all are losing out on money.” Just like retailers, wholesalers were also given new licences and they haven’t got enough stock from the manufacturers, the representative said. “After stock comes to the wholesaler from the manufacturer, it will show up in a portal of the Government and only then can the retailer [liquor vends] place the order,” he said. At another vend in Patparganj, construction was still on. At a store in Mayur Vihar, there was hardly any stock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/empty-shelves-at-liquor-vends-leave-many-dispirited-on-day-1/article37552445.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. to hire 1,000 CNG buses in bid to promote public transport||Following directions from the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in NCR and Adjoining Areas to expeditiously put on road CNG buses, Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday said 1,000 CNG buses will be hired to encourage people to use public transport. On Wednesday, The Hindu had reported that the Transport Department is planning to temporarily induct 1,000 buses to augment the public transport. “To encourage public transport in Delhi, 1,000 private CNG buses will be hired, the process for which will begin tomorrow,” the Minister said later on Wednesday. He said that the Government will be implementing other measures, which have been ordered by the CAQM. Meanwhile, the air quality of the Capital improved slightly to the “very poor” category on Wednesday from “severe” category a day earlier and is likely to improve and be in the same range till Friday. Surface winds “The AQI today indicates ‘very poor’ category and is likely to improve but remain the same for the next two days as transport level winds are coming from the east direction preventing intrusion of pollutants from the upwind region. Local surface winds are low and mixing layer height is about 1 km resulting in poor ventilation of near surface pollutants. From November 20, surface winds are likely to be strong resulting in effective dispersion that improves air quality,” government-run monitoring agency SAFAR said in a statement. On Wednesday, the contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5 in Delhi came down to 6%. Also, effective fire counts in the region were 2,643, as per SAFAR. The AQI was 375 on Wednesday as per the CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin. The air quality of the city entered the “severe” level for the first time this winter on November 5 with an AQI of 462. A higher value of AQI indicates more air pollution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-to-hire-1000-cng-buses-in-bid-to-promote-public-transport/article37552450.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sabz Burj restored to its Mughal era glory||Hidden in plain sight on a traffic island on Mathura Road, with an estimated 60 lakh vehicles passing by annually, is one of Delhi’s earliest Mughal-era monuments— Sabz Burj. It has been conserved and restored over the last four years using traditional materials and building-craft techniques favoured by 16th Century craftsmen. Immense significance The tomb, which was built in 1530, does not have any markings pointing to the identity of those buried under it. However, it is of immense significance due to the ceiling on its double dome structure painted in pure gold and lapiz and revealed after conservation efforts began. It is thought to be the earliest surviving painted ceiling for any monument in India. Conservationists believe that the painting on the ceiling that has floral motifs predates similar work that was seen in miniature paintings and textiles from the Mughal era and was covered with plaster sometime in 20th Century, when the structure was used as a police station. The missing glazed tiles on  the dome and the tall, elongated drum on which it rests have been restored to its original turquoise-blue hue. The original tiles that remain have been preserved even though they have lost the glaze. Original hue Ratish Nanda, project director of the Aga Khan Trust for Culture, said that art conservators spent three years in scientific cleaning to remove plaster and chemical layers to reveal the extent of the surviving painted ceiling. “The conservation effort stopped at revealing the original painted surface and no effort to restore the missing portions was attempted for the inner dome. For the glazed tiles on the exterior of the dome, artists from Uzbekistan trained local craftsmen on how to get the exact hue of it,” Mr. Nanda said. The monument stands at the entrance to Humayun’s Tomb and would have originally stood within an enclosed garden. The conservation works have been undertaken with the support of Havells by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture in partnership with the ASI. It has been done in a way to ensure the authenticity of material, form and design while ensuring the integrity of the monument is retained for future centuries. The tomb has been illuminated at night and is open for visitors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sabz-burj-restored-to-its-mughal-era-glory/article37552461.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||Heavy vehicles banned from entering city till November 21||Even as heavy vehicles, except those carrying essential items, have been barred from entering Delhi till November 21, the Transport Department on Wednesday issued a public notice asking private transport operators to offer their vehicles for hire to the Government. The Government plans to induct 1,000 private buses for one month so that more people turn to public transport for daily commute instead of using their personal vehicles, which will help control the rising pollution. While the order banning the entry of heavy vehicles — in compliance with a directive by the Commission of Air Quality Management — was issued on Wednesday evening, the public notice will be published on Thursday. The order, however, will not apply to vehicles carrying raw vegetables, fruits, grains, milk, egg and ice and tankers carrying petroleum products. Meanwhile, the Transport Department said that only 10% of the city’s 1.30 crore vehicles are plying without the pollution under control (PUC) certificate following enforcement drives which began in October. Ashish Kundra, secretary-cum-commissioner, Transport, said, “We sent 30 lakh reminders to vehicle owners to get the PUC certificate renewed if it had expired. Besides, enforcement teams have been deployed at fuel stations in the city to check the certificate.” Not having a valid PUC certificate attracts a fine of Rs. 10,000 or six months’ imprisonment or both. According to departmental records, 8,25,681 vehicles were checked in October and 9,522 of them were fined for not having a valid certificate. Between November 1 and 14, as many as 3,16,268 vehicles were checked of whom 2,446 were fined. On November 15, a total of 57,560 vehicles were checked and 330 of them were fined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/heavy-vehicles-banned-from-entering-city-till-november-21/article37552457.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||High Court worried over rising number of illegal street vendors||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday expressed concern over rising number of street vendors, majority of them sitting illegally, in the Capital, saying, “We can’t let the city go to the dogs, we are here to protect the rule of law”. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh said, “What is the number of street vendors? Your population may keep on rising but the area Delhi has is a constant. So how many vendors are you going to be permitting? What are the zones? Where all they will be? It is bursting at the seams”. “Please understand for a place where there are 120-odd tehbazaari right holders, there are about 4,000 (vendors). Where do people walk? We don’t want another Lajpat Nagar, Nehru Place...What is the plan?” the Bench said. Issues notices The court issued notices to the Delhi Government, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and Town Vending Committee (TVC), North DMC Zone on a plea by Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal seeking direction to strike down various provisions of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Scheme, 2019. The plea said the scheme is arbitrary, discriminatory, illegal and contrary to the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulations of Street Vending) Act, 2021 and Rules, 2017. When senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi Government, urged the Bench to keep its hands away for three months so that things get done, the Bench shot back saying, “Forget about three months, three months is too long, not even a single day... We have not said anything or passed any order staying actions of the TVC.” “We are very clear Mr. Mehra, we can’t let the city go to the dogs. We are here to protect the rule of law. Rule of law does not mean you only look at one constituency and say that look their rights are there, they need to be protected. Vendors have a right but no right is absolute,” the Bench said.   We can’t let the city go to the dogs. We are here to protect the rule of law. Vendors have a right but no right is absolute HC Bench||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/high-court-worried-over-rising-number-of-illegal-street-vendors/article37552447.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks Centre’s stand on pleas by 2006 Mumbai blast convict||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response from the Centre on pleas by 2006 Mumbai train blast case convict challenging the rejection of his request under the Right to Information Act for information about the IPS officers involved in the investigation. Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to the Central Public Information Officer of Ministry of Home Affairs and Department of Personnel & Training on two petitions by Ehtesham Qutubuddin Siddique who alleged corruption and violation of his human rights at the hands of the officials. The petitioner, who is presently lodged in Nagpur jail and is represented by lawyer Arpit Bhargava, claimed that he was wrongfully convicted and sentenced to death based on “false and fabricated evidence” by a court in Mumbai, which is yet to be confirmed by the Bombay HC. ‘Evidence fabricated’ He alleged that certain IPS officers, who had supervised the investigation, were directly or indirectly involved in the fabrication of evidence as well as giving sanction for prosecution without applying their mind. The petitioner stated that in September 2018, his request seeking a “copy of UPSC Form and all other documents attached with it and all documents related to appointment” of the 16 IPS officers was declined by the MHA on the ground that the disclosure was exempted under Section 8(1)(j) of RTI Act for being a personal information/unwarranted invasion of privacy of an individual.  The matter would be heard next on March 2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-seeks-centres-stand-on-pleas-by-2006-mumbai-blast-convict/article37552651.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||BJP corners Govt. on pollution, excise policy||The BJP on Wednesday launched a two-pronged attack on the Delhi Government, attempting tocorner it on two issues — air pollution and the new excise policy. BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra, accusing Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of blaming the farmers of Punjab and Haryana for the air pollution in Delhi, questioned why the city’s air quality was so bad if stubble burning in those States was to blame. Calls for discussion “There must definitely be a discussion regarding the revenue generated by the Delhi Government and what portion of it was spent on reining in pollution and what portion was spent on advertising,” he said. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri staged a demonstration against the new excise policy at Jantar Mantar. “The CM knows very well that opening more liquor shops will increase the Government’s revenue but when something goes wrong and there is a law and order situation, the Delhi police would be blamed which comes under the Central Government,” Mr. Gupta said. “When Kejriwal came to power, his Government had promised new schools, colleges, hospitals, flyovers, water treatment plants, but nothing has happened. After destroying the transport system, the Government has instead implemented a new excise policy to increase its revenue,” Mr. Bidhuri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-corners-govt-on-pollution-excise-policy/article37552451.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||Panel to look into Batra’s match-fixing allegation||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday ordered formation of a three-member committee to look into table tennis player Manika Batra’s allegation of a match-fixing attempt by the national coach. Justice Rekha Palli gave the direction after Ms. Batra alleged that on one occasion, the national coach, Soumyadeep Roy, put pressure on her to throw away a match to enable one of his personal trainees to qualify for the Olympics 2020. Taking a serious view of the allegation, Justice Palli said that based on the committee’s report, she would consider the issue of appointing an administrator to run the national sports body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/panel-to-look-into-batras-match-fixing-allegation/article37552441.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||Court refuses to stop sale of Khurshid’s book||A Delhi court on Wednesday refused to grant ex parte injunction in a lawsuit seeking direction to stop the publication, circulation, and sale of former Union Minister Salman Khurshid’s book for allegedly hurting sentiments of a large section of society. The suit, filed by Hindu Sena president Vishnu Gupta, has sought direction to the authorities concerned to stop the publication, circulation, and sale of the bookSunrise Over Ayodhyafor allegedly hurting sentiments. Additional Civil Judge Preeti Parewa put up the matter for arguments and clarification on the maintainability of the suit on November 18. “In the opinion of this court, neither a prima facie case nor any exceptional circumstance for grant of ad-interim ex parte injunction in favour of the plaintiff is made out in the present case. “Also, the plaintiff has failed to establish that the balance of convenience lies in his favour. Hence, the prayer for ad-interim ex parte relief is declined at this stage,” the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-refuses-to-stop-sale-of-khurshids-book/article37552448.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||Unvaccinated teacher not allowed to resume work||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday refused to allow a city Government teacher, who chose to remain unvaccinated against COVID-19, to join duty. The court refused interim relief to the teacher who was marked “on leave”, saying that it was not inclined to interfere unless there was a medical issue. “I am not inclined. Why should she not get vaccinated? There is not a case for interim relief,” Justice Rekha Palli said, adding that being unvaccinated “puts everyone at risk”. The court issued notice and sought the Delhi Government’s response on the teacher’s challenge to the Department of Education’s order restraining unvaccinated teachers from attending school from October 15. Senior lawyer Sanjoy Ghose, appearing for the teacher, stated that his client “does not want to expose her body to external substance” and presently, she has strong immunity as her antibody count was 427. He contended that vaccination was voluntary and being unvaccinated was not a crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/unvaccinated-teacher-not-allowed-to-resume-work/article37552454.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two held for barging into Rashtrapati Bhavan in a drunken state||A man and his female friend have been arrested for allegedly barging into Rashtrapati Bhavan in an inebriated state on Tuesday. Police sources said on Wednesday that the accused have been identified as Shivam Sharma and Kusum Rajput, residents of Sangam Vihar and Dehradun respectively. Hit barricades The police said Mr. Sharma and Ms. Rajput drove through gate number 35 around 11.30 p.m. and entered Rashtrapati Bhavan. A message was then flashed saying that they were speeding and had hit the barricades damaging them. They were stopped and found to be under the influence of alcohol. The two were then sent for medical examination. FIR lodged The police registered a case under Sections 448 (punishment for house trespass) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and the Motor Vehicles Act and arrested them. Both of them work in a salon, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-held-for-barging-into-rashtrapati-bhavan-in-drunken-state/article37552443.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||East Delhi corporation deploys drone in fight against dengue||As cases of dengue continue to rise in the city, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Wednesday used a drone to spray anti-larval medicine. Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said the pilot project was carried out behind Yamuna Bank metro station. He said the drone has a capacity to carry 10-12 litres of anti-larval medicine and can cover a distance of up to three km. “If this initiative shows good results, then we plan to deploy drones in multiple areas which are hard to access,” Mr. Aggarwal said. As many as 17 councillors were suspended on Wednesday after they created a ruckus despite multiple warnings at the civic body’s monthly house meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/east-delhi-corporation-deploys-drone-in-fight-against-dengue/article37552442.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man found dead inside police booth||A man was found dead inside a police booth in south Delhi’s Sarita Vihar on Wednesday morning. The police are yet to identify the deceased who appears to be around 30 years old. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) Esha Pandey said that on Tuesday around 8.45 a.m., a constable informed the Sarita Vihar police station that a man was found dead at Madanpur Khadar police booth. When the police reached the spot, they found the booth’s door was locked from inside and the man was found dead. He was taken to AIIMS where he was declared dead. The police said that no note has been recovered from the spot. “On physical examination of the body, no injury was found. The body has been preserved and efforts are being made to trace the identity of the deceased,” Ms. Pandey said. The police said that the booth was locked by staffers after finishing their duty and the key was kept on the window sill. The man presumably found the key and entered the booth, the police said.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-found-dead-inside-police-booth/article37552455.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||Wanted criminal arrested after exchange of fire||Delhi Police Special Cell has arrested a key member and a sharpshooter of the Tillu Tajpuriya Gang, wanted in a MCOCA case, after an exchange of fire in Rohini on Wednesday. According to the police, the accused, identified as Praveen Tyagi (32), was carrying a reward of Rs. 1 lakh. He was an active member of the notorious inter-State gang. He was arrested based on a tip-off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/wanted-criminal-arrested-after-exchange-of-fire/article37552458.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||Five arrested for killing maids, stealing Rs. 90 lakh||Five persons have been arrested for allegedly carrying out theft of around Rs. 90 lakh after killing two maids inside a house in south-east Delhi’s Jangpura, police said on Wednesday. The deceased were identified as Meena Rai, 35, and Sujaila Gurung, 40, hailing from Darjeeling, DCP (South-East) Esha Pandey said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/five-arrested-for-killing-maids-stealing-rs-90-lakh/article37552459.ece
18 November 2021||Shirdi,||10,000 more devotees can visit Shirdi||With the number of COVID-19 cases on the decline, the Ahmednagar district administration has decided to allow 10,000 more devotees per day to take darshan of Saibaba at the Shirdi shrine, as per an official order. The administration had on October 6 issued an order allowing 15,000 devotees who possessed online passes to take darshan per day. As the online booking for 15,000 devotees will continue, it means a total of 25,000 devotees can now take darshan of Saibaba every day. The temple trust will have to give an undertaking that it would be following all the COVID-19 rules prescribed by the Government, an official order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/10000-more-devotees-can-visit-shirdi/article37552654.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Remembering Balasaheb||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/remembering-balasaheb/article37552662.ece
18 November 2021||HONG KONG,||‘Xi tightened control over the PLA’||The new resolution on history passed last week by China’s ruling Communist Party has said that President Xi Jinping had tightened control over the military to address the party’s “obviously lacking” leadership of the armed forces under his predecessors. The full text of the resolution, released on Tuesday evening, listed some of the actions taken by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) under Mr. Xi, who is also the chairman of the Central Military Commission. These included what the document described as “major operations related to border defence”. No specifics It did not specify what those major operations were. China has unresolved land borders with India and Bhutan. In April 2020, the PLA mobilised two divisions and carried out multiple transgressions across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh, sparking the worst crisis along the border in many years. Talks to resolve the tensions are still on-going. “The armed forces have remained committed to carrying out military struggles in a flexible manner to counter military provocations by external forces, and they have created a strong deterrent against separatist activities seeking ‘Taiwan independence,’” the resolution said. “They have conducted major operations related to border defence, protecting China’s maritime rights, countering terrorism and maintaining stability, disaster rescue and relief, fighting COVID-19, peacekeeping and escort services, humanitarian assistance, and international military cooperation.” Last week’s resolution on history was only third such document putting forth the official view on party history, following resolutions passed by Mao Zedong in 1945 and Deng Xiaoping in 1981. The new resolution dealt more with the future than the past. It essentially reaffirmed the official view on history, saying that the “basic points and conclusions” of past resolutions “remain valid to this day.” It repeated the conclusion reached in 1989 on Mao’s errors noting that “mistakes were made” and that “Mao Zedong’s theoretical and practical errors concerning class struggle in a socialist society became increasingly serious” leading to the disasters of the Cultural Revolution. Criticism of predecessors Much of the new resolution focuses on emphasising Mr. Xi’s leadership and calling for the party to support his “core” status. It only briefly mentioned Mr. Xi’s predecessors Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao, and implicitly critcised some aspects of their leadership including on military matters. “For a period of time, the party’s leadership over the military was obviously lacking,” it noted. “If this problem had not been completely solved, it would not only have diminished the military’s combat capacity, but also undermined the key political principle that the party commands the gun.” The document said Mr. Xi’s leadership had tightened supervision on the military including boosting “troop training and battle preparedness”, and it repeated China’s stated goals of completing the modernisation of its armed forces by 2035 and building a “world class” military by 2050, which observers see as meaning on par with the U.S. ‘Working vigorously’ “To build strong people’s armed forces, it is of paramount importance to uphold the fundamental principle and system of absolute party leadership over the military, to ensure that supreme leadership and command authority rest with the party Central Committee and the Central Military Commission (CMC), and to fully enforce the system of the CMC chairman assuming overall responsibility,” the resolution said, adding that “setting their sights on this problem, the Central Committee and the CMC have worked vigorously to govern the military with strict discipline in every respect.” It noted how “grave violations of party discipline and state laws including those involving Guo Boxiong, Xu Caihou, Fang Fenghui, and Zhang Yang were thoroughly investigated and punished, and their negative influence was completely eliminated”, referring to top Generals who had been purged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/xi-tightened-control-over-the-pla/article37551966.ece
18 November 2021||COLOMBO,||Maldives rejects ‘India out’ campaign||The Government of Maldives on Wednesday said it “strongly rejects attempts to spread false information” criticising its ties with India, its “closest ally and trusted neighbour”. A statement issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said allegations that bilateral cooperation between the Governments of Maldives and India undermines the national security and sovereignty of Maldives are “misguided” and “unsubstantiated”. Solih’s policy The statement comes amid an ongoing social media campaign in the Maldives called ‘#Indiaout’. Maldivians critical of the Ibrahim Mohamed Solih administration’s ‘India first’ policy in international relations, have in the past vehemently opposed “any Indian military presence”, and the opening of an Indian consulate in its southern Addu atoll. However, according to the Maldivian Foreign Ministry, the anti-India sentiments are not widely prevalent in the Indian Ocean archipelago. “The Government firmly believes that these views are not the sentiments of the general public, but rather that of a small group of individuals with the objective of tarnishing the country’s long-standing cordial ties with India,” the Ministry statement said. “The cooperation and support provided by the Government of India, specifically on issues of maritime security, is aimed at strengthening the strategic partnership between the two countries and to ensure the safety and stability of the Indian Ocean region,” it said. ‘Direct benefits’ It also added that Indian support in areas such as search and rescue capabilities, casualty evacuation, coastal surveillance, and maritime reconnaissance, “directly benefit” the Maldivian people. Further, the Maldives observed that addressing threats of trans-border terrorism, piracy, narco-trafficking, climate change, cyber security and human trafficking, requires the support and cooperation of all regional and international partners. “No one country alone can address these issues on its own,” the statement added. India’s response The Ministry’s response appeared to reiterate President Solih’s own position in regard to his government’s ties with New Delhi. In an interview to The Hindu in January this year, Mr. Solih said the Maldives makes no apology for its close ties with India. Meanwhile, India’s recently appointed High Commissioner to the Maldives Munu Mahawar presented his credentials to President Solih on Wednesday. “The President and the High Commissioner expressed their desire for further cooperation and assistance in all efforts towards the mutual benefit of both nations,” a statement from the President’s office said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/maldives-rejects-india-out-campaign/article37551968.ece
18 November 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lankan Oppn. protests against economic woes||Thousands mobilised by Sri Lanka’s main opposition party Samagi Jana Balawegaya (SJB or United People’s Force) on Tuesday took to the streets in capital Colombo, protesting mounting economic woes and a shortage of essentials. In one of the biggest public assertions of the SJB since the ruling Rajapaksas’ Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP or People’s Front) swept the November 2019 Presidential polls and August 2020 Parliamentary elections, Leader of Opposition Sajith Premadasa was at the forefront of the protest held against the “curse of the government”. ‘New vision’ “I urge the people of this country to get ready to work under a new vision and a new programme. We shall get together to build this country by creating a government free of corruption,” Mr. Premadasa told the crowd. The SJB has 54 seats in the 225-member Parliament in which the Rajapaksa combine has a two-thirds majority. The Opposition party’s protest comes even as the Sri Lankan Parliament debates the annual budget presented by Finance Minister Basil Rajapaksa, the younger brother of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa. By the government’s own admission, the national economy is facing an unprecedented crisis. The country has witnessed a series of protests by professionals and working people from different sectors, reflecting the diminishing popularity of the administration. Many Sri Lankans, including those who voted for the Rajapaksas, are expressing anger over spiralling costs of basic food items, fuel, and cooking gas. Farmers are protesting the government’s “organic only” policy shift – widely seen as rash and ill-timed. Teachers and health workers are demanding better salaries and working conditions. Rally flayed Government supporters and social media commentators criticised the Opposition rally for “inconveniencing” the public and posing a health risk during the pandemic. Police told local media that legal action will be initiated against those who took part in the protest march on Tuesday, following investigation. But the SJB appeared reassured by the turnout, especially since the party has come under frequent attack for being “ineffective” as the main Opposition force. “The police tried to obtain court orders everywhere to prevent our demonstrations, but the Colombo courts rejected their request. We are very optimistic seeing the show of strength at the protest rally,” said Harin Fernando, SJB parliamentarian and the party’s Head of Operations. “This is only the first such agitation, we will have many more. The government is not listening to the common man, and we must speak up,” he told The Hindu , adding: “It was a good day for democracy”. Meanwhile, the state-run Daily News on Wednesday published an eight-page special supplement marking President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s completion of two years in office. Headlined ‘Braving the challenges’, it sought to project “an optimistic outlook despite multiple challenges”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lankan-oppn-protests-against-economic-woes/article37551970.ece
18 November 2021||London,||Boris Johnson faces grilling from MPs amid sleaze row||U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson faces a parliamentary grilling on Wednesday over sleaze allegations, as tensions ran high within his Conservative party due to his proposals to ban MPs from paid political consultancy work. With Opposition parties on the attack and rank-and-file Tory MPs unhappy, the quizzing from the heads of Parliament’s cross-party select committees at 1500 GMT could be the least of Mr. Johnson’s worries. But he has tried to get on the front foot to tackle a simmering row about MPs supplementing their publicly funded salaries with lucrative second jobs, stoking claims about conflict of interest. On Tuesday, he wrote to Parliament’s speaker to say he will back proposals to bar British lawmakers from acting as paid political consultants and advisers. “It is imperative that we put beyond doubt the reputation of the House of Commons by ensuring the rules which apply to MPs are up to date, effective and appropriately rigorous,” Mr. Johnson wrote. British lawmakers are permitted to hold outside roles, as long as they declare them, but are not allowed to use their parliamentary offices or resources for such work. But Mr. Johnson’s proposals, which appear to stop short of an outright ban on consultancy and advisory work, have been criticised as too vague, and still open to interpretation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/boris-johnson-faces-grilling-from-mps-amid-sleaze-row/article37551963.ece
18 November 2021||Geneva,||UN flags rising arrests in Ethiopia after emergency||The UN voiced alarm at surging arrests in Ethiopia since the country introduced a state of emergency on November 2. The United Nations human rights agency said most of those detained in the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa as well as in Gondar, Bahir Dar and other locations were of Tigrayan origin. “According to reports, at least 1,000 individuals are believed to have been detained... with some reports putting the figure much higher,” spokeswoman Liz Throssell told reporters in Geneva on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/un-flags-rising-arrests-in-ethiopia-after-emergency/article37551960.ece
18 November 2021||Kabul,||Taliban appeal to U.S. to release Afghan assets||The Taliban called on Wednesday on U.S. Congress members to release Afghan assets frozen after their takeover of the country, warning economic turmoil at home could lead to trouble abroad. In an open letter, Taliban Foreign Minister Amir Khan Muttaqi said the biggest challenge facing Afghanistan was financial insecurity, “and the roots of this concern lead back to the freezing of assets by the American government”. Washington has seized nearly $9.5 billion in assets belonging to the Afghan central bank, and the aid-dependent economy has effectively collapsed — with civil servants unpaid for months and the treasury unable to pay for imports. Muttaqi said Afghanistan was enjoying stable government for the first time in over 40 years. “Practical steps have been taken towards good governance,” Muttaqi wrote. Muttaqi said Afghans “understand the concerns of the international community”, but that it was necessary for all sides to take positive steps to build trust. He warned, however, that the economic situation could spark a mass exodus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taliban-appeal-to-us-to-release-afghan-assets/article37551961.ece
18 November 2021||New York,||2 men to be cleared in 1965 killing of Malcolm X||Two men convicted in the assassination of Malcolm X are set to be cleared after more than half a century, with prosecutors now saying authorities withheld evidence in the civil rights leader’s killing, according to a news report on Wednesday. The New York Times reported on Wednesday that Muhammad Aziz and the late Khalil Islam, who spent decades in prison for the crime, were being exonerated after a nearly two-year investigation by their lawyers and the Manhattan district attorney’s office. A court date is expected Thursday. “These men did not get the justice that they deserved,” District Attorney said. One of the civil rights era’s most controversial and compelling figures, Malcolm X rose to fame as the Nation of Islam’s chief spokesperson. He famously urged Black people to claim civil rights “by any means necessary.” He was gunned down as he began a speech in Harlem’s Audubon Ballroom on Harlem’s Audubon Ballroom on February 21, 1965.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/2-men-to-be-cleared-in-1965-killing-of-malcolm-x/article37552247.ece
18 November 2021||Washington,||Capitol attack ‘shaman’ jailed for 41 months||The self-proclaimed “shaman” whose bare chest and horned fur headgear made him the face of the January 6 assault on the U.S. Capitol was sentenced Wednesday to 41 months in prison. Jacob Chansley, 34, had pleaded guilty to obstruction of an official proceeding after taking part in the storming of the U.S. Senate chamber by supporters of former president Donald Trump.  “I was wrong for entering the Capitol. I had no excuse,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/capitol-attack-shaman-jailed-for-41-months/article37552248.ece
18 November 2021||Hong Kong,||Hong Kong trial invokes Gandhi’s name||A leading Hong Kong democracy activist facing jail invoked Mahatma Gandhi’s civil disobedience campaign in court on Wednesday as he gave a defiant speech defending his decision to take part in a banned Tiananmen vigil. Lee Cheuk-yan is one of eight pro-democracy figures on trial for joining a vigil last year. “We are all followers of Gandhi’s idea of non-violent struggle, hoping to bring democratic reforms to Hong Kong,” he said. “Now that I am imprisoned as Gandhi was, I will learn to be as fearless as him.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-trial-invokes-gandhis-name/article37551962.ece
18 November 2021||Washington,||U.S., China to ease norms for scribe visas||The United States and China have agreed to ease restrictions on journalist visas shortly after a long-awaited virtual summit between its two leaders, with Beijing on Wednesday calling the move a “hard-won” achievement. A State Department spokesman said on Tuesday that discussions in recent months had led to “some initial progress” in “a few areas” of the media environment. The official said China had “committed to issue visas for a group of U.S. reporters, provided they are eligible”. Beijing also promised to “permit U.S. journalists already in the PRC (People’s Republic of China) to freely depart and return, which they had previously been unable to do,” the U.S. official said. Both sides agreed to extend the validity of journalist visas to one year, after both countries had largely capped permits to three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-china-to-ease-norms-for-scribe-visas/article37551964.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Reading the forecast from China’s sixth plenum||The Sixth Plenary Session or Plenum of the 19th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China (CPC) which concluded on November 11, 2021, proved to be a true curtain-raiser for next year’s 20th National Party Congress of the Chinese Communist Party. The communiqué issued after the Plenum is specially significant, in as much for what it states as for what it portends. Providing insights The contents of the resolution adopted at the Plenum have a special significance, as it is only the third ‘historical resolution’ passed by the Party in the 100 years of its existence. Among the concrete outcomes of the Plenum that need mentioning is the decision to convene the 20th Party Congress in 2022, but the Plenum will be remembered more for providing an insight into the evolving shape of the CPC as it completes 100 years of its existence. In keeping with the kind of hyperbole normally associated with any CPC Plenum, the communiqué states that the 20th Congress would be held at an important time when the Party had ‘embarked upon a new journey to build a modern socialist country and realize the Party’s Second Centenary Goal’. Another claim made is that the Party had fundamentally transformed the future of the Chinese people who had been freed from oppression and subjugation and become the ‘masters of the country’. Furthermore, that this development had a profound influence on the course of world history. Adding to the paean of praise regarding the Party’s rule, the Plenum observed that ‘it had pioneered a unique Chinese modern path to modernization and created a new model of human advancement, launching a new journey to build a modern socialist country in all respects’. The communiqué highlights Chinese President Xi Jinping’s core position on the Central Committee and in the Party, and his role in leading the Chinese people on a new journey to realise the Second Centenary Goal. Elevating Xi as helmsman Interpreting the contents of the ‘historical resolution’, what appears most significant is the elevation of Xi Jinping to the position of helmsman, thus bringing him on a par with Mao Zedong, and ahead of Deng Xiaoping. Xi Jinping’s ‘Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era’ now appears to rank alongside Mao Zedong Thought, and eclipses ‘Deng Xiaoping Theory’. It clearly sends into oblivion both Jiang Zemin’s ‘Theory of Three Represents’ and Hu Jintao’s ‘Scientific Outlook on Development’. The Plenum document affirms that Xi Jinping Thought contains a series of original ideas, revolving around the major questions of our time; what kind of Socialism with Chinese Characteristics should be upheld and developed; what kind of Marxist Party should be developed; as well as how the Party should go about achieving these tasks. It reiterates time and again, that the Party had established Xi Jinping’s core position on the Party Central Committee and in the Party, and that this reflects the common will of the Party, the armed forces and the Chinese people. The message from the Sixth Plenum is loud and clear. Collective leadership of the kind favoured by Deng Xiaoping, and to which his two immediate successors, Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao largely adhered, has come to an end. The limits placed on leadership terms by Deng Xiaoping, viz. , two terms, have been given the go by. Mr. Xi appears set to continue without any restrictions being placed on the number of years he can remain in office. Ideological rigidity will, and has already, replaced the limited flexibility that was seen during the period under Deng and his two immediate successors — though Deng himself had faltered on this count following the Tiananmen Square incident. For the West to ponder over By temperament, Mr. Xi appears unlikely to follow the Great Helmsman Mao’s example and embark on hazardous exploits such as (Mao’s) Great Leap Forward. Notwithstanding this, having been crowned as the unchallenged leader and further fortified by the fact that there were no term limits, it could provoke erratic behaviour. This is particularly likely in the event of fresh problems arising in China, including for instance, a persistent economic downturn after almost three decades of continuous growth. The events of June 2020, when China carried out an unprovoked act of aggression against India in Ladakh, may not, however, be a proper example of this, but it should serve as a timely reminder of what can happen. Hence, the situation is fraught with many possibilities. This should not mean that going forward, China is likely to act more erratically than hitherto, a view held by many leaders across the world, specially those in the West. The absence of ideological flexibility or need for pragmatism, need not necessarily translate into China becoming more impulsive or irrational. Over centralisation of power can, no doubt, result in new fragilities, but the current policy followed by the West of ‘strategic confrontation and economic decoupling’ may not yield the kind of results they seek. The Chinese economy may not be performing as well today as it has been wont to in the past three decades, but an erroneous belief that support for the leadership of the CPC rests solely on economic success would be a mirage, which the West seems to harbour. An economic downturn in China could create problems, but it would be foolhardy to believe that the rule of the Communist oligarchy in China rests solely on this narrow or brittle plank. Wider support base for CPC Reading between the lines of the communiqué issued after the recent Plenum, it is evident that the leadership in China is determined to go to any extent to withstand pressure on it to alter its attitude and policies. The rest of the world may also need to come to terms with the claim — however bizarre it may seem — made by the Communist oligarchy in China that it governs with the consent of the majority. The CPC has probably a wider support base than most governments headed by dictators who have seized power through various means, and also possibly more than many ruling parties in quite a few democracies. The reasons for this are both historical and ideological, and the more the West carries on a rant against the Chinese leadership, the more the Chinese people are likely to be reminded of their humiliation in the past at the hands of the West. This only bolsters grass-root support for the Communist Party leadership. Given all this, it may not be too far wrong to think that the Chinese leadership believes in effect that it has in place an alternate type of representative government, though one that is very different from that practised in democracies. Data collected by various sources also indicate that a lack of liberalised policies has not undermined faith in the Beijing government among ordinary Chinese citizens. This is something that the rest of the world needs to ponder over. Consequently, the West may be making a grave mistake in believing that a mere lack of political freedoms — as understood in democracies — automatically translates into opposition to the leadership. Strategy for India For India, and its policy planners, these issues are hardly academic. With India being increasingly drawn into an anti-China phalanx led by the United States, the question uppermost should be whether some changes in policy need to be effected, given that Mr. Xi’s current rule over China appears to be carved in stone. How best to deal with China’s idiosyncrasies under Mr. Xi, involves opening a debate on whether to effect a change in strategy or continue with the present policy of confrontation based to a large extent on western attitudes and beliefs. An additional problem for India is that across large parts of Asia, most countries faced with a choice between China and India, may be inclined to side with Beijing due to various exigencies. With the exception of Pakistan and Cambodia (which are near-client states of China), none of the others have any particular affection for China, but are compelled by circumstances to lean more towards China than India (which might otherwise have been their natural choice). In the circumstances, India could well take a hard look — given that Mr. Xi’s rule in China is likely to continue for not merely another five years, but for much longer — as to whether it should devise a different strategy to subserve India’s best interests. M.K. Narayanan is a former Director, Intelligence Bureau, a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reading-the-forecast-from-chinas-sixth-plenum/article37551946.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The path to righting historical wrongs||The Tamil movie Jai Bhim portrayed the discrimination experienced by the Irula community, the second largest of the 36 tribal communities in Tamil Nadu. They are traditional healers, snake and rat catchers, but now primarily migrate to different places to work in brick kilns, rice mills, etc. Like many Adivasi groups in India, the Irulas also continue to suffer the stigma of criminality due to the Habitual Offenders Act, 1952, which replaced the colonial Criminal Tribes Act, 1871. This law is a “crude colonial construct”, which should be repealed at the earliest. The movie exposed the police atrocities, the insensitivity of Government officials and the struggles faced by the community. The film generated a lot of discussion on the violence and negligence that the Irulas face, but not on the structural issues with governance and the negation of tribal communities’ concerns. For instance, a study by Jocelyn I. Lee and Steven A. Wolf in 2018 on the rate of the formal distribution of rights claims under the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, commonly known as the Forest Rights Act, found that no title rights were issued in Tamil Nadu because of a ban on the issuance of titles by the High Court till early 2016. The ban was stayed only after the intervention of the Supreme Court. The “development-induced displacement” trajectory adopted by the country has often been at the expense of the Scheduled Tribes (STs), either by way of exclusion or forced “inclusion” in a “mainstream” that is completely alien to their “world view” through what the Xaxa Committee in 2014 had called the “ashramisation” of the tribal. Displacement due to the encroachment and appropriation of land inhabited by STs, which are generally rich in forest and mineral resources, has been further intensified in the post-liberalisation period due to corporate interests. Hence, the makers of the Constitution, even while underlining the importance of sharing the values of modernity with the STs, who have a great deal of heterogeneity among themselves, had been careful enough to provide a certain degree of autonomy to them to have a say in their development pursuit. Nation states have realised that certain elements in the tribal “world view”, with respect to ecology, language, democracy, equality, property rights, etc., hold important lessons for human progress and sustainable development. Accordingly, the Fifth and Sixth Schedules, which are governed by Articles 244 (1) and (2) of the Constitution, provides certain rights to tribes in the northeast and across India. Creation of Scheduled Areas The Fifth Schedule had been also termed by the Mungekar Committee in 2009 for tribal development as a “Constitution within Constitution”. It allows for the creation of Scheduled Areas by the President of India. Though there are no criteria mentioned regarding the creation of Scheduled Areas, it has become the norm to use four factors, following the Dhebar Commission (1960-61), for the creation of these areas: preponderance of the tribes in the population; compact and reasonable size; underdeveloped nature of the area; and marked disparity in the economic standards of the people. According to the 2011 Census, with a 1.1% ST population in Tamil Nadu, Community Development (CD) blocks like Kalrayan hills in Viluppuram district, Kolli Hills in Namakkal district, Yercaud in Salem district and Jawadhu Hills in Tiruvannamalai district have a ST population of 80%, 96%, 67% and 91%, respectively. The literacy rate in the four CD blocks range between 44% and 62%, whereas the overall literacy rate in Tamil Nadu as per the Census was around 80%. The proportion of non-agricultural main workers, an important marker of urbanisation, is less than 10% in three out of the four CD blocks, whereas it is 60% in Tamil Nadu overall. The comparative economic backwardness of the STs living in Tamil Nadu is evident from the fact that as per the National Family Health Survey (NFHS) in 2015-16, only 55%, 65% and 37% of ST households compared to 75%, 78% and 61% of all the households in Tamil Nadu had access to clean fuel, concrete houses and sanitation facilities, respectively. The primary survey conducted by the Madras Institute of Development Studies in 2014-15 also revealed that the average size of agricultural land among all landowning sample tribal households in Tamil Nadu was a mere 1.42 acres with a landlessness of 52%. The landlessness among the Irula and Paniyan communities was 89% and 68%, respectively. These four blocks should be declared Scheduled Areas. Till now, areas with more than 50% ST population had been declared Integrated Tribal Development Project (ITDP) areas in Tamil Nadu. With the enforcement of the Fifth Schedule, not only are Panchayati Raj Institutions reserved for STs under the Panchayat (Extension to the Scheduled Areas) Act, 1996, but three kinds of autonomy are made available to the STs through the gram sabhas: developmental autonomy pertaining to land alienation, land acquisition, tribal sub-plan, social sector institutions, etc; autonomy over the resolution of disputes as per tribal laws and customs; and autonomy over the ownership and management of natural resources. Need to be reconfigured Additionally, compact tribal areas of reasonable size, constituting villages with no less than 50% tribal population, can be identified in CD blocks with a significant tribal population to demarcate new administrative areas, which can then be brought under the purview of the Fifth Schedule by declaring them Scheduled Areas. This would be only fulfilling a commitment made in 1976 by the Government of India and reiterated by the Mungekar Committee. Apart from the Scheduled Areas, villages where STs are in minority but still in sizeable numbers should be brought under already existing ITDP areas, which are being governed in Tamil Nadu with the advice of the Tribes Advisory Council (TAC). The TAC is an advisory body and thee-fourth of its members must be from ST communities. The Tamil Nadu Government needs to show political will and set aside its electoral interest to create a self-governed path for tribal development. Of course, these measures alone are not the panacea to all tribal problems. It should be complemented with clear policies and a plan for tribal development reflected in the yearly Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP). The formulation of this plan must include representatives of different tribes in Tamil Nadu. In this context, the promulgation of the Tamil Nadu State Commission for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act, 2021, is a step in the right direction. C. Lakshmanan is an Associate Professor, Madras Institute of Development Studies, Chennai. Aparajay is a Research Associate, M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation, Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-path-to-righting-historical-wrongs/article37551952.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||More a private sector primer than health-care pathway||The central government’s flagship health insurance scheme, the Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY), aims to extend hospitalisation cover of up to Rs. 5 lakh per family per annum to a poor and vulnerable population of nearly 50 crore people. Apart from AB-PMJAY and State-level government health insurance schemes, small segments of the Indian population are covered under social health insurance schemes and private health insurance. Covering the left out segment of the population, commonly termed the ‘missing middle’ sandwiched between the poor and the affluent, has been discussed by the Government recently. Towards this, NITI Aayog recently published a road map document entitled “Health Insurance for India’s Missing Middle”. However, to say the least, the report confounds all hopes and expectations of a credible pathway to universal health coverage (UHC) for India. The report proposes voluntary, contributory health insurance dispensed mainly by private commercial health insurers as the prime instrument for extending health insurance to the ‘missing middle’. Government subsidies, if any at all, will be reserved for the very poor within the ‘missing middle’ and only at a later stage of development of voluntary contributory insurance. This is a major swerve from the vision espoused by the high-level expert group on UHC a decade ago, which was sceptical about such a health insurance model as the instrument of UHC and advocated a largely tax-financed health system albeit with private sector participation. In-patient care Those with even a rudimentary understanding of health policy would know that no country has ever achieved UHC by relying predominantly on private sources of financing health care. Evidence shows that in developing countries such as India, with a gargantuan informal sector, contributory health insurance is not the best way forward and can be replete with problems. But even when we look at international precedents of contributory social health insurance models, some very important traits stand out, for example, significant levels of government subsidy to schemes; not-for-profit mode of operation; and some important guarantees for health. The NITI report sweepingly ignores these fundamental precepts. For hospitalisation insurance, the report proposes a model similar to the Arogya Sanjeevani scheme, albeit with lower projected premiums of around Rs. 4,000-Rs. 6,000 per family per annum (for a sum insured of Rs. 5 lakh for a family of five). There would be a standard benefit package for all, and the insured sum will be between Rs. 5,00,000 and Rs. 10,00,000. Insurance will be dispensed largely by commercial insurers who would compete among themselves. It is clear how this model is a little different from commercial private insurance, except for somewhat lower premiums. These low premiums are achieved by reducing administrative costs of insurers through an array of measures, including private use of government infrastructure, and possibly by switching to low-powered modes of physician payments. Most importantly, low premiums are not achieved on account of government subsidies or regulation. One can see how this model is vulnerable to nearly every vice that characterises conventional private insurance. For instance, consider countries such as Switzerland. Despite relying predominantly on private insurers and a competitive model of insurance, certain important checks and balances exist: benefits are etched in legislation; basic insurance is mandatory and not-for-profit; cream-skimming and risk-discrimination are prohibited. Such checks and balances are a long shot in the Indian scenario, neither have they been discussed in the NITI report. The report suggests enrolment in groups as a means to counter adverse selection. The prevailing per capita expenditure on hospital care is used to reflect affordability of hospital insurance, and thereby, a possible willingness to pay for insurance. Both these notions are likely to be far-fetched in practice, and the model is likely to be characterised by widespread adverse selection notwithstanding. It is important to remember that even free-of-cost government health insurance for the poor has little penetration in the country, despite a nearly two decade-long legacy. The possible destiny of contributory private health insurance with modestly lower premiums, for a target group that is not significantly well-off, is obvious. Out-patient care An even more untenable case has been made with respect to out-patient department (OPD) care insurance coverage, which includes doctor consultations, diagnostics, medicines, etc. The report rightly acknowledges that OPD expenses comprise the largest share of out-of-pocket expenditure on health care, and concomitantly have a greater role in impoverishment of families due to health-care expenses. The report proposes an OPD insurance with an insured sum of Rs. 5,000 per family per annum, and again uses average per capita OPD spending to justify the ability to pay. However, the OPD insurance is envisaged on a subscription basis, which means that insured families would need to pay nearly the entire insured sum in advance to obtain the benefits. This is the last thing one would equate with UHC. Clearly, this route is unlikely to result in any significant reduction of out-of-pocket expenditure on OPD care, which beats the whole purpose of providing insurance. Any cost savings or benefits that accrue would be due to using low-powered physician payment modes and a more integrated and coordinated pathway of care. However, their contribution is likely to be nominal and at least be partly offset by the administrative costs involved in insurance. Individuals are likely to be largely indifferent to such an OPD insurance scheme, particularly if it restricts choice of health-care providers. Wrong disposition The NITI report defies the universally accepted logic that UHC invariably entails a strong and overarching role for the Government in health care, particularly in developing countries. Rather than plot a pathway for UHC in India, the report is more about expanding the footprints and penetration of the private health insurance sector. Further, the report looks to attain the elusive UHC with few or no fiscal implications for the Government, which is an absurd idea by any stretch of the imagination. Such a disposition is highly dismaying in the aftermath of COVID-19. The National Health Policy 2017 envisaged increasing public health spending to 2.5% of GDP by 2025. Let us not contradict ourselves so early and at this crucial juncture of an unprecedented pandemic. Dr. Soham D. Bhaduri is a physician, health policy expert, and chief editor of ‘The Indian Practitioner’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/more-a-private-sector-primer-than-health-care-pathway/article37551948.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Wide fault lines within the Global Climate Risk Index||The address by Barbados Prime Minister Mia Mottley at the 26th United Nations Conference of Parties, or COP-26, in Glasgow, Scotland, attracted global attention with her remark that failure to provide critical adaptation finance as well as measuring the extent of loss caused by climate change with respect to “lives and livelihoods” was immoral. This has again brought the complexity in measuring climate risk to the forefront. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), under the aegis of the United Nations, defines climate risk as the likelihood of unfavourable impacts occurring as a result of severe climate events interacting with vulnerable environmental, social, economic, political or cultural conditions. Quantitatively, it is the product of the probability of a climate event occurring and its adverse consequences. Recent discussions around climate risk assessment and management have been based on the “Global Climate Risk Index” (GCRI), published annually by GermanWatch, a non-profit organisation. The latest version of the GCRI, published in January 2021, ranked 180 countries based on the impact of extreme weather events and associated socio-economic data from 2000-2019. According to the publishing agency, the rankings are meant to forewarn countries about the possibility of more frequent and/or severe climate-related events in the future. This index uses historical data to provide insights on exposure to extreme events. It cannot be used for linear forecasts about future climate impact. There are deep fault lines in the methodology and interpretation of the country rankings. Recommendations based on this index should be generated with caution. First, the GCRI ranks countries based on four key indicators: number of deaths; number of deaths per 1,00,000 inhabitants; sum of losses in Purchasing Power Parity (in U.S. dollars); and losses per unit of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Of these indicators, two are absolute while the other two are relative. However, the GCRI report does not provide a rationale for the selection of these macro indicators. Second, the index suffers from exclusion errors and selection bias. Composite indicators are better constructed using micro indicators instead of macro indicators, which measure loss because isolating the effect of the loss of elements on GDP is fraught with errors. Instead, a number of key micro indicators such as the total number of people injured, loss of livestock, loss of public and private infrastructure, crop loss and others are better candidates for assessing the composite loss resulting from climate change events. Third, the index accounts for information on weather-related events like storms, floods, temperature extremes and mass movements. However, it omits geological incidents like earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or tsunamis, which may be potentially triggered by climate change and can have economic and humanitarian impact. Fourth, the ranking under the GCRI is done based on data collected by Munich Re’s NatCatService, which is not validated at the ground-level. The data gaps particularly with regard to economic losses are based on experience, the prevailing intellectual property of MunichRe and the market value of elements at risk that are at best approximate values of economic losses. Delays in action and response Any discussion on measurement and management of climate risk is incomplete without accounting for issues of uncertainty, scale and delays between action and response to climate change. Therefore, climate change can at best be managed within a comprehensive risk assessment framework, which uses climate information to better cope with the impact of climate change. In this context, India’s latest module on the National Disaster Management Information System (NDMIS) captures damages and losses caused by disasters and monitors the targets of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction. The NDMIS captures details on parameters like death, injury, affected population by categories as well as economic losses in social and infrastructure sectors due to weather and geological events on a daily basis. The data captured by the NDMIS includes all major climatic events. Deploying effective approaches and principles to foster collaboration among climate risk information users and providers, along with enabling the implementation of effective management actions, will allow India to leapfrog on the targets envisaged in the Sendai Framework. Veenu Singh is a Research Officer and Tanvi Bramhe is an Economic Officer at the Development Monitoring and Evaluation Office (DMEO), NITI Aayog||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/wide-fault-lines-within-the-global-climate-risk-index/article37551955.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Polls set to redraw equations||The elections to the 25 Legislative Council seats in Karnataka, slated for December 10, will not only decide the fate of several leaders, but also redraw the power structure in the Upper House. The biennial elections to the Council, from Local Authorities constituencies, is coming at a time when the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), with 32 members, is short of a majority in the 75-member House. The Congress, currently with 29 members, is looking to remain relevant as the principal Opposition by retaining its numbers. The regional outfit, Janata Dal (Secular), which currently has 12 members, is struggling to hold on to its steadily declining numbers. For the first time in the history of the Karnataka Legislative Council, the BJP could wrest a majority. Political calculations also put the party in a better position since the composition of the gram panchayats has changed following the elections last year. Congress insiders acknowledge that the BJP is likely to benefit at the cost of the party in some seats, though it is hard to predict the outcome considering the preferential voting system that is in place for Council elections. The JD(S), which is fighting to remain politically relevant, but is sending confusing signals on its stand on the BJP, has an estranged relationship with three of its four retiring members. Two of them have already approached the BJP for tickets to contest the December 10 elections. Any further erosion of the JD(S)’s strength in the Council is likely to snatch away its bargaining power in politics. These elections are also coming at a time when the zilla panchayats and taluk panchayats, two important rural local bodies, have not been formed yet. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Council is also not in place with the elections long overdue. Notwithstanding the reduced electorate as a result, parties are banking on the newly-elected gram panchayat members whose affiliation in such elections remain a grey area. However, going by the precedent, a large number of them are expected to support the ruling dispensation. For the ruling BJP, whose six members are also retiring on January 5, this election is crucial to gain control of the House where it is now often dependent on the largesse of the JD(S) for the passage of Bills. Ironically, the BJP had unseated the Congress-JD(S) coalition in 2019 to come to power by poaching members of both parties. Several Bills stalled The BJP’s push for majority in the Upper House comes in the backdrop of several Bills being stalled in the Legislative Council after being passed in the Assembly. The Industrial Disputes and Certain Other Laws (Karnataka Amendment) Bill, 2020, was defeated in the Council jointly by the Congress and JD(S). The Bill, strongly opposed by trade unions, had been brought in the midst of COVID-19 in 2020 as part of labour law reforms by former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The changed composition could also cast its shadow on the Council Chairman’s post currently held by Basavaraj Horatti, elected to the House on a JD(S) symbol. If the BJP crosses the majority mark, it is expected to stake claim to the post that was shared with the JD(S) last year after both the parties had ousted the earlier Chairman in a session that witnessed unruly scenes. Development issues hardly form the political narrative in these elections that has restricted electorates. Campaigns by big leaders have limited impact on voting patterns. Without much noise, the composition of the Upper House could change drastically in a month’s time. sharath.srivatsa@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/polls-set-to-redraw-equations/article37551957.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Transfer as punishment||The most obvious aspect of the functioning of the collegium system of judicial appointments and transfers is its opaqueness. Decisions that have no explanation, or can only be explained in terms of one’s own perception about the functioning of the judge affected by it, have become quite common. In the latest instance, Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Sanjib Banerjee has been abruptly transferred to head the Meghalaya High Court, the second such instance of the head of a court with a sanctioned complement of 75 judges being asked to take over a court with a strength of four. In September 2019, Justice Vijaya K. Tahilramani resigned after being shifted from Madras to the Meghalaya High Court at a time when she was the country’s senior-most Chief Justice. That one High Court is as important and prestigious as another is not in dispute. And equally acceptable is the premise that the Chief Justice of India is justly empowered to transfer the head of any High Court in the interest of the “better administration of justice”. However, it is not clear why a senior puisne judge in another High Court and due for elevation could not be accommodated there. High Court Chief Justices also play an important role in identifying judicial talent for appointments and streamlining administrative functions. It would be reasonable to expect that a serving Chief Justice is given a tenure long enough in a High Court to discharge these functions effectively. If a Chief Justice is not in line for an elevation to the Supreme Court, a legitimate question arises whether there was sufficient reason to transfer the incumbent. In Justice Banerjee’s case, the transfer has come within 10 months of his assuming office, raising the question whether he was being punished for some obscure reason. In the absence of any assigned reason, or even a known circumstance, there is bound to be speculation on whether his transfer has anything to do with his stern approach and stinging oral observations while seeking accountability from the Government and other institutions. The Memorandum of Procedure for judicial appointments and transfers says a proposal to transfer a High Court judge can only be initiated by the CJI, “whose opinion in this regard is determinative”. In addition, the views of “one or more knowledgeable Supreme Court judges” are taken. These views are considered by the five-member Collegium. This system was put in place as a safeguard against arbitrary transfers at the instance of the executive. However, recent developments suggest that it may not be enough to dispel the impression that a transfer is not exactly based on administrative needs or related to performance. Why any concern relating to a Chief Justice’s style of functioning or conduct should not have been quietly resolved by the CJI without resort to a drastic step such as transfer is not clear. Yet again, the flawed collegium system and its weaknesses are under adverse scrutiny.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/transfer-as-punishment/article37551941.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||End the blame game||A familiar sequence of events unfolds in the National Capital Region before the advent of winter. The monsoon retreats, dries the air and the wind drops. The pollution from construction, industry, road transport, hitherto being masked through the year, becomes more visible. However, the period also coincides with a unique practice in northern India where farmers in Punjab, Haryana and eastern Uttar Pradesh, in a bid to hurriedly clear their fields of rice straw to make space for wheat, set fire to the chaff. This long-standing practice is now facing criticism because of its emerging link to Delhi’s noxious air quality. The stubble smoke carries over into Delhi through long-range wind transport. Finally, the third element during the season is Deepavali and the bursting of crackers. The season is also marked by more social gatherings such as weddings or related celebrations that again see a demand for crackers. While there is an official ban on crackers, except so-called ‘green crackers’ that are not widely available, the additional smoke from all of these add to the bad air, spiking air quality meters into the ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ categories. This provokes a public outcry and concerns from the Supreme Court of India and a harried response from the Government that pushes for restrictions on free movement and construction. Invariably, the weather improves and all is forgiven. The recurrent tragedy of addressing the problem of air pollution in Delhi is that it invariably descends into a blame game. The Centre blames the Delhi government, because it belongs to a different political dispensation, which in turn quite conveniently blames farmers in Punjab. What is never addressed head-on is that the air pollution crisis is not a problem that can be solved overnight. The lockdown last year provided compelling evidence that taking vehicles off the road and a cessation in industrial and construction activity led to clearer skies. Source apportionment studies by various institutions have shown that the contribution of stubble burning varies significantly, from as low as 4% on some days in October-November to as much as 40%. But the running of power plants and construction are also necessary activities that cannot be shut at a moment’s notice. The move to ban the entry of trucks too is not any more effective than waiting for the wind to blow over, and has consequences for the economy. The way forward is to view winter air pollution as a natural disaster and target root causes. Road dust is the dominant source of particulate matter and the most significant impediment to clean air, and unfortunately the least amenable to an easy fix. The emphasis must be on concerted and consistent efforts, and not annual blame games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/end-the-blame-game/article37551942.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Quadrangular cricket||The Hindus continued their first innings, this morning, and with the addition of 13 runs to the overnight scores. Naidu cocked up a ball from Rhodes and was caught by Garnett. Naidu played good cricket. Rhodes finished up with 7 wickets for 26 runs. Being in a minority of 208, the Hindus were forced to follow on, but fared very poorly before Hirst, who, keeping an excellent length, had the batsmen thinking all the way. Six wickets were down for 27 runs when Navle and V.A. Dalvi came together and saved the side somewhat. They both were unbeaten at the lunch interval, the score at this stage being 45 for 6 wickets. Hirst up to this time had taken 4 wickets for 10 runs in 10 overs, 5 of which were maidens. The Hindus resumed their second innings after lunch at 210, but without addition to the score. Navle fell to a fine catch behind the wicket by Cummings off Hirst. Hirst proved more expensive in the afternoon and finished up with 6 wickets for 33 runs. Thus the Presidency won by an innings and 100 runs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/quadrangular-cricket/article37551958.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The first clear picture of Mars||America’s Mariner 9 yesterday radioed back its clearest pictures of the surface of Mars since going to orbit three days ago. “We are delighted,” scientist Dr. Bruce Murray said as screens at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory here displayed the wavy contour lines of the south polar icecap. The pictures followed a series of virtually blank shots taken as Mariner approached Mars and went into orbit, with the surface almost totally obscured by a great dust storm. The latest picture clearly showed the unique, complex formation of the pole. Dr. Murray said that the pictures resulted from a decision to swing the cameras around slightly and focus on the south pole from a different angle, while experimenting with various coloured filters. The pole had shown up in one picture taken during the first orbit. It is covered with frozen carbon dioxide and one picture appeared to show a cleft in the ice dividing the polar cap into two. “What is exciting to us is that we are going to get a complete map of the frost,” Dr. Murray said. This would be compared with the pictures of the polar icecap taken by the Mariner 6 and 7 fly-by missions in August 1969, which showed the cap at about its full winter extent, and indicated the mechanics of the seasonal changes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-first-clear-picture-of-mars/article37551959.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Financial bids for six CPSEs to be invited by January: DIPAM||The Centre will invite financial bids for privatising as many as many as six CPSEs, including BPCL, BEML and Shipping Corp., by January, a top government official said on Wednesday. Tuhin Kanta Pandey, Secretary, Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM), also invited private players to bid for the CPSEs that are up for privatisation, along with transfer of management control. “After 19 years, we will see 5-6 [instances of] privatisation this year. BPCL is in the due diligence stage. BEML, Shipping Corp., Pawan Hans, Central Electronics, NINL… financial bids can take place in December-January so that we can close it by this year itself,” he said. Speaking at the CII Global Economic Policy Summit 2021, the Secretary said the initial public offering of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) is expected in the January-March quarter of this fiscal. The listing of LIC will be crucial for the government in meeting its disinvestment target of Rs. 1.75 lakh crore for FY22. So far this financial year, Rs. 9,330 crore has been mopped up through minority stake sales in PSUs and the sale of SUUTI (Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India) stake in Axis Bank. Last month, the government had accepted an offer for Air India by Talace Pvt. Ltd., a unit of the Tata group, to pay Rs. 2,700 crore cash and take over Rs. 15,300 crore of the airline’s debt. Mr. Pandey said that post the experience of the Air India sale, going forward, the privatisation of CPSEs could be accomplished faster. Cooperation from the private sector was also required; they too had a role to play by bidding for CPSEs that were on sale, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/financial-bids-for-six-cpses-to-be-invited-by-january-dipam/article37551922.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SEBI unveils investor charter||Markets regulator SEBI on Wednesday came out with an investor charter aimed at protecting the interest of investors in the securities market. The vision of the investor charter is “to protect the interests of investors by enabling them to understand the risks involved and invest in a fair, transparent, secure market, and to get services in a timely and efficient manner.” The rights include getting fair and equitable treatment, and expecting redressal of investor grievances filed in the SCORES portal in a time-bound manner. “This also includes getting quality services from SEBI-recognised market infrastructure institutions and SEBI-registered intermediaries, regulated entities and asset management companies,” the charter said. Do’s and don’ts SEBI has also laid out responsibilities, and do’s and don’ts for investors. “Redressal of investor grievances is an important measure towards investor protection,” the regulator said. SEBI said it now publishes a status report about the disposal of investor grievances received on SCORES portal on the website, on a monthly basis. “A mechanism has been established whereby all SEBI regulated intermediaries/entities will have to disclose the average time taken for redressal of investor grievances received by them, on their respective websites in a format specified by SEBI starting from January 2022,” the regulator said. SEBI said it has put in place an alternate dispute redressal mechanism for grievances against brokers, depository participants at the level of stock exchanges and depositories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sebi-unveils-investor-charter/article37551924.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||Boeing agrees to settle 737 MAX claims: SpiceJet||Budget carrier SpiceJet on Wednesday said that aerospace manufacturer Boeing had agreed to settle claims related to the grounding of 737 MAX aircraft. “The company is pleased to announce that it has entered into a settlement agreement with Boeing, wherein Boeing has agreed to provide certain accommodations and settle the outstanding claims related to the grounding of 737 MAX aircraft and its return to service,” the airline said. While the airline did not make the settlement amount public, it said in the quarterly results that it had identified aircraft and supplemental lease rentals and certain other expenses relating to the Boeing 737 MAX aircraft aggregating to Rs. 289 crore for the half year ended September 30, 2021, Rs. 560 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021, and Rs. 671 crore for the year ended March 31, 2020. SpiceJet said the settlement would pave the way for resumption of new aircraft deliveries from its order of 155 MAX aircraft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/boeing-agrees-to-settle-737-max-claims-spicejet/article37551929.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nikon eyes up to 45% growth in India market||Japanese imaging-product major Nikon is expecting a growth of 40-45% in India this financial year, targeting a revenue of Rs. 745 crore with increasing demand and easing pandemic situation, a top company official said. “This financial year, the market looks very promising,” said Sajjan Kumar, MD, Nikon India Pvt. Ltd. “The festive sales were strong,” he said. “Now, we have the wedding season coming up and are also seeing demand from professionals from fashion and wildlife. “Despite certain shortage issues, we are trying to meet the demand,” he added. The company, which closed the previous year with a revenue of Rs. 520 crore, saw strong demand from content creators, Vloggers and YouTubers during the pandemic. “This year, we are expecting 40-45% growth. Seven months have passed and we are on track to achieve this growth,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nikon-eyes-up-to-45-growth-in-india-market/article37551931.ece
18 November 2021||MUMBAI,||GDP likely to grow 10% in FY22, says Debroy||India's economy is moving towards a higher growth trajectory and is likely to grow at about 10% in 2021-22, Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister (EAC-PM) Chairman Bibek Debroy said on Wednesday. “I am confident we are on a path towards a higher growth trajectory, higher poverty reduction, higher employment, and a prosperous, more developed and better governed India,” Mr. Debroy said at an SBI event. At the beginning of FY22, forecasts for real growth were in the 8.5-12.5% range, he noted. However, high-frequency indicators including GST revenue, e-way bills, power consumption, vehicle registrations, railway freight, corporate profitability, foreign direct investment inflows and steel consumption had instilled confidence that the real rate of growth would be about 10% this fiscal, he said. For FY23, he expects growth to be in the 6-7.5% range. He pointed out that with improvement in capacity utilisation, investments were also going to pick up in another six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gdp-likely-to-grow-10-in-fy22-says-debroy/article37551933.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Demand has begun improving: Apollo Tyres||Apollo Tyres Ltd. is witnessing an improvement in demand for truck tyres from original equipment manufacturers in the second half of this fiscal, according to CFO Gaurav Kumar. “We are witnessing a steady improvement in demand momentum,” he said. “The truck tyres’ original equipment manufacturer (OEM) demand, which was lagging, is showing promising signs of improvement. Though, the passenger car OEM demand continues to suffer due to shortage of semiconductors,” Mr. Kumar said in an analyst call. Going forward, he said, demand momentum for the second half seems to be better, and further price increases have been announced for November to counter the raw material cost push, he added. “While our margins have been impacted in the last couple of quarters in the Indian operations, we continue to target the mid-teens EBITDA margins, in line with our vision on a medium-term basis,” Mr. Kumar said. He said ATL continued to focus on cash flow in terms of ‘tight working capital management and capital expenditure’. Neeraj Kanwar, vice chairman and MD, said cost inflation could continue to weigh on operating performance in the near-term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/demand-has-begun-improving-apollo-tyres/article37551936.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||CAIT for probe on ganja via e-com site||Traders’ body CAIT on Wednesday said it had approached the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) seeking a probe into the alleged use of e-commerce major Amazon’s platform for sourcing marijuana. When contacted, an Amazon India spokesperson said, “The issue was notified to us and we are currently investigating it whether there is any non-compliance on part of the seller. We assure full co-operation and support required to investigating authorities and law enforcement agencies with ongoing investigations and ensure full compliance to applicable laws,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cait-for-probe-on-ganja-via-e-com-site/article37551920.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vedanta mulls rejig to list businesses||Vedanta on Wednesday said it is mulling a restructuring that may include demerger and listing of the aluminium, iron and steel, and oil and gas businesses as standalone entities. “The Board of Directors has decided that, considering the scale, nature, and potential opportunities for various business verticals of the company, the company should undertake a comprehensive review of the corporate structure and evaluate a full range of options and alternatives including demergers, spin-off, strategic partnerships etc., for unlocking value and simplification of corporate structure,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/vedanta-mulls-rejig-to-list-businesses/article37551925.ece
18 November 2021||Mumbai,||Mahindra Finance enters vehicle leasing||Mahindra & Mahindra Financial Services Ltd. (Mahindra Finance) has officially introduced its leasing and subscription business under the brand ‘Quiklyz.’ “Quiklyz is the first-of-its-kind digital journey on car usership with which the customer can access a brand-new car without all the hassles of car ownership,” the company said. “The brand will take care of registration, insurance, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, road-side assistance.”  Ramesh Iyer, vice-chairman and MD, said, “We aim to achieve a book size of Rs. 10,000 crore in a span of 3-5 years.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mahindra-finance-enters-vehicle-leasing/article37551926.ece
18 November 2021||Mumbai,||HC exempts DHFL from CBI case||The Bombay High Court discharged Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd., under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), in a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) case against its ex-directors Kapil and Dhiraj Wadhawan. The court was hearing DHFL’s plea challenging an order dated August 20 by the special CBI court declining to discharge the company under IBC in a case filed by CBI against erstwhile directors, the Wadhawans. The bench quashed the special CBI court order and said, “The Judge has committed an error by permitting the prosecution of the Corporate Debtor to the Wadhawans who were ousted from the board of directors by the RBI two years ago.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hc-exempts-dhfl-from-cbi-case/article37551934.ece
18 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Sabeer Bhatia launches new social video messaging firm||Hotmail co-founder Sabeer Bhatia has unveiled a social video messaging platform, ShowReel. The firm aims to empower people to achieve their true potential by democratising free access to mentors and would link job-seekers with companies struggling to find talent, the company said. ShowReel aims to drive real value for job seekers and companies alike, said Mr. Bhatia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sabeer-bhatia-launches-new-social-video-messaging-firm/article37551919.ece
18 November 2021||New Delhi,||Akasa Air||Akasa Air on Wednesday announced the purchase of CFM LEAP-1B engines to power its 72 Boeing 737 MAX planes. The airline, promoted by billionaire Rakesh Jhunjhunwala, said that its agreement includes spare engines and long-term services agreement valued at almost $4.5 billion at list price. Various Indian carriers altogether have almost 600 LEAP engines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/akasa-air/article37551927.ece
18 November 2021||Chennai,||Renault Kwid new milestone||Renault announced that its entry-level car Kwid had crossed four lakh in sales and continued to be a major disruptor in India’s mini-car segment. The car had been designed and developed specifically for Indian buyers, keeping in mind global standards of quality and performance, the company said adding that it strongly resonated with the ‘Make in India’ ideology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/renault-kwid-new-milestone/article37551937.ece
18 November 2021||Chennai,||Yamaha YZF-R15S V3.0 Launch||India Yamaha Motor (IYM) announced the sale of a ‘unibody seat’ variant of the YZF-R15 V3.0 supersport motorcycle to meet customer demand. The variant — YZF-R15S V3 — will be sold alongside the YZF-R15 V4 model across all authorised Yamaha dealerships. It is priced at Rs. 1,57,600 (ex-showroom, Delhi) and available in Racing Blue colour, IYM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/yamaha-yzf-r15s-v30-launch/article37551938.ece
18 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Ashwin and Suryakumar help India kickstart new era with a win||A nervy India nearly committed harakiri before squeezing past New Zealand by five wickets in the first T20I here on Wednesday. India made a meal of the 165-run chase, leaving it to the very end to get the job done. The home team needed 10 off the final over, bowled by part-time medium-pacer Daryl Mitchell. Venkatesh Iyer, making his T20I debut, struck Mitchell for a four but was dismissed the very next ball. It took a heave over mid-off from Rishabh Pant to finally shut New Zealand out of the contest. The Rohit Sharma-Rahul Dravid combination got off to a winning start, but it was not without some tense moments. Just a short while earlier, India was cruising along, with just 23 runs needed off four overs. Rohit, in his first match as captain after Virat Kohli stepped down, produced a classy 36-ball 48 to steer India onto the winning path. Suryakumar Yadav (62, 40b, 6x4, 3x6) was equally impressive, matching his experienced partner shot for shot. Rohit got going with two crisp fours through the off-side in the third over, bowled by Tim Southee. He was brutal on the short stuff, opening his hips and swatting a couple of effortless pulls for huge sixes. The skipper fell to a soft dismissal, lobbing a slower bouncer from Trent Boult to short fine-leg. Suryakumar kept attacking, even scooping a length ball from pacer Lockie Ferguson way into the stands over fine-leg. Earlier, New Zealand posted a respectable total, on the back of a 109-run second-wicket partnership between Martin Guptill (70, 42b, 3x4, 4x6) and Mark Chapman (63, 50b, 6x4, 2x6). The duo got together after opener Mitchell was castled by a perfect inswinger from Bhuvneshwar Kumar in the very first over of the match. Guptill and Chapman started steadily, rotating the strike and hitting the occasional boundary. The latter, who did not get a game in the ICC T20 World Cup, made it count with his first T20I fifty for New Zealand. Chapman had started his international career with Hong Kong, before receiving his first New Zealand call-up in early 2018. The 27-year-old equalled his highest international score, which he made for Hong Kong against Oman in 2015. R. Ashwin recorded the breakthrough in the 14th over, with a flighted delivery which foxed Chapman. The off-spinner applied the skids by removing Glenn Phillips for a duck in the same over. Guptill held the innings together, accelerating when the pacers came into the attack. He hammered Mohammed Siraj, Bhuvneshwar and Deepak Chahar for a six each, and threatened to propel the Kiwis to a huge score. A mishit off Chahar, however, cut his essay short. Chahar, well aware of the immense value of the wicket, gave Guptill a stern send-off. With Guptill gone, the Kiwis lost the chance to record a 200-plus score. Tim Seifert, Rachin Ravindra and Mitchell Santner struggled to connect the big hits. Bhuvneshwar conceded just five runs in the 19th over, followed by a tidy final over from Siraj. Venkatesh did not get to bowl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ashwin-and-suryakumar-help-india-kickstart-new-era-with-a-win/article37552240.ece
18 November 2021||Rotterdam,||Dutch head back to World Cup||The Netherlands will be back at the World Cup after an eight-year gap, forcing Norway star Erling Haaland to wait until at least 2026 to make his debut on the biggest stage.  The Dutch did just enough on Tuesday with late goals in a 2-0 win in Rotterdam that eliminated the Norwegians who were missing Haaland, their injured 21-year-old forward. Turkey overtook Norway into second place in Group G, winning 2-1 in Montenegro to enter the European playoffs in March. Van Gaal’s team finished two points ahead of Turkey after the tightest three-way contest in the 10 European qualifying groups. Long preparation “Now we have a long preparation ahead of us, which I am sure will make us an even better team,” Dutch captain Virgil van Dijk said. Ukraine also won away, 2-0 at Bosnia-Herzegovina, to join Turkey as unseeded teams who will be on the road again in the playoffs semifinals. The unbeaten Ukrainians, who drew six of their eight Group D games, rose into second place above Finland, which was eliminated by losing 2-0 at home to table-topping France. Kylian Mbappe set up Karim Benzema to score in the 66th before getting the second himself 10 minutes later after a speedy solo run down the left flank. Wales and the Czech Republic started their Group E games on Tuesday knowing both were heading to the playoffs, with leader Belgium already having claimed the direct qualification spot to the finals tournament in Qatar. Wales ensured it will be seeded in the playoffs by drawing 1-1 with the top-ranked Belgians in Cardiff to finish runner-up in the group. The Czechs, who beat visiting Estonia 2-0, placed third in the group and take one of the two playoffs entries for teams that won a Nations League group last year. Turkey, Ukraine, Wales and the Czech Republic completed the lineup of 12 nations that will compete for three tickets to Qatar in a tense six-day span in March. They will go into three knockout brackets of four teams each when FIFA makes the draw on Nov. 26 in Zurich.  The results: Group D: Bosnia and Herzegovina 0 lost to Ukraine 2 (Zinchenko 59, Dovbyk 79); Finland 0 lost to France 2 (Benzema 66, Mbappe 76).   Group E: Czech Republic 2 (Brabec 59, Sykora 85) bt Estonia 0; Wales 1 (Moore 32) drew with Belgium 1 (De Bruyne 12).   Group G: Gibraltar 1 (Walker 7) lost to Latvia 3 (Gutkovskis 25, Uldrikis 55, Krollis 75); Montenegro 1 (Beqiraj 4) lost to Turkey 2 (Akturkoglu 22, Kokcu 60); the Netherlands 2 (Bergwijn 84, Depay 90+1) bt Norway 0 .    Qualified teams   Host: Qatar  Europe: Belgium, France, England, Spain, Denmark, the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, Croatia and Serbia  South America: Brazil, Argentina||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dutch-head-back-to-world-cup/article37552293.ece
18 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Aronian dominates the opening day with three victories||Levon Aronian lived a nightmare at the National Library two years ago. He could score just one point as he finished at the bottom of the blitz section of the second edition of the Tata Steel Chess. It was the Armenian’s worst performance in such a tournament. This time around, he won all his three games on Wednesday to take the lead at the end of the opening day of the third edition of India’s most prestigious chess tournament. The World No. 4, who is the top seed here, was on three points, one ahead of the Indian trio of R. Praggnanandhaa, Arjun Erigaisi and Vidit Gujrathi. Six rounds remain. Gujrathi falters Aronian had, in fact, defeated Gujrathi in the third round. Gujrathi had done really well to post victories against compatriot B. Adhiban and Le Quang Liem of Vietnam in the first two rounds, both with black pieces. And he was placed comfortably, from the white side of a Queen’s Gambit Declined game before he erred, giving advantage to Aronian. The top seed had the upper hand in the rook-and-pawn ending, which he converted into a full point. Earlier, he opened his campaign with a victory against American Sam Shankland and then beat Adhiban, who ended the day with three losses. After his game against Gujrathi, Aronian said it was a mistake early on from the Indian that made things easier for him. “The turning point came when Vidit went for b4 (on the 20th move),” he said. “He could have played f5 instead, which would have been unpleasant for me. Then I thought I was going to lose this game as I was getting a lot of counter-play.” He said he was happy that he could make his supporters in India happy, after the disappointment of 2019. “I am very happy with my games today and hope to carry this momentum to tomorrow.”  The results: Third round: R. Vaishali lost to Le Quang Leim (Vie); Arjun Erigaisi bt Karthikeyan Murali; Sam Shankland (USA) drew with R. Praggnanandhaa; B. Adhiban lost to Parham Maghsoodloo; Vidit Gujrathi lost to Levon Aronian (Arm).   Second round: Liem lost to Gujrathi; Aronian bt Adhiban; Maghsoodloo lost to Shankland; Praggnanandhaa bt Arjun; Karthikeyan bt Vaishali.   First round: Karthikeyan drew with Liem; Vaishali drew with Praggnanadhaa; Arjun bt Maghsoodloo; Shankland lost to Aronian; Adhiban lost to Gujrathi.   The standings: 1. Aronian 3; 2-4. Praggnanandhaa, Arjun and Gujrathi 2; 5-7. Shankland, Liem and Karthikeyan 1.5; 8. Maghsoodloo 1; 9. Vaishali 0.5; 10. Adhiban 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aronian-dominates-opening-day-with-three-wins/article37552233.ece
18 November 2021||BENGALURU,||Mumbai, ATKMB headline main-event football’s return||When ATK Mohun Bagan (ATKMB) and Kerala Blasters set the ball rolling in the opening match of the Indian Super League 2021-22 on Friday, it will mark the second straight year the nation’s premier football competition will embrace the safety of a bio-secure bubble. Even as the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic is on the wane, the sheer size of the competition — four months, 11 teams and 115 matches — means that it cannot envisage a caravan-like existence across the length and breadth of the country, but again nestle in the comfort of the quaint little coastal state of Goa. Nonetheless, there isn’t as much chaos, with travel restrictions, visa troubles, last-minute entry of teams and eleventh hour player signings mostly things of the past. Even the managerial upheaval, a trademark of Indian football, has reduced, with six of the 11 teams appointing new coaches as against nine of 11 last season. AFC mandate Instead, all the focus will be on matters on-field, with ISL aligning itself closer to the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) mandated ‘four overseas players per eleven’ rule, but without the compulsory presence of an AFC-region player. This means there will be one less foreigner on the pitch, raising the stakes, and with that the opportunities, for a raft of Indian players to leave their imprint. But sides that have built their success around a spine of stars from abroad will have their thinking caps on. Defending champion Mumbai City FC and runner-up ATKMB will want to be the first teams to crack this code and find the right balance. Mumbai has a new coach in 36-year-old Des Buckingham, who replaces Sergio Lobera. ATKMB’s Antonio Habas, on the other hand, will be eager to avenge last campaign’s twin reverse, when Mumbai edged his team both to the League shield and the ISL trophy. FC Goa, the League’s most consistent side, and the fledgling Hyderabad FC seem set to close the gap and not allow the competition to become a two-horse race once again. Well rounded Juan Ferrando-coached Goa is well-rounded, has valuable experience of playing in the AFC Champions League and recently won the Durand Cup, raising hopes of a maiden ISL title. Manuel Marquez’s Hyderabad played attractive football in the previous campaign and if the side’s strong Indian core can come good again, it can go places. The League will have its first-ever full-time Indian coach in NorthEast United FC’s Khalid Jamil, who catapulted the side into the top-four after taking over as interim coach midway last season. Hoping for a turnaround Sunil Chhetri-led Bengaluru FC will hope for a turnaround under new coach Marco Pezzaiuoli after previous year’s dismal returns, while two-time champion Chennaiyin FC, not as ineffective despite finishing a position lower in eighth, will hope for a better future under Bozidar Bandovic. Owen Coyle’s Jamshedpur FC blew hot and cold, but seems to have the personnel to better the sixth-place performance from 2020-21. Odisha FC and Kerala Blasters, constantly in churn, will be desperate for some smooth sailing. Kolkata giant SC East Bengal will look to turn over a new leaf after 12 shambolic months. It finished ninth and until recently, its very future in the ISL was up in the air because of ownership wrangles. A club with more than a century’s history, and a League banking on that very club’s legacy to enlarge its footprint, can ill-afford a repeat act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mumbai-atkmb-headline-main-event-footballs-return/article37552237.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Target is to start well’||Sabir Pasha entered Chennaiyin FC’s fortress as an assistant coach before the start of the Indian Super League’s third season following Vivek Nagul’s departure. The 49-year-old has worked and planned strategies with all of Chennaiyin’s head coaches — from Marco Materazzi, John Gregory, Owen Coyle to Csaba Laszlo and now Bozidar Bandovic. The AFC Pro License coach said Bandovic’s straight talk will hold the team in good stead. “He [Bandovic] is clear and direct and doesn’t hide anything. He gives back everything to the players. From the new player Balaji Ganesan to Rafael Crivellaro he is clear enough. He’s done a great job till now and the team is responding,” said Pasha at a virtual media interaction on Wednesday. Jelling well Chennaiyin has played five practice matches — won two and lost three — in Goa, and Pasha said the team is jelling well and playing as a unit and is all ready for the first match against Hyderabad FC on November 23 at the Bambolim Stadium, Goa. “We have tried many combinations [during practice matches] and have done well. Players know what are their requirements. If you have seen us play, you would think we have been playing for a while. We are very positive,” said Pasha. Crivellaro recovering Chennaiyin’s talismanic player, Crivellaro is recovering from a [gluteal] muscle injury, said Pasha. “We didn’t want to rush him [by playing in practice matches]. He has shown great improvement. He is an important member of our team. He has started to train with us. He will show more intensity in the coming days,” he said. Indian striker Rahim Ali said his role is “to play simple and help the team.” As one sporting No. 9 jersey (centrr forward/striker), the 21-year-old from West Bengal said his role requires him to be physically strong. “Our target.” insisted Pasha, “is to start well and everything else will follow.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/target-is-to-start-well/article37552349.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||Former footballers have a get-together||Former National and international footballers from Hyderabad had a meeting on Tuesday, convened by international Mohd Akbar, who is now settled in the US, to discuss issues pertaining to the development of the sport, besides going down memory lane, according to Victor Amalraj, former India captain. Among those present included Habib Ali, Abdul Qayum, Laiquddin Khan, Habib Khan, Shabbir Ali, Syed Hussain Abidi besides Amalraj. Support “In principle, we have decided to support any move which will help Hyderabad football regain its past glory. “We are always here and present to give our inputs in this regard,” Victor Amalraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-footballers-have-a-get-together/article37552525.ece
18 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||Railways swamps PSB to make the last four||Indian Railways scored a convincing 7-3 win over Punjab & Sind Bank in the quarterfinals of the Gooncha 57th Nehru senior hockey tournament at SCR Sports Complex astroturf ground here on Tuesday. It was PSB which dominated the first quarter with Innocent Munda giving it the lead in the seventh minute through a field goal and Aditya Singh netting a second within 10 minutes However, Railways changed gears to gain the upper-hand with Mukul Sharma scoring a splendid goal in the 20th minute to reduce the margin and Ajay Yadav scoring the equaliser within two minutes. Then, it was the turn of Pardeep Singh who struck in the 27th and 32nd minutes to give Railways a 4-2 lead. Though Prince converted a penalty corner in the 38th minute to reduce the margin, it was not good enough to change PSB’s fortunes. Railways scored three more goals through Arjun Sharma (42nd minute), Seshe Gowda (45th), and Ajay Yadav (53rd) to complete the rout. In another quarterfinal, Indian Oil notched up a 4-1 win over Army XI. Earlier, in an exhibition match, Indian Air Force scored a 6-0 win over Hyderabad XI.  The results:   Quarterfinals: Indian Railways 7 (Mukuk Sharma, Ajay Yadav 2, Pardeep Singh 2, Arjun Sharma, Seshe Gowda) bt Punjab & Sind Bank 3 (Innocent Munda, Aditya Singh, Prince). Player-of-the match: Seshe Gowda.   Indian Oil 4 (Sumit Kumar, V.R. Raghunath, Talwinder Singh, Roshan Minz) bt Army XI 1 (Harman Singh). Player-of-the-match: Sumit Kumar.   Exhibition match: IAF 6 (Sukhdev Singh 2, Dilip Pal 2, Navdeep, Nitesh Kiro) bt Hyderabad XI 0.   Player-of-the-match: Mahesh Reddy (Hyderabad XI).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/railways-swamps-psb-to-make-the-last-four/article37552527.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||TN and Kerala promise exciting quarterfinal||Defending champion Tamil Nadu will look to continue its dominance of Kerala when they clash in the quarterfinals of the Syed Mushtaq Ali (T20) Trophy at the Ferozeshah Kotla ground on Thursday. Though unbeaten against Kerala in last four encounters since March 2015, TN can expect a tough challenge. With the Kerala top-order scripting three straight eight-wicket victories, the TN bowlers have their task cut out. In-form Vijay Shankar-led TN will be looking to get into Kerala’s less-tested middle-order as early as possible. Toss a factor Since the match is scheduled in the morning, toss could be a factor with the teams looking to chase a target than setting one. Later, Bengal will take on Karnataka for the second time in succession. In the last week of the league on Nov. 9, Bengal posted a crushing seven-wicket victory in Guwahati to top Group B. Indeed, this face-off is very unusual since two qualified teams from the same group do not clash before the final. Since that clash, both teams have lost players picked by the National selectors for India and India-A duties. Though a less-than-formidable Karnataka managed to cross the line against Saurashtra on Tuesday, it remains to be seen how Bengal deals with the absence of Wriddhiman Saha, Abhimanyu Eshwaran and Ishan Porel. At the Air Force ground, Vidarbha will look to continue its unbeaten run in the competition when it faces Rajasthan. Deepak Hooda, second on the list of batters with most runs (291) this season, will be one to look out for Rajasthan. Having topped the Plate group, Vidarbha surprised Maharashtra in a one-sided contest on Tuesday. Batting without fear  The side gave the impression of batting without fear and has the services of some clean strikers like opener Atharva Taide and middle-order batsman Jitesh Sharma whose strike-rate this season stands at an astonishing 246.34 after he scored 202 runs off just 82 deliveries. Unlike some of the other quarterfinalists, these teams are at full strength. Later in the day, Hyderabad plays Gujarat in the last quarterfinal. Led by opener Priyank Panchal, Gujarat also has a bunch of fine batters. But upfront, it will be looking for a way to stop a rampaging Hyderabad skipper Tanmay Agarwal. In the five matches of the league, the left-handed opener posted a sequence of 55, 97 not out, 34, 54 and 62 for an aggregate of 302 — most runs so far this season. In fact, Hyderabad also boasts of the highest wicket-taker of the season, left-arm medium-pacer C.V. Milind (16). Overall, some very keenly-fought, close contests are on the cards.  Thursday’s quarterfinals TN vs Kerala Rajasthan vs Vidarbha Bengal vs Karnataka Gujarat vs Hyderabad||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tn-and-kerala-promise-exciting-quarterfinal/article37552281.ece
18 November 2021||KOCHI,||National senior women’s football from November 28||The National senior women’s football championship will be held at Kozhikode, Kannur and Malappuram from November 28 to December 9. The league-cum-knockout event will feature 32 teams divided into eight groups with the winner of each group moving to the quarterfinals which will mark the start of the knockout stage. Matches will be held in four venues – Municipal stadium (Kuthuparamba in Kannur), EMS Corporation Stadium and Calicut Medical College (both Kozhikode) and Calicut University stadium (Thenipalam in Malappuram) – and the EMS Corporation Stadium will also host the semifinals and final.  The groupings:   Group A: Manipur, Daman & Diu, Puducherry, Meghalaya.   Group B: Railways, Chhattisgarh, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Tripura.   Group C: Himachal Pradesh, Assam, Rajasthan, Bihar.   Group D: Jharkhand, Delhi, Goa, Karnataka.   Group E: Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Sikkim, Maharashtra.   Group F: Odisha, Haryana, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh.   Group G: Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Mizoram, Uttarakhand.   Group H: Tamil Nadu, Punjab, West Bengal, Telangana.   Dates: Group matches (Nov. 28 to Dec. 3). Quarterfinals (all on Dec. 5), Semifinals (on Dec. 7). Final (Dec. 9) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-senior-womens-football-from-november-28/article37552282.ece
18 November 2021||DHAKA,||India gets compound men’s bronze||India beat Bangladesh 235-223 to take the compound men’s team bronze medal at the Asian archery championships on Wednesday. Aman Saini, Abhishek Verma and Rishabh Yadav got the better of the host, comprising Mohammad Ashikuzzaman, Nawaz Ahmed Rakib and Mohammad Sohel Rana, in the clash for the third place. The Indians, dealing with only 9s and 10s, garnered 19 10s out of 24 shots to outplay Bangladesh, which managed to shoot only 13 10s. Women miss out However, the Indian compound women’s team of V. Jyothi Surekha, Priya Gurjar and Parneet Kaur gave a below par performance to lose to Kazakhstan, consisting of Viktoriya Lyan, Diana Makarchuk and Roxana Yunussova, 220-208 in the bronze medal match. Priya missing a shot in the first end cost India dearly in the third place playoff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-gets-compound-mens-bronze/article37552287.ece
18 November 2021||CHENNAI,||Mohit Bhatt enters the semifinals||Maharashtra’s Mohit Bhatt defeated Dhruv Kumar Gangashetty of Telangana 11-3, 11-2, 11-1 in the under-19 boys quarterfinals of the ISTA junior open squash tournament here on Wednesday.  The results (quarterfinals):   Boys: U-19: Kanhav Nanavati (TN) bt A. Siddharth (Ker) 11-1, 11-2, 11-1; Adhil Mohammed Syed (TN) bt Alfeen Nazreth (Kar) 5-11, 11-9, 11-2, 11-4; Mohit Bhatt (Mah) bt Dhruv Kumar Gangashetty (TS) 11-3, 11-2, 11-1.   U-17: Krishna Mishra (MP) bt L. Meyyappan (TN) 11-5, 11-8, 11-3; Arush Chatterjee (Del) bt Ashvin Ganesh (TN) 2-11, 12-10, 11-4, 9-11, 14-12; Shaurya Bawa (Del) bt Sharan Punjabi (Mah) 14-12, 11-9, 11-9; Rohan Arya Gondi (TS) bt Adith Achpal (TN) 11-4, 11-8, 11-7.   U-15: K.S. Arihant (TN) bt K.A. Arjun Ramdas (Kar) 11-3, 11-5, 11-3; Udit Mishra (Raj) bt Rahul Sanjay Balakrishnan (Kar) 12-10, 11-9, 7-11, 11-9; Abhiraj Singh (UP) bt Ekambir Singh (Mah) 11-8, 11-7, 12-14, 11-5; Priyaan Thakker (Mah) bt Teerth Jilka (Mah) 11-6, 11-8, 11-2.   U-13: Aryaveer Dewan (Del) bt Shrrinith Subramanian (TN) 11-3, 12-10, 11-5; Ajaz Mohammed (TN) bt S. Lokesh (TN) 10-12, 4-11, 11-7, 11-3, 11-9; Agastya Bansal (Mah) bt Varun Shah (Mah) 11-4, 11-5, 9-11, 11-7; Darshil Parasrampuria (TN) bt Shiven Agarwal (TN) 9-11, 8-11, 11-0, 11-8, 11-5.   Girls: U-15: Anahat Singh (Del) bt Yashi Jain (Raj) 11-0, 11-1, 11-2; Ananya Narayanan (TN) bt Shristi Thakur (Kar) 11-2, 11-4, 11-5; Navya Sundararajan (UP) bt B.S. Seya (Ker) 12-10, 11-1, 11-3.   U-13: Vyomika Khandelwal (Mah) bt Sangamithra Shanmugam (TN) 11-7, 12-10, 11-6; Yaavnaa Saravanakumar (TN) bt Aarika Mishra (Mah) 11-3, 11-6, 7-11, 11-13, 11-6; Diva Shah (Mah) bt Aishni Pathak (MP) 11-4, 3-11, 11-4, 11-6; Kriya Saravanan (TN) bt Sahana Kalaivanan (TN) 12-10, 13-15, 6-11, 11-9, 11-8 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mohit-bhatt-enters-the-semifinals/article37552291.ece
18 November 2021||Guadalajara (Mexico),||Muguruza, Kontaveit to vie for the crown||Garbiñe Muguruza dominated Paula Badosa in a 6-3, 6-3 victory and will play Anett Kontaveit for the title at the WTA Finals. Eighth-seeded Kontaveit beat Maria Sakkari 6-1, 3-6, 6-3 to advance, ensuring two first-time finalists at the women’s season-ending championship. Kontaveit lost to Muguruza in the last match of the round-robin stage, and has a 2-3 career record against the two-time major winner. The sixth-seeded Muguruza, a losing semifinalist in 2015, is the first Spanish woman to reach the singles final since 1993 when Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario was runner-up to Steffi Graff. “I’m very happy with my performance. It was the best match I played here in Guadalajara,” Muguruza said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/muguruza-kontaveit-to-vie-for-the-crown/article37552292.ece
18 November 2021||Montevideo,||Argentina books ticket after Brazil draw||Argentina joined Brazil in qualifying for next year’s World Cup in Qatar despite the arch-rivals playing out a dour 0-0 draw in San Juan on Tuesday. Defeats for Uruguay (3-0 to Bolivia) and Chile (2-0 to Ecuador) ensured Argentina, unbeaten in 27 matches, booked its ticket, leaving just two more automatic spots available in South American qualifying with four matches left. It caps a fine year for Argentina and Lionel Messi, who won their 15th Copa America in July with a 1-0 final victory over Brazil at Rio de Janeiro’s iconic Maracana stadium. It is also the 13th time in a row that Argentina has qualified for the World Cup having failed to qualify only once, for the 1970 finals in Mexico. Ecuador looks set to join the two continental giants, sitting in third with a six-point gap to the next team and only four matches left to play. But the fourth automatic qualification spot will go down to the wire with five teams separated by just two points. Only Venezuela, rock bottom of the 10 team single South American qualifying group, appears out of the running. Argentina welcomed back six-time Ballon d’Or winner Messi to its starting line-up while star forward Neymar missed out for Brazil. But Messi was unable to inspire his team in a match of few chances.   The results: Bolivia 3 (Arce 30, 79, Moreno 45) bt Uruguay 0; Venezuela 1 (Machis 52) lost to Peru 2 (Lapadula 18, Cueva 65); Colombia 0 drew with Paraguay 0; Argentina 0 drew with Brazil 0; Chile 0 lost to Ecuador 2 (Estupinan 9, Caicedo 90+3) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/argentina-books-ticket-after-brazil-draw/article37552294.ece
18 November 2021||Chennai,||A ‘ Jadugar’ who transformed many a career||They call him ‘ Jadugar ’. A magician who transforms bowling careers. With his flowing mane, piercing eyes, and technical acumen, Bharat Arun left his mark as India’s bowling coach in a tenure from 2014 to the end of 2021, with just a nine-month gap in between. Arun, who shares a close bond with former chief coach Ravi Shastri, said, “Ravi gives you freedom. He trusts you and never looks behind your back. But no shortcuts.” Asked about the biggest legacy of the Virat Kohli-Shastri combine, Arun replied, “A fearless approach and being honest. We never looked for scapegoats. You need to be honest with your performances to be a better team.” Memorable conquests Talking about memorable conquests in his tenure, he said, “Winning the Test in Johannesburg, back-to-back Test series triumphs in Australia and the last Test series in England where we played exceedingly well. This team was World No. 1 for so long. So satisfying.” On the evolution of Jasprit Bumrah, Arun said, “Before the South Africa tour in 2018, Ravi, Virat and myself had a chat. We wanted to pick Bumrah for the Test series, even though he was short of First Class experience.” Arun elaborated, “Of course, Virat had the job of convincing the selectors. Bumrah was picked. The rest is history.” Bumrah was keen to be a Test match bowler, said Arun. “During my conversations with him, he was hungry for Test cricket. He didn’t want to be branded a limited-overs bowler.” Unique action Arun explained, “And he had all the qualities, unique hard-to-pick action, pace, bounce, swing and a nasty short ball.” About Mohammed Shami, Arun said, “He has among the best seam positions in present-day cricket. The challenge was to make him more consistent. He achieved that.” About Ishant Sharma making a strong comeback, Arun said, “Ishant was not making the batsmen play. We had to change the angle of his release point to make the batsmen play him. Once that happened, he started finding the edges.” On the thorny issue of choosing between R. Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja on foreign tours, Arun said, “It was about the balance of the team. There was no other factor. Ashwin now is fitter than he ever was. He is bowling beautifully, and has a lot of years ahead.” Jadeda’s batting prowess, his tight spin bowling, and his vibrant, energy-instilling fielding, were valuable too, said Arun. “It’s a tough call choosing between them on seaming pitches.” Hardik Pandya and Bhuvneshwar Kumar had to work hard on fitness to rediscover pace, Arun said. Best for the job Dwelling on Rahul Dravid’s appointment as the Indian coach, Arun said, “He is the best man for the job. Got all the qualities.” Working with an IPL team and taking coaching to the grassroot level are among his plans. Looking back at his India tenure, Arun said, “It’s been a fabulous journey.” The ‘ Jadugar ’ will be back at his work soon. One journey ends, another begins.  It’s a tough call choosing between Ashwin and Jadeja on seaming pitches||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-jadugar-who-transformed-many-a-career/article37552347.ece
18 November 2021||Kochi,||Shrijana triumphs||The top-seeded Shrijana Thapa defeated her aunt Bhavi Sara Thapa 6-0, 6-1 and won the women’s singles title in the Ernakulam District tennis championships at the Regional Sports Centre, Kadavanthra, on Wednesday. In the men’s section, Amal Joseph and Siddarth Menon entered the title clash after their respective opponents retired midway through the semifinals owing to injury.  The results:   Men: Semifinals: Amal Joseph bt A. Parthiv Anilkumar 4-6, 6-2 (retd injured).   Siddarth Menon bt Bir Thapa 6-2 (retd, injured).   Boys: Under-16: Quarterfinals: Karan Thapa bt Izzak George 8-0, Kevin Joe bt L.D. Jayden 7-0.   Women: Final: Shrijana Thapa bt Bhavi Sara Thapa 6-0, 6-1.   Girls: Under-16: Semifinal: Manasvi Dholakia bt Parvana P. Nair 8-7 (7-3) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shrijana-triumphs/article37552600.ece
18 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||State Olympic Games from February 14||The inaugural Kerala Olympic Games will be held here from February 14 to 24, featuring competitions in 24 disciplines. The Games, being held under the auspices of the Kerala Olympic Association, will be preceded by District Olympic Games in all 14 districts of the State, in a time-frame from the last week of January, the first meeting of the organising committee for the event was told on Wednesday. Inaugurating the meeting — which was attended by office-bearers of the KOA and the various State sports associations, officials and sportspersons — the local administration and excise minister M.V. Govindan Master lauded the effort of the KOA, hoping that the Games would give a fillip to the sports activities, shut down due to the pandemic for nearly two years now. He hoped the KOA would not stop after holding the event, but go ahead with giving scientific training to those talented athletes emerging winners of the various disciplines. “If this done, the hosting of the Games would have greater value,” he said. The meeting was attended by Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil and presided over by KOA president V. Sunil Kumar. The disciplines, identified, to be included in the Games are: athletics, aquatics, archery, basketball, boxing, cycling, football, judo, netball, taekwondo, volleyball, wrestling, badminton, handball, kho-kho, kabaddi, hockey, table tennis, karate, tennis, rugby 7s, shooting, wushu and weightlifting. Of these, four disciplines would be held outside of Thiruvananthapuram, due to logistical reasons. These and volleyball (Kozhikode), kabaddi (Kasaragod), football and basketball. The exact venue of the last two disciplines would be decided shortly in consultation with the respective State associations. Presenting a report, the KOA secretary, S. Rajiv said that around 8000 sportspersons were likely to take part in the Games, presently budgeted at Rs. 70 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/state-olympic-games-from-february-14/article37552596.ece
18 November 2021||TURIN,||Djokovic in last four, Tsitsipas pulls out||Novak Djokovic was assured a spot in the last four of the ATP Finals with a 6-3, 6-2 victory over Russian Andrey Rublev on Wednesday, while Stefanos Tsitsipas withdrew from the tournament due to an elbow injury. The ATP said that the Greek World No. 4 had suffered a right elbow injury, something he had been carrying since retiring from the Paris Masters earlier this month, and had been replaced by British World No. 12 Cameron Norrie. The 34-year-old and 20-times Grand Slam winner Djokovic looked to be in trouble in his first-ever match against Rublev when he was broken in the first game. The Serb, looking for his sixth title at the season-ending event, was given an immediate reprieve when Rublev double faulted in his own service game to bring up two break points, the second of which went for Djokovic. The pair were on an even keel until the eighth game when Djokovic pounced on a heavy volley from Rublev and sent a winning pass beyond the Russian to claim the vital break on his way to claiming the first set. The second was more assured from the World No. 1, forcing his opponent into some costly errors that helped bring up Djokovic’s 40th win at the ATP Finals in 68 minutes, sealed with an ace. Late on Tuesday, Jannik Sinner, who replaced Matteo Berrettini in the Red Group, made his ATP Finals debut memorable by beating Hubert Hurkacz 6-2, 6-2.  The results:   Green Group: Novak Djokovic bt Andrey Rublev 6-3, 6-2.   Red Group: Jannik Sinner bt Hubert Hurkacz 6-2, 6-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-clinches-a-semifinal-spot/article37552246.ece
18 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nitin battles past Canter||Nitin Kumar Sinha battled for three hours and 16 minutes and overcame a lingering back pain to beat Alexis Canter of Great Britain 4-6, 6-2, 7-6(5) in the first round of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament at the DLTA Complex here on Wednesday. The 22-year-old Nitin recovered from being 0-4 down in the decider to pull through in a dramatic fashion against the Briton who struggled to control his temperament. After winning five games on the trot to go up 5-4, Nitin was unable to serve out the match. However in the eventual tie-breaker, he won the decisive points to set up a pre-quarterfinal against top seed Eric Vanshelboim of Ukraine. Two-time National champion Niki Poonacha had to ward off a serious threat from the big-serving Chirag Duhan for a 2-6, 6-1, 6-4 victory.  National championship finalist Digvijay Pratap Singh knocked out eighth seed Julian Cash of Great Britain 6-4, 6-2 and will take on Dev Javia in the second round. In an entertaining match, the champion of the last event in Indore Manish Sureshkumar stopped Karunuday Singh 6-1, 7-6(4) and will face Philip Sekulic of Australia, whom he had defeated in the final last week. S.D. Prajwal Dev beat Nicolas Tepmahc of France in straight sets while qualifier Vishnu Vardhan got past former National champion Dalwinder Singh for the loss of six games.  The results (first round):   Eric Vanshelboim (Ukr) bt Nishant Dabas 6-1, 6-1; Nitin Kumar Sinha bt Alexis Canter (GBR) 4-6, 6-2, 7-6(5); Vishnu Vardhan bt Dalwinder Singh 6-2, 6-4; Valentin Vacherot (Fra) bt Rishi Reddy 6-3, 6-0; Zsombor Velcz (Hun) bt Sidharth Vishwakarma 6-4, 6-4; S.D. Prajwal Dev bt Nicolas Tepmahc (Fra) 7-5, 6-3; Digvijay Pratap Singh bt Julian Cash (GBR) 6-4, 6-2; Philip Sekulic (Aus) bt Anirudh Chandrasekar 6-1, 6-1; Manish Sureshkumar bt Karunuday Singh 6-1, 7-6(4); Niki Poonacha bt Chirag Duhan 2-6, 6-1, 6-4; Rishab Agarwal bt B.R. Nikshep 6-0, 6-0; Arvid Nordquist (Swe) bt Prithvi Sekhar 6-1, 6-1; Sidharth Rawat bt Ishaque Eqbal 7-6(2), 6-1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nitin-kumar-battles-past-canter/article37552435.ece
18 November 2021||JAIPUR,||Rohit pleased as punch||India captain Rohit Sharma praised spinners R. Ashwin and Axar Patel for restricting New Zealand to a manageable total. “Ashwin and Axar bowl in tandem for Delhi Capitals. They are always looking to take wickets, which is a good sign. It's important to try and put the brakes, and they did that,” Rohit said at the post-match ceremony. Rohit added that Suryakumar Yadav’s 40-ball 62 gave India the impetus in the chase. “Suryakumar batted brilliantly. That is how he plays. He plays spin really well, and uses the pace against the fast bowlers,” he said. The match got a bit too close for comfort for India, a fact Rohit acknowledged. “The win did not come as easy as we expected. It was a great learning experience for the guys to understand what needs to be done. It’s not about power-hitting all the time.” New Zealand captain Tim Southee stuck by the decision to bowl part-timer Daryl Mitchell in the final over. “Daryl has got a lot of training. He always wants to bowl. We didn’t leave him enough runs in the end,” Southee said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-pleased-as-punch/article37552255.ece
18 November 2021||Bali,||Srikanth and Prannoy notch up wins||K. Srikanth and H.S. Prannoy notched up contrasting wins to make a positive start to their men’s singles campaign at the Indonesia Masters Super 750 badminton tournament here on Wednesday. While Srikanth staved off a stiff challenge from World No. 71 France’s Christo Popov 21-18, 15-21, 21-16 in an hour and 15 minutes, former World No.10 Prannoy saw off Malaysia’s Liew Daren 22-20, 21-19 in the opening round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srikanth-and-prannoy-notch-up-wins/article37552242.ece
18 November 2021||Uruguay,||Riya Bhatia bows out||Ane Mintegi Del Olmo of Spain beat Riya Bhatia 6-2, 6-2 in the first round of the $115,000 WTA tennis tournament here on Wednesday.  The results: $115,000 WTA, Montevideo, Uruguay: Singles (first round): Ane Mintegi Del Olmo (Esp) bt Riya Bhatia 6-2, 6-2.   $52,080 Challenger, Champaign, US: Singles (first round): Pedja Krstin (Srb) bt Arjun Kadhe 7-5, 7-5.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Joan Busoms Puig (Esp) & Preston Connor (Irl) bt Lofo Ramiaramanana (Mad) & Tushar Sharma 7-6(3), 6-7(4), [10-5].   $15,000 ITF men, East Lansing, US: Singles (first round): Carson Gates (US) bt Dhruv Sunish 6-1, 6-3; Andrew Fenty (US) bt Siddhant Banthia 7-5, 6-4; Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Matt Kuhar (US) & Dhruv Sunish w.o. Radu Mihai Papoe (Rou) & Adit Sinha (US) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/riya-bhatia-bows-out/article37552284.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The Hindu speaks on the state of Indian cricket||Indian men’s cricket is now entering a transitional phase with a new head coach in Rahul Dravid and Virat Kohli quitting the T20 captaincy. The women’s team is among the most competitive in world cricket, with calls growing for a women’s IPL. We take stock of all this and more in our exclusive webinar for The Hindu's digital subscribers today (Thursday) at 5 p.m. Register now to interact with our senior sports correspondent, Amol Karhadkar, and pose your valuable questions on Indian cricket to him. Scan the QR code below to register. If you are not a subscriber, you can join The Hindu's Digital Subscriber family from the same link.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-hindu-speaks-on-the-state-of-indian-cricket/article37552235.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 07:32 IST,||Sudoku — November 18, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-18-2021/article37552848.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Quest for a story||Lingusamy is busy executing something he is doing for the first time in his 20-year-old film career: writing a story. “Honestly, most of my hits, be it Anandham, Run or Paiyaa , never had any solid stories,” says Lingusamy, in a candid interaction at his Valasaravakkam office, “They all had a collection of good sequences and a screenplay. Now, for the first time, I feel like there is a strong storyline in my current film with Ram Pothineni [RAPO19].” This comes after a couple of not-so-favourable outings for the filmmaker; his Suriya-starrer Anjaan (2014) was among the most-panned films of the decade. “I have been enjoying my shoot time with Ram, who is a big star in Telugu. Our camaraderie is very warm and along the lines of the working relationship I enjoyed with the likes of Suriya, Vikram and Madhavan,” he says, adding that he is shooting a whistle-based montage song composed by Devi Sri Prasad at the moment. Ram might be his hero, but Lingusamy is very gung-ho about the villain, played by Aadhi. “After the release, he will reach greater heights,” promises Lingusamy, who singles out Vijay Sethupathi’s villain performance in Vijay-starrer Master among his recent favourites. Big screen craze The last couple of years have been slow for the director, who has patiently worked on his upcoming Tamil-Telugu bilingual, unlike some of his peers who have got busy with OTT projects. Lingusamy admits that he is yet to warm up to the OTT craze. “I can only see myself as someone who makes films for the theatres. Even as a viewer, I find it very hard to watch content on OTT platforms.” He has made just three exceptions in the last year and a half, watching Soorarai Pottru , Sarpatta Parambarai and Malayalam film Home . “For me, theatre-going has always been a fun, happy experience, like indulging in a wholesome meal, while OTT comes across like a quick snack at a fast food joint.” The road travelled Many Tamil directors from the 2000s have fizzled out, but Lingusamy continues to soldier on, despite both hits and failures. “I believe that over the years, my cinematic taste and the ability to spot good cinema is still intact. That is what has kept me in the industry till now.” That taste, he believes, is not just a result of reading and watching: it is from being in good company. Lingusamy’s struggling years in Kollywood saw him staying in mansions that were populated by aspiring directors, teeming with ideas. “Everybody staying in those rooms would be connected with cinema,” he recalls with a smile, referring to names like Vasantha Balan, Balaji Shaktivel, Nanda Periyasamy, Brinda Sarathy, Nagulan Ponnusamy and Mani Bharathi, all of whom were aspirants back then. “We would discuss each others’ scripts for days. I have even contributed ideas for Shankar’s Kadhalan , even without his knowledge, through his assistant directors. Back then, if one of us had a spark, 10 others would contribute to it, and we would keep fine-tuning it. We didn’t have money or luxury, but our dreams were big. That is why the first films of all these directors are their best work; it contains inputs from so many people who have contributed inputs unknowingly to it, without any jealousy or motives.” It is those friendships he has harboured from then till now that has kept him in good stead. “I am not extremely intelligent nor do I possess great cinematic knowledge, but when you land in good company and are enthusiastic, you will get things done. If you put in 51% effort, the world will conspire to give you the other 49% for a film project to materialise,” he adds philosophically. Whenever he is not thinking of scenes or is busy with meetings, Lingusamy’s favourite activity is not binge-watching but comfort films. “I watch evergreen classics like Sholay , Mother India , Lagaan and Titanic . I watch them like I’m watching them for the first time, and it gives me great happiness. Whenever I watch Nayagan, I think to myself: Will I ever make a subject like this someday? At the same time, whenever a Ranjith or a Vetri Maaran makes a great film, I watch them in awe. There is still so much to do...”  For me, theatre-going has always been a fun, happy experience, like indulging in a wholesome meal, while OTT comes across like a quick snack at a fast food joint Lingusamy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/quest-for-a-story/article37552161.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||And now, legumes hatch eggs||Pea protein mince, soy meat patties, legume-based eggs, plant derived fish fingers... the meat analogue platter is growing. “There is a huge tailwind for plant-based meats in India,” says Abhishek Sinha, CEO, GoodDot, a plant-based meat company from Udaipur that introduced UnMutton Keema on World Vegan Day, November 1. It took his company nearly three-and-a-half years to develop the product and the R&D team is in the final stages of launching plant-based scrambled eggs, omelette, fish fingers and shrimp cutlets. Similarly, to commemorate the day dedicated to veganism, Chirag Kenia, founder, Urban Platter, a platform for all gourmet and culinary requirements, in Bengaluru, too introduced meatless plant-based burger patties. He says, “The plant-based market in India is hungry for diverse options, especially in protein alternatives and we’re just getting started.” Last month, Imagine Meats founded by Bollywood actors Riteish and Genelia Deshmukh, launched a range of nine plant-based products, which include keema, seekh kebabs, nuggets and sausages, as well as full meals like Afghan and Chettinad biriyani. A year old in this space, Mumbai-based Blue Tribe Foods too introduced a range of “look like, feel like, smell like, and taste like” plant-derived chicken nuggets and sausages. The market is getting innovative with products such as legume-based liquid egg, by Kartik Dixit and Shraddha Bhansali’s Evo Foods in Mumbai. Kartik stresses on the fact that the egg similitude is made completely from Indian legumes like chickpea, moong and peas, adding that nutrition is their focus. He says a plant-based egg has 11 grams of protein and is at par with an organic egg that has protein, anywhere, between 10 to 12 grams. A 500 millilitre bottle of liquid egg is equivalent to 10 or 11 eggs. “Trials are on to make the product more baking friendly,” he adds.  New developments  Chirag estimates a 15% increase in “Flexitarians” — people who are vegetarian, non-vegetarian and vegan — to experiment with and opt for more plant-based alternatives. After he turned vegan four years ago, he added more plant-based options to his diet. According to him the pandemic gave people the time to consciously think about their diet and e-commerce made it possible to deliver these curated foods to homes. Abhishek agrees, pointing to a massive jump in awareness in the last one year: “It has skyrocketed, almost a 500 to 800 % increase.” A non-vegetarian, Abhishek’s interest in the field arose from his love for animals. While he was doing his engineering in 2003, he came across a study titled In Vitro Meat, by three Dutch inventors — Willem Van Eelen, Willem Van Kooten and Wiete Westerhof — on cultured meat created from tissue. “It fascinated me and set me thinking, we could make meat using plant tissue; this was the perfect solution for a person like me, who enjoys eating meat but does not want to hurt or kill an animal,” says Abhishek. He founded the company in 2016 with his friend Deepak Parihar. Sohil Wazir, CCO, Blue Tribe, believes that this trend is driven by two factors: Anti-cruelty movement towards animals and the growing awareness of the high carbon footprint of the meat industry. “About 2-3% of the population is aware of the implications of the meat industry on the environment,” he says. Animal agriculture contributes to the second largest carbon emissions after fossil fuels. Genelia discloses a defining moment in her family’s turn towards a plant-based diet, recalling a remark that was casually made by her son: ‘We can’t have a pet dog and eat chicken at the same time.’ “It hit me so hard,” she says adding that Riteish, a meat lover, too wanted to have guilt-free meat.  Overcoming hurdles  Development of plant-based meats is the biggest challenge for the industry that works closely with food and material scientists, chefs, and investors. Abhishek adds that the second biggest challenge is creating awareness of the product but the pandemic has helped in this. Protein extracted from plants is converted into meat analogue by a process of denaturation where protein linkages are altered using heat and pressure. It is then realigned to match the structure of meat. It took nine months for Chirag and his brother Dhaval, who set up Urban Platter as an e-commerce platform in 2015, to develop the burger from “textured soy proteins.” Currently working on developing vegan mayonnaise and butter, the company sources almost 90% of the ingredients locally.  What’s cooking?  Working in the labs of Blue Tribe, chef Nirvaan Thacker who partners QSR, Zaatar and Mozza in Mumbai speaks of the challenges of cooking with mock meats. “Pea and soy are fundamentally different; the meat tends to react differently when used in a Bolognaise sauce or in a lighter preparation like broth. We are working towards addressing these factors,” says Nirvaan. He adds that the speed of development of the ingredients has increased in the last six months and that with every trial, he is able to better the product. By Christmas, he says, they could easily move from working with mince to larger chunks of meats, a chicken roast perhaps. About 40 people who attended the tasting of legume-based eggs at Candy & Green at Breach Candy in Mumbai were floored by the experience and Nirula’s in New Delhi has begun serving burgers made from plant-based mince. With much buzz in this new field of food innovation, 2021 may go down as a year that launched the maximum number of plant-derived meat products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/and-now-legumes-hatch-eggs/article37552203.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Coming soon, to your city!||As the indie music fraternity begins to see a slow but steady post-pandemic revival, artistes have begun doing what they missed most over the past two years: hopping on a plane and flying to one city, then another, then another, waiting to be hit by a different kind of energy from a different kind of music-loving audience each time. While some bands have locked in on multi-city tours — like Mumbai-based Seedhe Maut’s eight-city calendar from Jaipur to Bengaluru and back North to Chandigarh — others are out on a mix of public, private and corporate gigs. Bengaluru-based Swarathma, for instance, is punctuating its Dus Minute Aur album tour at Delhi’s Mic Drop and Bengaluru’s Fandom At Gilly’s Redefined, with some corporate shows and even podcast guest sessions. Then there are those long-awaited album launches: Chennai’s The F16s launched Is it time to eat the rich yet? to a roaring Delhi crowd at Mic Drop, where a fan let frontman Josh Fernandes clean-shave his head with a razor on stage. The mayhem is back, and so is the joy. “The absolute famine of shows due to the pandemic made me realise how much I’ve missed and belonged on a stage, so taking shows for granted is — for many artists I would believe — a thing of the past,” says Josh. “My intensity and exhilaration only function at peak levels at shows, and man it feels good to play again.” It wasn’t just a matter of sitting back and waiting for things to normalise. Sameer Sethi, co-founder of Chennai-based music platform Circle of Love, compares the revival process with getting used to standing on your feet after nearly two years of being chair-bound. Though the Circle of Love Festival two weeks ago had an impressive lineup of Chennai musicians, a couple of artistes were flown in from Mumbai, such as Ambika Nayak aka Kayan. “There was anxiety, and then some,” he lists out, “Firstly, everyone now thinks twice before travelling, they will only fly out if it’s important. Secondly, artistes have to land at least a day in advance, and they must be given a day before take-off to figure out RT-PCR tests and other formalities. Keeping artistes in town for more than a day automatically makes the whole process more expensive. Thirdly, setup at the venue takes more time because there are more precautions. You can’t expect a crowd in a bar to physically distance while there’s music playing, so we have to at least make sure that everyone who enters has double vaccination.” In essence, as Sameer says, the “wanderlust”-ridden days when a musician could pack up and hop from town to town at a moment’s notice no longer exist. For Swarathma, the process is somewhat easier because the band handles its own travel and logistics. Bassist Jishnu Dasgupta, who doubles up as Swarathma’s manager, admits that the recent Delhi show brought back some of the adrenaline of the old flight-hopping days. “There are a couple of new songs that we had never gotten to play before an audience, like ‘Mushkil mein jeena’ and ‘Dus minute aur’. The second one is a naturally live song, and we had been waiting to play it,” observes Jishnu. The live feedback was a joy to experience, and also a lesson. Offline surprises Frontman Vasu Dixit explains, “We didn’t know where they would fall in a set list, among the 13 to 15 that we play in a 90-minute set. ‘Dus minute aur’ is high-energy; in a private show, we had put it after one of our old fast songs: ‘Raah-e-Fakira’. We realised while playing that it felt like a drop in energy; it should have come before, not after. These are things we can only figure out after playing a couple of shows.” Another surprising discovery for the band, was its fan base. Instagram lives and lockdown streaming data show that not only do they have ardent fans in unexpected cities — like Kolkata — but also that the fans are younger than before. “So we have to reinvent the way we plan tours,” says Jishnu However, their old fan Twesha Ghosh, is eagerly waiting for their return to hometown Bengaluru this month. “The combined energy of a gig is so awesome, where you draw excitement from the musicians as well as people around you. I enjoy music more that way, than listening alone.” For Chennai’s Srikanth Natarajan, it was about more than just witnessing artistes they had not seen in a long time. Optikal Asylum, held at Mount Road Social in October, featured not only visual artists but also DJs like Anuskha James from Delhi and Parimal Shais from Kochi. “I’m one of those people who needs live music, I had gone into a slump in their absence,” he says, “Plus, there are people you only meet at such gigs, and socialise with based just on that shared interest. It was good to reconnect,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/coming-soon-to-your-city/article37552187.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||If there is no Planet B||“Our education teaches us that the environment is in danger, not how to tackle waste, or curtail our greed. How many pens should a person possess, how many clothes? During the festive season, our packaging comes with frills. We create waste for nothing, and many of us don’t discard or recycle. How safely is nuclear waste secured at the bottom of the ocean?” asks Atulya Misra, IAS, when we meet at his office on the busy Anna Salai. Misra, who is Additional Chief Secretary and Chairman and Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Power Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation, makes the planet and its supportive ecosystem the hero of his second book Vultures of Paradise (published by Rupa). For decades, eco-fiction has sounded the alarm about the damage that may not yet be visible on the planet, although of late, so much has already come to pass. Misra too believes that fiction is a better tool to raise environmental awareness. “Academics have said enough about our relationship with the Earth. When you create a fictional character who deals with the planet, anyone will be drawn to read it, as it sounds less like moral instruction,” he says, adding that the book was conceived during the pandemic, in the spaces between his busy schedule working towards the containment of COVID-19. Misra, who focussed on migrants during the pandemic, says, “It was a difficult time because, as a Government we were dealing with human liberty and how far we could impose rules. I used to go for long solo walks at the time, and that is how the idea for the book came about.”  Vultures of Paradise traverses the world, beginning in the Balearic island of Ibiza in the Mediterranean Sea, through the Black Forest of Germany, verdant hills of Africa and populous plains of North India. It follows the story of Neha, the rich, lonely scion of a business family who tries to climb the pinnacle of the business world by taking on an unusual ecological enterprise that threatens the very people who created it. The cultural, historical and geographical timelines of the book merge; the pendulum swings between the conservative societal mores of an Indian business family during the Raj and a more liberal lifestyle in Europe, decades later; between life during the Revolt of 1857 and the Communist uprisings in Spain; between the remote Himalayas and the fashionable streets of Milan. Every chapter is a cliff hanger, where the lives of the characters fleetingly intersect, hurtling towards the prequel to the apocalypse. Misra writes in terse prose, stripped of the adornment of dialogue, about environmental change, bitcoin and carbon credits as he balances human fragility while staring into an ecological abyss. For this, Misra draws upon his eclectic childhood spent across India. “My father was in the Indian Air Force and I was born in Cuttack. My only long spell of schooling was at the Scindia School, Gwalior before I pursued a degree in Life Sciences at Hindu College, Delhi. I cleared my UPSC exams shortly after my Master’s, but it was a job offer from a tea company in the intervening period that first introduced me to South India,” says Misra, of the time when he travelled to Bengaluru and spent days on trains and nights in Railway retiring rooms, journeying to discover himself and an India his work would soon be part of. Misra’s tenure with the ministries of ports and transport helped him reduce the environmental impact of port operations, by offering greener fuel and introducing port electricity. It also led to a study of carbon footprints and a doctorate in the field. Keen on authoring a play on RTI, Misra, who writes in long hand, says, “Writing is a lonely exercise. As you grow in service, it gets increasingly lonely at work too. I would like to write my next book seated in a cafe, surrounded by faces and voices.”  Writing is a lonely exercise. I would like to write my next book seated in a cafe, surrounded by faces and voices. Atulya Misra||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/if-there-is-no-planet-b/article37552192.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A super deluxe ride||‘Tum Tum’ is everywhere. The wedding dance number from Tamil film Enemy , released for Deepavali, has been trending this holiday season. Composer Thaman’s energetic beats, coupled with choreography, seem to have clicked among audiences. At the centre of this hit number is Mirnalini Ravi. “‘Tum Tum’ was the perfect opportunity for me. I’m not an expertly-trained dancer, but I do love to indulge in it, and that it’s become such a success is quite overwhelming.” For someone who is the definition of a modern-day star — she made it into the industry thanks to the the fleeting fame that TikTok and Dubsmash videos provide — Mirnalini is even more thrilled that now people are dancing to her song on social media platforms, with ‘Tum Tum’ going viral on Instagram Reels. “I wouldn’t even have dared to dream of this a few years ago, when I just started recording videos for fun. All I can say is that I’m grateful and lucky.” She admits that not every content creator can make it to the very top. “I was patient with my choices. I could have signed more projects, but I waited for the right scripts. The fact that I started posting TikTok videos well before others caught on to the trend also helped.” Social media led to her being cast in Thiagarajan Kumararaja’s 2019 flick Super Deluxe . Mirnalini’s debut stands out as among the most unique of her characters: she played an alien. “I still remember the director telling me about my role... I was gobsmacked,” she laughs. “But now that the film has attained cult status, I am very happy about my role. It was way better than debuting as a conventional girl-next-door.” The Puducherry native, who featured in both Enemy and MGR Magan recently, is excited for the release of Jango , touted as a time-loop sci-fi thriller. “After two years of waiting, it is fantastic to have three releases back-to-back. But the pressure of waiting to see if people like me in them is intense.” Mirnalini is looking forward to films that portray her as lively and vivacious. Next up, she will be seen in Vikram’s Cobra . “From the teaser, people would have understood that it’s a serious film. My character in it comes as a breath of fresh air and adds emotional quotient.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-super-deluxe-ride/article37552166.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The last supper||A murder at the centre accentuates the drama in Nishanth Kalidindi’s Kadaseela Biriyani , releasing in theatres on Friday. It has the masculine energy you would find in Lijo Jose Pellissery’s work; Nishanth, of course, is a fan of the Malayalam filmmaker. The influence does not end there. Set against a forest backdrop in Kerala, Kadaseela Biriyani is a metaphor for the jungle and the animalistic traits its characters possess, a hat-tip to Tamil filmmaker Thiagarajan Kumararaja’s seminal debut, Aaranya Kaandam . “The post production and editing stage is when we derived some of the stylistic elements from filmmakers like Lijo Jose and Kumararaja’s Aaranya Kaandam . I loved that process,” admits Nishanth, right after a press screening. “ Kadaseela Biriyani is an amalgamation of everything I have seen from filmmakers.” Nishanth and his friends worked to achieve a common purpose: to make a film that has a certain style and treatment. They were bouncing off plot ideas and narrowed on one which eventually became the film. “The writing did not take much time; it was written in a month’s time. But we were concerned more about fitting the style and flavour,” says Nishanth. The style came from not doing certain things we have come to associate with regular commercial films, he says. “For example, the use of high speed shots in our films. We have used very little artificial light and were clear about how to colour the film.” Starring actors Vasanth Selvam, Hakkim Shah and Vijay Ram among others, the film has a technical crew in Azeem Mohammed and Hestin Jose Joseph (cinematography), Vinoth Thanigasalam (background score and sound design) and Ignaitious Aswin (editor). Despite being made on a limited budget, Kadaseela Biriyani boasts a rich visual grammar that you would not normally find in a debutant’s work. That, Nishanth says, comes from his documentary days and being inspired by ‘70 and ‘80s Hollywood films. “I am fascinated by cinema of that era; my all-time favourite is The French Connection . We, in fact, used lenses from the ‘70s... we ensured the camera only observes and doesn’t intrude.” A student of Rajiv Menon’s Mindscreen Film Institute, Nishanth says he studied cinematography primarily to understand the craft of cinema. He has worked on short films and made documentaries for a special school before making Kadaseela Biriyani . Nishanth had to raise funds from friends and families to make his debut work, now presented by Y NOT Studios. “We are not connected to the film industry. By making Kadaseela Biriyani , I was trying to understand the process of filmmaking and that is what you see on screen.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-last-supper/article37552164.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Ambur biryani, the Nobel laureate way||This Nobel laureate cooks everyday. And he believes you should too. A professor of Economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Abhijit Banerjee, shared the 2019 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences with Esther Duflo and Michael Kemer for their experimental approach to alleviating global poverty. (Esther, also an MIT economist, is married to Abhijit.) His latest project, a whimsical cookbook titled Cooking to Save Your Life (published by Juggernaut) is punctuated with humour and exuberant drawings by Cheyenne Olivier. It seems like a dramatic departure from his work as an economist and social scientist. He does not think so. In an interview from Delhi — he and Cheyenne are cooking up imaginative multi-course meals in India as part of the book tour — Abhijit explains how the book is connected to his work as an economist. “We are exploring the social dimension of cooking. I thought it would be boring to just write recipes, to be honest. I wanted to spice it up for myself. So every chapter has an introduction, which is more social science...” The book introduces dishes tailored for specific occasions — from raspberry ceviche for when “you invite the boss home” to masala chips, tossed with minced onions, green chillies and chaat masala, for “the kind of enemy you have to invite home from time to time.” Abhijit adds, “ You are cooking for a reason: because you have someone you want to impress, or someone you are scared of...” In an age of restaurant dinners and takeaway, he is hoping to convince readers, especially kitchen novices, to discover the satisfaction of creating delicious meals for friends and family. “I cook every single day,” he says, “We don’t really go out. We just eat at home. It is my relaxation when I return from work.” Describing their weekly menus, he says, “We get back from work by about 6.30 pm, then I start cooking. Three days a week, I make Indian food, a vegetable, dal and meat. Otherwise its pasta, some soup and salad, or Asian food, like stir fries.” Abhijit started cooking when he was about 15 years old, in Kolkata. “My mother would often travel on work, and then the choice was between the cook, who was very nice and competent but unwilling to experiment, or me making different things. When he took over the kitchen, the dining table was laid with “lots of roasts, cakes and pastries. Some learnt from watching my mother, some from recipe books.” Decades later, he has developed a fresh appreciation for simple Indian food. “I consider dal to be India’s greatest contribution yet to human civilisation. Ahead of chess and zero... often also the tastiest dish in a meal, a tribute to the creativity of a billion cash-strapped cooks,” he says in the book, giving the recipe for his favourite comfort food, Bengali mung dal spiked with lemon. Cooking amidst chaos The recipes are charming and irreverent, a collection of tweaked classics and innovative staples, focussing on practical ways to get impressive results, in the midst of the chaos of everyday life. Cheyenne, who was Abhijit and Esther’s au pair and lived with the couple for three years, chuckles about how cooking on the book tour was simple in comparison to their meals at home. “Most of the time we do the cooking between giving the kids a bath, answering calls...This was easy. We actually had way too much time!” Her illustrations are deliberately light, playful and accessible. “Photographs are too idealistic. The reality is you are coming home from work, the kids are around, you are tired... you are cooking in the middle of all that,” she says. The recipes are cleverly constructed, using everyday as well as exotic ingredients and simple techniques. Charred avocados with tahini and pomegranate molasses for instance. Or Ambur biryani, which the book promises takes less than 40 minutes to assemble, with a pressure cooker. And that pandemic staple, made in Abhijit’s home almost once a week: banana bread, but with almond flour. “We were in France, in Provence though the pandemic, and there was nothing much to do. Though most things were closed, the vegetable markets, butchers and fish mongers were open. We took advantage of that,” says Abhijit. Cheyenne adds, “It cheered us up through the pandemic.” Abhijit has a lot more recipes up his sleeve, but is non-committal about writing a sequel, because, “this book is not just about the recipes. It is the whole structure around it that makes it a book. Putting down recipes is easy, the hard part is to think of the arc...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ambur-biryani-the-nobel-laureate-way/article37552190.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Spotlight on the city||The eighth edition of the Urban Lens Film Festival is set to go virtual for the second consecutive year. To be held for four days from November 18, the event is organised by the Indian Institute for Human Settlements (IIHS) in collaboration with Goethe-Institut/Max Mueller Bhavan and Institut Francais, to create a space for interested viewers to watch films and talk about cinema. Filmmaker Subasri Krishnan, an organiser, says that Urban Lens is aimed to get the community to engage not just with actors and filmmakers, but also the technicians behind the projects. “This year, our masterclass is with an animator; we try to bring in people from different professional backgrounds,” she adds. The festival will feature 27 films from over 10 countries. The themes include The City and Beyond , COVID-19 and Conflict and Cinema . Some of the Indian films are About Love by Archana Atul Phadke, and Saboot by Ekta Mittal and Yashaswini Raghunandan, while international films include The Act of Killing by Oscar-nominated Joshua Oppenheimer and Day of the Sparrow by German filmmaker Philip Scheffner. Audiences can register and watch the films on https://urbanlens.iihs.co.in/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/spotlight-on-the-city/article37552168.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Weaves of change||Vinod Kabra has spent decades working with weavers across India. In this time, he has seen children of weavers leave their skilled family business and move to bigger cities in search of greener pastures. “This was the scene earlier. The children saw the older weavers being exploited. Despite working long hours, what were they earning? This prompted the younger generation to leave,” says Vinod who started Kausheyam, a label synonymous with weaves, artisanal printing on handwoven saris, and natural fabrics. But with things improving in the handloom sector over the last seven years, Kabra has managed to convince a lot of youngsters, in the clusters he works with, to stay back and work with their families. “Now they are happy. The income is good and they get to work from home,” he says over a call from Hyderabad where Kausheyam is now located. Over the coming weekend, the brand will showcase a collection of its tussar, and mercerised silk cotton saris at Silkworm Boutique in the city. Materials with ajrakh prints and kalamkari will be on display too. Vinod started working with looms in 1988 in Raigarh (now in Chattisgarh), when he launched MV Handlooms. Shortly, he had 100 looms in and around the State. By 2000, to gain exposure he relocated to Hyderabad. He works with clusters in Chattisgarh, West Bengal, Odisha, Benaras, Chanderi, Srikakulam, and Maheshwari creating tussar blends, cotton blends, Benarasi cotton, khadi, and jamdani weaves. Kausheyam now has 450 looms across India. There is a difference in fabric woven in different states, even if the yarn provided is the same, says Priyamvad Kabra who joined his father Vinod in 1998. “For example, a tussar from Bengal will feel different from a tussar woven in Chattisgarh, as the states have different warping process,” he says. Experiments are always on with fibre and design and the weavers are ever ready to try something new, says Vinod. That explains the khadi shorts. “People can’t imagine shorts being made of handloom material,” says Priyamvad. “They need to understand that handloom fabrics are not something you wear just for weddings or festivals. That mindset needs to change.”  The Tussar Festival is on from November 19 to 21, at the Silkworm Boutique, Khader Nawaz Khan Road, Nungambakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/weaves-of-change/article37552183.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Wall of fame||Durga Santhanam, D Rajakumari and S Venmathi, from Mayiladuthurai had a memorable Ayudha Pooja and Deepavali this year. As members of a group of seven homemakers who are certified wall painters, they were felicitated by local organisations alongside male professionals during the festivals. Wall painting, which used to once be a male-dominated field in the construction sector, has emerged as a new employment opportunity for women in rural areas. Under its Nshakti training programme, Japanese company Nippon Paints has trained over 500 women in Tamil Nadu, in places such as Mayiladuthurai, Ocheri, Ramasamypatti and Anaimalai. This has led to the rise of small clusters of female painting contractors equipped with the skills to bring a new look to schools, homes and temples in their vicinity with a swipe of their brushes. “We never had a job before this,” says Venmathi, who brought her three-month daughter for the orientation. “Most of our family discouraged us, because they feared for our safety, and also doubted our ability to take up such a strenuous profession.” But the homemakers stuck to their guns, and went ahead with the course in 2019. After a lull caused by the lockdown, they are back at work, and are among the most active painting contractors in their area, earning up to Rs. 650 per day. “Videos of our paintwork shot on our phones helped us convince our families to let us take it up professionally,” says Durga, “The videos also acted as electronic business cards for us, and got us new assignments.” There is an easy camaraderie between women. “After a lifetime of wearing saris, it was awkward to wear T-shirts and slacks to work,” Venmathi says with a laugh. “Now we feel like working only in uniform: it is better than a sari when you are scaling a high wall. Some of us have modified it to suit our dress code, but we ensure that we wear protective gear like harness and headwear.” The women have also travelled outside Mayiladuthurai for painting contracts on their own expense. “We painted buildings in Chidambaram, and have also gone to Vellore and Veppampattu in Chennai, where we stayed for two months to complete assignments,” says Durga. They are enjoying their new financial independence. “I was able to buy a two-wheeler. It helps me get to my assignment faster,” says Rajakumari, adding “and I can repay the vehicle loan with my earnings.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/wall-of-fame/article37552205.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Your office dabba, packed by a neighbour||Every day by 8.30am, Haritha Raghavan packs 30 tiffin boxes for residents in and around Sholinganallur. By 11.30am, she finishes preparing lunch, and then moves on to making evening snacks. This routine continued even during the recent floods as she had anticipated the situation and stocked up groceries and vegetables and supplied the meals to the customers who mostly lived in the same apartment complex or gated community. Even when most delivery services suspended movement during the recent floods, home chefs seamlessly began to offer meals in the neighbourhood. On days there are cricket matches, Haritha adds burgers and pizza to the menu. “I am punctual because parents working from home need to make sure that their kids, taking online classes, are fed on time,” says Haritha. As a volunteer for Chennai Sappadu, Haritha Raghavan was actively providing home-cooked meals during the lockdowns. In September last year, she launched food4souull to help people in her apartment complex, Doshi Risington, Karapakkam. She creates a weekly menu plan and posts it on the building’s WhatsApp group for pre-orders on a monthly subscription model. “My elderly customers request salt-free, or less spicy food, food that is mashed well, and sometimes bland soup. All this is possible when you know the caterer,” says Haritha. When the first lockdown was announced towards the end of March 2020, many families that depended on their domestic help, cooks or food delivery services were affected. During those initial days of confusion, a group of enterprising homemakers emerged as saviours for their apartments and neighbourhoods. These women began supplying home-cooked meals to neighbours and building staff. What started as a helping hand extended during the lockdown has given way to the rise of food businesses. And now with offices re-opening, home cooks are also offering dabbas to employees who prefer avoiding canteens at workplaces. The family pitches in “The concept is catching up in Chennai, after the many lockdowns,” says Abilasha Poddar, a home chef based out of OMR, “Many people have lost jobs or have had pay cuts. Women who have excellent culinary skills are trying to pitch in and help the family financially. The best part is elders in the family of these caterers also feel useful and relevant. Mothers-in-law pitch in, sharing signature recipes, fathers-in-law pack meals, attend calls and keep track of orders...” When the lockdown was announced, Abilasha supplied lunch and dinner for security guards at Hiranandani who stayed back to help the community. “Gradually, bachelors, elderly people and young couples, who were working from home and had toddlers, began to approach me. They found such an arrangement, within the community they live in, most convenient,” she says. While her chaat was in high demand during the initial lockdowns, now her soup and salad monthly package for dinner has become all the rage among younger clients. In Thiruvanmiyur, Harsha Goyal ran was running a beauty parlour before the pandemic hit. Unable to pay the rent, she had to shut it down. “Then my husband lost his well-paying job and we were on the verge of moving back to Delhi, where his family is based. But friends motivated me to get into the food business, so in September 2020, I began to offer Punjabi lunch during the weekends and gradually started daily snacks and dinner as well. Today, I am catering to a wide clientele within five kilometres radius of my house in Thiruvanmiyur,” says Harsha. Her husband helps by shopping for groceries, cutting vegetables and packing and delivering the food. “Lockdown or floods, we continue with our on time and assured delivery,” says Harsha. “Of course, I find it hard to prepare large portions of food in my compact apartment. But I don’t mind, as my husband and I have supported each other and survived the most challenging times.” She adds, “We also find joy in making life easier for the neighbourhood.”  What’s cooking?  At Hiranandani, OMR: Abilasha Poddar’s Xtreme Indulgence. Try the Mexican combo, momos, dal bhaati and churma.  At Olympia, Navalur: Chef Deepa Prakash’s Tipsy Topsy Bakes. Try her cookies and brownies  In Sholinganallur: Haritha Raghavan’s food4souull. Try the South and North Indian office dabbas.  In Thiruvanmiyur: Nidhi’s Kitchen by Harsha Goyal. Try the bread-paneer pakora, dahi puri, Punjabi thali and dal makhni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/your-office-dabba-packed-by-a-neighbour/article37552172.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Coming soon, to your city!||As the indie music fraternity begins to see a slow but steady post-pandemic revival, artistes have begun doing what they missed most over the past two years: hopping on a plane and flying to one city, then another, then another, waiting to be hit by a different kind of energy from a different kind of music-loving audience each time. While some bands have locked in on multi-city tours — like Mumbai-based Seedhe Maut’s eight-city calendar from Jaipur to Bengaluru and back north to Chandigarh — others are out on a mix of public, private and corporate gigs. Bengaluru-based Swarathma, for instance, is punctuating its Dus Minute Aur album tour at Delhi’s Mic Drop and Bengaluru’s Fandom At Gilly’s Redefined, with some corporate shows and even podcast guest sessions. Then there are those long-awaited album launches: Chennai’s The F16s launched Is it time to eat the rich yet? to a roaring Delhi crowd at Mic Drop, where a fan let frontman Josh Fernandes clean-shave his head with a razor on stage. The mayhem is back, and so is the joy. “The absolute famine of shows due to the pandemic made me realise how much I’ve missed and belonged on a stage, so taking shows for granted is — for many artists I would believe — a thing of the past,” says Josh. “My intensity and exhilaration only function at peak levels at shows, and man it feels good to play again.” It wasn’t just a matter of sitting back and waiting for things to normalise. Sameer Sethi, co-founder of Chennai-based music platform Circle of Love, compares the revival process with getting used to standing on your feet after nearly two years of being chair-bound. Though the Circle of Love Festival two weeks ago had an impressive line-up of Chennai musicians, a couple of artistes were flown in from Mumbai, such as Ambika Nayak aka Kayan. “There was anxiety, and then some,” he lists out, “Firstly, everyone now thinks twice before travelling, they will only fly out if it’s important. Secondly, artistes have to land at least a day in advance, and they must be given a day before take-off to figure out RT-PCR tests and other formalities. Keeping artistes in town for more than a day automatically makes the whole process more expensive. Thirdly, setup at the venue takes more time because there are more precautions. You can’t expect a crowd in a bar to physically distance while there’s music playing, so we have to at least make sure that everyone who enters has double vaccination.” In essence, as Sameer says, the “wanderlust”-ridden days when a musician could pack up and hop from town to town at a moment’s notice no longer exist. For Swarathma, the process is somewhat easier because the band handles its own travel and logistics. Bassist Jishnu Dasgupta, who doubles up as Swarathma’s manager, admits that the recent Delhi show brought back some of the adrenaline of the old flight-hopping days. “There are a couple of new songs that we had never gotten to play before an audience, like ‘Mushkil mein jeena’ and ‘Dus minute aur’. The second one is a naturally live song, and we had been waiting to play it,” observes Jishnu. The live feedback was a joy to experience, and also a lesson. Offline surprises Frontman Vasu Dixit explains, “We didn’t know where they would fall in a set list, among the 13 to 15 that we play in a 90-minute set. ‘Dus minute aur’ is high-energy; in a private show, we had put it after one of our old fast songs: ‘Raah-e-Fakira’. We realised while playing that it felt like a drop in energy; it should have come before, not after. These are things we can only figure out after playing a couple of shows.” Another surprising discovery for the band, was its fan base. Instagram lives and lockdown streaming data show that not only do they have ardent fans in unexpected cities — like Kolkata — but also that the fans are younger than before. “So we have to reinvent the way we plan tours,” says Jishnu However, their old fan Twesha Ghosh, is eagerly waiting for their return to hometown Bengaluru this month. “The combined energy of a gig is so awesome, where you draw excitement from the musicians as well as people around you. I enjoy music more that way, than listening alone.” For Chennai’s Srikanth Natarajan, it was about more than just witnessing artistes they had not seen in a long time. Optikal Asylum, held at Mount Road Social in October, featured not only visual artists but also DJs like Anuskha James from Delhi and Parimal Shais from Kochi. “I’m one of those people who needs live music, I had gone into a slump in their absence,” he says, “Plus, there are people you only meet at such gigs, and socialise with based just on that shared interest. It was good to reconnect,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/coming-soon-to-your-city/article37552641.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Ambur biryani, the Nobel laureate way||This Nobel laureate cooks every day. And he believes you should too. A professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Abhijit Banerjee shared the 2019 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences with Esther Duflo and Michael Kemer for their experimental approach to alleviating global poverty. (Esther, also an MIT economist, is married to Abhijit.) His latest project, a whimsical cookbook titled Cooking to Save Your Life (published by Juggernaut) is punctuated with humour and exuberant drawings by Cheyenne Olivier. It seems like a dramatic departure from his work as an economist and social scientist. He does not think so. In an interview from Delhi — he and Cheyenne are cooking up imaginative multi-course meals in India as part of the book tour — Abhijit explains how the book is connected to his work as an economist. “We are exploring the social dimension of cooking. I thought it would be boring to just write recipes, to be honest. I wanted to spice it up for myself. So every chapter has an introduction, which is more social science...” The book introduces dishes tailored for specific occasions — from raspberry ceviche for when “you invite the boss home” to masala chips, tossed with minced onions, green chillies and chaat masala, for “the kind of enemy you have to invite home from time to time”. Abhijit adds, “You are cooking for a reason: because you have someone you want to impress, or someone you are scared of...” In an age of restaurant dinners and takeaway, he is hoping to convince readers, especially kitchen novices, to discover the satisfaction of creating delicious meals for friends and family. “I cook every single day,” he says. “We don’t really go out. We just eat at home. It is my relaxation when I return from work.” Describing their weekly menus, he says, “We get back from work by about 6.30 p.m., then I start cooking. Three days a week, I make Indian food, a vegetable, dal and meat. Otherwise it is pasta, some soup and salad, or Asian food, like stir fries.” Abhijit started cooking when he was about 15 years old, in Kolkata. “My mother would often travel on work, and then the choice was between the cook, who was very nice and competent but unwilling to experiment, or me making different things. When he took over the kitchen, the dining table was laid with “lots of roasts, cakes and pastries. Some learnt from watching my mother, some from recipe books”. Decades later, he has developed a fresh appreciation for simple Indian food. “I consider dal to be India’s greatest contribution yet to human civilisation. Ahead of chess and zero... often also the tastiest dish in a meal, a tribute to the creativity of a billion cash-strapped cooks,” he says in the book, giving the recipe for his favourite comfort food, Bengali mung dal spiked with lemon. Cooking amidst chaos The recipes are charming and irreverent, a collection of tweaked classics and innovative staples, focussing on practical ways to get impressive results, in the midst of the chaos of everyday life. Cheyenne, who was Abhijit and Esther’s au pair and lived with the couple for three years, chuckles about how cooking on the book tour was simple in comparison to their meals at home. “Most of the time we do the cooking between giving the kids a bath, answering calls...This was easy. We actually had way too much time!” Her illustrations are deliberately light, playful and accessible. “Photographs are too idealistic. The reality is you are coming home from work, the kids are around, you are tired... you are cooking in the middle of all that,” she says. The recipes are cleverly constructed, using everyday as well as exotic ingredients and simple techniques. Charred avocados with tahini and pomegranate molasses for instance. Or Ambur biryani, which the book promises takes less than 40 minutes to assemble, with a pressure cooker. And that pandemic staple, made in Abhijit’s home almost once a week: banana bread, but with almond flour. “We were in France, in Provence though the pandemic, and there was nothing much to do. Though most things were closed, the vegetable markets, butchers and fish mongers were open. We took advantage of that,” says Abhijit. Cheyenne adds, “It cheered us up through the pandemic.” Abhijit has a lot more recipes up his sleeve, but is non-committal about writing a sequel, because, “this book is not just about the recipes. It is the whole structure around it that makes it a book. Putting down recipes is easy, the hard part is to think of the arc...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ambur-biryani-the-nobel-laureate-way/article37552642.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||If there is no Planet B||“Our education teaches us that the environment is in danger, not how to tackle waste, or curtail our greed. How many pens should a person possess, how many clothes? During the festive season, our packaging comes with frills. We create waste for nothing, and many of us don’t discard or recycle. How safely is nuclear waste secured at the bottom of the ocean?” asks Atulya Misra, an IAS officer, when we meet at his office in Chennai’s busy Anna Salai. Misra, who is Additional Chief Secretary and Chairman and Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Power Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation, makes the planet and its supportive ecosystem the hero of his second book Vultures of Paradise (published by Rupa). For decades, eco-fiction has sounded the alarm about the damage that may not yet be visible on the planet, although of late, so much has already come to pass. Misra too believes that fiction is a better tool to raise environmental awareness. “Academics have said enough about our relationship with the earth. When you create a fictional character who deals with the planet, anyone will be drawn to read it, as it sounds less like moral instruction,” he says, adding that the book was conceived during the pandemic, in the spaces between his busy schedule working towards the containment of COVID-19. Misra, who focussed on migrants during the pandemic, says, “It was a difficult time because, as a Government we were dealing with human liberty and how far we could impose rules. I used to go for long solo walks at the time, and that is how the idea for the book came about.”  Vultures of Paradise traverses the world, beginning in the Balearic island of Ibiza in the Mediterranean Sea, through the Black Forest of Germany, verdant hills of Africa and populous plains of north India. It follows the story of Neha, the rich, lonely scion of a business family who tries to climb the pinnacle of the business world by taking on an unusual ecological enterprise that threatens the very people who created it. The cultural, historical and geographical timelines of the book merge; the pendulum swings between the conservative societal mores of an Indian business family during the Raj and a more liberal lifestyle in Europe, decades later; between life during the Revolt of 1857 and the Communist uprisings in Spain; between the remote Himalayas and the fashionable streets of Milan. Every chapter is a cliffhanger, where the lives of the characters fleetingly intersect, hurtling towards the prequel to the apocalypse. Misra writes in terse prose, stripped of the adornment of dialogue, about environmental change, bitcoin and carbon credits as he balances human fragility while staring into an ecological abyss. For this, Misra draws upon his eclectic childhood spent across India. “My father was in the Indian Air Force and I was born in Cuttack. My only long spell of schooling was at the Scindia School, Gwalior, before I pursued a degree in Life Sciences at Hindu College, Delhi. I cleared my UPSC exams shortly after my Master’s, but it was a job offer from a tea company in the intervening period that first introduced me to south India,” says Misra, of the time when he travelled to Bengaluru and spent days on trains and nights in railway retiring rooms, journeying to discover himself and an India his work would soon be a part of. Misra’s tenure with the ministries of ports and transport helped him reduce the environmental impact of port operations, by offering greener fuel and introducing port electricity. It also led to a study of carbon footprints and a doctorate in the field. Keen on authoring a play on The Right to Information Act, Misra, who writes in long hand, says, “Writing is a lonely exercise. As you grow in service, it gets increasingly lonely at work too. I would like to write my next book seated in a cafe, surrounded by faces and voices.”  Writing is a lonely exercise. I would like to write my next book seated in a cafe, surrounded by faces and voices Atulya Misra Additional Chief Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/if-there-is-no-planet-b/article37552640.ece
18 November 2021||November 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Urban Lens film fest to kick off today||The eighth edition of the Urban Lens Film Festival is set to go virtual for the second consecutive year. To be held for four days from November 18, the event is organised by the Indian Institute for Human Settlements in collaboration with Goethe-Institut/Max Mueller Bhavan and Institut Francais, to create a space for interested viewers to watch films and talk about cinema. Filmmaker Subasri Krishnan, an organiser, says that Urban Lens is aimed to get the community to engage not just with actors and filmmakers, but also the technicians behind the projects. The festival will feature 27 films from over 10 countries. The themes include The City and Beyond , COVID-19 and Conflict and Cinema . Some of the Indian films are About Love by Archana Atul Phadke, and Saboot by Ekta Mittal and Yashaswini Raghunandan, while international films include The Act of Killing by Oscar-nominated Joshua Oppenheimer and Day of the Sparrow by German filmmaker Philip Scheffner. Audiences can register and watch the films on https://urbanlens.iihs.co.in/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/urban-lens-film-fest-to-kick-off-today/article37552712.ece
