19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bankers must support job creators, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday asked bankers to be more proactive in lending to smaller businesses and help improve the viability and scale of their borrowers’ operations to facilitate the country’s leap into the next phase of growth. The country’s banking system was very strong now with bad loans at a five-year low, thanks to reforms to resolve their challenges over the past six or seven years. More than Rs. 5 lakh crore had been recovered from the lakhs of crores extended as loans before 2014 that had turned bad, he said. “The transparent and committed manner in which the Government has worked is also reflected in the money received back by banks. In our country, when someone runs away after taking a bank loan, it is discussed a lot. But when a strong government gets it back, no one discusses it,” he noted wryly in an address to bankers and industrialists on “Creating synergies for seamless credit flow and economic growth”. He added that efforts to bring absconding loan defaulters back into the country were still on. Policies, legislation as well as diplomatic channels had been deployed to convey a clear message – This is the only way, come back. Prior to 2014, some had begun to think that banks belonged to them. “It had become a way of thinking that banks are our own. ‘All that is inside banks is also ours. Whether it stays in the bank or with me, what difference does it make...’ And whatever was desired, was asked for. And whatever was asked for, was given. At that time, it wasn’t known that in 2014, the country will reach a different verdict,” he said. ‘A big milestone’ “Today, banks’ strength has grown so much that they are ready to energise the country’s economy and can play a big role in making India self-reliant. I consider this phase a big milestone for India’s banking sector. But you would have seen that milestone is also an indicator of our future journey. I see this as a starting point for Indian banks’ new future as well,” he remarked. It is time for bankers to support wealth and job creators. Banks must work on enhancing the country’s balance sheet while enlarging their own, he stressed. Mr. Modi urged each bank branch to ensure that they have at least 100 clients doing 100% transactions digitally by August 15, 2022 and set goals such as helping 10 youth or small businesses in their domains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bankers-must-support-job-creators-says-modi/article37572125.ece
19 November 2021||MYSURU,||No let-up in rains in Mysuru region||There is no let-up in the rains in Mysuru and surrounding regions which has hit agriculture apart from throwing life out of gear. While farmers are staring at crop loss during the harvesting of kharif crops, waterlogging is expected to hit even the crops planted for rabi season. South-interior Karnataka region, comprising Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Ramanagaram, and Bengaluru Rural are among the districts worst affected. In Mysuru, the cumulative rainfall from October 1 to November 18 was 422 mm as against the normal of 186 mm while Chamarajanagar district received 383 mm as against the normal of 216 mm of rainfall. Mandya recorded 413 mm of rainfall as against the a normal of 193 mm and the trend is similar in other districts as well. Though Mysuru district received 25% below normal rains during the south-west monsoon period between June 1 and September 30, the current spell has not only bridged the deficit but the rainfall is also in excess. Vivek Cariappa, a farmer from H.D. Kote, said that not only was the rainfall in excess but it was also pouring during the wrong time. “Standing crops ready for harvesting were rotting due to waterlogging in the field and sowing was difficult for the winter crops under such conditions,” he said. Apart from the incessant rains water discharge from reservoirs was also inundating fields in low-lying areas, say farmers. The water level in the Kabini reservoir was at its maximum of 2,284 feet and the gross storage in the reservoir was 19.52 tmcft. At KRS, the water level continued to hover at 124.80 feet which is also the full reservoir level. The gross storage in the dam was 49.45 tmcft which is also its actual capacity. The outflow from the Kabini was at the rate of 3,004 cusecs on Thursday while the outflow from the KRS was at the rate of 16,927 cusecs. The cumulative outflow from both the Kabini and the KRS since June 1, 2021 is 157 tmcft. The gross storage capacity in the four dams in the Cauvery basin of the State – including the Harangi and Hemavathi – is 114.57 tmcft against which the cumulative storage was 103.38 tmcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-let-up-in-rains-in-mysuru-region/article37572622.ece
19 November 2021||Srinagar,||Magisterial probe into J&K killings||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha on Thursday ordered a magisterial inquiry into the encounter in Hyderpora, Srinagar, on November 15 after three families claimed that three of the four persons killed during the operation were civilians. The order came hours after the police removed the family members from a protest site in the city. “A magisterial inquiry by an officer of ADM [Additional District Magistrate] rank has been ordered in Hyderpora encounter. The Government will take suitable action as soon as the report is submitted in a time-bound manner. The J&K administration reiterates commitment of protecting lives of innocent civilians and it will ensure there is no injustice,” a statement issued by the Raj Bhavan read.  In a midnight action, the family members and the protesters who had gathered at the Press Enclave on Wednesday to demand that the bodies of the “civilians” be returned were evicted and the sit-in was disallowed by the police. The family members were seen being dragged and bundled into a police vehicle. The police action was carried out after snapping power supply in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/magisterial-probe-into-jk-killings/article37572134.ece
19 November 2021||Kozhikode,||Malabar pins its hopes on Railways||People from Malabar form a large part of the migrant population from Kerala in Bengaluru. There is only one daily train, however, connecting the northern part of the State and the capital city of Karnataka. This is going to change if Southern Railway agrees to Kozhikode MP M.K. Raghavan’s proposals to launch new services on the route. Mr. Raghavan recently met South Western Railway General Manager Sanjeev Kishore with a proposal to extend the Bengaluru-Kannur Express (06515/16) up to Kozhikode and urged him to start new trains to Malabar. It is learnt that Mr. Kishore has responded positively to the demands, saying that if Southern Railway comes up with a proposal, it can be followed up. Before COVID-19 struck, the Kannur-Yeshwantpur Express (16527/28) was the only train that shuttled daily between Malabar and Bengaluru. That service was stopped and a special train (07390/89) was introduced after the pandemic brought the rail system to a halt. Regular passengers say this lone service is inadequate to cater to their needs. Passenger load According to one estimate, not even 1% of the passenger load is met by this train. Many are forced to depend on the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation-run buses or private buses for their travel, which is time consuming and expensive as well. The night travel ban through the Bandipur forests in 2009 has worsened the situation. Mr. Raghavan pointed out that the above train is stationed in Kannur for around six hours and this time should be utilised to extend it to Kozhikode. Nilambur-Nanjangud line The MP also said that steps could be taken to reduce the existing distance of 560 km if the proposed Nilambur-Nanjangud route gets a green signal. Mr. Kishore said the State Government needed to come up with a proposal. The MP also suggested a new route from Coimbatore to Chamarajanagar.  Many are forced to depend on KSRTC buses or private buses for their travel to Bengaluru, which is time-consuming and expensive as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/malabar-pins-its-hopes-on-railways/article37572487.ece
19 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||AICC swats aside ‘A’ , ‘I’ groups’ complaints||The All India Congress Committee (AICC) has purportedly given the green signal to the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) to go ahead with reorganisation regardless of the opposition from the ‘A’ and ‘I’ factions. The national leadership’s stamp of approval for forging onward with party restructuring is arguably evident in the words of AICC general secretary in charge of Kerala Tariq Anwar. “Reorganisation is in the party’s interest,” he said here on Thursday. Role of PAC Pointedly, Mr. Anwar also seemed to shoot down the argument of the ‘A’ and ‘I’ groups that the KPCC’s political affairs committee (PAC) was the party’s apex decision-making authority in the State unit. Mr. Anwar said: “The PAC only has an advisory role. As per the Congress constitution, the KPCC executive is the party’s paramount decision-making body in Kerala. The PAC has been around since the 1960s and it would continue to exist in an advisory capacity.” Chandy’s complaint At a stroke, the AICC seemed to have swatted aside former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy’s purported complaint that the KPCC leadership had diminished the PAC’s role in the party’s decision-making process and given more traction to the KPCC executive “dominated by nominees” of KPCC president K. Sudhakaran and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan. Mr. Anwar arrived in Kerala a day after Mr. Chandy met AICC president Sonia Gandhi purportedly to communicate his opposition to restructuring the party in Kerala ahead of the organisational elections in April 2022. Groups’ charge Mr. Chandy, who ostensibly has the backing of ‘I’ group leader Ramesh Chennithala, had reportedly perceived restructuring as a bid by Mr. Sudhakaran and Mr. Satheesan to control the party by “arbitrarily” placing “their nominees” in critical party posts ahead of the membership drive and the upcoming KPCC elections. Other senior leaders had complained to the AICC that the incumbent powers were stacking the decks in their favour ahead of party polls. Moreover, Mr. Sudhakaran had announced his intention to contest for the post of KPCC president. He said at Poovar that organisational elections would ensure that the party reached the hands of the deserving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aicc-swats-aside-a-i-groups-complaints/article37572490.ece
19 November 2021||TIRUPATI,||Rain situation grim in Tirupati||For the first time in five decades, the pilgrim city of Tirupati came under the severe impact of the Jawad cyclone on Thursday, leading to two to four feet of waterlogging in several residential areas and arterial junctions. Cars and cattle were reported washed away in the swirling waters at Leela Mahal, Akkarampalle, and Korlagunta junctions. Tirupati Urban and Rural mandals received over 150 mm rainfall from 8.30 a.m. to 4 p.m. The eastern part of the city was under a sheet of water owing to gushing waters from Kapilatheertham Falls. Normal life was paralysed in the heart of the city. Rainwater entered the residential colonies from Leelamahal Junction to Karakambadi. Traffic halted The Urban police swung into action to hold up traffic under rail under bridges at DR Mahal junction and West Church. The police said that a “dangerous situation” had prevailed due to open drains and manholes at several junctions. Superintendent of Police Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu appealed to the people to stay indoors and strictly avoid venturing out of homes for the next 24 hours. The NDRF and SDRF teams rushed to the pilgrim city to monitor the situation in low-lying areas between Tirupati and Renigunta. Tension prevailed for a while on Thursday evening after the Tummalakunta tank on the outskirts developed a breach, and waters gushed towards the city. With overflowing of the three major reservoirs atop Tirumala and downpour in Seshachalam Hills spread over Chittoor and Kadapa districts, the rainwater gushed down to Tirupati. Bus services stopped The APSRTC stopped bus services between Tirupati and Tirumala from Thursday evening after reports of boulders’ fall on the ghat roads. The stranded pilgrims at Tirupati bus station were cautioned not to venture towards Alipiri and Srivari Mettu footpaths to Tirumala as both were closed due to cascading waters from upper reaches. The TTD also closed the temple of Lord Shiva at Kapilatheetham at the foothills. According to information, the authorities at Tirupati international airport stopped air traffic temporarily after the rainwater flooded the runway. Vehicular traffic from Tirupati towards Pudi and Chandragiri was severely hit with overflowing causeways. Traffic between Tirupati and Madanapalle came to a grinding halt after damage to the Gargeya bridge was reported near Piler. Meanwhile, officials were on alert after the Kalyani dam nestled in Seshachalam Hills started receiving heavy inflows.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rain-situation-turns-grim-in-tirupati/article37571876.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sexual intent, not skin-to-skin contact, key: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday quashed a Bombay High Court decision to acquit a man charged with assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) solely on the grounds that he groped the child over her clothes without “skin-to-skin” contact. “The act of touching a sexual part of the body with sexual intent will not be trivialised and not excluded under Section 7 of the POCSO Act,” a Bench of Justices U.U. Lalit, S. Ravindra Bhat and Bela M. Trivedi held. Section 7 mandates that “whoever with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any other person, or does any other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault”. Justice Trivedi, who authored the judgment, observed that the “purpose of law is not to allow the offender to sneak out of the mesh of law”. ‘Absurd interpretation’ The court said limiting the ambit of “touch” to a narrow and pedantic” definition would lead to an “absurd interpretation”. The Bench noted that the most important ingredient in Section 7 was the sexual intent of the offender and not skin-to-skin contact. The conclusion that “sexual intent” mentioned in the provision should be ex facie skin to skin would defeat the object of the provision. It would, rather than giving effect to the rule,destroy it. Justice Trivedi, speaking for the Bench, said when legislature had clarified its intent, the court should not introduce ambiguity. “The court should not be overzealous in searching for ambiguity when the words in the section are plain. Someone can wear a surgical glove and exploit a child and get away scot-free ... This is an outrageous order,” Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal, who moved the top court in the constitutional capacity of his office, had argued during the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sexual-intent-not-skin-to-skin-contact-key-sc/article37572139.ece
19 November 2021||Belagavi,||Heavy rain causes ‘significant’ crop loss in Belagavi||Heavy rain for three days caused crop damage in some taluks in Belagavi district. Officials are calling it ‘significant but not widespread’. It rained heavily in parts of the district, especially in taluks that border the Western Ghats like Khanapur and Belagavi and the eastern taluks like Chikkodi and Bailhongal. There were thunderstorms and heavy rains for three out of the last seven days. Farmers in some taluks have complained of crop loss owing to heavy rains this week. Farmers in Khanapur, Belagavi, Chikkodi, Nippani, and Bailhongal have suffered losses of crops like paddy, sugarcane wheat, jowar, tobacco, and bengal gram and horticulture crops like grapes, sour gourd, and banana, officials say. Farmers in Bailhongal complained that they were unable to harvest their crops as the fields had become slushy. “Some of us were unable to take out sugarcane-laden tractors from the fields,” said Basavanneppa Aligol of Bailhongal. Linganagouda Patil of Nippani said his tobacco crop was damaged to a significant extent. Harvested paddy in Beedi, Jamboti, Gunji, and Khanapur areas has been destroyed. Very little of it can recovered by drying, said an officer. “Grape and sugarcane in Telsang and Chikkodi were damaged. Crop insurance does not cover all the crops. Most cash crops and some horticulture crops are not covered. Paddy is covered in crop insurance, but non-loanee farmers are not likely to ensure their crops,” said another officer. Initial estimates put agriculture crop losses at around 2,500 hectares in Belagavi district, most of it being paddy. Horticulture crop loss is yet to be assessed. Most of the damage has been to harvested crops that were kept for open drying in the fields.   “We have asked all assistant directors to assess the crop loss in the first phase. After that, a joint survey will be conducted if the State Government orders. Officers of the Agriculture, the Revenue, and the Horticulture Departments will conduct the joint survey. A final list will be prepared and submitted to the Government,” Shivanagouda Patil, Joint Director of Agriculture, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heavy-rain-causes-significant-crop-loss-in-belagavi/article37572426.ece
19 November 2021||MYSURU,||Kabini canal damaged||The embankment of the Kabini Right Bank canal caved in at the 23rd km stretch due to incessant rains in the region since the last few days. However, the authorities said there was no reason to panic and the outflow was being regulated. Senior engineers of Cauvery Neeravari Nigama Ltd. visited the spot and conducted a spot inspection and have instructed the technical team to carry out repair works. In the city, the Mysuru Urban Development Authority officials breached the embankments to divert the surplus water. But this has resulted in localised flooding much to the chagrin of the residents. At Kikkeri in Mandya district, rains damaged a historical temple in the town. The external walls of the Janardhana temple which was already in a dilapidated condition, collapsed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kabini-canal-damaged/article37572623.ece
19 November 2021||Kudremukh,||‘Marine sanctuary will come up in Honnavar next year’||Karnataka’s first sanctuary for marine animals will come up at Honnavar in Uttara Kannada. According to Sanjai Mohan, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Head of Karnataka Forest Force, the sanctuary will be inaugurated next year, most likely by January. The Karnataka State Wildlife Board has approved the creation of the sanctuary. The Government is yet to issue a notification on creating the sanctuary. Speaking to presspersons here on the sidelines of the ‘Shola festival’ organised by Kudremukh Wildlife Division, Karkala in Udupi district, on Wednesday, Mr. Mohan said that the creation of the sanctuary is aimed at strengthening the focus on the conservation of marine animals, including Olive Ridley sea turtles which breed on the coastal belt in places like Honnavar and Kundapur. The jurisdiction of the sanctuary will cover both beach and sea areas. It may be mentioned here that former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced in the 2020-21 Budget that the State’s first Marine Eco-park will be established in Uttara Kannada at an expenditure of Rs. 1 crore. Mr. Mohan said that the Forest Department will organise a series of new festivals for strengthening the focus on the conservation of a variety of fauna other than tigers, lions, elephants, and flora. All of them will be held before March, 2022. It will organise frog festival on the backwaters of Sharavathi, a turtle festival at Honnavar, a wolf festival with a focus on the conservation of wolf, fox, and hyena at Koppal, and a grass festival at Belagavi. There are a variety of fauna and flora having their own typical eco system. All of them are important and will have to be conserved. The department has already organised festivals of birds, bee and butterflies, and Mahseer fish. The new festivals will be their continuation. Ruthren Periyasamy, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Kudremukh Wildlife Division, Karkala said that the festival had been organised to create a platform for strengthening further the ‘Shola forests and grasslands’ in association with local people, scientists, and all other stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/marine-sanctuary-will-come-up-in-honnavar-next-year/article37572604.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||WTO must rein in nations violating trade rules: Goyal||Ahead of the World Trade Organization (WTO) ministerial meet beginning later this month, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday hit out at countries not working transparently as per global trading rules, without naming China, and called for a reboot of the way the world body goes about its business to deal with such situations. Taking on the developed nations for seeking to treat countries with low per capita incomes on a par with far richer nations, Mr. Goyal urged them to introspect on whether they were letting the least developed and developing nations down on trade, sustainability as well as climate change goals. “The world today has to reassess whether countries across the world are truly and genuinely following the multilateral rules in terms of transparency, fair play and honest business practices,” the Minister noted and stressed that the WTO should reassess the way it has been conducting its affairs. India, in contrast, was “proud of following the rules to a T” with everything done transparently in the public domain, he said. “... So much so that our system allows for anyone to pay just Rs. 10 to take out any file from the government system [as] our Right to Information laws are so strong,” Mr. Goyal added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wto-must-rein-in-nations-violating-trade-rules-goyal/article37572137.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,||Holiday today for city schools||With heavy rain expected to continue for another day, schools in Bengaluru will be closed on Friday as a precautionary measure. Playschools and anganwadis too will remain closed. Colleges have to take a decision on their own. The Department of Public Instruction has authorised the Deputy Commissioners (DCs) of the respective districtsto declare holiday after looking at the weather forecast, said R. Vishal, Commissioner for Public Instruction. The India Meteorological Department issued a yellow alert for Bengaluru on Friday. In Bengaluru Rural While the Bengaluru Urban DC announced a one-day holiday, the Bengaluru Rural DC said schools would remain closed on Friday and Saturday. Other districts have taken similar measures. However, students in schools affiliated to the CBSE who have mid-term examination will have to commute to school to give their papers. Primary and Secondary Education Minister B.C. Nagesh said on Twitter that in the backdrop of continuous rain in certain districts, students were finding it difficult to attend classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/holiday-today-for-city-schools/article37572175.ece
19 November 2021||KOCHI,||Police register 281 cases in drive against private buses||Just days after a private bus went out of control and damaged over 10 vehicles in the heart of the city, the Kochi police, in a three-day-long special drive to curb violations by private buses, registered 281 cases. In the drive, which began on Tuesday, the police focused on buses found involved in dangerous racing and operated in violation of other norms. The drive, which was held by the city police commissonerate in collaboration with the Motor Vehicles Department, concluded on Thursday. The drive, the police said, was held in view of widespread complaints from passengers and the rise in the number of accidents due to the competition between buses. Things have come to such a pass that where the rash driving of private buses endangered the safe movement of other vehicles on the city roads, the police said in a statement issued here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-register-281-cases-in-drive-against-private-buses/article37572501.ece
19 November 2021||Mangaluru,||Vijayapura to Mangaluru train to be restored||The Railway Board has finally approved restoration of Vijayapura-Mangaluru Junction-Vijayapura Daily Express Special that connects northern parts of the State with coastal Karnataka from December 1 . Introduced in November 2019, the services were cancelled following the outbreak of COVID-19. Despite reintroduction of several other cancelled trains in a phased manner since about a year, this train was not reintroduced causing concerns among patrons and people’s representatives. SWR had earlier indicated resuming the services from November 1. However, there was delay in obtaining Railway Board’s approval, sources said. The restored services will run with the old timings with minor changes though people had been demanding its arrival at Mangaluru Junction by morning and departure by evening. Patrons as well as Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, had urged Railways to ensure the train arrives in Mangaluru by 9 a.m. instead of 12.40 p.m. and the return journey leaves at 5.30 p.m. instead of 4.30 p.m. Unsuitable timings The arrival and departure timings were not suitable for regular commuters as well as office goers, they had said. Southern Railway, which manages Mangaluru Junction, informed SWR that it cannot accommodate the train at the desired timings as platforms remain occupied during those times. The services have commercial halts at Basavana Bagewadi Road, Alamatti, Bagalkot, Guledagudda Road, Badami, Hole Alur, Mallapur, Gadag, Hubballi, Karajagi, Haveri, Byadagi, Ranebennur, Harihar, Davangere, Kadur, Arsikere, Hassan, Sakleshpur, Subrahmanya Road, Kabaka Puttur, and Bantwal. Train No. 07377 leaves Vijayapura at 6.15 p.m. instead of the earlier 6 p.m. to reach Mangaluru Junction at 12.40 p.m. the next day. In the return direction, Train No. 07378 leaves Mangaluru Junction at 4.45 p.m. instead of the earlier 4.30 p.m. The train will have five general second class, six second class sleeper, one AC 3-Tier, and two luggage-cum-brake vans, in all 14 coaches, according to a notification by SWR issued on November 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vijayapura-to-mangaluru-train-to-be-restored/article37572421.ece
19 November 2021||YADGIR,||52 students hospitalised after having breakfast||As many as 52 students were admitted to the district general hospital on the outskirts of Yadgir on Thursday after having breakfast at the Vishwaradhya Vidyavardhaka residential school at Abbetumkur village in Yadgir taluk. DHO Indumati K. said: “The students ate ‘uppittu’ for breakfast at the school. One student complained of vomiting after they found something in the breakfast”.  Although the DHO did not disclose what they found in the breakfast, some sources said that the students panicked after they found the head of a snake in the food. “Three students were given injections through the intravenous (IV) saline. Presently, 35 students are in the hospital under observation,” Hanumath Reddy, Taluk Health Officer, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/52-students-admitted-after-breakfast/article37572120.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Reaching for the skies||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reaching-for-the-skies/article37572301.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Safe passage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/safe-passage/article37572492.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||Pay hike for mayors, ULB elected heads||Mayors, municipal chairpersons, corporators, ward members and co-option members in urban local bodies, including GHMC., will get a 30 % hike in their pay with retrospective effect from June 1 last. Hereafter, Mayors will receive a honorarium of Rs. 65,000 a month as against Rs. 50,000; deputy mayors will get Rs. 32,500 as against Rs. 25,000 and corporators/ward members will get Rs. 7,800 as against Rs. 6,000 in municipal corporations. The government on Thursday issued orders enhancing the honorarium of 30% to the existing one including conveyance allowance. In the second category of municipalities with more than 50,000 population as per the 2011 census, the chairman will now get Rs. 19,500 as against Rs. 15,000 earlier; vice-chairperson will get Rs. 9,750 as against Rs. 7,500 and ward members will get Rs. 4,500 as against Rs. 3,500. For the third category of municipalities of less than 50,000 population, the chairperson will now get Rs. 15,600 as against Rs. 12,000; vice-chairperson will get Rs. 6,500 as against Rs. 5,000 and ward member Rs. 3,250 as against Rs. 2,500 earlier. The decision was taken following a communication from the Commissioner and Director of Municipal Administration N. Satyanarayana. The Government orders were issued by secretary C. Sudharsan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pay-hike-for-mayors-and-ulb-heads/article37572472.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||India fully prepared to give befitting reply: Rajnath||The Rezang La monument symbolises the Government’s stand of giving a befitting reply to anyone who threatened the sovereignty and integrity of the country, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday after inaugurating the revamped war memorial in eastern Ladakh. “The renovation of the memorial is not only a tribute to our valiant armed forces, but also a symbol of the fact that we are fully prepared to protect the integrity of the nation,” he said. The Battle of Rezang La is considered one of the 10 greatest and most challenging military conflicts in the world, he noted. The memorial was constructed in 1963 in the Chushul plains, at an altitude of over 15,000 feet. The renovated complex includes a double-storied museum, a mini-theatre to screen a special documentary on the battle, a helipad and various other tourist amenities. It also displays the names of the Army personnel who lost their lives in the violent clash at Galwan valley last year. November 18 marks the 59th anniversary of the Battle of Rezang La in which troops from the 13 Kumaon Regiment defeated several waves of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army in 1962.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-fully-prepared-to-give-befitting-reply-says-rajnath/article37572135.ece
19 November 2021||Vijayawada,||Assembly session extended till November 26||The seventh session of the 15th Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly began on Thursday with the swearing in of Dasari Sudha as YSR Congress Party MLA from Badvel (SC) Constituency, by Speaker Thammineni Seetharam. It will be a week-long session instead of a one-day affair, as initially contemplated by the government, which wanted to have a longer session next month. A decision to conduct the Assembly for seven days from November 18 to 26, excluding the weekend (November 20 and 21), was taken in the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting held under the chairmanship of the Speaker and attended by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Finance and Legislative Affairs Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy and TDP deputy floor leader K. Atchannaidu, among others. Mr. Atchannaidu reportedly pressed for a 15-day session to deliberate on a whole lot of issues but the Chief Minister agreed for seven days. The BAC has since resolved to conduct the Assembly till 26. Meeting delayed During a short discussion on women empowerment in the Assembly later, Mr. Jagan said the BAC meeting was delayed in anticipation of the arrival of TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, but he did not show up apparently due to his party’s dismal performance in the municipal elections. “Mr. Naidu should have been present for the discussion, having pushed for an extended session. I have no idea if he is around. I was told that it was due to the humiliation his party suffered in Kuppam,” Mr. Jagan quipped. An adjournment motion moved by TDP MLA Anagani Satya Prasad earlier in the day on the prices of petrol and diesel was rejected by the Speaker, who said the members of the Opposition could not dictate what business he should take up as they insisted that the enormous burden imposed by the rising prices of petrol and diesel on the common people warranted a discussion in order to find solutions. Later, Mr. Seetharam announced that 14 ordinances and annual reports of various corporations were deemed to be laid before the House, which went on to condole the death of 10 former MLAs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tdps-adjournment-motion-rejected/article37571873.ece
19 November 2021||Tirumala,||Havoc in Tirumala||Pilgrims visiting the hill temple for darshan of Lord Venkateswara faced a harrowing time as the town reeled under the impact of incessant rains since Wednesday afternoon. The open space in front of the main temple as well as the Mada Streets encircling the shrine remained under a sheet of water. Devotees had to undergo intense travails in reaching Vaikuntam Queue Complex and back to their cottages. High velocity winds accompanied the torrential rain inundating several cottages and guest houses. Three suites were reportedly damaged when rocks from the hill located behind the Narayanagiri-III guest house came tumbling on to them. Fortunately, there were no inmates in the suites. The TTD Addl EO’s camp office and the disaster recovery centre besides Arjitham office were marooned. While the retaining wall at the camp office was partially demolished to release the clogged water flow, the servers and other networking equipment at the recovery centre were shut down. The plight of the local residents in Balaji Nagar was miserable. There were reports of rain water entering the houses located in the low lying areas in the colony. The post-noon cloudburst resulted in falling of boulders and uprooting of trees on both the ghat roads. Vehicular traffic was frequently disrupted as several minor landslips were reported on the ghat roads. The engineering, vigilance and forest personnel cleared the debris and regulated the vehicular movement. The TTD ordered closure of both the ghat roads. The TTD, which has already closed its pedestrian paths since Wednesday, extended the suspension till Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/harrowing-time-for-tirumala-pilgrims/article37572130.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||India fully prepared to give befitting reply: Rajnath||The Rezang La monument symbolises the Government’s stand of giving a befitting reply to anyone who threatened the sovereignty and integrity of the country, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday after inaugurating the revamped war memorial in eastern Ladakh. “The renovation of the memorial is not only a tribute to our valiant armed forces, but also a symbol of the fact that we are fully prepared to protect the integrity of the nation,” Mr. Singh said. The Battle of Rezang La is considered one of the 10 greatest and most challenging military conflicts in the world, he noted. The memorial was constructed in 1963 in the Chushul plains, at an altitude of over 15,000 feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-fully-prepared-to-give-befitting-reply-rajnath/article37572670.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,||II PU midterm exam will now be from Dec. 9||In the face of increasing pressure from students, the Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE) has revised the dates of the midterm examination for II PU students. It will be conducted from December 9 to 23, and will be held simultaneously for I and II year PU students. The DPUE had initially announced that midterm exam would be held from November 29 to December 10, as they feared that the State would see a third wave of COVID-19. However, II PU students were up in arms against this on the grounds that teachers had not completed the syllabi. The department has also decided not to conduct centralised evaluation. A circular issued on Thursday stated that the evaluation would be conducted at the college level. Marks had to be uploaded on the SATS platform. While the question paper for II PU students would be sent by the department, I PU students would get the papers set by their faculty members. The aim of midterm examinations was to develop an alternative method of evaluating students in case of any unforeseen situations, officials said.  The exam will be held simultaneously for I and II year PU students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ii-pu-midterm-examination-to-be-held-from-december-9-to-23/article37572193.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Govt. pledges to clean Yamuna by 2025||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced a six-point action plan to completely clean the Yamuna and said he would himself take a dip in the river before the next Assembly election, fulfilling a promise made by the Aam Aadmi Party in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-pledges-to-clean-yamuna-by-2025/article37572309.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||Godse represents Hindutva, says Cong.||Mahatma Gandhi exemplified Hinduism, and his assassin Nathuram Godse represents the ideology of Hindutva, the Congress said on Thursday. Party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh, addressing a press conference, made this distinction between “Hindutva” and “Hinduism”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/godse-represents-hindutva-says-cong/article37572311.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC rules out Class X, XII exams in hybrid mode||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to intervene in a plea by students to direct authorities to hold CBSE and CISCE Class X and XII exams in hybrid mode. A Bench said CBSE exams had started and it was “inappropriate to intervene at this stage”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-rules-out-class-x-xii-exams-in-hybrid-mode/article37572310.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,||‘BJP hiding bitcoin scam by dragging in my son’s name’||Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Thursday alleged that the State unit of the BJP was trying to hide their corruption in the bitcoin scam by dragging the name of his deceased son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-hiding-bitcoin-scam-by-dragging-in-my-sons-name/article37572422.ece
19 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Channi visits Pak. shrine via Kartarpur corridor||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi, along with a few of his Cabinet Ministers, on Thursday visited Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib across the International Border, in Pakistan, via the Kartarpur corridor, which has reopened since after remaining closed for about 20 months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/channi-visits-pak-shrine-via-kartarpur-corridor/article37572302.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||Godse represents Hindutva, says Cong.||Mahatma Gandhi exemplified Hinduism, and his assassin Nathuram Godse represents the ideology of Hindutva, the Congress said on Thursday. Party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh, addressing a press conference, made this distinction between “Hindutva” and “Hinduism”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/godse-represents-hindutva-says-cong/article37572303.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC rules out Class X, XII exams in hybrid mode||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to intervene in a plea by students to direct authorities to hold CBSE and CISCE Class X and XII exams in hybrid mode. A Bench said CBSE exams had started and it was “inappropriate to intervene at this stage”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-rules-out-class-x-xii-exams-in-hybrid-mode/article37572304.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,||‘BJP hiding bitcoin scam by dragging son’s name’||Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Thursday alleged that the State unit of the BJP was trying to hide their corruption in the bitcoin scam by dragging the name of his deceased son.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-hiding-bitcoin-scam-by-dragging-sons-name/article37572624.ece
19 November 2021||Mysuru,||Hebbal Lake, zoo projects launched||Infosys Foundation announced the inauguration of three projects in Mysuru. The Foundation supported the rejuvenation of Hebbal Lake and the construction of a sewage treatment plant on the lake premises, and an enclosure for housing gorillas at Mysuru zoo at a total cost of Rs. 7.3 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hebbal-lake-zoo-projects-launched/article37572625.ece
19 November 2021||Hassan,||Council polls: Suraj Revanna to file papers||JD(S) State president H.K. Kumaraswamy declared on Thursday that Suraj Revanna, son of the former Minister H.D. Revanna and grandson of Mr. Gowda, would file the nomination papers as the party candidate from the Hassan Local Authorities’ constituency of the Legislative Council on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/council-polls-suraj-revanna-to-file-papers/article37572626.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ramp up production of vaccine ingredients: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, inaugurating the first Global Innovation Summit of the pharmaceuticals sector on Thursday, said India must think about ramping up domestic manufacturing of key ingredients for vaccines and medicines. “This is one frontier that India has to conquer,” he said, adding that the country had a large pool of scientists with the potential to take the pharmaceutical industry to greater heights. “This strength needs to be harnessed to ‘Discover and Make in India’,” Mr. Modi said. He noted that the COVID-19 pandemic had brought the pharmaceuticals sector into sharp focus. The Prime Minister stated that the Indian pharmaceutical industry had risen to the challenge. “The global trust earned by the Indian healthcare sector has led to the country being called the ‘pharmacy of the world’ in recent times,” he said. Stating that India’s definition of wellness is not limited by physical boundaries, Mr. Modi said the country believed in the well-being of all mankind. “During the pandemic, we exported life-saving medicines and medical equipment to over 150 countries during the initial phase of the pandemic. We have also exported more than 65 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines to nearly 100 countries this year,” he said. The Prime Minister envisioned creating an ecosystem for innovation that would make India a leader in drug discovery and innovative medical devices. He said policy interventions were being made based on wide consultation with all stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ramp-up-production-of-vaccine-ingredients-pm/article37571861.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI/HONG KONG,||India, China agree to restart talks between border commanders||After a month-long freeze on Line of Actual Control (LAC) disengagement talks, Indian and Chinese diplomats have decided to reconvene talks between border commanders “at an early date”. The decision was made at the 23rd meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation & Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) that is led by Foreign Ministries on both sides and comprises diplomatic, border security and military officials. The officials also agreed that they must “ensure a stable ground situation and avoid any untoward incident” in the interim, until the situation is resolved. The 13th round of border commander talks on October 10 had ended with an acrimonious exchange between both sides. ‘Candid discussions’ “It was agreed that both sides should hold the next [14th] round of the Senior Commanders meeting at an early date to achieve the objective of complete disengagement from all the friction points along the LAC in the Western Sector in accordance with the existing bilateral agreements and protocols,” said the statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Thursday, after virtual talks led by Additional Secretary (East Asia) Naveen Srivastava and Director General of the Boundary and Oceanic Department of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs Hong Liang, that said “candid and in-depth discussions” were held. This is the ninth round of WMCC talks just in the last year since the Galwan incident in June 2020. While the MEA statement was more specific about the desired outcome being “complete disengagement”, with India keen on completing disengagement in areas such as Hot Springs, Demchok and Depsang, where massive troop deployments continue well into the winter season, China has reportedly been more reticent on committing to any further disengagement after the agreements on Pangong Tso (lake) area and Gogra point were completed earlier this year, and only spoke of resolving “remaining issues”. The statement from China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said both sides had agreed, in accordance with the understanding reached by the two Foreign Ministers, S. Jaishankar and Wang Yi, in Dushanbe in September, to “continue their efforts to further de-escalate the border situation”, and would “strive to shift” from urgent dispute settlement to regular management and control “at an early date”. Beijing said both sides also agreed “to consolidate existing achievements of disengagement”, and abide by bilateral agreements “to avoid recurrence” of incidents. New resolve Despite the differences, the releases after the WMCC talks were in stark contrast to the openly accusatory language in statements that followed the 13th round of military talks, and indicates a new resolve by both sides to continue the LAC talks. A statement from New Delhi in October had said India had made “constructive suggestions for resolving the remaining areas but the Chinese side was not agreeable and also could not provide any forward-looking proposals”. The Chinese military had laid the blame at India for the stalemate saying it had made “unreasonable and unrealistic demands” and “hoped that the Indian side would avoid misjudging the situation”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-china-agree-to-restart-talks-between-border-commanders/article37571833.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Low quit rates for smoking in India: report||India is among countries with the lowest quit rates for smoking. The quit rates for men are less than 20%, says a report released by “The International Commission to Reignite the Fight Against Smoking”, which makes specific recommendations to achieve the goal of ending smoking worldwide. China and India are home to more than 500 million tobacco users between the ages of 16 and 64. India ranks second with 25,00,02133 smokers between the age of 16 and 64. Tobacco prevalence in India is three times higher among men than women. India also accounts for some of the highest rates of smokeless tobacco use and oral cancer in the world. The commission, which has members from the U.S., the U.K., South Africa, Indonesia and India, examines several important issues, including the trends in tobacco use, challenges to cessation efforts, the emergence of technological innovations, the role of physicians, regulatory policy, smoking and youth, and lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic. As per the study, nearly all countries ban marketing and direct sales of tobacco products to children, but in low-to-middle income countries these prohibitions are not rigorously enforced. The report cites data from Consumer Voice 2019, which states that despite prohibitions in India, a study of areas around 243 schools found nearby vendors displaying tobacco products in ways that are appealing to children and youth. Around 91% of the displays were at a distance of a metre (a child’s eye level). An estimated 54% of the points of sale had no visible health warning. “Smoking and its health impacts highlight a global public health crisis. This report offers trends in tobacco usage worldwide and makes recommendations to achieve the global goal of ending smoking. Technology and innovation are driving change and will play a key role in reigniting this fight against smoking,” said Ambassador James K. Glassman (retd.), former U.S. Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs, and chairman of the commission . The report recommends adopting best practices to combat misinformation and build a healthier information environment to reduce harm from tobacco by leveraging multi-national, multi-disciplinary and participatory foresight studies and advocating risk-proportionate regulations as a means of making it easier for smokers to switch quit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/low-quit-rates-for-smoking-in-india-report/article37571853.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Planetary crisis is a kind of bio-political war, akin to those of the past’||Celebrated writer Amitav Ghosh says the “planetary crisis” is akin to the “bio-political wars of the past” and holds that “things are really not good” in the world today. Speaking of his new book The Nutmeg’s Curse , Mr. Ghosh said that violence directed at people, ultimately, becomes violence directed at the environment. Edited excerpts :  Amitav, you paint a rather bleak picture of a world hurtling towards greater environmental disasters, a near end of civilisation scenario, where extraction of resources and inequalities make a living planet a very, very tough proposition. Well, things are not good. I try to be optimistic, and not be a predictor of doom and disaster. On the whole, even this book is in some ways more optimistic than not, but things are really not good. I heard the President of Palau, one of the Pacific islands’ nations, at COP26 saying, ‘you might as well bomb us’, and I think that was a very, very sound statement, because, in fact this planetary crisis is a kind of war. But as I argue in my book, it is precisely a kind of bio-political war, akin to the bio-political wars of the past. When you speak of the extraction of nutmeg from the Banda islands, and the Jallianwala Bagh-type massacre that followed, if I might call it that, committed by Dutch colonialists, you appear to be pointing to the continuity of resource extraction and consumption by dominant nations. That seems to be a process, which seems to be very much on. What happened in the Banda islands actually has very few precedents in Asia. In Jallianwala Bagh, I forget the precise number of people who were killed, but it was in the range of a few hundreds. What happened in the Banda islands is just inconceivable. The Dutch arrived there in 1621. They basically eliminated the entire population of the islands, killing several thousand and enslaving the rest in order to gain control of a resource, whereas atrocities like Jallianwala Bagh are a kind of police violence. In the Banda islands, the violence was completely aimed at a resource; the violence was committed in order to gain control of it. That’s the pattern we see more and more around the planet. It’s a crucial moment in a way, where this violence directed at people, ultimately, also becomes violence directed at the environment to create a process of extraction. And these processes of extraction are, in fact, incredibly violent. If you think of, let’s say, bauxite mining in the Niyamgiri region — bauxite mining is one of the most violent processes of extraction that there is. In order to make a small amount of aluminium, you basically just destroy an entire mountain and the entire ecosystem that exists there. It’s a horrifying thing. You quote Immanuel Wallerstein as saying that 95% of all written history was that of five nations — Britain, France, the United States, Germany and Italy. Has this situation dramatically changed in the current period? Aren’t the dominant still dominating the writing of history? That’s an interesting point. Again, there’s a very important nuance there. Yes, the dominant are still dominating the writing of history. If you go to major departments of history in the United States, for example, global history is just a very small part of any faculty of history here. These faculties are overwhelmingly dominated by people who are writing about the history of the United States or of Europe. But, you know, it’s precisely because the history of the United States is so closely documented, that it has made possible a completely alternative telling of these histories. So, here in the United States, for example, the 1619 project, really, absolutely revolutionised the ways in which people have conventionally understood this history. Similarly, there’s a book that I’m reading right now, by the anthropologist David Graeber, and an archaeologist, David Windrow. The book is called The Dawn of Everything . This is an amazing book, which completely rewrites the history of the Enlightenment. It shows that, in fact, everything that is presented as the gift of the Enlightenment, such as ideas of freedom, equality, and so on, actually, derives from the indigenous American critique of Western culture — that was what planted these ideas at the heart of what’s called Western civilisation. I just find it incredibly thrilling that I am living and writing and reading at a time when really all conventional understandings of these histories are being overturned. And we are seeing a completely different reality. But it’s important not to forget that these rewritings, these revolutions in thought, are ultimately being made possible, not purely by intellectual movements, but really, ultimately, by the intervention of earth itself. The earth is showing us that these presentations of history, these readings of history as a narrative of progress are actually completely wrong. What we see in the world around us today is completely the opposite of what we have been taught. But isn’t it true that the entire colonial experience in a sense has vanished and is not visible in the histories that are often written today. Actually, that is not at all the case. As you know, I’ve been writing about opium for a long time, in my novels, The Ibis Trilogy . And I’m actually writing about opium again now in a non-fiction book. The British started growing opium on a large scale under the East India Company from the late 18th century onwards, in basically what is now Bihar and eastern U.P., the Poorvanchal region. It’s important to remember that this region was historically the richest, the most culturally fecund part of the Indian subcontinent. Every major early empire in India came out of the Poorvanchal region. This was, in fact, the most productive part of India. This was exactly where the British chose to create their opium industry with the idea of essentially sending opium to China and to Southeast Asia. There have been recent studies, which show that, in fact, the legacy of opium in this region is exactly that of a resource curse. The districts in which opium was grown under the East India Company, and later by the British Raj, to this day have much worse indicators than neighbouring districts where opium was not grown. In order to grow opium, the British created this incredible machinery of surveillance — large numbers of spies and informers to prevent opium smuggling or opium black-marketeering. They introduced a level of violence and social distrust in this region, the effects of which linger to this day. Do you feel that something might eventually come out of conferences such as COP26? Or is it just another large gathering that has been happening for a long time? Yes, they have been happening for a long time, and they’ve delivered very little so far. The Paris Agreement was much celebrated. And it was agreed that the rich countries would create a fund to help vulnerable countries, a fund of $100 billion, and not even a tenth of that was actually delivered. In relation to this particular meeting, in a sense, it failed even before it began. Because the Presidents of three of the world’s most important players in relation to environment — Xi Jinping, Vladimir Putin, Jair Bolsonaro — none of them were there. These are the countries that actually hold the future in their hands. So, already there, you can see a sort of massive devaluation of the process. Your fiction and non-fiction books have inspired so many people to read, write and engage. How useful has your academic training been in your writing? My training was in anthropology. It’s been very useful in many ways but so has my training as a journalist. This book engages with history. My reading in history has been very important. But, ultimately, I think I would not be able to write this book if I were an academic. Although I’ve had that kind of training, I am not an academic. And I think that shows very much in my books. Before I let you go, please tell us about your next book. I’m trying to finish this short book on opium and the China trade, and how profoundly both of these changed India in the 19th and early 20th centuries, and how in effect, Indian modernity was shaped by these factors.  Globally, violence has been committed in order to gain control of a resource. It’s the pattern we see all over the planet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/planetary-crisis-is-a-kind-of-bio-political-war-akin-to-those-of-the-past/article37571845.ece
19 November 2021||SHIMLA,||No consensus on limiting Speaker’s powers||The All-India Presiding Officers’ Conference (AIPOC) ended here on Thursday with the delegates failing to reach a consensus on whether the Speaker’s powers under the anti-defection law should be limited, while reiterating an earlier resolution that there should be no disruptions during Question Hour and the President’s and Governor’s address to the House. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said the report of the committee headed by Rajasthan Speaker C.P. Joshi to review the anti-defection law was placed before the presiding officers, but there was no consensus. The report would be discussed again in the future, he said. The committee was formed in 2019 to examine the role of the Speaker in cases of disqualification on grounds of defection under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution. Mr. Birla said on Monday at a press conference in Delhi that the presiding officers’ powers in matters of disqualification should be limited. Earlier during the valedictory session held at the Himachal Pradesh Assembly, Mr. Birla said there was a need to increase the number of sittings of legislative bodies. “We should try to make a definite action plan to increase the number of meetings of the legislatures so as to provide maximum time and opportunities to the members so that the people’s representatives can discuss the major issues of their State and country extensively,” Mr. Birla said. The Speaker also called for drastic changes to the functioning of Standing Committees, including changes to their rules. He said presiding officers should evaluate the work of the committees once a year and make them more accountable to the people. Mr. Birla said the tradition of Zero Hour should be started in all State legislatures to give members the chance to raise urgent matters pertaining to their constituencies. Increasing disruptions Referring to the issue of increasing disruptions, the Speaker said the matter would be discussed with leaders of all political parties. He added that the work of creating a single platform for all legislatures would be done by 2022. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said in his speech to the conference on Wednesday that “one nation, one legislative platform” should be realised. Among the resolutions passed during the conference was the resolve against disruptions during Question Hour and President’s and Governor’s Address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-consensus-on-limiting-speakers-powers/article37571848.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||Michel seeks sanctions against India||Christian Michel, an alleged middleman arrested in connection with the Rs. 3,600 crore AgustaWestland VVIP chopper scam and currently lodged in Tihar jail, has written to U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson threatening to go on a hunger strike. He has demanded that the U.K. impose its ‘Magnitsky’-style sanctions (for human rights violations) against individuals or entities allegedly involved in the attack on the U.S.-registered yacht, Nostromo , and the “abduction” of UAE Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum’s daughter, Princess Latifa. According to reports in the British media, Mr. Michel’s extradition to India from the UAE was agreed to after India had assisted and mobilised the Coast Guard to board the Nostromo yacht to help repatriate Princess Latifa after she had escaped the UAE. While a U.K. court found evidence that Indian commandos had forcibly sent Ms. Latifa back, as she herself alleged, Government sources have denied reports of a “quid pro quo”. Letter from jail In his letter dated October 5 from Tihar, Mr. Michel told Mr. Johnson that he would begin a hunger strike on November 25 if his demands were not met. He also asked for sanctions against India for the attack on Nostromo . “The individuals and entities involved in the attack on the Nostromo are well known, some even named by the U.K. court... what happened to Latifa, the Nostromo passengers and crew is a scandal. However, the U.K. Government taking no action when the U.K. has sanctioned Russians, Chinese and Saudi individuals is inexplicable,” the letter said. Mr. Michel also said after frequent court hearings, where his bail has been dismissed, he only has the option of going on hunger strike if the U.K. Government does not act on the promise made to the British people to “apply to Indians or those in countries that are allies or friends” sanctions for human rights abuses. However, sources close to Mr. Michel said he decided to call off the strike after speaking to officials from the British High Commission. “Our staff continue to support Christian Michel, who has been detained in Delhi since 2018, and regularly raise his case with the Indian authorities,” a High Commission spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/michel-seeks-sanctions-against-india/article37572114.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC rules out allowing Class 10, 12 exams in hybrid mode||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to intervene in a plea by students to direct the authorities to hold the Class 10 and 12 term exams of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) in hybrid mode. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar said the CBSE exams had commenced on November 15 and it was “inappropriate to intervene and disturb at this stage”. The court disposed of the case after Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta assured it on behalf of the Union Government and the authorities that COVID-19-appropriate behaviour and protocol as per the standard operating procedure would be followed diligently without exposing the children and the exam officials to danger. Mr. Mehta said nearly 34 lakh students were attending the exams and to change the mode into hybrid midway would prove cumbersome. The Bench recorded Mr. Mehta’s statement that the number of children to a classroom had been reduced from over 40 to just 12. Similarly, the number of exam centres had been increased from 6,500 to 15,000. “All this has been done to ensure that students and exam duty holders are not exposed to any untoward situation,” the court noted. It said any chinks in the safety procedures should be brought to the attention of the official in charge of the exam centres, who would take immediate action. ‘Petition is belated’ The court said it would place its “hope and trust in the authorities to take all precautions”. The petition was belated, leaving it impossible for the court to step in. The Bench recorded that the CISCE term exams were starting on November 22. In the hearing, senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, for the petitioners, submitted that the threat of the pandemic had not passed and it would be premature to hold physical exams. “The virus transmits in places where there is a large congregation of people,” he submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-rules-out-allowing-classes-10-12-exams-in-hybrid-mode/article37571871.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Rail fracture, welding failures pose threat to safety of trains’||The Railway Ministry has sent out an alert that rail fractures and weld failures have become a threat to the safety of train operations, and called for the immediate intervention of top officials to detect such failures and avert hazards. In a note to General Managers of Zonal Railways on Wednesday, the Railway Board said rail fracture and weld failure had emerged as a “major area of concern for the rail safety”. In the last three years, five derailments, including two consequential accidents, had occurred due to rail fracture/weld failure. A review of the pre-winter precaution measures across the railway network revealed that almost all the Zonal Railways had backlogs/deficiencies in de-stressing long weld railways or continuous weld rail or maintenance of fish plates. Separate alerts were sent to the respective authorities to remove the deficiencies. “It is imperative to take special attention/precaution to prevent rail fracture/weld failure, especially during the winter season, so that accidents on this account can be prevented,” the note said. Reporting accidents In a separate communication, the Railway Board expressed concern that Zonal Railways were reporting late or not reporting accidents or unusual incidents, including those resulting in injury (of passengers, general public and railway staff). The information on such incidents was received by the Railway Board and apex offices from other sources such as social media and not from Zonal Railways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rail-fracture-welding-failures-pose-threat-to-safety-of-trains/article37571830.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘War-like situation prevails near LAC’||A councillor of one of the villages along the China border in Ladakh on Thursday requested Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to allot alternative land for the border residents in Leh city as a “war-like” situation prevailed in the area for the past one year. Mr. Singh was in Chushul in eastern Ladakh to inaugurate a revamped war memorial. Chushul’s councillor Konchok Stanzin handed a three-page letter to Mr. Singh where he also mentioned how the Indian Army blocked the locals from accessing certain grazing grounds while on the other hand the Chinese gave unfettered freedom to their nomads to move. “The Chinese have given unfettered freedom to their nomads to move freely. They [Chinese], very often, use their nomads community to transgress on our land in a step-by-step approach. Sadly, the movement of the nomads belonging to this side of border are restricted by Indian Army from grazing their livestock on the traditional pastureland from Hot Spring, Finger Area to Kailash Range [Nyanlung Yokma/Gongma]. The nomads on the Indian side are soldiers without uniform,” Mr. Stanzin’s letter stated. He suggested that a trading point with China be opened at Chushul, on the lines of what exists at Lipulekh in Uttarakhand and Nathu La in Sikkim. Indian and Chinese troops are engaged in a stand-off at various points in eastern Ladakh since April-May 2020. India and China have held 13 rounds of senior Commanders talks so far for complete disengagement from all the friction points but the meetings have remained inconclusive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/war-like-situation-prevails-near-lac/article37571837.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||India needs $10 tn. to meet net zero||To meet its goals of net zero, or being able to effectively eliminate carbon dioxide emissions by 2070, India will need close to $10 trillion (Rs. 700 lakh crore), according to an analysis by climate and energy research firm, CEEW Centre for Energy Finance (CEEW-CEF). CEEW is the Council for Energy, Environment and Water Research, a think tank here. Most of this money, around $8.4 trillion, would be needed to scale up generation from renewable energy and bringing together the necessary integration, distribution and transmission infrastructure. Another $1.5 trillion would have to be invested in the industrial sector for setting up green hydrogen production capacity to advance the sector’s decarbonisation. Green hydrogen is made from renewable energy and can be used for many things, from heating to powering batteries as well as fuelling vehicles. The study estimates that India would fall short by $3.5 trillion to achieve its net zero target and hence, investment support of $1.4 trillion would be required from developed economies to bridge the gap. Country’s goals Reaching net zero by 2050 is earth’s best chance, scientists say, to keep the globe’s average temperature from exceeding 1.5 Celsius by the end of the century. Last month, the CEEW in another study had computed that India’s total installed solar power capacity would need to increase to 5,630 gigawatts by 2070. The usage of coal, especially for power generation, would need to peak by 2040 and drop by 99% between 2040 and 2060. Further, crude oil consumption across sectors would need to peak by 2050 and fall substantially by 90% between 2050 and 2070. Green hydrogen could contribute 19% of the total energy needs of the industrial sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-needs-10-tn-to-meet-net-zero/article37571850.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Gandhi preached Hinduism, Godse represents Hindutva’||Mahatma Gandhi exemplified Hinduism, and his assassin Nathuram Godse represents the ideology of Hindutva, the Congress said on Thursday. Party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh, addressing a press conference, made this distinction between “Hindutva” and “Hinduism”. “Who is the greatest practising Hindu in our country in the last 200 years? It is Mahatma Gandhi ji . What Mahatma Gandhi preached is Hindu dharma, what Nathuram Godse practised is Hindutva. It is as simple as this,” Mr. Vallabh said. “Why did Godse kill Gandhi? Why did Hindutva try to kill Hindu dharma? Because they can’t understand the ideas of respect for all religions, ‘ Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam ’. They believe in ‘exclusiveness’. Gandhi’s Hindu dharma understands inclusiveness,” he added. The controversy over the difference between Hinduism and Hindutva was triggered after former Law Minister Salman Khurshid’s new book, Sunrise over Ayodhya: Nationalism in Our Times , in which he made the comparison between Hindutva and Islamic terror outfits such as the Islamic State and Boko Haram. Mr. Vallabh also targeted actor Kangana Ranaut for her comment that India’s Independence in 1947 was given in alms. Without naming her, he referred to her as a “ sarkari ” actor and demanded that the Government take back her Padma award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gandhi-preached-hinduism-godse-represents-hindutva/article37571856.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘Govt. compromising on national security ’||The Congress on Thursday questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence on new Chinese villages coming up near the Doklam plateau and accused the BJP Government of compromising national security and India’s territorial integrity. Addressing a press conference, party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said the latest satellite images showed that China had built four villages in Bhutan, next to Doklam, over 100 sq km of land in the area through illegal incursions. The Congress spokesperson said Bhutan’s boundary and external relations traditionally had been linked with India. “Why are we tolerating this all-round aggression from China and doing absolutely nothing about it? We urge the Prime Minister not to hide behind smokescreens and answer the people,” Mr. Vallabh said. “The Modi Government’s unpardonable, blatant and brazen compromise of national security and India’s territorial integrity stands exposed once again. The Prime Minister and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh have undermined the astounding valour and insurmountable grit of our Armed forces, who face Chinese incursions and aggressions with indomitable courage and sacrifice,” he added “Why is the Modi Government disrespecting and dishonouring the sacrifice of our brave soldiers? When will the Modi Government respond to this verbal, geographic, military and strategic aggression of China?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-compromising-on-national-security/article37571828.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP evolves big plan for U.P. polls||The BJP on Thursday got down to laying out an elaborate plan for preparing for the coming polls in Uttar Pradesh. The plan includes a “Vijay Sankalp Yatra” and the deployment of Union Home Minister Amit Shah in western Uttar Pradesh and Braj for a series of meetings with booths in-charge, an area where the protests by farmers against the three controversial Central laws has had the most traction. The “Vijay Sankalp Yatra” (from four different venues) through December, to conclude on December 25 (birth anniversary of the former Prime Minister, the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee), and other plans to energise the cadre were decided at a meeting held by party president J.P. Nadda here. “Meetings of booths in-charge will be held, with Mr. Shah taking the meetings in western Uttar Pradesh, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in Awadh and the Kashi region and Mr. Nadda in Gorakhpur and the Kanpur region. Nadda ji ’s programme is fixed for November 22 and 23, but the two Ministers have to fix the dates,” said a senior source present at the meeting. Farmers’ protests What is significant is that it is Mr. Shah who will be talking to party men in western Uttar Pradesh on how best to tackle traction, if any, that the farmers protests have had in the region. “Western Uttar Pradesh continues to be a pain point as far as the BJP is concerned, as, despite the fact that there is widespread contract farming already in the area, there is a sense of grievance among farmers over sugar cane procurement prices and high electricity bills that has led to solidarity with farmers protesting the three controversial farm laws. A likely coalition between the Samajwadi Party and the Rashtriya Lok Dal is also a worry. In 2017, when the Jat reservation issue was foregrounded in the campaign, Amit ‘bhai’ [Shah] had done much of the groundwork in diffusing the sense of upset among Jats,” said a source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-evolves-big-plan-for-up-polls/article37571851.ece
19 November 2021||Srinagar,||Hurriyat calls for shutdown in Kashmir today||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday claimed that she was not allowed to leave her residence in Srinagar to join a sit-in demanding the return of bodies of alleged civilians killed in the Hyderpora encounter in Jammu and Kashmir. “Their narrative right from the start was based on lies to escape accountability. They don’t want to be held accountable for their actions and that’s why they are muzzling voices that speak up against such injustice and atrocities,” she said in a tweet. “The pattern of using innocent civilians as human shields and then denying their families the right to a decent burial shows that the Government of India has plumbed new depths of inhumanity,” she said. Sharing a video of the police action at night, in which family members of those killed in the encounter were removed from the protest site, National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah said, “This is the ‘Naya Kashmir’ of 2021. This is how the J&K police fulfils the Prime Minister’s promise to remove ‘ dil ki doori and Dilli se doori ’.” The Hurriyat, headed by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, has called for a shutdown on Friday over the killings. “Infant daughter, distraught mother protesting in freezing weather not for punishment to the killers but begging for the bodies for a decent burial is agonising,” the Mirwaiz said in a statement. To protest such inhumanity and in solidarity with the devastated families, people should observe a shutdown on Friday, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hurriyat-calls-for-shutdown-in-kashmir-today/article37571852.ece
19 November 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Channi visits Pak. shrine via Kartarpur corridor||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, along with a few of his Cabinet Ministers, on Thursday visited Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib across the International Border, in Pakistan, via the Kartarpur corridor, which has reopened since after remaining closed for about 20 months. Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, however, was not part of the CM’s delegation, raising eyebrows in political circles. The Chief Minister was accompanied by Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal; Public Works Department Minister Vijay Inder Singla; MLAs arpartap Singh Ajnala and Barindermeet Singh Pahra, MLAs; and others. As the Congress’s State unit, which has been suffering from rifts and chaos on account of alleged differences between Mr. Channi and Mr. Sidhu, continues to look for stability ahead of the 2022 Assembly election, Mr. Sidhu’s absence from the delegation has only added to the ongoing confusion in the party, indicating a fresh tussle among the two leaders. Mr. Channi urged the Governments of India and Pakistan to simplify the procedure for obtaining permission to visit Kartarpur Sahib. Batting for the opening of cross-border trade from Punjab’s borders, the CM said that both India and Pakistan should deliberate on re-starting trade and commerce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/channi-visits-pak-shrine-via-kartarpur-corridor/article37571836.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Bankers must support job creators, says Modi||Comparing the current situation to the national leap of faith triggered by the key turning points in 1930 (the Dandi March) and 1942 (the Quit India movement) for India’s freedom struggle that eventually culminated in attaining Independence in 1947, he said: “When I am talking of a leap now, after 75 years of Independence, we have reached a situation that in a real sense, the ground is firm for making the leap, the target is set, we just have to set off.” “Be it a public or private sector bank, the more we invest in citizens, the better it will be for the country’s people. The historic reforms that we have undertaken in ‘AatmaNirbhar Bharat’ has opened new opportunities for the country. To fund and invest in our aspirations, can there be a better time than now?” the Prime Minister asked. To allay bankers’ fears about post-lending investigation and arrests, he said: “In national interest, any honest work done in good faith — keep my words written down and save this video clip — I am with you. Mistakes also happen, but if any such difficulty comes, I am standing here to become a wall and protect you. But we have to do our bit to take the country forward. With such a firm foundation and such a big opportunity to touch the sky, if we waste our time in thinking, then I believe coming generations will never forgive us.” “If our infrastructure companies work on the scale of projects from the previous century, with technologies from the previous century, can they then meet our aspirations for the 21st century? Today, if they have to work on a large scale and make bullet trains and expressways, they need larger equipment and capital for that,” Mr. Modi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bankers-must-support-job-creators-says-modi/article37571835.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi calls for caution on cryptocurrencies||“Vested interests” should not “misuse” democracy’s “openness”, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday delivering the keynote speech at the Sydney Dialogue. Addressing the event through videoconferencing, Mr. Modi highlighted India’s digital revolution and cautioned against misuse of cryptocurrencies and urged democracies to work together to deal with the threat. “The biggest strength of democracy is openness. At the same time, we should not allow a few vested interests to misuse this openness,” said Mr. Modi listing the “five important transitions” taking place in India. He included the changes in the digital domain of India as part of the transformative developments and said India was using digital data to empower people. Building of the world’s most extensive public information infrastructure, use of digital technology for governance, building of the world’s third largest start-up ecosystem, digital changes in agriculture, preparing for 5G and 6G are the “five important transitions”, he said. The Prime Minister also called upon the world to stop misuse of cryptocurrencies. “It is important that all democratic nations work on this and ensure that it does not end up in wrong hands, which can spoil our youth.” When technology and data are misused, they become new forms of weapons, he said. Mr. Modi pointed out the evolving changes in the domains of technology and security and cautioned the world about multiple threats from “the seabed to cyber to space”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stop-misuse-of-cryptocurrencies-pm/article37571834.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||Court comes to the aid of Dalit boy for IIT admission||Coming to the aid of a Dalit boy who lost a seat in IIT, Bombay as his credit card did not allow him to pay the fees, the Supreme Court on Thursday said “the court must sometimes rise above the law” as “who knows 10 years down the line he may be the leader of our nation”. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna directed counsel for the Centre to explore the possibility of his admission. “...this is a humanitarian thing and sometimes we must rise above the law,” it said assuring counsel that the order would not be treated as a precedent. The Bench said it may pass the order on Monday. Amol Chitale, counsel of petitioner Prince Jaibir Singh, who got the 864th rank in the reserved category, said that if he did not get admission in Bombay, he was willing to join another IIT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-comes-to-the-aid-of-dalit-boy-for-iit-admission/article37572111.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||India prepared to give befitting reply: Rajnath||The Battle of Rezang La is considered one of the 10 greatest and most challenging military conflicts in the world, he noted.  The memorial was constructed in 1963 in the Chushul plains, at an altitude of over 15,000 feet.  The renovated complex includes a double-storied museum, a mini-theatre to screen a special documentary on the battle, a helipad and various other tourist amenities. It also displays the names of the Army personnel who lost their lives in the violent clash at Galwan valley last year. November 18 marks the 59th anniversary of the Battle of Rezang La in which troops from the 13 Kumaon Regiment defeated several waves of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army in 1962. During the battle, 114 soldiers of the Charlie Company of 13 Kumaon lost their lives. Maj. Shaitan Singh was posthumously awarded Param Vir Chakra, the country’s highest wartime gallantry award. “Major Shaitan Singh and his fellow soldiers fought till the ‘last bullet and last breath’ and wrote a new chapter of bravery and sacrifice,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-prepared-to-give-befitting-reply-rajnath/article37571841.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||SC says sexual intent is key to POCSO Act||The court, while setting aside the High Court decision, confirmed the guilt of the offender in the case and sentenced him to three years of rigorous imprisonment, subject to the period he had undergone. Mr. Venugopal had argued that the High Court order would set a “very dangerous precedent” and cripple the intention of the POCSO Act to punish sexual offenders. He stressed that the High Court order had a deleterious effect when the number of POCSO cases had reached 43,000 in a year. On January 19, a Single Judge of the Bombay High Court’s Nagpur Bench created a furore by acquitting the man under the POCSO Act and holding that an act against a minor would amount to groping or sexual assault only if there was “skin-to-skin” contact. The High Court had concluded that mere touching or pressing of a clothed body of a child did not amount to sexual assault.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-says-sexual-intent-is-key-to-pocso-act/article37571843.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Quash Ordinances on ED, CBI chiefs’ tenure’||The challenge to two new Ordinances, which leave the tenures of the country’s premier investigative bodies at the mercy of the Government, is gathering steam in the Supreme Court. Congress party leader R.S. Surjewala on Thursday urged the Supreme Court to quash the Ordinances, which allow the Government to extend the tenures of the chiefs of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) “in a piecemeal fashion” up to a maximum of five years. Mr. Surjewala’s plea follows a day after Trinamool Congress leader Mahua Moitra challenged the Ordinances in the top court. ‘Insecure about tenure’ The Congress leader said the Ordinances would leave the heads of the two top investigative bodies insecure about their tenure and erode their professional independence. He pointed to how the Government had couched the need for the Ordinances in “vague” terms, saying it was in “public interest”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/quash-ordinances-on-ed-cbi-chiefs-tenure/article37571855.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Mobile connectivity project to benefit tribes||More than half of the over 7,200 uncovered villages, largely inhabited by tribal communities, that the Government aims to provide 4G connectivity by 2023 at an estimated cost of Rs. 6,466 crore, is in Odisha, according to official data. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the provisioning of mobile services in 7,287 uncovered villages in 44 Aspirational Districts that are among the most under-developed districts in India, across five States – Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Maharashtra and Odisha. The decision comes close on the heels of Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurating the Birsa Munda museum in Ranchi on the first-ever ‘Janjatiya Gaurav Divas’ or tribal pride day, as part of efforts to reach out to the tribal community ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha election. While the exact tribal population that would benefit from the decision was not available, an official said it was likely to be around 36 lakh people across these villages. As per available data, 3,933 of the uncovered villages under the project fall in Odisha. These include districts such as Rayagada (962 villages), Kandhamal (1,094 villages), Malkangiri (306 villages), Gajapati (467), Nabarangapur (17 villages) and Koraput (520 villages), which have more than 50% Scheduled Tribe (ST) population as per the 2011 Census. Likewise, of the 700 villages in Chhattisgarh, 418 villages were in districts such as Bijapur, Narayanpur and Bastar, where the tribal population is in majority. In Jharkhand, 827 uncovered villages would get connectivity across districts such as Bokaro, Hazaribagh, Khunti, Purbi Singhbhum, Sahibganj and Simdega. In Maharashtra, 610 village would benefit in Gadchiroli and Nandurbar, and about 1,218 villages in Andhra Pradesh would get connectivity across Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and YSR. Most of these districts also had a significant tribal population. As per Department of Telecom estimates, as of August, 5,72,551 of 5,97,618 inhabited Census villages of the country, including tribal and Left Wing Extremism (LWE)-affected areas, had mobile network coverage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mobile-connectivity-project-to-benefit-tribes/article37571859.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||WTO must rein in nations violating trade rules: Goyal||“Theworld today has to reassess whether countries across the world are truly and genuinely following the multilateralrules in terms of transparency, fair play and honest business practices,” the Minister noted and stressedthat the WTO should reassess the wayit has been conducting its affairs.India, in contrast, was “proud of following the rules to a T” with everything done transparently in the public domain, he said. “... So much so that our system allows for anyone to pay just Rs. 10 to take out any file from the government system [as] our Right to Information laws are so strong,” Mr. Goyal added. Mr. Goyal was responding to a query from New Zealand’sHigh Commissioner to India David Pyne on the changes needed in the global trade rules regime. He said New Zealand wanted India to join the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) but it was an “agreement between two unequals”. “We are looking at a transparent, honest trading system in India and entering into an agreement with certain geographies that don’t share information, don’t give market access to everybody equitably and openly, where there are hidden subsidies about which I never get to act because I don’t have the information, where youask for data but you never get the data,” Mr. Goyal said alluding to China, a key member of the RCEP. “Our pharma industry has been trying for four years but not getting market access. And here, in India, we open up 100% automatic approval, anybody can come invest and buy our companies,” he observed at the Global Economic summit hosted by the Confederation of Indian Industry. While reforming the WTO was critical to check such countries’ flagrant violation of trade rules, any talk about these changes triggered the developed world into “immediately” seeking reforms related to whether Special and Differential Treatment trade benefits for the less developed and developing countries should continue. Differentiated treatment “I think it is so unfair. I can understand a discussion on which countries should be considered developing and which should now be considered developed.But to deprive countries of differentiated treatment in their business practices when they are at levels of $1000, $600 to $3,000 per capita income, and putting them on the same benchmark as a country that makes $60,000$ or $80,000 per capita, is grossly unfair,”he asserted and urged the developed world to “look at their priorities”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wto-must-rein-in-nations-violating-trade-rules-goyal/article37571842.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Nandagopan Kumaran||Although Krishna is known as Vaasudeva because He is the son of Vasudeva, the Azhvars praise Him as the son of Nandagopa, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. It is Krishna’s childhood leelas that are enjoyed by the Azhvars, and so, obviously, Nandagopa is the one who comes to mind. Vasudeva did not have the good fortune of seeing Krishna’s growing years. It is always a matter of joy to any child to be known as so and so’s son. Rama liked being called Dasaratha’s son. After the killing of Ravana, the devas praise Rama. Rama replies to them: Atmaanam maanusham manye raamam dasarathaathmajam (Yuddha Kanda). Here He says He thinks of Himself as a human being and as Rama the son of Dasaratha. Krishna too would have been delighted to have been called Vasudeva’s son or Nandagopa’s son. But since it was Nandagopa who was witness to Krishna’s amazing feats, naturally, “Nandagopan Kumaran” became the preferred way of referring to Him. Kamsa, having come to know that Krishna is in Gokula, sees no reason to keep Vasudeva and Devaki imprisoned. So he releases them. Nandagopa goes to pay taxes to Kamsa, and while there, he meets his friend Vasudeva. Vasudeva enquires about Krishna, without revealing the truth about His parentage. But he mentions Balarama as his son, through Rohini. Vasudeva asks Nandagopa to take care of both Balarama and Krishna. Krishna, although He is in Gokula, is not entirely safe from Kamsa, who makes many attempts to kill the child. He sends demons like Cakatasura and the demoness Putana to kill Krishna, but these attempts fail. Many dangers are faced by Krishna when He is growing up as Nandagopa’s son, but He easily overcomes them all. Vanquishing His enemies is like child’s play to Him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nandagopan-kumaran/article37571854.ece
19 November 2021||Jaipur,||Rajasthan BJP MLA booked in rape case||A Bharatiya Janata Party MLA in Rajasthan has been booked in a rape case, the second such case against him in a span of 10 months. A First Information Report against Pratap Lal Bheel, representing the reserved constituency of Gogunda in Udaipur district, was registered following a complaint lodged by a 37-year-old woman. Earlier, another woman from Madhya Pradesh had accused Mr. Bheel, 52, of raping her in February this year. A case under Section 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code was registered against the MLA at Sukher police station. In the latest case, the woman submitted a written complaint to Udaipur Superintendent of Police, alleging that she met Mr. Bheel two years ago while looking for a job. She said the MLA abused her sexually for almost two years, promising to find her a job. Mr. Bheel stopped taking the woman’s calls after the recent Assembly by-election in Vallabhnagar and started threatening her, according to the complaint. The woman’s medical examination was done after recording her statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-bjp-mla-booked-in-rape-case/article37572312.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||No relief for Deshmukh, Param Bir||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused relief to both former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in separate cases, noting that “these persons who once occupied top offices” are now facing serious charges. Mr. Deshmukh is accused of money laundering. He is under investigation by the CBI and ED. Mr. Singh was recently declared an absconder in corruption and extortion cases. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, for Mr. Deshmukh, said the person who filed the complaint against him — Mr. Singh — is himself an absconder. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for CBI, countered that Mr. Deshmukh had himself been “untraceable” to the CBI and ED for a period. The court refused to entertain Mr. Deshmukh’s plea that the CBI should produce case records, including legal opinions and the preliminary enquiry report. Mr. Sibal failed to prima facie convince the court that the case against the former Minister was without basis. “Just because the person has been a Minister, we have to entertain these petitions?” Justice S.K. Kaul said, dismissing Mr. Deshmukh’s plea. ‘Disclose location’ Later in the day, the same Bench took up a petition filed by Mr. Singh and told him that he would have to disclose his location to seek the court’s protection. “Your (Singh) petition has been filed by your power of attorney holder. Where are you? Are you in the country? Outside the country?” Justice Kaul told Mr. Singh’s counsel. Mr. Singh’s lawyers said they would have to check with the power of attorney holder who filed the petition on behalf of the former Mumbai Police chief. “You have not joined any investigation and you are seeking protection. Our suspicion may be wrong... but if you are somewhere abroad and waiting for our orders, how can we give it? No protection, no hearing till we have the answer to the question — where are you?” Justice Kaul said firmly. “If I am allowed to breathe, I can get out of the hole,” the counsel replied, asking for time till Monday. The court posted Mr. Singh’s case again on November 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-relief-for-deshmukh-param-bir/article37571827.ece
19 November 2021||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao can surrender before Dec. 2||The Bombay High Court on Thursday extended till December 2 the time granted to poet Varavara Rao to surrender before the Taloja Central Jail authorities in Maharashtra. Mr. Rao, 82, was arrested on August 28, 2018 in the Bhima Koregaon violence case and was lodged in Taloja Central Jail. He was granted interim bail for six months on medical grounds by the High Court on February 22 this year. He was scheduled to surrender and return to judicial custody on September 5. The Bench directed him to file a fresh plea with substantial modifications for seeking extension of his medical bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/varavara-rao-can-surrender-before-dec-2/article37571831.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||On the draw||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-the-draw/article37571839.ece
19 November 2021||Mumbai,||Rashmi Shukla appears before panel||IPS officer Rashmi Shukla appeared before the Bhima Koregaon Commission in Mumbai on Thursday. Former Mumbai Commissioner of Police Param Bir Singh was also summoned but he did not appear. Ms. Shukla did not depose before the Commission. She sought time to file an affidavit as she was yet to get some documents from the police about the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rashmi-shukla-appears-before-panel/article37571840.ece
19 November 2021||SHIMLA,||Frame rules of legislation fast, says Thakur||Calling for an improvement in the quality of debates and better implementation of laws, Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Singh Thakur on Thursday said sometimes rules meant to implement laws were not drafted for two or three years after the enactment of the legislation. Mr. Thakur, the BJP MP from Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh, was addressing the valedictory session of the All-India Presiding Officers’ Conference in Shimla. He said a law was as good or as bad as its implementation. He also asked legislatures to invest in research.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/frame-rules-of-legislation-fast-says-thakur/article37571846.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||PM to discuss security issues at DGPs’ meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will brainstorm over key security issues with senior police officers across the country at a three-day Director-General of Police (DGP) conference beginning on Friday in Lucknow. The annual meet, organised by the Intelligence Bureau (IB), will be attended by Home Minister Amit Shah in the hybrid mode. Few State DGPs and officers from the Central Armed Police Forces are expected to join virtually, while Mr. Modi and IB officials will be in Lucknow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-to-discuss-security-issues-at-dgps-meet/article37571857.ece
19 November 2021||Bhopal,||Vir Das can’t perform in M.P.: Minister||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Thursday said comedian Vir Das, who is facing police complaints over his monologue “I come from two Indias”, would not be allowed to perform in the State. Mr. Das, who is in the U.S. right now, on Monday uploaded a six-minute video on YouTube titled “I come from two Indias”, which was a part of his recent performance at the John F. Kennedy Centre in Washington D.C. “We won’t allow such jesters to perform. If he tenders an apology, we are going to think over it,” Mr. Mishra, who is also the Madhya Pradesh Government’s spokesperson, said when asked about the monologue. Mr. Das has found backing from Trinamool Congress member Mahua Moitra, and Congress leaders Kapil Sibal and Shashi Tharoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vir-das-cant-perform-in-mp-minister/article37571865.ece
19 November 2021||Patna,||Policemen attack judge in Bihar court; HC asks DGP to file status report||Two policemen allegedly attacked a judge inside a courtroom in Madhubani district on Thursday, prompting the Patna HC to take suo motu cognizance of the matter and ask the State’s DGP to file a status report. The two policemen entered the courtroom during the hearing of a case, allegedly pointed a gun at Additional District and Sessions Judge of Jhanjharpur Avinash Kumar, and attacked him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/policemen-attack-judge-in-bihar-court-hc-asks-dgp-to-file-status-report/article37572313.ece
19 November 2021||SHIMLA,||Martin Scorsese, Hema Malini to be awarded at IFFI||U.S. director Martin Scorsese and Bollywood actor-turned-politician Hema Malini would be among those awarded at the upcoming International Film Festival of India (IFFI), Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Singh Thakur said on Thursday. Mr. Thakur said Ms. Malini, who is the BJP MP from Mathura, and lyricist Prasoon Joshi would both be honoured with the “Indian Film Personality of the Year Award”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/martin-scorsese-hema-malini-to-be-awarded-at-iffi/article37571863.ece
19 November 2021||Kolkata,||TMC MP’s marriage in Turkey legally not valid, rules Kolkata court||The marriage between Trinamool Congress MP Nusrat Jahan and businessman Nikhil Jain is not legally valid, a Kolkata court said earlier this week. “It is declared that the alleged marriage held on 19/06/2019 at Bodrum, Turkey in between the plaintiff and the defendant is not legally valid. The suit is, thus, disposed off on admission,” the court said on November 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tmc-mps-marriage-in-turkey-legally-not-valid-rules-kolkata-court/article37571864.ece
19 November 2021||Patna,||Over 5,000 illegal private nursing homes and clinics in Bihar served notices||Days after the abduction and murder of journalist and Right to Information (RTI) activist Buddhinath Jha, alias Avinash Jha, in Benipatti of Madhubani district in Bihar, allegedly for exposing illegal private nursing homes and clinics in his area, 5,433 such establishments have been served notices across Bihar for not following norms, including the Bio-Medical Waste Management Rules, 2016. Of them, 326 are from Patna district alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-5000-illegal-private-nursing-homes-and-clinics-in-bihar-served-notices/article37572112.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||SC pulls up Gujarat on ex gratia payment for COVID-19 deaths||The Supreme Court on Thursday slammed the Gujarat Government for being “insensitive” to the sufferings of families who lost their loved ones to COVID-19 by forcing them to “run from pillar to post” to get their ex gratia compensation of Rs. 50,000 each. “The Government should extend a helping hand rather than be adversarial. Your officers take it in an adversarial way... People are still suffering,” Justice M.R. Shah addressed Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-pulls-up-gujarat-on-ex-gratia-payment-for-covid-19-deaths/article37571869.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||Evaluating normalising overseas flight operations: Scindia||Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Thursday said the Government was evaluating the process for normalising international flight operations and it wanted a return to normalcy while keeping in mind the COVID-19 pandemic situation in certain parts of the world. He said people should not let their guard down.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/evaluating-normalising-overseas-flight-operations-scindia/article37571872.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rain affected over 500 small and medium units||Over 500 micro, small and medium enterprises across Tamil Nadu suffered plant and equipment damage and huge production losses in the rain and floods last week. Many industrial estates are yet to ascertain the damage. According to estimates, nearly 350 units suffered plant and equipment damage. Production loss of Rs. 50 crore per day is estimated at the Ambattur Industrial Estate, Chennai. A.N. Gireeshan, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association, said the main issue was the floodwater from the Avadi and Ambattur lakes upstream flowing into the estate. The water would have reached the Korattur lake, but its entry has been blocked for over four years by the PWD on the orders of the National Green Tribunal. The State and Union Governments should help to sort out the issues. “The PWD should construct a cut-and-cover canal right from the exit point of the Ambattur lake through the northern side of the estate, parallel to the rail line, to ensure that the floodwater drains into the Korattur lake. The Railway Ministry should build an underpass from the southern side of the rail track to the northern side.” Around 75 units suffered damage at the Kakkalur Industrial Estate. Its association secretary K. Baskaran said the estate had several issues of infrastructure and the storm-water drain had to be streamlined. “We have shared all the details with government officials who have visited us.” Heads of some other industrial estates said Minister for Small Industries T.M. Anbarasan and officials inspected the estates and asked the unit-holders to list their concerns. “Officials visit industrial estates during such a crisis but there is no progress thereafter. They should have rectified the problems immediately after the 2015 floods [in Chennai],” said the owner of a small unit at Guindy, one of the oldest estates in the country. “MSMEs in Tamil Nadu supply raw material to some of the biggest companies and multi-national firms. So the State Government should do a study of all the estates and come out with a plan for proper infrastructure without further delay,” he said. R.G. Chakrapani, secretary of the Thirumazhisai Industrial Estate Association, said 170-180 units were functional. “The floodwater has entered most of the units and reached the machineries of 30%-40 % of the units, but has not affected their functioning.” The absence of a large number of employees and supervisory workers hampered production. The loss might be Rs. 10 crore-Rs. 15 crore, he said. V.K. Girish Pandian, president of IEMA Guindy, said the unit-holders had not given details of the losses, but production was impacted by power cuts. “Fortunately, SIDCO cleaned the storm-water drainage network one month ago. So the rainwater stagnated on the roads and receded fast,” he said. According to him, maintenance work was not done properly, though the SIDCO was collecting maintenance charges, the Chennai Corporation was collecting property and professional taxes and Metrowater was collecting charges. “They are [cumulatively] collecting more than Rs. 1 crore a year in maintenance charges,” he said. SIDCO is now planning to hand over the maintenance to IEMA, and the preliminary work is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-affected-over-500-small-and-medium-units/article37572237.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC sets aside appointment of Sir Theagaraya College principal||A selection committee constituted for identifying a right candidate for the post of principal in a government aided college must consist of experts competent to assess the Academic Performance Indicator (API) of applicants and such a job could not be entrusted to external experts, the Madras High Court has ruled. Justice C. Saravanan gave this ruling while declaring as irregular the appointment of P. Senthilkumar as principal of Sir Theagaraya College at Old Washermenpet in Chennai in 2018. Allowing a writ petition filed by the competing candidate K. Thamizharasan, the judge ordered constitution of a new selection committee. The Registrar of the University of Madras was directed to furnish names of experts, to be a part of the new selection committee, within 30 days. The meeting of the selection committee should be fixed within 15 days thereafter and the writ petitioner as well as the incumbent principal could participate in the interview, the judge ordered. Evaluating scores The judge clarified that the new selection committee should evaluate the API scores of the two candidates in accordance with the UGC guidelines in force and give its recommendations on the same of day of the meeting/interview. The college should declare the results of the interview immediately. If the incumbent is selected, he should be allowed to complete the term of five years from the date of his initial appointment. On the other hand, if the writ petitioner is found suitable for the post, he must be appointed to the post for a term of five years, the court ordered.  Making it clear that the entire exercise of appointing a new principal must be completed within 50 days, the judge said that in the interregnum, the incumbent could continue to be the principal in-charge of the college but should refrain from taking any important policy, administrative or financial decision. Judge disapproves The judge disapproved of the previous selection committee having postponed the interview from May 31 to June 2, 2018 because it wanted to obtain opinion on API scores from external experts. He said the very purpose of including experts in the selection committee was to ensure that there was no arbitrary decision in favour of any person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-sets-aside-appointment-of-sir-theagaraya-college-principal/article37572260.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Initiative under way for welfare of marginalised communities||In a significant social reform, Tamil Nadu has embarked on a mission to conduct a district-wise enumeration of Narikuravas, tribals and other members of marginalised communities, and ensure that they have access to basic infrastructural facilities and are covered under social security schemes. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu has directed District Collectors to conduct field study and send a report on their economic status as well. Revenue officials have been mandated with the task of visiting villages for an on-the-spot assessment of the basic infrastructural facilities available to the members of these communities. Officials are preparing a report on the number of families, their educational/economic status, nature and ownership of house (concrete/thatched) or house site, school-going children, access to toilet/drinking water/road facilities, drainage facilities, access to primary healthcare etc. The Needs Assessment Format would also check whether the the marginalised communities are in possession of voters identity card, Aadhaar, community certificate, ration card, differently abled certification, old age pension, Chief Minister’s Health Insurance, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) job card among others. The data would be monitored by the Special Programme Implementation Department. Collectors have been asked to coordinate with the department concerned and take steps for redressing the grievances of these people. Mr. Irai Anbu told the Collectors to take up the work on priority and take necessary steps for uplifting the status of this section of people by providing basic amenities at the earliest. He said the instructions followed the recent visit of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to Poonjeri village, near Mamallapuram, where he announced various welfare schemes for the people there. Mr. Stalin also directed the officials to make sure that the Narikuravars, tribals and marginalised community people derived benefits of social security schemes and had access to all infrastructural facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initiative-under-way-for-welfare-of-marginalised-communities/article37572254.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to increase strength of agents manning monsoon helpline||The Greater Chennai Corporation is planning to increase the number of call agents for the civic helpline 1913 to strengthen disaster response during the northeast monsoon that is currently prevailing over the State. The number of call agents was increased from 10 to 50 during the beginning of the monsoon, and now, the civic body is expected to increase that by 100 soon. The agents will support city residents during disaster events. On Thursday, Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi inspected the call centre and control room to facilitate better response to complaints from residents in flooded areas. During the rains on Thursday, the 1913 helpline received 500 complaints. The largest number of complaints on a single day in the city was registered during the previous spell of rain, with 6,000 a day. Critical calls After the onset of the northeast monsoon this year, the Corporation has received more than 45,000 complaints. The civic body has allocated dedicated call agents to address critical calls that are made by residents during life-threatening situations. Around 1% of the calls are classified as critical, with follow up done by agents every hour. The call agents have been instructed to check with residents during the closure of each complaint by officials. Complaints made on social media and the Namma Chennai App will also be followed up by call agents after the increase in number of personnel at the call centre. Manpower for follow-ups has also been increased. Call agents will do follow up of citizens, as well as officials. Usually the follow-up activities are done by 3 to 4 persons, but the number of personnel involved in follow-up activities has increased to more than 60 this monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-to-increase-strength-of-agents-manning-monsoon-helpline/article37572258.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State government will form Road Safety Authority soon||The State government will form a Road Safety Authority to implement schemes to improve the safety on roadways. According to a press release, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin chaired a meeting of ministers and officials from various departments on Thursday to discuss key aspects of road safety under the scheme ‘ Innuyir Kappoom Thittam ’. Stressing the need for reducing the road traffic accident fatality rate, which is now 23.9 per lakh population, Mr. Stalin said the concerned departments should take initiatives to make road transportation safe for commuters in Tamil Nadu. Various schemes have been proposed to promote road safety in the State. The State government has formulated a draft plan for promotion of road safety with data compiled by various line agencies. To provide medical assistance to accident victims within 48 hours of an accident, 609 hospitals have been roped in. An allocation of Rs. 50 crore has been made to initiate a scheme to provide medical assistance, including 81 procedures, for accident victims during the first 48 hours. Wide coverage The beneficiaries of the scheme include all victims of road accidents, including foreign nationals. The scheme will include emergency response, rescue and resuscitation, damage control surgery and rehabilitation. The government will also enact a law for promotion of road safety, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-government-will-form-road-safety-authority-soon/article37572256.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M students take up SDGs for entrepreneurship contest||Students of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras have launched an initiative to boost start-ups and businesses working on sustainability. The aim is to achieve five of the United Nation’s sustainable development goals (SDG). SUSPIRE, an initiative of the institute’s entrepreneurship cell, has proposed to reach out to over 5,000 individuals and motivate them to adopt at least one concept of sustainable living. It plans to support and promote 20 start-up teams, working in the sustainability domain; formulate 100 solutions to revolutionise industrial process and propose 50 policies that government can adopt to achieve at least five of the SDGs. Social campaign “Each year we come up with a social campaign. In 2018, it was education, to inculcate 21st century entrepreneurship skills in school students. In 2019, we targetted digital well-being. In 2020, we had ‘Pankh’, to uplift small and medium enterprises that faced COVID-19 challenges,” said C. Dinil, head of marketing and public relations team at the entrepreneurship cell. His partner Kush Ganatra, a third year chemical Engineering student, said, this year it was proposed to inculcate in people a sustainable lifestyle. Social media platforms such as LinkedIn, Twitter and Instagram would be used to enthuse students to take to cycling or walking for reducing carbon emission. Even small steps like removing the charger from the socket when it is not used could reduce carbon emission, Kush said. The competitions will begin in January. The students are targetting clean water and sanitation (SDG 6); affordable, clean energy (SDG 7); infrastructure, industrialistion and innovation (SDG 9); consumption and production (SDG 12); and action to combat climate change (SDG 13). The finale of the competiton, would be conducted in March..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-m-students-take-up-sdgs-for-entrepreneurship-contest/article37572419.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Declare eight State Highways as National Highways: Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to direct the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) to issue the requisite notifications to declare eight State Highways, for which in-principle approval has been accorded for development, as new National Highways, and to entrust the development work with the State Government, with necessary funding. Mr. Stalin said the MoRTH had granted in-principle approval for converting eight State Highways into National Highways and sanction had been accorded for the preparation of detailed project reports (DPRs). The highways — Thiruvannamalai-Kallakurichi; Vallioor-Tiruchendur; Kollegal-Hanur- MM Hills- Palar Road-T.N. border extended upto Mettur in Tamil Nadu; Palani-Dharapuram; Arcot-Tindivanam; Mettupalayam- Bhavani; Avinashi- Mettupalayam and Bhavani-Karur — are very important roads, connecting significant pilgrimage centres like Tiruvannamalai, Tiruchendur and Palani, and major trade and tourist centres, Mr. Stalin said. “Studies have been taken up for preparing DPRs for the above roads, under the Annual Plan 2017-18, by the State National Highways wing. Proposals for the declaration of the roads have also been presented to the MoRTH on December 6, 2018. However, formal notifications for the declaration of these roads as new National Highways are yet to be issued by the Ministry,” the Chief Minister said. Requesting the Prime Minister to issue directions to MoRTH, the Chief Minister asked that the State be entrusted with the work, with necessary funding, while assuring him full cooperation of the Tamil Nadu Government to take up all necessary improvement works on the roads in the current year itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/declare-eight-state-highways-as-national-highways-stalin/article37572225.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Tamil Nadu can become $1-tn. economy in a decade’||Tamil Nadu can achieve its target of becoming a $1-trillion economy within the next 10 years and the State has unlimited opportunities and potential to pull it off, but it needs to get certain things right, Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan has said. Achieving the target would require a nominal growth of 13% a year over the next 10 years. “If you take out inflation from it of 5-6%, that’s 7-8% of real growth. It is easily achievable. Between 2006 and 2011, the DMK government had a compound annual growth rate of 10.2% or 10.3% after inflation. So, it’s not real hard,” he said at a virtual CII conference on ‘Driving Growth, Sustainability and Jobs in Tamil Nadu’. He said the growth would be achieved by identifying the potential of each sector, assessing its possible rate of growth and figuring out the part of the economic cycle it caters to. “We are not going to assume everything is going to remain the same. There will be shocks.” Low base, an advantage Mr. Thiaga Rajan said one of the advantages was that the State was starting from a low base and a depressed level owing to COVID-19. Tamil Nadu was one of the few States that did not have an actual negative growth rate last year. The State and Union Governments, he said, were now seeing buoyancy in their revenues. Pointing out that he could speak only as the Finance Minister, and other domains were not within his remit, he said there were limitless possibilities for improvement in administration. “How come there is no online HR system? how come we don’t keep track of people moving from one place to another and whether there’s a nexus or not...? how come there’s no inventory system? how come there’s no institutional memory? ...Without these kinds of management tools, controls and checks and balances, you get very inefficient outcomes and wastage, the opportunity cost of not spending that money on doing the right thing or not providing the platform.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-can-become-1-tn-economy-in-a-decade/article37572229.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Allow 20,000 to participate in Deepam festivities: HC||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State government and the Tiruvannamalai district administration to permit 20,000 devotees (5,000 from Tiruvannamalai district and 15,000 from other districts and States) to circumambulate the holy hill attached to the Arunachaleswarar temple, during the annual Karthigai Deepam festival on Friday and Saturday. Acting Chief Justice M. Duraiswamy and Justice Sathya Narayana Prasad ordered that the devotees be allowed to book their slot on the virtual mode and entry be permitted only on production of such online ticket. Those who succeed in online booking must produce COVID-19 double vaccination certificates. The authorities concerned were ordered to ensure that all devotees were subjected to temperature check at the entry point and made to follow COVID-19 protocols as per the guidelines issued by the State government. It was ordered that no devotee should be permitted to climb the holy hill and surveillance should be strengthened at multiple pathways leading to the hilltop. “The visitors/devotees must not stagnate the path of Girivalam (circumambulation) and the authorities must ensure smooth movement of the other devotees during the said period. Three hundred Kattalaidars a day shall be permitted inside the temple on November 19 and 20, 2021,” the order read. The court ordered that the devotees should not use banned plastic products in the temple town and the district administration should make adequate security arrangements during the festival days apart from providing safe drinking water, modern toilet facilities, vehicle parking lots and so on for the smooth conduct of the festival. “Facilities for handwashing shall be provided by temple administration at frequent intervals all along the path and queue,” the first Division Bench observed. The orders were passed while disposing of a public interest litigation petition filed by D. Senthilkumar, spokesperson of Indhu Makkal Katchi, against the restrictions imposed on congregation of devotees. Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram said the district administration had been discouraging devotees from visiting the temple since the festival would be live streamed. When it was pointed out to the court that the petitioner himself would not be able to participate in the festival if double vaccination certificate was insisted, the judges asked him to get vaccinated immediately if he desired to visit the temple.  Visitors/devotees must not stagnate the path of Girivalam. 300 Kattalaidars a day shall be permitted inside temple on November 19 and 20||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/allow-20000-to-take-part-in-deepam-fest/article37572259.ece
19 November 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Doctors held for rape, molestation||The city police have arrested two doctors for allegedly raping a woman doctor and molesting another woman doctor. S. Vetriselvan, 35, was arrested on a complaint from a woman doctor who alleged that she was raped by him while staying in quarantine at a hotel in T. Nagar during COVID- 19 duty. S Similarly N..Mohanraj, 28, was arrested for allegedly molesting another woman doctor while she was staying at the same hotel during quarantine, a press release from the commissioner's office said. Man found dead A 30-year-old autorickshaw driver was found dead at his residence near Tambaram. Murugan, of East Tambaram, was addicted to online gambling on his mobile phone. On Wednesday, his mother found him dead in their house. The Selaiyur police sent the body to the Government Hospital, Chromepet, for a postmortem.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-doctors-held-for-rape-molestation/article37572261.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Medical physicists remember Marie Curie on birth anniversary||Although cancer treatment has become normal and hospitals invest huge sums in equipment, little attention is given to a segment of specialists who ensure not only safety of the installations but also assess how much radiation should a person receive. On Wednesday, celebrated as International Day of Medical Physics in memory of the birth anniversary of Marie Curie who discovered radium, the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry chapter of the Association of Medical Physicists of India (AMPI), organised a seminar to create awareness about the role of medical physicists. At the seminar held in Anna University, speakers discussed the recent benchmark researches in radiation therapy, including the use of stem cells and spectroscopy. “In cancer therapy, we plan and execute radiation treatment. Our prime role in radiation therapy is to ensure that maximum amount of radiation is given to the tumour with minimum radiation to normal tissue and thus avoid the side effects. Though directly involved in treatment, our role is not recognised even by the medical professionals. This is a universal problem. The theme ‘Communicating the role of medical physicists to the public’ was chosen with the aim of informing the public of our role,” said P. Kaliyappan, chairman of the AMPI — Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Chapter, and head of the Department of Medical Physics, Madras Medical College. The medical physicist is involved in planning and commissioning scan equipment such as CT, MRI, PET and SPECT, linear accelerator and telecobolt. They ensure medical image quality, provide radiation safety protocols to medical professionals, patients and public and serve as liaison officer between medical institutions and the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board to implement radiation protection rules, he added.  Though directly involved in cancer treatment, the role of medical physicists is not recognised even by the medical professionals P. Kaliyappan Chairman, AMPI - Tamil Nadu and Puducherry chapter||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/significant-role-played-by-medical-physicists-not-recognised/article37572244.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Restore Pongal cash gifts, OPS tells govt.||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Thursday demanded that Rs. 2,500 be paid in cash to each ration cardholder for the Pongal festival, similar to what his party did early this year while being in power. Referring to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s announcement of Pongal gifts, he recalled in a statement that Rs. 1,000 was given to each cardholder for the 2020 Pongal festival and Rs. 2,500 for 2021 during the AIADMK government. The allocations made were Rs. 2,363 crore and Rs. 5,604 crore respectively. But the allocation was reduced to Rs. 1,088 crore now. As the life was just now returning to normal after the COVID-19 restrictions were relaxed, the decision to stop cash gifts would amount to letting down those who had voted in the election, he felt. ‘Conduct exams online’ In a statement, AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami called for the college semester examinations to be conducted online. In support of his suggestion, he cited several factors: an adequate number of classroom lectures had not been held; the syllabus for the current semester had not been provided yet; and the lessons for the semester had not been covered fully. Mr. Panneerselvam made a similar demand. The two leaders urged the government to drop cases against students agitating over the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restore-pongal-cash-gifts-ops-tells-govt/article37572230.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State government to form Road Safety Authority||The State government will form a Road Safety Authority to implement schemes for road safety. According to a press release, Chief Minister M. K. Stalin chaired a meeting of Ministers and officials from various departments on Thursday to discuss key aspects of road safety under the scheme Innuyir Kappoom Thittam . Stressing the need for reducing the road traffic accident fatality rate, which is now 23.9 per lakh population, Mr. Stalin said the line agencies should take initiatives to make road transportation safe for commuters in Tamil Nadu. Various schemes have been proposed to promote road safety in the State. The State government has formulated a draft plan for promotion of road safety with data compiled by various line agencies. To provide medical assistance to accident victims within 48 hours of an accident, 609 hospitals have been roped in. An allocation of Rs. 50 crore has been made to initiate a scheme to provide medical assistance ,including 81 procedures for accident victims during the first 48 hours. The beneficiaries of the scheme include all victims of road accidents, including foreign nationals. The scheme will include emergency response, rescue and resuscitation, damage control surgery and rehabilitation. The government will also enact a law for promotion of road safety, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-government-to-form-road-safety-authority/article37572282.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Books released to mark V.O.C.’s birth anniversary||As a part of the 150th birth anniversary celebrations of V.O. Chidambaram Pillai, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin released two books on Thursday. The books — V.O.C. Pannool Thirattu (Volume 1) and V.O.C. Thirukkural Urai (Volume 2) — have been brought out by the Tamil Nadu Textbook and Educational Services Corporation. Earlier this year, Mr. Stalin had made 14 announcements in the State Legislative Assembly about the birth anniversary celebrations of the freedom fighter. As part of this, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said that the unpublished works of V.O.C. would be released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/books-released-to-mark-vocs-birth-anniversary/article37572240.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pradip Kumar posted as Coimbatore City Police Commissioner||Deepak M. Damor, Inspector General of Police (IGP), has been transferred from the post of Commissioner of Police, Coimbatore City, and posted as IGP/Joint Director, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption. The present incumbent of IGP/Joint Director, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, Vidya Jayant Kulkarni, has been deputed to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Pradip Kumar, IGP/ Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, Chennai city, has been posted as Commissioner of Police, Coimbatore. S. Prabakakaran, Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), has been shifted from the Establishment and posted as Joint Commissioner of Police (JCP), Law and Order, East, Chennai city. S. Rajendran, the present incumbent of JCP, Law and Order, East, Chennai city, has been posted JC, Traffic, South. P.K. Senthilkumari, has been posted as DIG, Establishment after being shifted from Traffic, Chennai City. Pa.Moorthy, Superintendent of Police (SP) has been shifted from Tiruchi district and posted as SP, Special Investigation Division, CB-CID, Chennai. Sujit Kumar has been moved from NIB-CID and posted as SP, Tiruchi district. Similarly, S. Rajesh Kannan, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Pulianthope, Chennai has been posted as SP, Vellore while the present incumbent S. Selvakumar has been transferred and posted as Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) Administration, Chennai. N. Manivannan, SP Tirunelveli district, has been brought to Chennai city as DCP, Pulianthope. P. Saravanan, AIG, Administration, has been posted as SP, Tirunelveli district. R.V. Ramya Bharati, SP had returned from an inter-cadre deputation and was on compulsory wait. Now she has been posted as SP, Cyber Arangam at the office of the ADGP, Cyber Crime Wing, in the downgraded/ re-designated post of IGP/Operations and her services have been placed with Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, Chennai on an OD basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pradip-kumar-is-new-coimbatore-police-chief/article37572222.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro Rail installs flood-proof doors in three subways||For the first time, the Metro Rail has installed flood-proof doors in the pedestrian subways linked to some of the underground stations to prevent the entry of rainwater. They have placed these doors in subways near the Government Estate, AG-DMS and Anna Nagar East stations, sources said. As a result, the subways will be shut for passengers for sometime. Apart from the rainwater leaking inside stations, one of the subways (opposite the Tamil Nadu Government General Hospital), which is linked to the Government Estate Metro station, gets waterlogged, and the rainwater enters the station, sources said. Recently, when the forecast of heavy rainfall was issued, these doors were installed in all entry points of the two subways linked to the the Government Estate Metro station. Similarly, the doors were installed in AG-DMS and Anna Nagar East stations this week. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), they plan to install flood-proof doors in Saidapet station as well. “Apart from these doors, a small bund has been built in front of the subways’ entry point to prevent rainwater from flowing inside. The bund walls will be demolished, and the doors removed once the rain stops,” an official said. The doors will be stored in the underground stations, and would be used whenever there is heavy rain, officials said. “We are also trying to fix the seepage of water inside the stations,” another official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmrl-installs-flood-proof-doors-in-three-subways/article37572243.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable prices soar in Koyambedu market as rain curtails supply||Prices of several vegetables continue to remain out of reach of consumers due to consistent rains and low supply. Wholesale traders in Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex noted that the locally-grown vegetables have also been selling for a high price for over two weeks now due to crop damages following heavy rain in many parts of the State. Vegetables like brinjals (Rs. 50-Rs. 60/kg) and ladies fingers (Rs. 60-Rs. 80/kg) are priced more than double the usual during this time of the year. The city gets its supply of locally-grown vegetables from across Tamil Nadu and the border regions of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.  Koyambedu received only 300 truckloads of vegetables on Thursday against its normal daily load of 450. Rain in other States has also affected the arrivals. The cost of tomatoes is as high as Rs. 70-Rs. 100 a kg in the wholesale market. P. Sukumar, treasurer, Koyambedu Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers Merchants’ Association, said tomatoes were usually cheaper during this time of the year. Double beans and green peas too have been priced high. Onions from Maharashtra are sold for up to Rs. 45/kg in the market. Though stock from Egypt arrived at the market on Wednesday and priced at Rs. 25 a kg, there were not many takers as onions from Telangana were available for Rs. 30/kg. Storage facilities “The State government must consider storage facilities for vegetables such as onions and potatoes as they can be stored for up to two-three months. This would help reduce shortage and control escalating prices,” Mr. Sukumar said. It may take another month for the cost of vegetables to drop after the rainy weather subsides, traders added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prices-of-vegetables-shoot-up-in-koyambedu-wholesale-market/article37572246.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Jai Bhim should not be considered for awards’||Stepping up its opposition to the popular multilingual film Jai Bhim , the Vanniyar Sangam outfit on Thursday appealed to Directorate of Film Festivals, operating under Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, to not consider the movie for any “appreciation or recognition”. The outfit claimed that “it exhibits false and defamatory scenes/statements/dialogues” against a particular community and contended that a scene of the movie amounts to offence under Sections 153, 153A, 499, 503, 504 and 505 of Indian Penal Code.  In a letter to the Directorate, Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) spokesperson K. Balu, on behalf of the outfit, explaining the storyline of the film and the history of the Sangam and its achievements, alleged that the film-makers “deliberately got printed a calendar of 1995 with the symbol of ‘Agni Kundam’, which represents the Vanniyar Sangam and community with a ‘malafide intention’ of defaming its members and damaging the image and reputation of the entire community.” He reiterated the charge that the film-makers had deliberately portrayed the character of a sub-inspector of police, who is guilty of committing custodial death, as belonging to the Vanniyar community. He said this is contrary to the truth.  The film-makers had deliberately portrayed the character of a sub-inspector of police, who is guilty of committing custodial death, as belonging to the Vanniyar community PMK spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jai-bhim-should-not-be-considered-for-awards/article37572264.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 775 fresh COVID-19 cases||As many as 775 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Thursday, taking the State’s tally to 27,17,978. There was a small rise in fresh cases in a few districts, including Chennai, while 18 districts logged fewer than 10 cases each. In Chennai, 126 people tested positive, when compared with 116 the previous day. Coimbatore recorded 112 cases. Erode recorded 76 cases, while the count dropped to 58 in Chengalpattu. There were 51 cases in Tiruppur, 43 in Salem, 33 in Namakkal and 32 in Tiruchi. Mayiladuthurai and Theni saw no case. Perambalur, Tenkasi and Villupuram recorded a single infection each. Twelve people succumbed to the infection, and the toll touched 36,336. Twenty-nine districts recorded no COVID-19 death. There were three deaths in Chennai and two in Tiruvarur. Of the 12 people who died, two did not have any co-morbidity. With 896 people being discharged after treatment, total recoveries touched 26,72,564. 9,078 under treatment At present, 9,078 people are under treatment. Nineteen districts had fewer than 100 active cases each, with Theni having the least at 11. A total of 1,01,635 samples were tested. The total count reached 5,30,54,078. At the ninth mega vaccination camp on Thursday, 8,36,796 people were inoculated, though 23 districts had incessant rain, Health Minister Ma. Subramanian said. Of them, 3,36,466 people got the first dose and 5,00,328 the second. Among those vaccinated were 4,78,436 people in the 18-44 age group, 2,41,020 people aged 45 to 59 and 1,16,252 senior citizens. With this, the coverage in government centres touched 6,16,88,673.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-logs-775-fresh-covid-19-cases/article37572251.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Silambam included in sports quota for govt. jobs||The Tamil Nadu Government on Thursday designated Silambam as one of the games to be included in the 3% sports quota for recruitment in government departments and public sector undertakings (PSUs). The State issued a government order after accepting the recommendations of a high-level committee, headed by the Chief Secretary, to frame detailed guidelines and modalities for the implementation of reservation for meritorious sportspersons for recruitment in government departments and PSUs. The committee recommended the proposal made by the Principal Secretary, Sports Development Authority of India, to include Silambam under the quota. The Principal Secretary had said that Silambam or Silambattam was a “weapon-based” Indian martial art from Tamil Nadu, and 40 years ago, the Government of Tamil Nadu had recognised it as a State sport. Silambam has also been included among the sports disciplines under consideration for the sports quota for admissions into professional courses like engineering, the Secretary had submitted in the letter. The Union Government has also approved the inclusion of Silambam in the component of ‘Promotion of Inclusiveness through Sports’ of the New Khelo India Scheme, the Secretary had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/silambam-included-in-sports-quota-for-govt-jobs/article37572227.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central team to visit T.N. to assess flood damage||The Union government has directed an inter-Ministerial Central team to visit Tamil Nadu and ascertain whether floods in the State can be considered to be of a ‘severe nature’ and make final recommendations for additional Central assistance to the State. The team will be led by Rajiv Sharma, Joint Secretary, NATGRID, Ministry of Home Affairs, and will comprise representatives from the Ministries or Departments of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Finance (Department of Expenditure), Jal Shakti, Power, Roads, Transport and Highways and Rural Development. The departments have been directed to nominate an officer each, familiar with the ongoing schemes and programmes in their respective sectors, to assist the team leader. “In view of the urgency of the matter, the Central team may visit the State immediately. Thereafter, upon its return from the visit, and after making the final assessment, it can submit 15 copies of its report, in a week, to the Disaster Management Division, Ministry of Home Affairs,” the office memorandum said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-team-to-visit-tn-to-assess-flood-damage/article37572233.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M research helps in designing novel Reverse Osmosis systems||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Madras have identified molecular mechanisms in water flow. This, they say, would be useful in designing novel reverse osmosis (RO) systems that use carbon nanotubes-based membranes. Collaborative research The research involved Swinburne University of Technology, Australia, and the Netherlands-based Delft University of Technology. The study was sponsored by the Department of Science and Technology as part of Water Technology Initiative. Sarith P. Sathian, professor in the Department of Applied Mechanics and Vishhu Prasad Kurupath from IIT Madras, Sridhar Kumar Kannam from Swinburne University and Remco Hartkamp from Delft University, were in the team that worked on the research. High energy Their findings were published in the peer-reviewed journal Desalination . Mr. Sarith said there was need for such advanced research as the process of desalination required energy, which leads to the requirement of large amounts of fresh water. Due to this, a cyclic dependency ensues between freshwater availability and energy availability. The aim of this advanced research on desalination is to reduce the energy consumption. The researchers investigated novel methods to effect desalination at high energy efficiency. They also tried to improve state-of-the-art, energy-efficient desalination techniques. This led to the study on improving the efficiency of RO.    The process of desalination requires energy, which leads to the requirement of large amounts of fresh water. The aim of this advanced research on desalination is to reduce the energy consumption. Sarith P. Sathian, Professor, IIT-M||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iit-madras-research-helps-in-designing-novel-reverse-osmosis-systems/article37572281.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Conduct more medical camps in flood-affected areas’||Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan has asked Collectors to intensify medical camps and public health activities in flood-affected areas to prevent outbreak of infectious diseases. In a communication to Collectors, he said, static and mobile medical camps should be conducted in the affected areas and in cases clustering of fever, diarrhoea, jaundice, dengue, H1N1, leptospirosis, typhoid or any other monsoon-related illness. In areas that witnessed inundation and where water had receded, the district administrations were asked to take measures like distribution and spraying of bleaching powder, clearing garbage and debris, arresting the mixing or overflowing of sewage with water, fogging, reducing mosquito sources and chlorinating water. Gated communities having independent water source and sewage removal arrangements, especially in the recently expanded urban habitations and peri-urban areas of cities, should be monitored and similar activities must be ensured through their resident welfare associations, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-asked-to-intensify-medical-camps-in-flood-prone-areas/article37572253.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM condoles death of writer||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday expressed his condolences over the death of writer and director, K. Manisekaran. He said Manisekaran had worked as an assistant director of late director K. Balachandar for 21 years, and had created a separate identity for himself in Tamil literary circles. Manisekaran had won the Sahitya Akademi Award and had written stage plays, short stories, social and historical compendiums.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-condoles-death-of-writer/article37572255.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead near Tambaram||A 30-year-old autorickshaw driver was found dead at his residence near Tambaram. Murugan, of East Tambaram, was addicted to online gambling on his mobile phone. On Wednesday, his mother found him dead in their house. The Selaiyur police registered a case, and sent the body to the Government Hospital, Chromepet, for a post-mortem.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-found-dead-near-tambaram/article37572241.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for swindling money online||The Cyber Crime Wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) has arrested two persons from Gujarat, for cheating customers of a tour operator in Chennai, by creating a fake website. Last September, Madras Tours and Travels lodged a complaint with the Commissioner of Police alleging that some persons had created a website that appeared similar to its own and cheated several of its customers by receiving payment online. The Cyber Crime Wing took up the investigation and blocked the fake website immediately. A special team traced the accused who were operating from Ahmedabad in Gujarat and arrested Devaraj Singh, 26, and Shravan Singh, 26, both from that city. The arrested were brought to the city and remanded in judicial custody. Investigation revealed that Dileep Singh, younger brother of Devaraj who is holed up in Thailand, is the main suspect who created the fake website, and cheated people who booked tour packages using the site. The customers were asked to transfer money to the bank accounts held by the duo. The police have launched a manhunt to nab Dileep Singh. The police also recovered Rs. 31,000, ATM cards and mobile phones from the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-swindling-money-online/article37572249.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat clerk held on graft charges||Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption officers on Thursday arrested a clerk in Kundrathur town panchayat for bribery. A person lodged a complaint alleging that he had been asked bribes of Rs. 25,000 by Dhanraj, executive officer at the Kundrathur town panchayat, and Rs. 10,000 by clerk Selvaraj in order to get a plot layout approved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-clerk-held-for-graft/article37572418.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Robotic surgery preserves organ function better||Robotic surgery not only helps in reaching deep into the pelvis but also enables a surgeon to preserve the function of the organs while removing tumours in colon and rectum. At a webinar on robotic colorectal procedures hosted by The Hindu along with Apollo Hospitals, Venkatesh Munikrishnan explained how robotic surgery not only helped the surgeons but also the patients. “We are looking at functional outcome from the surgery. It is more in preserving the function of the rectum,” he said. As a centre that specialises in the surgery, he said he had treated young persons, who must have a near-normal life. It is important to preserve the nerves, muscles and vital functions of the pelvis, he said. Although in India, the incidence of colorectal cancers is low at four per lakh population, in terms of numbers it was huge, he said. Changed lifestyle Young Asian men were more prone to rectal cancers, he said and added that the changed lifestyle could be a reason. Healthy eating, cutting down red meat, exercising, quitting smoking and drinking a lot of water, would prevent cancers, he said. Normally, colorectal cancer takes 10 years to manifest. Once a person is diagnosed with the cancer, he would ask for the family history and suggest screening the siblings immediately. If a person is diagnosed at the age of 60 then for the patient’s children he recommends screening when they turn 50, he said. To a question from the audience on surgery cost, he said: “Robotic surgery prevents infection and readmission rate. If you handle tissues less, then the recovery is faster, With more surgeries, the cost of treatment would be the same as that charged for laparoscopic procedures,” he added.  Healthy eating, cutting down red meat, exercising, quitting smoking and drinking a lot of water, would prevent cancers Dr. Venkatesh Munikrishnan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/robotic-surgery-preserves-organ-function-better/article37572279.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sneha accuses firm of cheating her of Rs. 25 lakh||Actor Sneha has lodged a complaint with the police alleging that a private firm had cheated her to the tune of Rs. 25 lakh. Police source said the complainant alleged that she invested Rs. 25 lakh in a cement manufacturing company, on the advice of a friend. The representative of the firm allegedly promised her high returns every month. But the company failed to keep its promise. The complaint was lodged with Neelankarai Police and later was forwarded to the Kanathur Police since her residence comes under its jurisdiction. The case was taken up for investigation by Kanathur crime inspector Balakumar. Police sources said a notice had been issued to the persons who were named in the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sneha-accuses-private-firm-of-cheating-her/article37572247.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cabinet meeting postponed||A meeting of the Tamil Nadu Cabinet, which was scheduled to be held on Friday, has been postponed by a day, a State Government press release has said. The Cabinet meeting will now be held on Saturday at 6 p.m. Th government said the meeting has been postponed as Ministers have been deputed by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to oversee relief operations in various districts where heavy rainfall has been forecast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cabinet-meeting-postponed/article37572231.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen demand compensation for boats||The fishermen of Kasimedu and Pulicat have urged the government to take steps to provide them relief for boats that were damaged due to high winds and heavy rain on November 11. At Kasimedu, 50 boats, each costing between Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 80 lakh, sank despite being tied up and anchored. “They hit against each other and everything aboard the craft, including the nets and engines, sunk. We cannot retrieve them. Without financial assistance from the government we will not be able to get back on our feet,” said A. Veerappan, Kasimedu Kadarkarai Visaipadagugal Sangam. At Pulicat, due to the lack of a safe harbour, over 350 fibre-reinforced plastic boats were damaged. Durai Mahendran, a community leader, said around 400 country craft along with oars and pushing poles were also damaged or lost. “These are very small-scale fishermen who depend on the lake for their day-to-day livelihood,” he said. Sources in the Fisheries Department said Minister Anitha Radhakrishnan had directed officials to hold a joint inspection of the craft along with the Revenue Department and the Tamil Nadu State Disaster Management Authority. “If the depression is announced as a natural calamity, the fishermen can hope for some compensation. Though those owning larger boats at Kasimedu would have insured their craft, the amount would not cover the entire loss,” a retired official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermen-seek-compensation-for-lost-damaged-boats/article37572242.ece
19 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district receives widespread rain||Coimbatore district saw widespread rain since Wednesday evening. The average rainfall for the 24-hour period ending at 8 a.m. on Thursday was 57.61 mm. According to the district administration, the rain gauge station at Sulur recorded the highest rainfall in the given period with 103 mm. Valparai PAP and Valparai taluk recorded 86 mm and 84 mm respectively. Cinchona saw 72 mm, Aliyar - 66.4 mm, Chinnakallar - 66 mm and Pollachi received 53 mm rainfall. Meanwhile, Mettupalayam recorded 39 mm while Annur recorded 23.6 mm rainfall in the district. Coimbatore city, too, received heavy rain starting from Wednesday evening. The rain gauge station at the Coimbatore International Airport recorded 58.2 mm rainfall in the 24-hour period, while Tamil Nadu Agricultural University recorded 57 mm and Coimbatore South saw 39 mm rainfall, the district administration said. Regarding the water level in reservoirs as of Thursday morning, the district administration said that Aliyar reservoir had 118.80 feet of water against the reservoir height of 120 feet. Similarly, Sholayar had 160.61 feet water against its capacity of 165 feet, Parambikulam reservoir had 71.20 feet against its height of 72 feet. Pilloor water level Pilloor reservoir contained 89 feet water against the reservoir’s height of 100 feet and Bhavanisagar reservoir had 104.24 feet water against its height of 105 feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-receives-widespread-rain/article37572284.ece
19 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Death of girl student: Child Rights Commission examines 13 witnesses||The Tamil Nadu State Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Thursday examined 13 witnesses in connection with its inquiry into the death of a 17-year-old girl in Coimbatore, allegedly following sexual assault from her teacher, last week. Those examined included the parents of the girl, her four friends (two girls and two boys), a representative of the Parents Teachers Association, acting principal of the school where the alleged sexual assault took place, the head constable who prepared the first information report, the woman inspector who is investigating the case and a senior police officer. Commission chairperson Saraswathi Rangasamy told journalists that the findings of the proceedings cannot be disclosed. The commission, with V. Ramraj, Mallikai Selvaraj and Saranya Jayakumar as members, started the examination of witnesses at the Coimbatore Collectorate at 10.30 a.m. and the proceedings continued up to 1.45 p.m. The commission is expected to submit its report to the government in a week’s time. During the proceedings, the police assured the committee that the investigating officer will submit the chargesheet in the case within a period of two months. Mr. Ramraj said that the authorities should ensure the functioning of six-tier child protection committees in the district at village, block, district, town panchayat, municipality and corporation levels to swiftly act against incidents of sexual assault on children.The 17-year-old girl was found dead in her house in the city on November 11. The All Women Police, Coimbatore west, subsequently arrested a man who taught her in a private school and its principal on various charges.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/death-of-girl-student-child-rights-commission-examines-13-witnesses/article37572294.ece
19 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Schools told to form complaints committees||District Collector G.S. Sameeran has directed all government, aided and private schools in the district to form internal complaints committees (ICCs) in the wake of the death of a 17-year-old girl, who was allegedly sexually assaulted by a teacher in a private school. As per the guidelines by the district administration, the ICCs in schools must comprise teachers, members of Parents Teachers Association and a student representative from the respective school, along with a social worker and an officer from the nearest All Women Police Station. Apart from this, all schools must install a ‘complaint box’ for the students to report sexual harassment complaints, the guidelines said. These boxes must have two keys – one for a senior woman teacher from the school and the second key must be surrendered to either the District Social Welfare Officer or the secretary of the District Legal Services Authority. All headmasters must, henceforth, report the action taken on the complaints received via Childline helpline 1098 to the respective district educational officers and the Chief Educational Officer. The schools must ensure that interactions between parents and class teachers are held periodically to create awareness on sexual offences against students. In addition, sessions to explain ‘good touch’ and ‘bad touch’ to students and classes by psychologists must be held regularly in schools, according to the guidelines. Schools must display the contact numbers and addresses of the Chief Educational Officer and district educational officers and the Inspector of the nearby All Women Police Station on the school premises. Along with these, the following helplines must also be displayed: Childline – 1098, helpline of Department of School Education – 14417, and Women Helpline – 181. Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer N. Geetha said that these will be implemented in over 2,000 schools in the district from next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schools-told-to-form-complaints-committees/article37572283.ece
19 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Roads to be repaired using special funds’||Damaged roads within Coimbatore Corporation limits will be repaired using special funds, said Electricity Minister V. Senthil Balaji here on Thursday. He inspected the Valankulam tank and areas facing water stagnation due to rains in the Corporation limits. Speaking to the mediapersons, he said that several roads in the city are “in poor condition” and that “a travel of 10 minutes takes about 30 minutes” in the city due to the condition of the roads. Works to prepare a detailed project report on preventing stagnation of rain water on roads are also under way, Mr. Balaji said. A total of 31 locations and seven schools in the district faced water stagnation following the rains on Wednesday, which was cleared using motor pumps on Thursday, the Minister said. Except for one, all the tanks in the River Noyyal system are full in the district, he added. On Valankulam tank, Mr. Senthil Balaji said that the pipe for the outflow was “very narrow,” which will be fixed soon. Later, he inspected the works to clear stagnant water at Corporation Higher Secondary School in Kempatty Colony and also visited the COVID-19 vaccination camp held at the Coimbatore Railway Station as part of the ninth mega vaccination drive. Mr. Balaji garlanded the bust of freedom fighter V.O. Chidambaram Pillai on the premises of Coimbatore Central Prison to mark his 85th death anniversary, a release said. District Collector G.S. Sameeran, Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara and other officials accompanied the Minister during the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/roads-to-be-repaired-using-special-funds/article37572286.ece
19 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery, cash stolen from house||A four-member group broke into a house in the city in the early hours of Thursday and robbed a couple of 19 sovereigns of jewellery and Rs. 2.4 lakh. The police said that D. Rajasekar (62) and his wife R. Shanthi (57) of Alwin Nagar on Sungam-Ukkadam bypass were robbed of the jewellery and cash by four masked men who entered the house by breaking open the front door around 2 a.m. While the couple was sleeping in a room on the ground floor, their relative’s son was asleep on the first floor. The men assaulted Mr. Rajasekar. The relative’s son came to know about the incident when Ms. Shanthi alerted him after the robbers escaped with the jewellery and cash. They immediately called the police and rushed Mr. Rajasekar to a hospital. Deputy Commissioner of Police E.S. Uma and senior officers visited the house as part of the investigation. The police employed fingerprint experts and a sniffer dog at the crime scene. The police have registered a case under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-cash-stolen-from-house/article37572276.ece
19 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police register case against 41 YouTube channels||The Cyber Crime Police Station here has registered a case against 41 YouTube channels on the charge of disclosing the identity of the girl who ended her life on November 11, allegedly following sexual assault from her teacher. The case was registered by the police for offence under Section 23 (4) (procedure for media - any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall be liable to be punished with imprisonment of either description for a period which shall not be less than six months but which may extend to one year or with fine or with both) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. According to the police, the YouTube channels published details such as the deceased girl’s parents’ photos, videos, name of her school and other details which could lead to her identity.  (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling 'Sneha' 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-register-case-against-41-youtube-channels/article37572292.ece
19 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Industrial expo from Dec. 3 to 5||Kerala Plastics Manufacturers’ Association, in association with the Central Institute of Plastics Engineering & Technology, Tamil Nadu Plastics Manufacturers’ Association, Karnataka State Plastic Association, and Telangana and Andhra Plastic Manufacturers’ Association is organising an industrial exhibition – IPLEX at Adlux Exhibition Centre, Angamaly in Kochi from December 3 to 5. It is the third largest plastic machinery expo in India next to Plastindia held in New Delhi and Plastivision in Mumbai. IPLEX 20 will showcase the latest technology and machineries used in manufacturing of plastic products, recycling, raw materials and ancillary equipment with participation from different parts of India. It will be a platform for the manufacturers affected by the single-use plastic ban to convert their existing facilities, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industrial-expo-from-dec-3-to-5/article37572275.ece
19 November 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 112 new COVID-19 cases||Coimbatore district reported 112 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 2,48,774 cases. The Health Department reported one new death, taking the district's death toll to 2,443. The district had 1,180 active cases and 116 patients were reported to have recovered on Thursday. Tiruppur district reported 51 fresh cases, which took the tally to 96,466 cases. The overall toll remained at 987 as no new deaths were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-112-new-covid-19-cases/article37572290.ece
19 November 2021||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||School building collapses in rain||A panchayat union primary school building in Vanathi Rayapuram panchayat near Neyveli collapsed following incessant rain in Cuddalore district on Thursday. According to sources, the incident occurred at 10 a.m. The wall of the building housing Classes I to V collapsed and the roof came crashing down. Since the District Collector, K. Balasubramaniam, had declared a holiday after heavy rain in the morning, major casualties were averted. Around 31 students are studying in the building. Sources said the building had developed cracks at several places and it collapsed owing to heavy rain. The Education Department will make alternative arrangements for the students in another building, an official said. Mr. Balasurbamaniam and Neyveli MLA Saba Rajendran visited the site. Heavy rain lashed several parts of Cuddalore district on Thursday, with water entering residences in Cuddalore old town. Major roads, including the Kumbakonam Road, Chidambaram Road and Vridhachalam Road were flooded and motorists had a tough time negotiating the water-logged areas. Cuddalore district recorded an average of 36.24 mm during the 24-hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. The average rainfall recorded in other areas is as follows: Thozhudur 67 mm, Memathur 60 mm, Kuppanatham 49 mm, Cuddalore 48.6 mm, Keezhacheruvai 48 mm, Veppur 45 mm and Vanamadevi 42.6 mm. Villupuram district recorded an average of 102.01 mm till 4 p.m. Mundiyampakkam recorded the maximum of 145 mm followed by Valavanur with 143 mm, Vallam 137 mm, Marakkanam 132 mm, Villupuram 129 mm, Tindivanam 128 mm and Kedar 126 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-building-collapses-in-rain/article37572668.ece
19 November 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||73 lakh high-value saplings to be distributed to farmers||Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare M.R.K. Paneerselvam held a review of the district development activities with all line departments at the Collectorate here on Thursday. On the occasion, Mr. Paneerselvam said Tamil Nadu was the only State with a separate policy note and an integrated scheme for overall agriculture development. The Kalaignar All Villages Integrated Agriculture Programme launched by the Chief Minister was intended to integrate schemes of all line departments and ensure delivery of services blockwise and village wise at one location. Panchayats The scheme was expected to benefit over 2,500 panchayats. In Dharmapuri, 56 panchayats would be covered in Phase I. Similarly, the newly launched Tamil Nadu Mission on Sustainable Greencover in Farm lands sought to distribute 73 lakh high-value saplings to farmers and a subsidy would be also given. The Minister said the Forest Department was raising the high-value saplings for distribution. The programme envisioned distribution of 160 saplings to an acre, he added. In addition, efforts would also be taken to enhance irrigation and water harvesting projects. As part of this, Thoolsetty lake would be desilted and other water harvesting projects would be implemented, the Minister said. Earlier, the Minister distributed various welfare assistance to beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/73-lakh-high-value-saplings-to-be-distributed-to-farmers/article37572405.ece
19 November 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Dindigul girl tops ICAR exam||A. Oviya, daughter of S. Ariyanayagam of Dindigul district, has secured the first rank in Tamil Nadu and the second rank at the national level in the Indian Council of Agricultural Research examination. The exam was conducted on September 17, and the results were announced on Wednesday. Commending the topper, Puducherry Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has, in a press release, said it showed that students from Tamil Nadu had the capability to take competitive examinations and come out with flying colours. “I wish Oviya good luck,” she had also tweeted. Dindigul Collector S. Visakan and Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan lauded the student for the achievement. She told The Hindu that she completed her undergraduation in B.VSc & AH in Tirunelveli. Being a national topper, she has the choice of pursuing her postgraduation either in Uttar Pradesh or in Haryana. “I am yet to take a final call,” she said, and added that she wished to take on teaching or pursue research. She had taken Animal Science in the ICAR examination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dindigul-girl-secures-first-rank-in-icar-examination/article37572375.ece
19 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Bhavanisagar Dam nearing full capacity||With an inflow at over 8,000 cusecs on Thursday, the water level at the Bhavanisagar Dam is inching closer to the full reservoir level (FRL) of 105 feet. At 2 p.m., the inflow into the reservoir was 8,067 cusecs while the water level stood at 104.23 feet. The storage was 32.15 tmc ft against the total capacity of 32.800 tmc ft. Surplus water of 9,800 cusecs was discharged into River Bhavani while 1,800 cusecs was discharged into Lower Bhavani Project canal. The discharge into Kalingarayan Canal and Arakankottai-Thadapalli canals was stopped due to rain. A Public Works Department official said the inflow increased from 6,778 cusecs at 8 a.m. to 10,812 cusecs at 2 p.m. due to rain in the catchment area. Warning Officials said based on the inflow, the discharge would be increased further and issued a warning asking people living in low-lying areas and along the river banks to move to safer places. Revenue officials, with the help of tom-tom, continue to warn people living along the river to be cautious as the discharge in the river stood at over 11,000 cusecs. Rainfall recorded in the area was 87 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhavanisagar-dam-nearing-full-capacity/article37572409.ece
19 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Four women, driver killed in van-lorry collision||Four women and the driver of the omni van in which they were travelling were killed and three others suffered injuries in a collision between the vehicle and a cement-laden lorry near Sivagiri on Thursday. The victims were identified as Thenozhi (21) of Muthugoundanpalayam, Deivanai (55) of Thanathupalayam, Deivanai’s daughter Manjula alias Bhuvaneswari (19), Arukani (50) of Kulur and driver Padayappa alias Prakash (24) of Manjakattu Valasu. Mohan Kumar (27) and Kumaresan (17), both from Muthugoundanpalayam and Muthusamy (40) of Thanathupalayam were admitted to the Government Hospital in Erode. They were returning from Palani and the lorry, driven by Manikandan (41) of Kasipalayam, was moving towards Sivagiri. At a bend The incident took place at Parapalayam Kumaravalasu on Erode-Muthur Road when both the vehicles were negotiating a bend. In the impact, the van was completely damaged and villagers alerted the Sivagiri police and fire and rescue services personnel. The bodies were sent to the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. A case has been registered against the lorry driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-killed-in-van-lorry-collision/article37572408.ece
19 November 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at the following sub-stations, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on November 20 :  Elumathur sub-station: Elumathur, Mangaradu, Sellathampalayam, Pandipalayam, Ellakadai, Kadakinaru, Kulavilakku, Modakkurichi, Kulur, Maniyampalayam, Vellapethampalayam, V. Pudur, Anandampalayam, Manor, Erappampalayam, Minnankattu Valasu, Veppili and 24-Velampalayam.  Kaspapettai sub-station: Kaspapettai, Mullamparappu, Chinniyampalayam, Velankattuvalasu, Pottinaickenvalasu, Veerapampalayam, 46 Pudur, Rangampalayam, Kurikaranpalayam, Chellapampalayam, Govindanaicken Palayam, Nanjai Uthukuli, Sengaraipalayam, T. Mettupalayam, Andakothampalayam, Anakalpalayam, EB Nagar, K.A.S. Nagar, Indian Nagar, Telephone Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Moolapalayam, Chettipalayam, Sadayampalayam, Tirupathi Garden, Muthugoundan palayam, Karundevan palayam, Chavadipalayam Pudur, Kiliyampatti, Ragupathi Naicken Palayam and Kagathanvalasu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article37572411.ece
19 November 2021||Hyderabad,TAMIL NADU||NIA carries out searches in Telangana and A.P.||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday conducted simultaneous searches at 14 locations in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in connection with the 2019 CPI (Maoist) encounter which took place in the forests of Bastar in Chhattishgarh, confirmed NIA officials in New Delhi. Searches were carried out in the residences of those having links with the outlawed party in three districts of Telangana — Hyderabad, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Medak and four districts of Andhra Pradesh — Prakasam, Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and Nellore. Exchange of fire “It is a case relating to the exchange of fire that took place on July 28, 2019, between the cadres of CPI (Maoist) and a combined team of local district Reserve Guard, Special Task Force and CRPF, which resulted in the death of six Maoists and a civilian,” an official said. In Hyderabad, the teams searched the residences of surrendered top Maoist leader Narla Ravi Sharma, considered to be an expert in military tactics, and his wife Anuradha, and woman rights activist Bhavani. Sharma, who was considered to be an expert in military tactics in the Maoist party, was arrested by the Rachakonda police in November 2019. Another team raided the house of Martyrs Relatives and Friends Committee leader Padma Kumari at Subash Nagar of Alwal, while searches were also conducted at the residence of Osmania University student leader Arunaklatha at Baghlingampally. Sources also confirmed that similar raids were conducted at Men’s hostel at Himayatnagar. Further searches were carried out at the houses of Telangana Praja Front president K Ravi Chander and Law student Bellala Padma. In Andhra Pradesh’s Alakurapadu in Prakasam district, the NIA raided the residence of a senior member of the Revolutionary Writers Association (Virasam) G Kalyan Rao. Rao happens to be the relative of top Maoist leader Akkiraju Hargopal alias Ramakrishna alias RK, who died recently due to kidney failure. The NIA teams also raided the residence of Macherla Mohan Rao at Chirala, and Annapurna, Anusha and Ramanaiah’s residence in Nellore. State joint secretary of Pragatisheela Karmika Samakhya (PKS) A. Annapurna alias Anita’s house is also being raided by the NIA in Visakhapatnam. The agency has seized several incriminating documents, Maoist literature, laptops, memory cards, pen drives, and some correspondence with the underground Maoists during their searches, which continued till evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nia-carries-out-searches-in-telangana-and-ap/article37571877.ece
19 November 2021||IDUKKI,TAMIL NADU||Mullaperiyar, Idukki reservoirs opened||Shutter 3 of the Cheruthoni dam of the Idukki reservoir was opened at 10 a.m. on Thursday following an increased inflow into the Periyar following the opening of the Mullaperiyar dam and heavy rainfall in the Idukki high ranges since Wednesday night. Earlier, Idukki Collector Sheeba George said a shutter of the Cheruthoni dam would be raised by 40 cm to a metre to release around 40 cumecs of water and those living on the riverbanks should adopt precautionary measures. She banned fishing and tourism activities in the Periyar and warned people against bathing or crossing the river. The shutter was opened to regulate the water level as it was nearing the upper rule level of 2,400.03 ft. The water level reached 2,399.44 ft at 9 a.m. The opening of the dam shutter was synchronised with the water from the Mullaperiyar reaching the Idukki reservoir, said Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine. The water level in the Idukki dam has been at the red alert level for the past two days. The full reserve level is 2,403 ft. The storage was 95.74% on Thursday At 8 a.m., two spillway shutters of the Mullaperiyar dam were opened to release water to the Periyar after the water level reached the upper rule curve level of 141 ft. At 10 a.m., two more shutters were opened. The average discharge to the Periyar at 5 p.m. was 1,544 cusecs. Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 2,300 cusecs while the average inflow was 2,493 cusecs. The Mullaperiyar dam was last opened on October 29. The Cheruthoni dam has been opened for the third time this year within a period of two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/idukki-mullaperiyar-dams-opened/article37571881.ece
19 November 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Flood alert issued to 12 villages in Kallakurichi||With water level nearing 36 feet at the Manimukhta dam and the inflow continuing to be over 1,500 cubic feet per second (cusecs), the district administration on Thursday issued a flood alert to 12 villages on the banks of the river in Kallakurichi district. According to Collector P.N. Sridhar, the water level in the dam stood at 34 feet against the maximum reservoir level of 36 feet. The storage was 590 million cubic feet against the capacity of 736.96 cubic feet. The inflow and outflow was being maintained at 1,567 cusecs. Mr. Sridhar said that the outflow could be stepped up to 3,104 cusecs. People in Rayapuram, Palapattu, Anaikarai Kottalam, Soolankurichi, Pallakacheri, Veeracholapuram, Madam, Sithalur, Vadapoondi, Gongarapalayam, Udayanatchi and Koothakudi have been asked to move to safer areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flood-alert-issued-to-12-villages-in-kallakurichi/article37572403.ece
19 November 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Tribal man held in theft case taken to hospital||Sakthivel, 31, of Thillai Nagar, one of the three Malai Kuravar tribal men who was arrested by the Chinna Salem police in a theft case, was taken to the Kallakurichi Government Hospital on Thursday evening after he complained of chest pain. Sakthivel along with Prakash, 25, and Dharmaraj 35, were picked by a team of policemen in plainclothes from their house on Monday night. Sources said, Sakthivel was taken to the Ulundurpet GH from the sub-jail, where he was lodged, after he complained of chest pain in the evening. He was referred to the Kallakurichi GH for further tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tribal-man-held-in-theft-case-taken-to-hospital/article37572420.ece
19 November 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Doctor drowns||A doctor attached to the Primary Health Centre in Negamam near Pollachi drowned after she reportedly fell into a well at Eluthianpatti near Mayanur on Thursday. According to sources, Malar Shanthi (48), the deceased, had come to her sister's house in Eluthianpatti when the accident occurred. The Mayanur police rushed to the spot and retrieved the body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctor-drowns/article37572758.ece
19 November 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||A song for protesting farmers||A group of singers from Kochi under the banner ‘Legion of Harmony’ band has prepared a song in support of the farmers across India, who have hit the streets in the neighbourhood of the national capital. The song will be released on Friday by Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve, said a spokesperson for Purogamana Kala Sahithya Sangham (PUKASA), which is the organiser of the programme. The song is a tribute to the thousands of farmers, who have spilled into the streets from their farm holdings. The lives of the farmers have been made harder by “anti-farmer laws and policies” as well as their increasing indebtedness. The conditions are pushing them to the brink of disaster. Farmers were going through an unimaginably hard time, said the spokesman for PUKASA. The farmers’ protest will be an year old later this month and they have not given up hope that the government would relent. ‘Spirit of endurance’ The song being released on Friday will reflect this spirit of endurance and hopes in the darkest of times, he said. While the song will pay tribute to the courageous farmers and their endurance in the face of state opposition, the song release will also mark the opening up of a new life for artistes like those members of the Legion of Harmony band. The song titled “Curry” will feature Hari Govind, Steve Manuel, Ashiq, and Tinu Thomas. A video presentation of the song too is ready and it will feature Meena Raj and Prema Rajendran. The video script and the lyrics have been written by Joshi Don Bosco, general secretary of the district unit of PUKASA. The song also tells the tale of the lives of these artistes, who have been facing hard times since the massive floods of August 2018, which was followed by the two years of COVID-19 pandemic and lockdowns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-song-for-protesting-farmers/article37571888.ece
19 November 2021||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Adoption case: intervention of child rights panel sought||Expressing mistrust in the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare (KSCCW), Anupama S. Chandran, who has alleged that her child was given up for adoption without her knowledge, has sought the intervention of the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights for bringing the child back. The KSCCW has been directed by the Child Welfare Committee to bring the child back within five days from Andhra Pradesh where he is under foster care. Anupama has said in her representation that the commission shall interfere to ensure that the child is brought to the State in a safe and child-friendly manner. It is a matter of concern that the KSCCW, in the dock for illegally giving the baby in adoption, has been asked to bring the baby back to Kerala. Hence, the intervention of the commission is sought. The police and various child welfare agencies have failed to deliver justice in the case, she said. However, those at the CWC say the KSCCW is duty-bound to bring the child back. The council had earlier submitted an undertaking to the CWC in this regard, they say. DNA test Meanwhile, the CWC has instructed the council to conduct paternity and maternity tests on the baby boy as demanded by Anupama and her partner B. Ajith Kumar. It is following the insistence of the petitioners that the CWC has decided to order both the tests. Usually, only maternity test need to be conducted in such cases, CWC sources say. Birth records According to those who are associated with the couple, the plea for conducting the paternity test is raised as the name of the father is wrongly included in the birth records of the baby. Once the paternity is scientifically confirmed through the tests, the possibility of any false paternity claims in future can be avoided. Moreover, Anupama has complained that her father had abducted the baby which was fathered by her partner. In these circumstances, a paternity test is necessary for confirming the parenthood of the baby, they say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adoption-case-intervention-of-child-rights-panel-sought/article37571886.ece
19 November 2021||Kochi,TAMIL NADU||Received halal marked jaggery: TDB||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) on Thursday informed the Kerala High Court that a few packets of jaggery supplied by Vardhan Agro Processing Ltd, Maharashtra, in 2019 for the Sabarimala Ayyappa contained the marking ‘halal’ on them. The TDB termed false the allegation that spoiled halal-certified jaggery powder had been used for the preparation of Nivedyam and Prasadam at Sabarimala. Arab countries In a statement filed in response to a writ petition alleging use of jaggery with halal marking at Sabarimala, the TDB said when it inquired with the company, it replied that halal certification was required for exporting jaggery to Arab countries and the marking was an assurance of maintaining a standard of quality. The statement said the allegations of the petitioner were false and made a malicious intention to stall the sale of Appam and Aravana at Sabarimala. There was a calculated attempt to attack the reputation of Sabarimala and hurt the religious feelings of pilgrims and thereby destroy communal harmony through various posts published and circulated on social media. Complaint The executive officer, Sabarimala, had lodged a complaint in this regard with the Sannidhanam police station. It added that during 2020-21, the contract for the supply of jaggery was given to S.P Sugar and Agro Pvt Limited, Maharashtra, which supplied five lakh kg of jaggery. Appam and Aravana were being prepared using the fresh stock of jaggery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/received-halal-marked-jaggery-tdb/article37571882.ece
19 November 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Holiday declared||In view of continuous rain in Krishnagiri, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddi declared holiday for schools in the district on Friday. However, colleges would function, the Collector said. In Dharmapuri, Collector S. Dhivyadarshini declared holiday for all schools and colleges on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/holiday-declared/article37572406.ece
19 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Train to link Theni district with Chennai on the cards, says MP||Southern Railway has proposed to run a train connecting Bodinaickanoor with Chennai, according to Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan. After attending the meeting of Members of Parliament, representing constituencies falling under Madurai Railway Division, with Southern Railway General Manager (in charge) B. G. Mallaya here on Thursday, he said that the proposal for Train No. 20601/20602 thrice weekly has been sent to the Railway Board for clearance. The gauge conversion work on the entire Madurai - Bodi stretch is expected to be completed in the next few months. Similarly, the railway administration has agreed to conduct feasibility study for constructing a pedestrian subway connecting Madurai railway junction with the renovated Periyar bus stand, he said. Mr. Venkatesan said that the Southern Railway had also proposed stoppage at Oddanchathiram railway station for Madurai-Thiruvananthapuram Amirtha Express to help farmers take their produce to Oddanchathiram wholesale vegetable market. Demanding that the vacancies in railways should be filled up with people of the respective States, Rajya Sabha MP Vaiko wanted railway administration to revoke the order shifting recruitment of employees for Madurai Railway Division to Thiruvananthapuram division. He also highlighted flooding of railway subways during rain and sought facilities for clearing of water. The demand for making Koodal Nagar railway station a second terminal for Madurai was stressed by the MPs. Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore demanded that a railway station at Chekkanoorani that existed on the metre gauge Madurai-Bodi line should be restored when gauge conversion work was completed. Besides early completion of doubling work between Madurai and Tirunelveli, he sought stoppages for all express trains at Tirupparankundram and Tirumangalam railway stations, extension of Hyderabad-Chennai Charminar Express up to Kanniyakumari and making Silambu Express a daily service. Thoothukudi MP Kanimozhi Karunanidhi stressed implementation of the proposed new railway line along the east coast to connect the southern districts with Chennai. She also complained of old and worn-out coaches being used for trains serving the southern districts and sought their replacement. Ms. Kanimozhi also wanted to restore all stoppages that were withdrawn during the lockdown period. ‘Sivaganga left out’ Sivaganga MP Karthi Chidambaram complained of continuous neglect of Sivaganga, Karaikudi and Manamadurai railway stations. Mr. Karthi Chidambaramsought trains to Chennai, Rameswaram and Coimbatore to serve the people of Sivaganga district. Among those present at the meeting were MPs Su.Thirunavukarasar, Dhanush M. Kumar, S. Gnanathiraviam, P. Raveendhranath and P. Velusamy, senior railway officials and Madurai Divisional Railway Manager P. Ananth.  The railway administration has agreed to conduct feasibility study for constructing a pedestrian subway connecting Madurai railway junction with the renovated Periyar bus stand Su. Venkatesan Madurai MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni-chennai-train-link-on-the-cards-says-mp/article37572384.ece
19 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Isha founder seeks external audit of temples under HR&CE Department||Isha Foundation founder Jagadish Vasudev has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the State for an external audit of temples coming under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department. A Division Bench of Justices Pushpa Sathyanarayana and P. Velmurugan sought a response from the State to the petition that demanded an external audit of over 44,000 temples to ascertain their present status. The petitioner said the status of temple structures, lands, properties, possession and occupation of temple properties, rents received and dues, other assets like temple chariots, rituals and spiritual practices associated with the temples had to be ascertained. Apart from this, the funds received from the public, donations, fees and the state of expenditure of these funds also needed to be ascertained. The petitioner claimed that the situation prevailing in these temples might not be to the expected standards. It was necessary that the temples were maintained properly so that the spiritual process and the rituals were performed for the people to experience the purpose for which these temples were consecrated, the petitioner said. He also sought a direction to set up a commission comprising eminent people and experts to examine devolution of the temples to the community. The court adjourned the hearing by four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isha-founder-seeks-external-audit-of-temples-under-hrce-department/article37572278.ece
19 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC: Address special needs of ‘mentally ill’ remand prisoners||Time has come to conduct awareness programmes in police training academies and judicial academies to sensitise the officers concerned with regard to mental health issues, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has observed. Coming across a case where a prisoner was suffering from bipolar disorder, Justice G. R. Swaminathan observed that it is time the State revised the protocol regarding medical examination of the arrestees. The proforma for health screening of prisoners must contain a specific column as regards the mental well-being of the arrestee. The column cannot be filled up after posing formal questions to the arrestee. The duty doctor must observe independently and gather the inputs. Section 20 (1) of the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, states that every person with mental illness should have a right to live with dignity and the expression ‘every person’ would obviously include an arrestee / remand prisoner too, the judge said. Sections 100 to 105 of the Act spells out duties of police officers and magistrates in respect of persons with mental illness. They are meant to be invoked in favour of mentally ill prisoners. The judge said mental wellness of the arrestee should be noted. If he or she is found to be mentally ill, the provisions of the Mental Healthcare Act will automatically get attracted. The police, duty doctor and judicial officer have a positive obligation to perform. They must apply their mind specifically and record their satisfaction that the arrestee is not mentally ill. If they find indications of mental illness, the statutory procedure must be adopted. Psychiatric ailments are ticking bombs. They lie beneath the surface. Unless they manifest themselves in a concrete manner in the behavior and conduct of the patient, one is hardly aware of it, the judge said. The judge also recommended that every police officer and judge read Jerry Pinto's ‘A book of light : when a loved one has a different mind’ and also watch the film ‘A Beautiful Mind’ based on the book with the same title by Sylvia Nasar. The court was hearing the petition filed by a woman who sought a direction to consider her representation to shift her husband from Thoothukudi Government Hospital to Tirunelveli GH. The petitioner’s husband was suffering from bipolar disorder. He was arrested and remanded in judicial custody following the death of a man who got loan from him and two others. They were accused of collecting exorbitant interest. Taking into account the fact that the woman’s husband had already received treatment in Tirunelveli, the judge permitted the prisoner to be transferred to Tirunelveli GH for receiving better treatment. The judge, however, made it clear that the scope of the petition was confined to upholding the rights of the arrestee having special needs. It has absolutely no bearing on the investigation and that will proceed in accordance with law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/address-special-needs-of-mentally-ill-remand-prisoners-hc/article37572266.ece
19 November 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Issuing false medical certificates for leave is an offence, says HC||Coming across a case where a false medical certificate was issued by a doctor to a person who was facing serious allegations, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that doctors were issuing such certificates for the purpose of leave without realising that it was an offence . Justice B. Pugalendhi observed that the court respected doctors and it relied on the medical certificates issued by them for taking certain decisions. If such false certificates were being issued, the court would not be in a position to rely on them, the judge said. It was the duty of the Tamil Nadu Medical Council to eradicate such an impression created by some doctors and take appropriate action to ensure that doctors did not indulge in such activities, the court said. The court was hearing the anticipatory bail petition filed by Gopinath of Thanjavur district. He was in possession of 1.20 kg of ganja. He was arrested by the police and then remanded in judicial custody in February. However, considering the COVID-19 pandemic, the petitioner was granted interim bail by a special court and was asked to surrender after a month in March. He failed to surrender before the court concerned. A warrant of arrest was issued. He then filed a plea seeking anticipatory bail before the High Court. He said that he suffered a fracture in his leg. He also produced certain medical records. It was said that the petitioner had obtained the certificate stating that it was for the purpose of seeking leave. After ascertaining the fact that the medical certificate was false and the doctor had only issued it for the purpose of leave, the court recommended that appropriate action be initiated against the doctor, C. Balaji. The court was informed that disciplinary proceedings were being initiated against the doctor by the Tamil Nadu Medical Council. Dismissing the anticipatory bail petition, the court said it hoped that the police would take appropriate action by arresting him.  The court respected doctors and it relied on medical certificates issued by them Justice B. Pugalendhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/issuing-false-medical-certificates-for-leave-is-an-offence-says-hc/article37572265.ece
19 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Stress on eye screening for diabetics||One in three diabetics in India develop diabetic retinopathy, a diabetic complication that could lead to severe vision loss or permanent blindness, said R. Dhivya, consultant ophthalmologist at Dr Agarwal’s Eye Hospital. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, she said that to reduce the risk of developing this eye condition, diabetics must keep their blood sugar in control and go for eye screening periodically for early diagnosis and treatment. In view of the World Diabetes Day, the hospital provided free consultation for those aged 50 years and above. She said that in the early stage, diabetic retinopathy remained totally asymptomatic. People with mild stages of diabetic retinopathy should have their eyes checked once in six months and those with moderate to severe condition, every three months. Pregnancy-induced diabetes (gestational diabetes) also needed screening every three months during pregnancy, as diabetic retinopathy could progress faster during this period. Painless prosedure “The eye screening is a painless procedure, requiring dilated examination of the retina, and eye scans. Among the tests, the hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) test, which measures the amount of blood sugar (glucose) attached to haemoglobin, is important,” she added. Regional Medical Director S. Bernard Albert Rajkumar said that awareness of diabetes and diabetic retinopathy would go a long way in saving the vision of diabetics. The most common risk factors were duration of diabetes and uncontrolled diabetes as well as hypertension, hyperlipidemia, anemia, renal diseases, and smoking. Hence, keeping blood sugar, blood pressure, and cholesterol under control, and lifestyle modifications such as regular exercise, and dietary change would help prevent complications, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stress-on-eye-screening-for-diabetics/article37572597.ece
19 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Rail traffic suspended due to landslide restored||Rail traffic that remained hit for a week due to landslide near Eraniel has been restored on Thursday. Due to land slips in Kanniyakumari–Nagercoil Jn–Thiruvananthapuram sections, Train No. 06426/06427 Thiruvananthapuram Central- Nagercoil Junction special train, Train No. 06425 Kollam Junction– Thiruvananthapuram Central Special train and Train No. 06435 Thiruvananthapuram Central– Nagercoil Junction special train were cancelled on Thursday. Besides, 20 trains were partially cancelled/short-terminated at different stations. A railway statement said that the traffic was restored at 1.45 p.m. Consequently, all train services were run as usual.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rail-traffic-restored/article37572379.ece
19 November 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Mullaperiyar dam on Thursday stood at 141 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.) with an inflow of 3,348 cusecs and a discharge of 2,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 69.42 ft. (71 ft.) with an inflow of 3,294 cusecs and a discharge of 4,420 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 10,738 mcft. Rainfall Rainfall recorded in various places during the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Thursday was (in mm): Manjalar dam 78, Gudalur 71.4, Veerapandi 68, Uthamapalayam 52.7, Shanmuganadhi dam 51.6, Sothupparai dam 35, Kodaikanal 31.6, Andipatti 27.4, Pulipatti 26.4, Peranai 21, Sathiyar dam 20, Thekkadi 19.6, Mullaperiyar dam 15.6, Maruthanadhi dam 12.2, Kuppanampatti 8.4, Chittampatti and Vaigai dam 7.6 each, Viraganur 7, Madurai 6, Melur 3, Kallandiri 2.4, Mettupatti 2 and Idayapatti 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article37572377.ece
19 November 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Strong room opened for first level checks of EVMs||The strong room in the Collectorate here was opened on Thursday and the electronic voting machines (EVMs) were sent for first-level checks ahead of urban local body elections. The strong room was opened in the presence of Collector Shreya P. Singh and representatives of recognised political parties. According to the officials, 1,300 control units and 2,600 EVMs were stored in the strong room. The voting units were taken to the district panchayat office premises. Engineers from BHEL would conduct the checks on the machines. The checks were expected to be completed in 15 days, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strong-room-opened-for-first-level-checks-of-evms/article37572415.ece
19 November 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||20 held for marrying minor girls||In a special drive conducted by the Namakkal District Police, 20 persons were arrested in 24 hours for marrying minor girls in the district. Superintendent of Police Saroj Kumar Thakur said stern action would be taken against the families and relatives who conducted the marriages. Special drive Mr. Thakur said a special drive was conducted and Deputy Superintendents of Police were advised to take action in this regard. According to the police, nine persons were arrested from Namakkal sub-division, three persons in Tiruchengode sub-division, and eight persons from Velur sub-division. Cases had been registered under Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and POCSO Act against the accused and they were remanded. Mr. Thakur added they were on the lookout for 10 other accused with similar charges. Cases registered He said marriages were conducted to 20 minor girls aged between 13 and 17 years. Mr. Thakur advised the public to inform about child marriages through phone numbers Childline -1098, Police -100, Namakkal Police Control Room - 94981 81216, District Special Branch Office - 94981 01020, 04286 – 280500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-held-for-marrying-minor-girls/article37572414.ece
19 November 2021||PALAKKAD,TAMIL NADU||Surge in Bharathapuzha triggers panic in Palakkad||An unwarned swelling of the Bharathapuzha and its tributaries triggered panic and tension in Palakkad on Thursday following the opening of the Aliyar dam in Tamil Nadu. The Aliyar dam was opened on Wednesday night after it rained continuously in Tamil Nadu. Though the shutters were closed later, the discharge of water from the Aliyar dam resumed on Thursday morning. The water level in the Bharathapuzha, named Chitturpuzha at Chittur and Yakkarapuzha in Palakkad, rose menacingly since Thursday morning. People living along the banks of the river were caught unawares as there was no warning about the discharge of water from the Aliyar dam. Traffic in several places was disrupted as the river began overflowing and covered several bridges. Bridges at Moolathara, Alamkadavu, Parakkalam and Nilampathy were flooded. People under the leadership of councillors laid a siege to the Thirunellai bridge protesting against the Government for ignoring the warnings sent out by Tamil Nadu Government. However, the police removed the protestors. Officials said that there was nothing to worry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surge-in-bharathapuzha-triggers-panic-in-palakkad/article37571884.ece
19 November 2021||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,000 kg of ration rice seized by Civil Supplies CID||Personnel of the Civil Supplies CID seized 1,240 kilograms of ration rice which was found hoarded at Ladapuram village in the district on Wednesday. The team arrested R. Chandrasekar of the village on the charge of hoarding ration rice in gunny bags and seized the consignment, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1000-kg-of-ration-rice-seized-by-civil-supplies-cid/article37572371.ece
19 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Holiday for schools, colleges on Friday as heavy rains lash U.T.||Several houses and huts were damaged and waterlogging reported across many locations as heavy rain pounded the Puducherry region since Wednesday night under the influence of the Northeast monsoon. The administration has declared a holiday for all educational institutions in Puducherry and Karaikal on Friday. The district administration has requisitioned the assistance of NDRF from Arakkonam to station a team in Puducherry to help in rescue and relief operations in the eventuality of any damage in case of further rain. The Indian Meteorological Department has forecast heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places over the Puducherry and Karaikal region till November 20 under the effect of the low pressure area persisting over the southeast and adjoining southwest Bay of Bengal. Puducherry received 143 mm of rainfall in a little over six hours since 8.30 a.m. while as of 7 p.m., the total rainfall received was 151 mm. The intensity and long duration of rain left normal life in disarray. Several areas across the city and suburbs witnessed waterlogging. With the rain unrelenting through the day, the administration struggled to drain away excess water. So far, 62 huts and 27 houses have been damaged. Apart from the death of one person due to drowning, there is no loss of life to general public, Collector Purva Garg said in an official press note. The administration has set up 194 relief shelters to accommodate people affected due to heavy rain. Provision of food packets to the rain-affected people are being arranged by the Civil Supplies Department and will be distributed soon. As a consequence of heavy rainfall during the last 24 hours till 9 a.m., Puducherry has recorded a rainfall reading of 50 mm, Thirukannur 36 mm, Pathukannu 15 mm and Bahour 37 mm. The major tanks in Puducherry such as Bahour and Oussudu have filled to their full capacity. 15 complaints The helplines logged 15 complaints in the last 24 hours related to waterlogging, fallen trees, electricity pole damage etc. and all the complaints are being attended to by the concerned line departments. Three trees that had fallen obstructing the road were removed by the Fire department, Forest department and Municipality staff while one electricity pole at Sivaji Statue was attended to by the Electricity department. The Collector who undertook visits to affected places and relief camps with a team of officials including Rishita Gupta, SDM (South), said the major waterlogging areas were identified as Indira Gandhi statue, Rajiv Gandhi statue, Sivaji statue on ECR Road, along with areas of Chellampapu Nagar, Rainbow Nagar, Solai Nagar, TV Nagar, Kosapalayam, Perumal Puram, Villianur, Uthiravaginipet, Kompakkam, Achariyapuram, Kalmandapam, Ariyapalayam and Pathukannu and all necessary steps are being taken to bail out the stagnated water. In a case of accidental death, one person of Madukarai village of Bahour taluk was reported drowned in the Malattar river due to heavy flow of river water. The body was fished out with the help of Fire and Rescue Services department and scuba divers arranged by the Fisheries department. CM conducts inspection Chief Minister N. Rangasamy inspected the inundated areas at Krishna Nagar, 45 Feet Road, Rajiv Gandhi Square, Ellaipillaichavady, Indira Gandhi Square, Mohan Nagar and other locations and supervised draining operations taken up by PWD/municipal bodies. Home and Electricity Minister A. Namassivayam held a meeting with the Electricity department officials to have measures in place to prevent outages in the rain and wind. Leader of Opposition R. Siva visited the low-lying areas of Athuchannelpet, Tattanbootha, GN Palayam, Sultanpet, Manaveli, Dandukkarai Medu and Villianur and called upon the Commune panchayat to conduct a proper survey of the affected houses, livestock etc., and to expedite the necessary assistance. The State Emergency Operation Centre is functioning 24/7 to attend to various complaints and grievances due to the ongoing heavy rainfall, the press note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/normal-life-affected-as-rain-pounds-ut/article37572662.ece
19 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Rain exposes flaws in road infrastructure||The recent spell of heavy rains in Puducherry has left the city’s civic infrastructure battered and once again exposed the poor condition of roads. Most of the arterial roads in the city are riddled with yawning potholes and worn-out eroded carriageways due to waterlogging. Commuters across the city have been facing a tough time driving with the outer bitumen layer on roads damaged at several places. Rains have also caused extensive damage to the roads on the flyovers on 100-feet Road and the Railway Over Bridge at Arumparthapuram. Be it the roads developed by the Public Works Department or the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the situation remains the same. The authorities have not taken up any road repair work. According to R. Velmurugan, a resident, “Most of the roads are dotted with uneven and bumpy surfaces at several places. In the absence of a properly-designed strategy, the re-carpeting is taken up in a haphazard manner with just filling of cement to cover potholes and cracks on the roads.” The arterial Cuddalore Road used by Ministers and elected representatives from the outlying region of Karaikal to reach the Legislative Assembly, is among one of the ill-maintained stretches in the city. The 45-feet Road and Vazhudavur Road are among the other badly damaged stretches. Damage caused by digging up the roads for laying pipelines and wear and tear have led to deterioration of the road surface. The Villupuram Road too has its share of potholes. Driving at night especially near the Nellithope signal has become risky because of ditches at intervals. “Damaged roads have also increased the maintenance costs of vehicles, especially two-wheelers and autorickshaws. The absence of streetlights on most stretches have only compounded the hardships faced by residents,” says Kalai, an autorickshaw driver. “Even when it rains for a couple of hours, it becomes very difficult for anyone to drive. Apart from bad roads, it is the delay in re-carpeting them that causes inconvenience to residents. Though funds have been allocated, the work has not been completed,” said Gayathri Srikanth, founder of Iraivi, a women’s forum. “The plight of residents in Boomianpet and Paavanar Nagar is even worse. It is a low-level area and the overflowing rain water from Indira Gandhi Square stagnate in the area. During every monsoon, roads in the locality get worn out and the authorities are not bothered to repair the roads,” says Arasu Kumar, an entrepreneur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-exposes-flaws-in-road-infrastructure/article37572666.ece
19 November 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||41 new cases and zero deaths recorded in U.T.||No COVID-19 death was reported in the Union Territory even as 41 new cases were detected on Thursday. Puducherry logged 24 of the new cases, which were detected from 2,820 tests, followed by Karaikal (10), Yanam (5) and Mahe (2). With 32 patients recovering from COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, the active cases stood at 326. This comprised 83 patients in hospital and 243 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 1.45%, case fatality rate 1.45% and recovery rate 98.29%.  The Union Territory has so far recorded a total of 1,28,561 cases against 1,26,368 recovered patients. Of an estimated 19.55 lakh tests conducted so far, over 16.56 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 4,023 persons took the jab against COVID-19 in the past 24 hours. The Union Territory has so far administered 11,69,082 vaccine doses. Lockdown extended The COVID-19 lockdown has been extended till November 30. The night curfew has been revised to between 11 p.m. and 5 a.m. Educational institutions, businesses and commercial enterprises have been directed to ensure 100% vaccination of staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/41-new-cases-and-zero-deaths-recorded-in-ut/article37572659.ece
19 November 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Fisherman’s body exhumed, re-postmortem done||The body of fisherman, R. Raj Kiran (30), who died allegedly after falling into the sea when his boat collided with a Sri Lankan naval vessel last month, was exhumed from the Ponnanvayal burial ground near Kottaipattinam in the district on Thursday and sent for re-postmortem following an order passed by the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. His wife had alleged that he was shot dead by Sri Lankan Navy. The exhumation was done in the presence of Revenue and police officials, a couple of doctors besides the wife and family members of Raj Kiran, in the morning. The body was shown to the family members and thereafter sent to the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital for conducting the re-postmortem, Revenue and police sources said. The Court had ordered re-autopsy on a petition filed by Raj Kiran's wife R. Brundha who had alleged that her husband was first shot by the Sri Lankan Naval authorities and subsequently the naval vessel had collided with the boat wantonly. The Court directed the Pudukottai district administration to exhume the body and conduct a re-postmortem. Raj Kiran along with Suganthan (23) and Arokia Xavier (32) had set sail from Kottaipattinam on October 18. While Raj Kiran died, the other two, who were arrested by the Sri Lankan authorities, were released early this month. The body of Raj Kiran was recovered and a postmortem conducted at the Jaffna Medical College Hospital in Sri Lanka. Thereafter, it was handed over to the Indian authorities and was brought to Kottaipattinam and handed over to the family members. Ms. Brundha had stated in the petition that she had perused some photographs of her husband's body provided by the authorities and was convinced that there were injuries on the body. The court had directed the authorities to file a report while passing the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fishermans-body-exhumed-re-postmortem-done/article37572335.ece
19 November 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects inundated areas||Minister for Law S. Regupathy on Thursday inspected several areas falling under the Pudukottai municipal limits. Accompanied by Collector Kavitha Ramu, he inspected Machuvadi, waterbodies near Palpannai roundabout, Kamarajapuram and Government Arts College for Women. He inspected damaged houses at Narimedu NGO colony and advised the officials to provide due compensation to the occupants. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Regupathy said instruction had been given to the officials to drain the stagnant water and added that the works were being taken up on a war footing. Later, he inspected the Arulmigu Arankulalingam Periyanayagi Ambal Temple at Tiruvarankulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inspects-inundated-areas/article37572336.ece
19 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain lashes Salem district||Continuous rain lashed Salem on Thursday and rainwater mixed with sewage stagnated at several areas within the city. The rain continued till late hours of the day. On Thursday, an average rainfall of 18.20 mm was recorded in the district. Highest amount of rainfall was recorded in P.N.Palayam, 56 mm, follwed by Attur 48 mm, Thammampatti 42 mm, Gangavalli 40 mm, Veeraganoor 25 mm, Anaimadavu 19 mm, Yercaud 14.8 mm, Kariyakovil 8 mm, Salem 7.6 mm, Kadayampatti 6 mm, Omalur 3 mm, Edappadi 2.2 mm and Mettur 1.4 mm. Considering continuous showers, District Collector S. Karmegham announced holiday for schools in the district on Thursday. The Collector advised revenue, rural development and PWD officials to take measures to avoid loss of lives due to the monsoon rain. Mettur dam The water level at Mettur dam stood at 120.10 ft despite releasing surplus water from the dam. At 4 p.m, the water level at the dam was 120.10ft and the storage was 93,630 tmcft. The dam received an inflow of 45,000 cusecs and equal amount of water was discharged into River Cauvery and 500 cusecs was released through East-West canal. By 7.15 p.m., the inflow to the dam increased to 50,000 cusecs and equal amount of water was released into Ricer Cauvery river. The discharge through the canal was 200 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-lashes-salem-district/article37572413.ece
19 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Permanent solution will be found for Chennai’s rain-related issues’||A permanent solution would be found for rain-related issues in Chennai, Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru said here on Thursday. Mr. Nehru told presspersons that steps had been taken for remedial measures in Chennai. Motor pumps are kept ready at all places to drain stagnant rainwater and officials, MLAs were undertaking relief works. He added that Smart City scheme was not properly implemented in Chennai and the drains were not constructed in all places. Study at 166 places The Chief Minister has formed a committee to study the effects of rain in Chennai and it would be conducted at 166 places, Mr. Nehru said. The Minister received petitions from the public and distributed welfare assistance to beneficiaries. He said measures had been taken to redress the grievances at the earliest. Mr. Nehru along with Collector S. Karmegham, MLAs and MP visited Pavalathanur Sri Lankan refugee camp and distributed welfare assistance. He also visited Poolampatti and reviewed the progress of the combined water supply scheme, which is being implemented at Rs. 652.84 crore.  The Chief Minister has formed a committee to study the effects of rain in Chennai and it would be conducted at 166 places K.N. Nehru Minister for Municipal Administration||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solution-will-be-found-for-chennais-rain-woes/article37572268.ece
19 November 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||PMK MLA asks theatre owners not to screen Suriya’s films||R. Arul, PMK MLA from Salem West constituency, has written to the Salem District Theatre Owners Association not to screen actor Suriya’s films in future. In his letter, the MLA claimed that Vanniyars were “wrongly portrayed” in the film Jai Bhim (co-produced and acted by Suriya). He claimed that youth in the district were agitated due to this. Therefore, he urged theatre owners not to screen any films of actor Suriya or those in which his family members acted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-screen-suriyas-films/article37572269.ece
19 November 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||CPI seeks revision of relief for crop damage and aid for farm labourers||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has exhorted the State government to revise the relief for the crop damage suffered by the farmers due to the recent rains and also to extend financial assistance to farm labourers. Talking to reporters in Thanjavur on Thursday, CPI State Secretary R. Mutharasan contended that the relief announced as assistance to farmers who have lost their paddy crop in the recent rains would not be sufficient to compensate the money spent by the cultivators to raise the crop. Further, the provision of inputs worth Rs. 6,083 per hectare towards the loss of transplanted samba crop would also be of no help to the farmers, he added. Hence, he urged the government to increase the relief to Rs. 30,000 per acre and also increase the input cost compensation amount considerably. Claiming that the financial position of farm labourers was also affected to a great extent in the recent rains, Mr.Mutharasan demanded a sum of Rs. 10,000 per family of labourers as relief. Rebuild damaged houses He also called upon the government to initiate steps on a war footing to rebuild the damaged group houses allotted to the farm labourers. Earlier, Mr.Mutharasan chaired the meeting of his party’s State executive committee and district secretaries where a resolution urging the Central government to release the funds demanded by the Tamil Nadu government to carry out the flood relief measures. Another resolution passed at the meeting of State executive committee and district secretaries sought the ouster of the police officer allegedly involved in ‘ganja’ smuggling, which also formed the base for the murder of CPI functionary, Natesha.Thamizharvan of Needamangalam recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-seeks-revision-of-relief-for-crop-damage-and-aid-for-farm-labourers/article37572331.ece
19 November 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Gang of thieves arrested||Four persons allegedly involved in house-breaking incidents reported in different parts of Tamil Nadu were arrested in Thanjavur on Wednesday. According to police, the accused persons travelling on two motorcycles were intercepted by a police team engaged in a vehicle checks near the Tantex Round About on the outskirts of the town on November 17. A search of the personal belongings of the gang led to the seizure of iron rods allegedly used by them to break open locked houses. Subsequent interrogation revealed that they were operating as a gang to lift valuables from locked houses all over the State. They have also confessed that they were the persons who had committed a housebreaking incident reported recently in the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital police station domain. A total of 74 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs. 2 lakh was seized from them. They were identified as Manoj of Omalur, Dileep Diwakar of Nilakottai, Rajaraman of Keezhadi and his brother, Karthik Raja. The arrested persons were remanded to judicial custody on November 18, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-of-thieves-arrested/article37572332.ece
19 November 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Second flood warning issued as level rises at Mullaperiyar||With the water level at the Mullaperiyar dam reaching 141 feet (the permissible level is 142 feet), Public Works Department (PWD) authorities in Thekkadi issued the second flood warning on Thursday at 5.30 a.m. Following heavy rain in Theni and Dindigul districts, the Collectors — K.V. Muralidharan and S. Visakan — declared a holiday for all schools and colleges in the two districts on Thursday. In Theni district, the downpour has been heavy and widespread since Wednesday evening. Aranmanai Pudur recorded 60.4 mm; Thekkadi 19.6 mm; Periyar dam 15.6 mm; Bodinayakkanur 37.2 mm; Gudalur 71.4 mm; Manjalar 78 mm; Uthamapalayam 52.7 mm, and Veerapandi 68 mm of rainfall. The storage level of the Vaigai dam stood at 69.42 feet (maximum level is 71 feet), with an inflow of 3294 cusecs and discharge of 4420 cusecs. Farmers hope that PWD authorities store water up to 142 feet in the Mullaperiyar dam, as per the Supreme Court’s directive. Meanwhile, the five southern district farmers’ federation joint secretary Ranjit Kumar said on Thursday that authorities should not deviate from the apex court’s directive under any circumstances, and must store water in a way that Ramanathapuram district (one of the five districts) gets its due share of water for irrigation from the reservoir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-flood-warning-issued-as-level-rises-at-mullaperiyar/article37572239.ece
19 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu students to be included in Plus One allotment||Students, who were promoted from Class X in Tamil Nadu, will be given an opportunity to be included in Plus One allotment in the State, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. The General Education Department decision has come as a relief for the students who were waiting to take part in the Plus One allotment process. The Tamil Nadu Government had decided against conducting the Class X public examinations in the wake of the COVID-19 situation. All students were given Class X pass certificates without specifying marks or grades. However, in Kerala, the rank list for Plus One higher secondary admission is prepared on the basis of grade/marks secured in the Class X public examinations. As a result, students who had passed Class X from Tamil Nadu could not be considered for Plus One admission. After the students approached Mr. Sivankutty with a plea that they be considered for the admission, he had directed the Director of General Education to examine the matter. Following this, the Government decided to include the students and issued an order in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-students-to-be-included-in-plus-one-allotment/article37572296.ece
19 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Students from T.N. to be included in Plus One allotment in Kerala||Students who were promoted from Class X in Tamil Nadu will be given an opportunity to be included in Plus One allotment in the State, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. The decision has come as a relief for the students who were waiting to take part in the Plus One allotment process. The Tamil Nadu government had decided against conducting Class X public examinations in the wake of the COVID-19 situation. All students were given pass certificates without specifying marks or grades. However, in Kerala, the rank list for Plus One higher secondary admission is prepared on the basis of grade/marks secured in Class X public examinations. As a result, students who had passed Class X from Tamil Nadu could not be considered for Plus One admission. After the students approached Mr. Sivankutty with a plea that they be considered for the admission, he directed the Director of General Education to examine the matter. Following this, the government decided to include the students and issued an order in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/students-from-tn-to-be-included-in-plus-one-allotment-in-kerala/article37572693.ece
19 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||One held for steel bar theft at airport||Pudukottai police have arrested a construction worker who allegedly stole steel bars, weighing about 100 kg, from Thoothukudi airport. The police said site engineer A. Karthik, who was supervising the ongoing construction at the airport, filed a complaint with Pudukottai police after he found that 100 kg of steel bars was missing on November 16. During investigation, the police found that H. Rajagopal, 45, of Sundar Nagar under Muthiahpuram police station limits had stolen the steel bars. They arrested him and recovered the steel bars from him. Copper waste recovered In another case, Thoothukudi South Police recovered 30 tonnes of copper waste worth about Rs. 21,000 from M. Marimuthu, 31, of Thermal Nagar, M. Peer Mohamed, 35, of Tenkasi and V. Sankaranarayanan, 37 of Third Mile areas. They allegedly stole the metal from a godown on Harbour Bypass Road owned by J. Rakesh of Polepettai. The police are on the lookout for Selvakumar of Mappillaiyoorani and Periyasamy of Navajeevan Nagar in connection with the theft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1-held-for-theft-at-airport/article37572368.ece
19 November 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||DVAC raids Sub-Registrar’s house||The sleuths of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption conducted a surprise raid at the houses of a Sub-Registrar and his father-in-law on Thursday following registration of cases against them on corruption charges. Sources in the DVAC said a raid was conducted at Vilathukualam Sub-Registrar’s Office in December last following corruption charges against Sub-Registrar R. Ravichandar of Sivakalai in the district, who is now working as Sub-Registrar in Kumbakonam. During the raid, DVAC sleuths seized unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs. 3.50 lakh. Since Thoothukudi Deputy Superintendent of Police Hector Dharmaraj, whose team conducted subsequent inquiry, found that Ravichandar, his wife Sudha and father-in-law Sundararaj had amassed wealth to the tune of Rs. 1.25 crore beyond their known sources of income, a case was registered against them. In this connection, the DVAC officials conducteda surprise raid at the houses of Ravichandar and Sundararaj at Sivakalai on Thursday. The search went on even after 5 p.m. Documents recovered The police, during the search, reportedly recovered documents showing Ravichandar owning several properties in Sivakalai, Bryant Nagar in Thoothukudi and a few more places worth crores of rupees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dvac-raids-sub-registrars-house/article37572378.ece
19 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain in delta districts adds to farmers’ woes||The central region, including the delta districts, continued to receive widespread rainfall on Thursday after a moderate to heavy overnight rain spells. Several parts of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam received heavy showers inundating more paddy fields, adding to the woes of harried farmers. With more rainfall predicted, farmers are keeping their fingers crossed on the fate of their inundated crops. Unless the water drains quickly, the farmers may not be able to save the samba/thaladi paddy crop in the freshly inundated fields. Thanjavur received 116 mm of rainfall overnight and Ayyampettai 104 mm. Budalur (78.40 mm), Tiruvaiyaru (69), Papanasam (68.80) and Kumbakonam (62.20) also received heavy overnight rain. So did Needamangalam (94), Valangaiman (93.8), Kudavasal (65), Tiruvarur (63.8) and Thiruthuraipoondi (60) in neighbouring Tiruvarur district. Chettikulam in Perambalur district recorded 108 mm of rainfall. Mayiladuthurai and Sirkazhi in Mayiladuthurai district, Talaignayiru, Thirupoondi, Vedaranyam and Nagapattinam in Nagapattinam district and Thirumanur and Jayamkondam, Sendurai and Ariyalur in Ariyalur district received good spells of rain. Several parts of the Tiruchi and Pudukottai district also received moderate overnight rainfall. Some of the low-lying residential areas in Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts were inundated due to the rain. Thanjavur More than 100 dwelling units suffered damages in the incessant heavy rains recorded in Thanjaur district on Wednesday.A total of 90 huts and 11 tiled houses have suffered damages, sources added. The heavy outflow from Mettur dam into the Kollidam river and rains along the Kollidam river bank has flooded the fields on which banana cultivation had been taken up in around 200 acres at Aachanur, Sathanur, Vadugakudi, Maruvur and nearby areas. The rain had also resulted in the flooding of around 3,500 acres of paddy fields in different parts of the district, sources added. Perambalur A holiday has been declared for schools and colleges in Perambalur district on Friday in view of the continuing rain, Collector P.Sri Venkada Priya has announced. Ariyalur A holiday has been declared for schools in the district on Friday, announced Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi. Reservoirs filling up The PWD started releasing water from the Siddhamali reservoir and the Ponneri tank in Ariyalur district as a precautionary measure as they were fast nearing their full storage capacity following good inflows due to the continuing rain. The storage at the Siddhamali reservoir stood at 191.74 million cubic feet (mcft) against its full capacity of 226.8 mcft. However, with the inflow being 368 cusecs, the PWD started discharging about 175 cusecs of water from the reservoir on Thursday. The surplus discharge from the reservoir ultimately flows into the Kollidam river through a network of canals. The Ponneri near Jayamkondam in the district was also fast filling up with its storage being 83.25 mcft on Thursday against its capacity of 114 mcft. The tank, one of the biggest in the district, was receiving about 150 cusecs of the water and about 70 cusecs was being discharged. District Collector P. Ramana Saraswathi, who inspected the reservoir and the Ponneri tank, instructed officials to keep a close vigil on the situation and ensure controlled and steady release of surplus water. In Siddhamali about 1,000 sand bags have been kept in readiness to be used at vulnerable stretches along the banks if needed. At Ponneri, about 500 sand bags have been kept in readiness. She instructed officials to initiate precautionary measures to ensure that the public and agriculture activity were not affected by the release of the surplus water. In Perambalur, Collector P.Sri Venkada Priya issued a warning to people residing along the banks of Marudaiyar as about 2,000 cusecs of surplus water was being discharged from the Marudaiyar dam. The dam had reached its full storage capacity of 212.47 mcft about a week ago. She issued a flood warning to people living along the river banks in Kottarai, Kurumbapalayam, Adhanur, Pilimisai, Koothur, Iluppaikudi, Ramanlingapuram, Bujangarayalannur, Nochikulam,Thondapadi, Azhagiripalayam and Gudalur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-in-delta-districts-adds-to-farmers-woes/article37572340.ece
19 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Ambikapuram has to contend with leachate-mixed rainwater||The residential areas in Ambikapuram, behind the Ariyamangalam dump yard, were inundated after Thursday's rains. The leachate from the nearby dump yard had mixed with the rainwater and was stagnating on the streets. There has been no action despite several petitions submitted to the district administration, residents complained. As it continued to rain throughout the day, the people struggled to navigate streets inundated with black-coloured water. The area, which is located immediately after the Ariyamangalam dump yard on the Thanjavur Road also stinks due to the smell emanating from the yard. The problem has persisted for years, the residents say. Leachate is a cause of concern as it could lead to infections and diseases. The water has also seeped into the ground and water pipelines. While the authorities laid a gravel path on the main road, that has only made matters worse. “There is no way for the water to seep through the tightly packed gravel and flows on either side onto the streets and in front of houses,” a resident said. K. V. Ramalingam, State Secretary, Ambedkar Makkal Iyakkam, along with several residents had made representations to the School Education Minister, Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, and the Tiruchi City Corporation. “Potable water coming from the taps is also black in colour. We have nowhere to go and nobody is helping us,” he said. Ajisha Begum lives in a small house with a clay tile roof along with her children in Thideer Nagar. As she noticed that the pillars holding the house had become weak during last week’s rains, she had shifted to her sister's house, which is two streets away. On Tuesday night, the roof caved in. “Had we been living here, we would have all died,” she said. The residents said that they were planning to stage a protest on Thanjavur Road if the problem was not solved soon. Meanwhile, Collector S. Sivarasu and Corporation Commissioner P. M. N. Mujibur Rahuman inspected inundated areas in Carmel Garden and Vasanth Nagar, which had become inundated, and instructed officials to make necessary arrangements to drain the water immediately. He also inspected the rainwater harvesting systems in Kaveri Nagar.  Potable water coming from the taps is also black in colour. We have nowhere to go and nobody is helping us K. V. Ramalingam State Secretary, Ambedkar Makkal Iyakkam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ambikapuram-has-to-contend-with-leachate-mixed-rainwater/article37572756.ece
19 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable prices shoot up||Vegetable prices have gone up sharply in Tiruchi market due to a dip in arrivals. The prices of tomato, brinjal and ‘avarai’ were quoted at Rs. 110 per kg in the retail markets on Thursday. While the price of brinjal was hovering around Rs. 100 a kg over the last two weeks, the rate of tomato and ‘avarai’ has gone up by Rs. 50 a kg within a week. According to market sources, one kg of tomato was sold for Rs. 30 in the retail market in the last week of October. It went up gradually in the first week of November on the eve of Deepavali. The traders had then cited the heavy demand during the festival season as the reason for the rise in prices of tomato. But, it continued to show an upward trend even after the festival season. It touched Rs. 100 a kg two days ago. The customers had to pay Rs. 110 for a kg on Thursday. In the wholesale market, one kg of tomato was quoted at Rs. 80 to Rs. 90 on Thursday. Traders cited heavy rain as the main reason for the rise in prices of tomato. The Gandhi Market, the wholesale market in Tiruchi, generally received tomato loads from Dindigul, Sembatti, Oddanchathiram, Pollachi and Manapparai. Tomato from Bengaluru also caters to at least 50% of the demand. But, the arrival from the supply centres has come down by 50%. There is hardly any arrival from Pollachi and Manapparai. It is said that continuous rain had hit the standing tomato crop in various parts of the State. Seasonal rain “The extended spell of the seasonal rain has hit the supply chain. There is a gap between demand and supply. The dip in arrival has shot up the prices too,” says M. K. Kamalakannan, a wholesale trader at Gandhi Market. He adds that prices of almost all vegetables including carrot, beans, beetroot, ladies finger have also been ruling high in the market. Mr. Kamalakannan said that the prices might continue to remain high for 10 more days. The prices might come down from the first week of December, he added.  The extended spell of the seasonal rain has hit the supply chain and the prices might continue to remain high for 10 more days M. K. Kamalakannan A wholesale trader at Gandhi Market||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-prices-shoot-up/article37572345.ece
19 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Paddy fields in Lalgudi block submerged||Standing paddy crop raised on large tracts of land in several villages in Lalgudi block have been submerged due to the heavy rain. According to sources, more than 5,000 acres have been brought under paddy cultivation in the Lalgudi block during the current samba crop season. Most of the farmers had completed paddy transplantation. The crop is between 15 and 20 days. Though the Lalgudi block received heavy rain in the previous spells of the current north-east monsoon season, it did not result in inundation. But, the current spell that began on Tuesday has caused water inundation in various villages in the Lalgudi block. Two to three feet of water can be seen in paddy fields in Mela Valadi, Serumaruthur, Keelaperungavur, Manthurai, Nagar, Appathurai and Pudukudi. Similarly, paddy crop raised on several acres in Poovalur, Maraikkal, Anbil and villages on Lalgudi-Pullambadi road have also been affected. “We managed to prevent waterlogging on our fields until Monday. But, we could not sustain it as the torrential rain has thwarted our efforts. We are really worried about the prospects of the crop,” says T. Muthamizhselvan, who has raised paddy on his 1.5 acres of land in Valadi. He said that he had spent Rs. 20,000 per acre for paddy transplantation. If the crop was underwater for two to three more days it would go waste. The entire investment and the energy put in by the farmers would go to waste. Hence, the revenue and agricultural officials should survey the affected areas. Heavy flow in the Korayar has caused water inundation in various residential colonies in Edamalaipattipudur. The spillover water from the river was said to have entered residential colonies. J. Jayakanthan, Monitoring Officer to the district, accompanied by Collector S. Sivarasu, visited Gandhi Nagar and inspected the steps being taken to prevent waterlogging in the areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paddy-fields-in-lalgudi-block-submerged/article37572347.ece
19 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi outperforms other districts in ninth mega vaccination camp||Tiruchi district inoculated the highest number of people during the ninth edition of the mega COVID-19 vaccination camp conducted in the State on Thursday. The central districts performed well as a whole. In Tiruchi, 54, 708 people took the jab, of which 32,192 were given the first dose. Thanjavur district stood ninth, right after Chennai. In Thanjavur, 16,444 took the first dose, and 14,321, the second dose. A total of 422 camps were organised in Tiruchi, of which a large number were mobile camps. Similar arrangements were made across the region, wherein health workers travelled door-to-door and administered the vaccine. In Ariyalur district, which had already outperformed the State average number of vaccinations, 24,881 people took the jab. A total of 13,073 people took the jab in the neighbouring Perambalur district. In Karur, a sizeable population took the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. Of the total 11,267 people who took the jab at the various camps, 7,646 took the second dose. Health workers in Tiruvarur vaccinated a total of 18,744 people, of which 13,059 took the second dose. In Nagapattinam, 10,324 people took the vaccination, in Mayiladuthurai district, 4,329 and in Pudukottai district, 14,976.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-outperforms-other-districts-in-ninth-mega-vaccination-camp/article37572365.ece
19 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Capacity building centre to train sanitation workers in Tiruchi||Gramalaya, a not-for-profit has set up Harpic World Toilet College as a capacity-building centre for sanitation workers. Three such centres - in Tiruchi, Kochi in Kerala and in Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh, will provide training to 1,000 workers in each. The training will include income generation activities and placement to the trained sanitation workers. The Harpic World Toilet College aims to provide dignified livelihood to sanitation workers in India by uplifting their work quality, eliminating the inhumane nature and hazards that the manual scavengers are exposed to on a daily basis and improving their socio-economic status Amid the pandemic, Harpic World Toilet College developed a digital curriculum for sanitation workers in 2020. So far, 2,700 sanitation workers have been trained through online modules. To commemorate “World Toilet Day” on November 19, Harpic World Toilet College South India Chapter at Tiruchi organised a training programme for sanitation workers. A total of 30 workers took part in the training and were given kits consisting of a personnel protective kit, clothing and a bag. The participants were also given certificates, according to a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/capacity-building-centre-to-train-sanitation-workers-in-tiruchi/article37572759.ece
19 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases show a dip||The central region reported 103 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, continuing the trend of a decline in recent days. Two patients succumbed in Tiruchi district. In Tiruchi district a total of 32 patients had reported COVID-19 positive. In Thanjavur, 27 patients tested positive. Karur reported 16 fresh COVID-19 cases, and Tiruvarur, 13. Nagapattinam meanwhile, registered seven fresh cases and Pudukottai district, four. Ariyalur district reported three COVID-19 cases, Perambalur, one, and Mayiladuthurai district reported no fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-cases-show-a-dip/article37572366.ece
19 November 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Dept of Posts to conduct Aadhaar special camp||The Department of Posts, Srirangam Division, will conduct a Aadhaar special camp at the Srimad Andavan Arts and Science College, Tiruvanaikoil, for three days from November 22 to 24. The department has requested the general public to utilise this special camp for new enrolment of Aadhaar and corrections if any to be made in the existing Aadhaar card. The Aadhaar enrolment would be done free of cost, while Rs. 50 (inclusive of tax) would be charged for Aadhaar updation and Rs. 100 (inclusive of tax) for biometric update, a press release issued by K. Vijaya, Superintendent of Post Offices, Srirangam Division, Srirangam said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dept-of-posts-to-conduct-aadhaar-special-camp/article37572334.ece
19 November 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Downpour increases storage level in tanks in Tirunelveli district||Though the sudden widespread downpour in the district crippled normal life for a while on Wednesday evening, it ensured huge influx of water into non-systemised tanks that played a crucial role in agricultural operations and augmenting groundwater table. Following the widespread rain, Collector V. Vishnu visited marooned areas in Palayamkottai and ensured draining of stagnant water within an hour. Blocks in a few places were removed as the Collector began his visit to the affected areas. Manakavalan Pillai Nagar, one of the areas in Palayamkottai that would be badly affected during rain, heaved a sigh of relief in the early hours of Thursday as Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran camped there. “Since illegal structures have mushroomed in the cramped area, free flow of rainwater into the channel is hampered. Anticipating flooding during heavy rainfall, drainage channels were cleaned. The presence of officials in this vulnerable area further made the task easier,” said a Corporation official. Bus stand affected As the water inlet channel on the eastern side of Venthankulam around the new bus stand under renovation had been blocked, the temporary bus stand was badly affected. Stagnant water submerged even the first two steps of buses. Meanwhile, the Nagercoil Highway-Anbu Nagar stretch was under water and that crippled the movement of buses completely for a while. Waiting passengers moved out of the temporary bus stand. The Corporation officials removed the block in the water inlet channel and the stagnant rainwater was drained into Venthankulam within an hour. Manur Periyakulam, with a 1,120-acre spread to irrigate over 4,000 acres in 30 villages in Manur, Mavadi, Madhavakurichi and Ettaankulam panchayats, overflowed on Thursday after a gap of two years. Tirunelveli MLA and State BJP vice-president Nainar Nagendran offered special prayers in the waterbody and showered flower petals in the water along with farmers and MDMK’s social media coordinator ‘Minnal’ Mohammed Ali. Since the tank, which would get water only after 19 irrigation tanks in Chittar irrigation system overflowed, now brimmed with water, the farmers were confident of a bumper crop during pisanam and advance kar seasons. The widespread rainfall in Thoothukudi district has ensured overflowing of more than 90% of the irrigation tanks – both rain-fed and systemised. After six of the 24 shutters of Korampallam tank with a capacity of 228.56 mcft to irrigate 915.79 acres of land were opened on Wednesday night, water entered plantain groves around Athimarappatti after submerging the low-level bridge. Rainfall Rainfall recorded in the region was (in mm): Srivaikundam 94, Kayathar 91, Soorangudi 86, Palayamkottai 85, Kayalpattinam 80, Ambasamudram 65, Maniyachi 64, Cheranmahadevi 62, Nanguneri and Vilathikulam 60 each, Kadambur 50, Vaippar 47, Tirunelveli and Ottapidaram 42 each, Thoothukudi, Kazhugumalai, Kadalkudi and Kovilpatti 37 each, Kulasekarapattinam, Ettaiyapuram and Vedanatham 35, Tiruchendur 32, Radhapuram 29, Manimuthar dam 18, Sattankulam 14, Keezha Arasadi 13 and Papanasam dam 6.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/downpour-raises-storage-level-of-tirunelveli-tanks/article37572593.ece
19 November 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Palayamkottai student wins State-level data science contest||A student of Francis Xavier Engineering College, Palayamkottai, has won the State-level ‘World Skills Competition- Shanghai 2022’ by developing data science solution for on-the-spot challenge. P. Asuwini from the Department of Information Technology, who has won the State-level competition, will represent Tamil Nadu in the south India-level ‘Upcoming India Skills’ competition to be held shortly. C. Arun Babu, managing director of SCAD Group of Institutions, which runs Francis Xavier Engineering College, said the state-of-the-art Data Science Applied Laboratory of the college played the pivotal role in equipping Ms. Asuwini for the competition. Mr. Arun felicitated Ms. Asuwini on Wednesday at the college. Mr. Arun also honoured G. Prince Devaraj, Head, Department of Information Technology, and project mentor A. Anitha for guiding the student. General manager (Development), SCAD Group of Institutions, K. Jeyakumar and Assistant General Manager Krishnakumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palayamkottai-student-wins-state-level-data-science-contest/article37572373.ece
19 November 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for bid to murder stepdaughter||Police have booked a man for allegedly attempting to murder his 10-year-old stepdaughter. The police said G. Suja, 33, a mother of three children from Periyavilai in Kanniyakumari district, married Jesu Antony Raj of the same area eight years ago after her husband Gurunathan died. Antony Raj and Suja settled down at Kavalkinaru in Tirunelveli district and worked in a hotel there. Ms. Suja’s 10-year-old daughter, who came to the hotel on Wednesday, took a biscuit packet, but did not payfor it. The hotel owner shouted at Antony Raj. After returning home in the night, Antony Raj poured kerosene on the three children and allegedly set them on fire. Hearing the screams of the children, neighbours rushed in and doused the flames. They took the badly injured 10-year-old girl to Asaripallam Government Medical College Hospital, where Antony Raj was also admitted with minor injuries. Panagudi police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-bid-to-murder-stepdaughter/article37572689.ece
19 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||J.P. Nadda to visit Tiruppur on Nov. 24||President of the Bharatiya Janata Party J.P. Nadda will visit Tiruppur on November 24 to inaugurate the party’s district office, said former MP and senior BJP leader C.P. Radhakrishnan on Thursday. Speaking to mediapersons following inspection of the preparatory works, he said that Mr. Nadda will inaugurate the BJP’s district offices for four districts during his visit. He will also participate in the party’s State Executive Committee meeting, which will be held in Tiruppur on the same day. The BJP is emerging as an alternative to the DMK in the State, Mr. Radhakrishnan said and added that the State president K. Annamalai is “working hard to defeat the wrong approaches and false campaigns” of the DMK. On the Chennai floods, he said that the DMK government must ensure protection of water bodies to prevent such occurrences in the future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jp-nadda-to-visit-tiruppur-on-nov-24/article37572287.ece
19 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain lashes Tiruppur district||Heavy rain lashed Tiruppur district on Wednesday evening with Kundadam recording the highest rainfall in the State for the 24-hour period on Thursday morning with 200 mm of rainfall. According to the district administration’s rainfall data for the 24-hour period ending at 7 a.m. on Thursday, Dharapuram received 132 mm of rainfall, followed by Tiruppur Collectorate with 110 mm. Other parts in the district that received heavy rain include Avinashi - 70 mm, Thirumoorthy dam - 41 mm, Amaravathi dam - 38 mm, Palladam - 84 mm and Tiruppur North - 73 mm. The district received an average rainfall of 64.71 mm during the period. In Tiruppur Corporation limits, areas such as Mumoorthi Nagar, Balan Nagar and Angeripalayam experienced flooding and the water entered some of the houses. Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati said that there was no need to shift people to rescue shelters as the stagnant water in most of the low-lying areas were cleared. The Corporation’s helpline 0421-2321500 received 26 calls and all the complaints were attended to, Mr. Pati said. Personnel from the Tiruppur South Fire Station rescued two families in Avinashipalayam. In Udumalpet, an elderly man died after being washed away in the floods. Officials from the PWD (Water Resources Organisation) said that the water level in Amaravathi dam touched 88 feet against the full reservoir level of 90 feet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-rain-lashes-tiruppur-district/article37572289.ece
19 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Over 100 exhibitors participate in Yarnex and TexIndia fair||The 20th edition of the Yarnex – India International Yarn Exhibition and the 12th edition of the TexIndia – Textile Sourcing Fair commenced at the India Knit Fair (IKF) Complex in Tiruppur on Thursday. According to P. Krishnamurthy, Chief Executive Officer of S.S. Textile Media that has organised the event, 112 exhibitors from across the country arrived at Tiruppur for the three-day textile fair. The exhibitors were from Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Surat and Ludhiana. Yarnex and TexIndia aims to bring together manufacturers and suppliers of yarns, fibres and apparel fabrics under one roof. The fair will be open for traders till Saturday, he said. The highlights of the fair include sustainable and eco-friendly yarns, especially those made from plastic bottles, Mr. Krishnamurthy said. The three-day fair is expected to give a fillip to the manufacturers and suppliers, whose business was affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdowns, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-100-exhibitors-participate-in-yarnex-and-texindia-fair/article37572274.ece
19 November 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||J.P. Nadda to visit Tiruppur||President of the Bharatiya Janata Party J.P. Nadda will visit Tiruppur on November 24 to inaugurate the party’s district office, said former MP and senior BJP leader C.P. Radhakrishnan on Thursday. Speaking to mediapersons, he said Mr. Nadda would inaugurate the BJP’s district offices for four districts and would also participate in the party’s State Executive Committee meeting to be held in Tiruppur the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jp-nadda-to-visit-tiruppur/article37572416.ece
19 November 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Drones being deployed to identify illegal miners in Pandalur range||Drone cameras are being deployed to track and identify illegal miners in the Pandalur range in Gudalur. The miners, who have dug over 5,000 individual mines in Devala and surrounding regions in Gudalur in order to find miniscule amounts of gold embedded in the rocks, put themselves as well as wildlife at risk from falling and getting trapped inside the mines. Recently, an elephant calf was rescued after it fell inside one of the mines and was reunited with its herd by the forest staff. A short while later, an adult elephant was found dead after falling inside one of the mines. Its death is believed to have been covered up by the miners. Both incidents highlighted the threat faced by wildlife due to the presence of the mines along the crucial wildlife corridor used by elephants to move from Mudumalai Tiger Reserve and Gudalur to neighboring Nilambur and Wayanad in Kerala. G. Ramkumar, Forest Range Officer, Pandalur range, said that the drone cameras will be deployed if the Forest Department receives any intelligence of illegal gold miners entering the region. “One of the problems faced by the department staff is that the miners flee on hearing the approach of any vehicle or forest staff. With the use of the drone cameras, we can identify the individuals and get a bird’s eye view of the surrounding landscape,” said a top forest official. The drone cameras have a range of around one km. Mr. Ramkumar said that the department hoped such measures will discourage people from trying to enter the mines. The department has begun clamping down on illegal mining following the discovery of the elephant carcass in the mine, and media reports about the impunity with which wildlife in the region is put at risk from the activity. On November 8, the forest staff detained four persons who are believed to have been preparing to dig a new mine in Cherambadi range. The four men, identified as M. Mohan, P. Sivakumar, M. Nadheem and Y. Mohammed Naseek, were let off after a cumulative fine of Rs. 40,000 was imposed on them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drones-being-deployed-to-identify-illegal-miners-in-pandalur-range/article37572277.ece
19 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Flood alert issued in 40 low-lying villages||District Collectors of Vellore, Tiruvannamalai and Ranipet have issued flood alerts to 40 low-lying villages after release of water from reservoirs in these districts due to continuous rain on Thursday. A special desk with helpline numbers (0416-2258016; 7397389320; 7397392686; 7397397672) was set up at the Collectorate and Corporation headquarters in Vellore on Thursday for rain-related complaints. All schools and colleges will remain closed on Friday. Vellore Collector P. Kumaravel Pandian inspected low-lying areas in Anaicut block along the Jawadhu Hills in the district, including Keelkothuthur and Odugathur villages on Thursday. “As part of flood alert, we have been requesting residents in low-lying areas to move to nearby relief camps to ensure their safety. We have been requesting residents not to venture out of their houses unnecessarily during rain,” said Mr. Pandian. Thirteen low-lying areas along the Jawadhu Hills in Vellore including Gingee, Mottur, Thondanthulasi, Arumbakkam, Singareddiyar, Kangeyanallur, Sovur, Arum Paruthi and Hammudi villages have got flood alert after water was released from Raja Thoppu Kanavur reservoir, which has a capacity of 20.52 mcft. The storage has reached 18.70 mcft on Thursday. In Ranipet, flood alert has been issued to 17 villages along the Palar river, including areas such as Arambakkam, Keel Minnal, Puttuthakku, Nandiyalam, Visaram, Veppur, Karai, Pinchee,Thirumalaicherry, Poondi, Gudimallur, Sattambakkam, Kadberi, Tiruparkadal and Arcot. As major lakes, including Shenbagathope, Mirugandanadhi and Kuppanatham reached their full capacity, many villages in Cheyyar, Chengam and adjoining areas in Tiruvannamalai got flood alert as 12,800 cusecs of water were being released from these lakes as of 6 p.m. on Thursday. A complete ban on crossing the Palar, check dams and low-level bridges have been issued in Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts. Adequate police have been deployed at strategic spots along the river to prevent people from going to these waterbodies. Due to continuous rain, people were requested to refrain from riding two-wheelers in hilly areas, including Yelagiri Hill, Puthur Nadu Hill, Nayakkaneri, Neknamalai, Velatikamani Penda, Madakadappa and Arumanipenda in Tirupattur district. As the two large lakes with 420 acres reached its full capacity in Ambur, the district administration cleared the drains to discharge water into the Palar. More than 300 saplings were planted on the SIPCOT premises by Ranipet Collector D. Bhaskara Pandian on Thursday. With the release of excess water from Kalavagunta dam in neighbouring Chittoor district in Andhra Pradesh and inflows from tributaries of the Ponnai and the Palar, 10,518 cusecs and 15,851 cusecs of water was released from Poonai and Palar anaicut respectively as of 6.30 p.m on Thursday. Several areas, including Vellore town, Katpadi, Gudiyatham, Anaicut in Vellore, Arakkonam, Arcot, Walajah and Sholinghur in Ranipet, Vanniyambadi, Ambur and Natrampalli in Tirupattur and Chengam, Cheyyar, Polur, Arani in Tiruvannamalai witnessed continuous rain on Thursday. Together, 1,239 persons were accommodated in 64 relief shelters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/flood-alert-issued-in-40-low-lying-villages/article37572696.ece
19 November 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 10 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 50,055 with 10 new cases reported on Thursday. While a total of 48,823 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 95. The district's death toll is 1,137. In Ranipet district, 3 cases were reported positive and the total stood at 43,517. In Tirupattur district, 2 new cases were reported on Thursday and the total number of positive cases stood at 29,364. In Tiruvannamalai district, the number of new cases was 8, taking the total number of cases to 55,126. Out of this, 54,381 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 76.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vellore-logs-10-new-cases/article37572697.ece
19 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Two cheating cases against Rajenthra Bhalaji||The Virudhunagar District Crime Branch (DCB) has registered two cheating cases against former Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, his assistants and a former AIADMK functionary. In his complaint, S. Ravindran of Sattur said he had handed over Rs. 30 lakh, in several instalments, between November 2020 and February 2021, to former AIADMK functionary K. Nallathambi, who was introduced to him by an AIADMK worker, Mariappan of Thayilpatti. Mr. Ravindran said Mr. Mariappan promised to get him the post of manager at Aavin, through the then Minister. He gave the money he had raised through loans to Mr. Nallathambi, after meeting Mr. Bhalaji at his residence in October 2020. Stating that the party’s Virudhunagar east district secretary, K. Ravichandran, elder brother of Mr. Nallathambi, was also aware of the transaction, Mr. Ravindran said that after the change of government in the State, he could not meet any of them. The DCB had, on November 15, booked the former Minister, Mr. Mariappan and Mr. Nallathambi for criminal conspiracy, breach of trust and cheating. On the same day, Mr. Nallathambi, in his complaint, said he had collected money from different persons, and handed over Rs. 1.6 crore to people close to Mr. Bhalaji for getting jobs in government departments. He lodged the complaint with the DCB against Mr. Bhalaji and his assistants Baburaj, Balaraman and Muthupandian. Besides, Mr. Bhalaji had not repaid him Rs. 1.4 crore, spent for party meetings, organised as per his instructions, he said. He also complained that Mr. Bhalaji’s men were threatening him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-cheating-cases-against-rajenthra-bhalaji/article37572223.ece
19 November 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||25,000 people vaccinated in Virudhunagar||A total of 25,013 doses of COVID-19 vaccines were administered in the ninth mega vaccination camp held in Virudhunagar district on Thursday. According to Collector J. Meghanath Reddy, 7,012 people took the first dose, and 18,001 people their second jab of the vaccine. Out of the 15.60 lakh eligible people, 11.42 lakh have taken the first dose and 6.27 lakh people have got their second dose in the district. Among the 11 blocks in the district, Tiruchuli block has topped with vaccination of 87,768 vaccination per eligible population followed by Vembakottai (87,720), Sattur, (87,276) and Virudhungar (86,857).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25000-people-vaccinated-in-virudhunagar/article37572370.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode reports 76 new COVID-19 cases||Erode district on Thursday reported 76 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total cases to 1,05,485. Salem reported 43 positive cases. According to health officials, 35 cases were indigenous and 17 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 33 cases and one death were reported. Krishnagiri reported five new cases and Dharmapuri saw 11 fresh cases on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-reports-76-new-covid-19-cases/article37572410.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||IMD withdraws red alert for Chennai||As the system moved closer to the Tamil Nadu coast, places such as Cuddalore (10 cm), Puducherry (15 cm), Thirukovilur in Kallakurichi (11 cm) and Cheyyur in Chengalpattu district (8 cm) received heavy rain till 5.30 p.m. Meenambakkam in Chennai recorded 5 cm, Nungambakkam, 3 cm, and West Tambaram, Villivakkam, Anna University and MRC Nagar in Chennai and Tiruttani, 4 cm each. Several weather stations received considerable rain during the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. Kundadam in Tiruppur district registered 20 cm, the day’s heaviest rainfall in the State. A holiday has been declared for schools and colleges in several districts, including Chennai, Vellore, Tirupattur, Ranipet and Perambalur. In Chennai, intermittent rain since the early hours of Thursday increased waterlogging in parts such as Pulianthope and T. Nagar that are yet to recover from the torrential rain last week. Power supply to many areas was disrupted following the heavy rain forecast. Five heads of cattle were electrocuted when they came into contact with a live wire at Medavakkam. Mr. Balachandran said the rain in Chennai might decrease from Friday noon. However, the wet weather in the State might continue till November 22. The Central Water Commission has warned of an increase in the level in the rivers around the city and in districts such as Cuddalore, Villupuram and Tiruvannamalai. This may lead to inundation of surrounding areas till November 20. The Sathanur and Veedur dams may get significant flows.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/imd-withdraws-red-alert-for-chennai/article37572235.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ready to roll||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ready-to-roll/article37571892.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the report T.N. announces Pongal gift hampers, published on Thursday, the sum involved was inadvertently mentioned as Rs. 88 crore, instead of Rs. 1,088 crore. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article37572234.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Engagements||Southern India Regional Council of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India: 53rd Regional Conference, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin virtually inaugurates the conference, P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan, Minister for Finance guest of honour, Le Meridien, 9.30 a.m.  Confederation of Indian Industry: CII health care start-up connect - Future of Health Care - virtual connect, 10 a.m.  KPR CAS: Awareness programme on importance of self-defence for women, 10 a.m.  Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women: Innovation day, 9.30 a.m.; How to build a successful start up, 10 a.m.; Awareness and outreach on start-up, 5 p.m.  Coimbatore Productivity Council: Quality Conclave 2021, Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry hall, Avanashi Road, 9 a.m.  New Century Book House: 36th National Book Expo, Nehru Stadium, 9.30 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Edfest 2k21, 10 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Contest on best from waste, 3.15 p.m.  Adithya School of Business Management: Effective Communication Skills Training, 1.40 p.m.    IKF Complex: Yarnex and TexIndia expo, IKF complex, near TEA public school, Anaipudur bus stop, Avanashi Road, Tiruppur, 9.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article37572291.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||19-11-2021-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA ABBAS CULTURAL /BHARAT KALACHAR/ROSHNI Talk of the Town Super Hit Play. UAA-70th Year Presents Y Gee Mahendra(60th year in theatre) in CHARUKESI". (Crazy Mohan/Venkat) A Musical Bonanza. (Rajesh Vaidya / Hindu Bala). Directed by Y Gee M. 7.00pm on 20th & 21st November 2021 at YGP Auditorium, PSBB SCHOOL, T.Nagar. Tickets@bookmyshow.com.9710 633633. Rasika Ranjani Sabha (Regd.) Mylapore, Chennai - 600004. In association with Anmajothi Cultural wing of Saraswathi Vidyalaya Vadapalani, Chennai Yovotsav - 2021 Celebrating Young Talent KALABHARANAM Series of concert. Today at 04.30 pm Spoorthi Rao - Vocal, Deepika - Violin, B Sivaraman - Mridangam, Krishna - Ghatam. At 06.15 pm Archana G Upadhyaya & Samanvi - Vocal, C S Chinamyi - Violin, Sunaadha Krishna Amai - Mridangam. Ph. No: 86103 57987. Entry as per Govt. Covid SOP Guidelines. Our programs can be watched on https://www.rrsabha.org at later dates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/19-11-2021-city-cinema/article37572263.ece
19 November 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||New appointment||Subarna Roy has been appointed as Director of ICMR-National Institute of Traditional Medicine Belagavi. He was serving in ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, before being transferred to Belagavi. He replaces D. Chattopadhyaya, who has retired. Dr. Roy, 48, had earlier served as a senior scientist in ICMR NITM, then called as ICMR-Regional Medical Research Centre. A microbiologist by training, he has multidisciplinary work experience. He has conducted research in areas like field epidemiology, traditional knowledge with informatics, and big data biology and AYUSH systems with modern medicine. Under the leadership of Dr. Chattopadhyaya, NITM has the distinction of separating two vital strains of the COVID-19 virus. One of the first laboratories for RT-PCR testing was set up in NITM during the first wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-appointment/article37572432.ece
19 November 2021||belagavi,KARNATAKA||I helped non-Congress candidates win Council elections before: Ramesh||“I had helped non-Congress candidates win Legislative Council elections, even when I was in the Congress. Now that I am officially in the BJP, I will definitely help the party candidates win elections,” Ramesh Jarkiholi, former Minister and BJP leader, said here on Thursday. “I was a Congress leader when Mahantesh Kavatagimath and Vivekrao Patil contested the Council polls. But I helped them as they were my friends. The situation is different now. I am in the BJP and I will work for the party candidates,” the Gokak MLA said. He was speaking at a meeting of party workers and local body members convened by BJP leader Sheetalgouda Patil in Ugar Khurd village. He told reporters that he had not sought a ticket for his brother Lakhan Jarkiholi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-helped-non-congress-candidates-win-council-elections-before-ramesh/article37572435.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No respite from rains; yellow alert issued||Citizens are unlikely to get respite from heavy rains that lashed Bengaluru on Thursday. The India Meteorological Department, which has issued a yellow alert for the city for Friday, attributed the rains to the low pressure over Bay of Bengal developing into a depression. Until 8.30 p.m. on Thursday, the city recorded 37 mm of rain and HAL 39.2 mm. The IMD had also issued an orange alert for the day. According to @Bnglrweatherman, this month is already the wettest November in the last six years with the city receiving 115.8 mm rains (till November 14). The BBMP’s control rooms received tree fall complaints from Thanisandra Main Road and 28th Cross in Banashankari 2nd Stage among other areas. Residents in New Byappanahalli, Cambridge Layout, CMR College in Banaswadi, and Nagawara-KEB Junction on Ring Road reported water-logging and inundation. As a precautionary measure, schools in Bengaluru Urban will remain closed on Friday. However, many private schools will continue with online classes. Temperature drop The rains have caused temperatures to drop. As per the local weather report for Bengaluru, maximum temperature was 21.6°C, a (negative) 5°C departure from normal on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-respite-from-rains-yellow-alert-issued/article37572189.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Standing, harvested crops lost as rain continues||Heavy and unrelenting rain in several parts of Karnataka has resulted in both standing and harvested crops perishing on the fields. While the exact quantum is yet to be estimated, reports indicate extensive damage. Farmers are expecting a relief package from the State Government. Heavy rain coupled with gusty winds has left large tracts of mature paddy fields flattened at Karatagi and Gangavati taluks in the Koppal district, two major paddy growing taluks of the State. Harvested paddy too is perishing at heaps. “The grain formation of the paddy is over and the crop is at harvesting stage. The rain lashed on November 14 and 17 has damaged the standing crop,” said Sadashiv V., Joint Director of Agriculture, Koppal. In Belagavi, taluks that border Western Ghats have received heavy rain over the last seven days. Farmers in Khanapur, Belagavi, Chikkodi, Nippani, and Bailhongal have suffered losses of crops such as paddy, sugarcane, wheat, jowar, tobacco, and Bengal gram, and horticultural crops as well. Most of the damage in Belagavi has been to harvested crops that were kept in the open for drying in the fields, with no place to store. Other standing crops such as sugarcane and banana  were damaged owing to strong winds and heavy rain. In Gadag district, crops of chilli, Bt cotton, and onion in various places, including Laxmeshwar, have been damaged. Standing crops as well as harvested crops of chilli and onion spread out for drying have been damaged. Paddy and sugarcane has been damaged in Dharwad district. In south Karnataka, while cotton crop has taken a hit in H.D. Kote, vegetables cultivated on a vast swathe of land as short-term crop are rotting in the fields. Vivek Cariappa, a farmer from H.D. Kote, said waterlogging was intense owing to continuous rain and apart from cotton, other crops such as ragi, maize, and horsegram have also been affected in the region. In Malnad areas In Malnad region, growers of coffee, areca, paddy, and other crops are hugely disappointment.Many have not been able to harvest the yield owing to heavy rain. Those who could harvest coffee, could not dry them owing to the cloudy weather. They are all depending on mechanical dryers. Arecanut growers were hoping for good returns, given the prevailing price in the market, but rain has stopped them from harvesting the crop.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/standing-harvested-crops-lost-as-rain-continues/article37572211.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Indo-U.S. trade on track to surpass 2019 figures: U.S. Consul General||The U.S remains India’s biggest trading partner and largest export market with trade exploding from approximately $20 billion in 2001 to over $145 billion in 2019, said U.S. Consul General Judith Ravin. Participating at the India-U.S. Tech Conclave at Bengaluru Tech Summit-2021, she said the growth in Indo-U.S. economic ties had been extraordinary and the 2021 data indicated a strong rebound, adding that if this trend continued, the countries would be on track to exceed 2019 numbers. U.S. companies continued to be the biggest source of foreign direct investment, fuelling continued growth in India, she added. Ms. Ravin said the U.S-India bilateral relationship continued to expand on diverse fronts, from collaboration on mitigating the impacts of COVID-19 and climate change to space exploration as both the countries were commitment towards a free and open Indo-Pacific. The U.S. Consul General said Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi met with President Joe Biden in September in Washington D.C. to confirm collaboration and commitments to the Indo-Pacific Region. “Since that visit, Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry and Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman have come to India to continue these important discussions in advancing a range of initiatives,” she said, which would go a long way in cementing ties between the two countries. Ms. Ravin further said U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai would travel to New Delhi on November 22 to meet with her counterpart, Union Minister for Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal, and added that both have agreed to take a comprehensive look at ways to expand the bilateral trade relationship. Tech sector On the tech sector, she said, “Since my arrival amidst the pandemic just over a year ago, I have witnessed how India’s tech sector has successfully adapted to the lockdowns and COVID-19 protocols as well as led by example in accommodating the health and well-being of their workforce while facilitating a seamless work-from-home operation.” The U.S. Consul General said these companies at the same time have stepped up to meet the rising demand of software development, data-driven customer service, and back-office support for U.S. firms, ensuring that economies of both the nations remain on track through these difficult times. “This support comes at a crucial point in our lives, where we now depend more than ever on emerging technologies to virtually attend school, conduct business, and accomplish everyday tasks online, with the click of a mouse,” she said. Ms. Ravin said Bengaluru, as one of the top beneficiaries of U.S. foreign direct investment, has seen the positive impact of quality investments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/indo-us-trade-on-track-to-surpass-2019-figures-us-consul-general/article37572201.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Family jumps from terrace to escape blaze||A day after a fire broke out at a flat in a residential complex in Electronics City, a two-storey house (ground-plus-two) in Manjunatha Nagar was gutted in a blaze around 1.30 a.m. on Thursday. The family of three, who resided in the house, went to the terrace and jumped to an adjoining house with the help of their neighbours, said fire and emergency services personnel. They were unharmed, but three Fire and Emergency Services personnel were injured when a car parked on the premises exploded. Escape route blocked Ramkishore Babu, 54, who works as a business consultant, his wife, Rajashri, 49), a college lecturer, and their 18 year-old son, were sleeping on the second floor. Around 1.30 a.m., Mr. Babu woke up to shouts from neighbours. When he looked out of the window, he saw smoke billowing from the ground floor. He roused his son and wife, and they ran down downstairs in an attempt to escape. But the fire had spread to the first floor and they were unable to reach the door. With the exit cut off by the blaze, they went up to the terrace, but could not escape as the terrace was barred by a grille with a lock. They did not have the key with them, and it was too late to retrieve it. Neighbours from the adjoining house jumped on to the terrace and broke open the grille. Through the ordeal, one of the neighbours, Srinivas, was in touch with Mr. Babu over the phone giving them information on how the fire was spreading. He, along with three other people in the neighbourhood, helped the family on to the terrace of an adjoining house.  Within minutes, the entire house was ablaze. Apart from the car, two scooters parked inside the compound were also gutted. “My wife had been discharged from hospital on Sunday after being treated for pneumonia. She was resting in a separate room when the fire broke out,” said Mr. Babu. “My entire house was gutted with my office documents and Rajashri’s academic literature and books. But the saddest part is the injuries the three firemen sustained,” he added. The injured fire-fighters – Harish, Rajshekhar and Muthappa – have been hospitalised for burns between 6-12%. “The fire was completely doused by 6 a.m.,” said Shivakumar, a senior fire officer. After Fire and Emergency Services personnel put out the fire, a team from the Forensic Science Laboratory and electrical inspectors visited the spot to probe the cause of the blaze. Fire officials suspect that the UPS had short-circuited but are waiting for the report. Recent incidents On November 17, a fire broke out in a flat in a residential complex in Electronics City. Residents were alerted by the barking of a dog. Everyone managed to leave the premises safely. Fortunately, no lives were lost in either of the incidents. However, in September, a senior citizen and her daughter were killed in a blaze when they were trapped in their apartment in a residential complex in Devarachikkanahalli. Despite the efforts of other family members and fire personnel, they could not be saved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/family-jumps-from-terrace-to-escape-blaze/article37572177.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to revert to single agency for waste collection?||It’s been nearly two years since the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) decided to have separate tenders for collection of different streams of waste. Though this is yet to be fully implemented in all the 198 wards, the civic body has already gone back to the drawing board to put in place another system allowing a single service provider to collect all streams of waste. The new system, which is still being worked out, will not just fix gaps in wet and dry waste collection that currently exist, but also bring in accountability, besides allowing for optimal utilisation of collection vehicles, said senior BBMP officials. However, waste management experts said that the BBMP’s justifications hold no water. Many argued that if it adopted a single service system, the civic body would be violating not just orders of the National Green Tribunal, but also its own Solid Waste Management bylaws that stress on separate collection and management of different streams of waste. BBMP Joint Commissioner (SWM) Sarfaraz Khan admitted that there were a lot of gaps in the collection of different streams of waste. With multiple agencies/ service providers involved, skirting responsibility had become an issue. During a recent review of SWM in the eight zones, it was noticed that there were problems with management of construction debris, animal waste and clearing black spots. “If a single agency is collecting waste, there is accountability and we can fix the responsibility of a second round of collections which will help eliminate black spots,” he said. Expanding on the problem, Mr. Khan said door-to-door collection of domestic waste takes place between 6.30 a.m. and 11 a.m. After this, the same vehicles can go around for a second round of collection. “We have noticed, especially in commercial areas, that shop owners open around 10 a.m. and dump the waste outside. By this time, the door-to-door collection is completed. This is contributing to an increase in the number of black spots,” he said. The new tenders that call for separate collection of different streams of waste are implemented in just around 60% of the wards and are yet to be finalised in other wards due to various reasons, including technical issues, no participants in the tender, etc. He added that the existing tenders could be continued, but for some changes in the conditions. The rag-pickers who are managing dry waste collection centres could also be on-boarded by the service provider, he said. Waste management experts are, however, unconvinced. Sandya Narayanan, member of Solid Waste Management Round Table, termed the move as being politically motivated. “We have shown that with dedicated collection of different streams, it is possible to achieve up to 70% segregation of waste at source. This is reflected in BBMP’s own ranking of zones. Bommanahalli and Yelahanka are at the top because of dedicated collection systems,” she said. On the contrary, in wards where the new tenders are still not in place, waste management is the poorest. Many are worried that a single provider will allow the BBMP to adopt the Indore model where different streams of waste are collected by the same contractor in vehicles with partitions. Stating that the BBMP was yet to find solutions for collection from commercial establishments that until recently were covered under bulk waste generators, Ms. Narayanan said dual collection was not the issue. “The BBMP is barking up the wrong tree… there are several issues that can be ironed out for the existing system to work in favour of the city,” she added.  “If a single agency collects waste, there is accountability and we can fix responsibility of a second round of collections which will help eliminate black spots,” BBMP Joint Commissioner Sarfaraz Khan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-to-revert-to-single-agency-for-waste-collection/article37572192.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State set to become world leader in visual effects, gaming||Karnataka is poised to become a world-class hub for the AVGC (Animation, Visual Effects, Gaming, and Comics) industry by 2025 as the State has been successful in positioning itself as the knowledge driver in storytelling for the global audience, said ABAI, an industry association that represents the sector. “The State offers a perfect blend of skills and know-how that results in creative innovation. Our aim is to make the State a world-class hub for the AVGC sector by 2025,” B.S. Srinivas, Secretary ABAI, told The Hindu on Thursday. “We have identified gaming as a sector with huge potential and will specifically address the sector in all our policy & IP development initiatives,” said Biren Ghose, Country Head, Technicolor India & President ABAI. Mr. Srinivas said Karnataka has always been a front runner in the sector and would continue to lead the vibrant ecosystem focussing on digital skilling and IP development. The Centre of Excellence (CoE) for AVGC, set up by the State Government, would fuel the growth of startups in the sector and give the industry a tech boost, he said. “The CoE is a highly equipped AVGC post-production lab providing the industry with resources to generate high quality content. It also has a finishing school that will train and provides highly skilled technicians to various enterprises, thus creating employment opportunities. The incubation studio inside CoE provides the latest infrastructure and technology support to startups at subsidised prices encouraging them to grow,'' he added. Karnataka currently has 71 AVGC studios that develop hundreds of games and apps that are available on various app stores. In fact, one of India’s unicorns, gaming firm MPL that joined the bandwagon with a valuation of $2.3 billion, is based out of Bengaluru. The state also is home to some of the bigger gaming studios.  In the post-COVID-19 scenario, virtual production is all set to become an industry norm by 2026, according to ABAI. “For filmmakers, this means learning new tools for virtual production,” stated Mr. Srinivas. Exclusive panel Virtual production is an emerging method that uses a suite of software tools to combine live-action footage and computer graphics in real-time. Filmmakers and contributors across multiple locations can deliver feedback across digital or physical environments where cast members are physically working on set. Bengaluru Tech Summit 2021 on Thursday featured an exclusive panel discussion on “Virtual Production: Game Changer for Media& Entertainment.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-set-to-become-world-leader-in-visual-effects-gaming/article37572199.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Crops on over 75,000 ha affected by Nov. rain||Farmers’ hopes of harvesting standing crops have been washed away as extended rain has caused damage to several major crops in Karnataka, including finger millet (ragi), paddy, groundnut, cowpea, and Bengal gram, in several districts of Karnataka. According to an interim report of the Government, as on November 17, standing crops on 75,389.19 hectares have suffered damage, with maximum damage to finger millet. Incessant rain caused damage to ragi crop on 67,025.92 hectares in the districts of Kolar, Tumakuru, Hassan, Chamarajanagar, Chickballapur, and Ramanagaram. As fields in low-lying areas were waterlogged, standing paddy crop and harvested paddy crop stacked in fields have been exposed to water in many districts. Paddy crop spread over 3,501.44 hectares is damaged, the interim report stated. Other major crops hit owing to the rain from November 1 are (in hectares): maize (3,628.57), toor (161.20), groundnut (789.35), minor millet (7.6), Bengal gram (120), horsegram (80.58), and cowpea (64). Field survey under way Sources in Agriculture and Revenue departments told The Hindu that field survey to estimate damage was under way. Officials of the two departments are coordinating the survey to identify the exact damage to crops in different districts. The final data is expected to be ready in three or four days and the figures are expected to go up as the State had continued to receive rain, officials pointed out. Farmers had sown on 78.72 lakh hectares during the kharif season in 2021 as against the target of 77 lakh hectares. According to government sources, standing crops on 11.22 lakh hectares were damaged by the end of October. The target for sowing set for the rabi season was 28 lakh hectares. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has assured of providing compensation to farmers for the loss of crops after the survey. The Opposition Congress claimed the Centre had not released money for the crop loss in 2021–22 season and demanded the State conduct the survey immediately to provide compensation to farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/crops-on-over-75000-ha-affected-by-nov-rain/article37572214.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Junnasandra residents forced to wade through sewage, rain water||The 400-odd residents of Junnasandra and Green Villae Layout dread the monsoon every year, as the rains trigger flooding and overflow of sewage that stagnate on the roads. The heavy downpour over the last few days has compounded their problems as the area lacks good roads, drain network and street lights, they said. Residents have been struggling for the past five years and submitted memorandums urging the BBMP to provide basic amenities. “All our appeals have fallen on deaf ears. There are stray pigs roaming the roads that are slushy. Due to the incomplete drain network, there is no outlet for rainwater and sewage. Both stagnate in the area, making it difficult for us to even step out of our homes,” said Punithan Vivekanandam, a resident of Green Villae Layout. Amaresh H.V. from the neighbouring Halanayakanahalli alleged that the problem has been compounding since 2014, when a private layout was developed over the rajakaluve. “The rajakaluve connected three lakes, including Halanayakanahalli Kere, Junnasandra lake. But with the layout now encroaching the drain, there is no place for the water to go. While half of the encroachment comes under BBMP limits, the other half comes under Halanayakanahalli gram panchayat limits,” he said and added that several complaints had been filed with the jurisdictional tahsildar and even the Lokayukta. “After a survey, the tahsildar ordered the demolition of the layout. Around 70 sites have been identified as encroachments and already 18-20 buildings have come up,” he said. The residents have decided to take out a protest rally on November 21, with support from the local unit of AAP, to draw the attention of the authorities, including Mahadevapura MLA and Minister Aravind Limbavali. The rally will be taken out from Junnasandra, Green Villae Layout to Kasavanahalli, Kaikondrahalli and culminate opposite Wipro office on Sarjapur Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/junnasandra-residents-forced-to-wade-through-sewage-rain-water/article37572185.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nine pairs of antlers seized, 2 held||The Chennamanakere Achukattu police retrieved nine pairs of deer antlers and arrested two people, who are part of an illegal trade racket, on Thursday. However, the kingpin of the racket is on the run. After receiving a tip-off, a police team went to CK Achukattu bus stop and caught the duo identified as Madaiah and Ramesh while they were waiting for the clients. “They are carriers and were assigned to hand over the consignment to a client. They were promised a 20% cut,” said a police officer. The police suspect that they are part of an inter-state racket involving the poachers from the forest areas adjacent to Chamarajanagar district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nine-pairs-of-antlers-seized-2-held/article37572187.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3 held for burglary; items worth Rs. 18 lakh recovered||The Hebbal police have arrested three habitual offenders accused of breaking into houses, burglary and other crimes. The police recovered 350 gm of gold and 1 kg of silver articles valued at Rs. 18 lakh. With their arrest, the police claim to have solved as many as eight house break-ins reported in and around the city. The accused have multiple criminal cases pending against them. “They met in Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara, after they were arrested for separate crimes,” said a police officer. The accused have been identified as Azmathulla, 30, from Gauribidanur, Arjuna Sharma, 27, from HBR Layout and Aravinda, 23, from TC Palya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/3-held-for-burglary-items-worth-rs-18-lakh-recovered/article37572179.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||E-Aasthi extended to all wards in East zone||The BBMP’s pilot initiative, E-Aasthi, where property documents are digitised to ensure greater transparency, has been extended to all wards under the East zone. After it was rolled out in three wards in Shanthinagar sub-division, in the first phase of expansion, it was implemented successfully in 11 wards coming under the Domlur, C.V. Raman Nagar and Jeevan Bima Nagar sub-divisions. Now, under the second phase, it was extended, on Thursday, to 30 wards under J.C. Nagar, Hebbal, Shivajinagar, Vasantnagar, Pulikeshinagar, K.G. Halli, Maruthi Sevanagar and HBR Layout sub-divisions. The project, taken up first in Shanthala Nagar, Neelasandra and Shanthinagar wards in the East zone, aims to simplify services of the civic body’s revenue wing, sanitise revenue records, bring in transparency and accountability, end illegal transactions and cut out touts and middlemen. “All handwritten certificates/ endorsements indicating transfer of property rights, Uttara Patra (except applications received through Sakala) for the 11 wards have been prohibited from October 8. Under the second phase, the same will be prohibited in the 30 wards from Thursday,” stated BBMP in a press release. Citizens from these wards have been urged to not accept any handwritten endorsements/ certificates. The e-Aasthi software was initially developed by the National Informatics Centre for all urban local bodies. It was later customised for BBMP with help from Directorate of Municipal Administration and State Data Centre. The release stated that the documents issued in the system consist of 42 fields of information of the property, including flow of rights, floor details, property photo, owners’ photo, schedule of the property and tax details. The earlier khata certificates had 18 kinds of information. The documents will be accessible online and those issued through the system will be digitally signed, and can be verified on (https://bbmpeaasthi. karnataka.gov.in).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/e-aasthi-extended-to-all-wards-in-east-zone/article37572182.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Pvt. school students got more parental support’||During the first and second waves of COVID-19, when physical classes were cancelled, students who enrolled in private schools in rural Karnataka received more help from their family members while studying at home than their peers in government schools. According to the Annual Status of Education Report 2021, 75.9% of students enrolled in private schools received some form of support from their parents when they were studying. In government schools, however, only 68.2% of students received parental support. Overall in the State, 69.8 % of students enrolled in government and private schools received help from family members. Mullahalli Suri, president of Parents’ Association, said this would have had an impact on the learning outcomes of students. “In many government schools, the learning levels of students were severely affected. They could not rely on their parents as many of them were first-generation learners,” he said. Acknowledging this trend, a senior education official said they have asked teachers of government schools to conduct bridge courses so that students can get a better handle on consents taught in the previous year before they move on to the current syllabus. The ASER 2021 report revealed that as many as 26.1% of parents in Karnataka, had low level education (families where both parents studied up to Class V or lower). Around 43.8% were categorised as having a medium-level of education, while only 30.1% had a high level of education (both parents have completed at least Class IX).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pvt-school-students-got-more-parental-support/article37572203.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SUV collides with taxi heading to KIA, 3 killed||Three persons were killed and several others injured when an SUV, heading towards the city, skidded and jumped a divider on a flyover near Bettahalasur Cross, on Thursday night. As the driver lost control of the wheel, the vehicle collided with a taxi heading to Kempegowda International Airport. On impact, the taxi was crushed, killing the three people inside. The SUV driver was speeding and lost control of the vehicle on the road that was slippery because of the rain, according to the police. The driver and others in the SUV abandoned the vehicle and fled the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suv-collides-with-taxi-heading-to-kia-3-killed/article37572205.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘AI played effective role in healthcare delivery during COVID-19 crisis’||Artificial Intelligence (AI) has ensured effective and efficient delivery of services, especially in healthcare, during the COVID-19 crisis, said K. Ananth Krishnan, Executive VP & Chief Technology Officer, Tata Consultancy Services. Addressing a session on ‘AI for Growth, Evolution & Technology’ at Bengaluru Tech Summit 2021, he said the potential usage of new techniques this technology offers are immense. According to N.T. Arunkumar, MD & Country Head and Head of Innovation, Telstra India, AI has emerged as the most exciting and fondly discussed topic around the world today. “AI is more than technology, it is a way of life. Hence, the country needs to shift from being a service provider to becoming a global leader in the industry, a goal worth working towards.” Vivek Raghavan, Chief Product Manager & Biometric Architect, UIDAI, said, “From Aadhaar to UPI, AI is used to build large-scale incremental digital systems.” Professor S. Sadagopan, former Director, IIITB felt the academic world’s response to AI has been really quick. As a result, Data Analytics Essentials programmes have been introduced in various institutions. The AI Data Science undergraduate programme at IIT-Hyderabad is one such example. This aims at capability and capacity creation to tackle challenges associated with the supply side, bringing in more inferential thinking. “Ready-to-use skills are to be developed and fostered by blending Social Sciences with Data Sciences,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ai-played-effective-role-in-healthcare-delivery-during-covid-19-crisis/article37572196.ece
19 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KSRTC bags SKOCH Order of Merit||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation’s (KSRTC) initiative ‘Sarige Suraksha – ICU on wheels’ has bagged the SKOCH Order of Merit. According to a press release, the award was presented to Shivayogi C. Kalasad, managing director, KSRTC, during the virtual 76th SKOCH State of Governance Summit on Tuesday. During the award ceremony, Mr. Kalasad mentioned that Sarige Suraksha bus was serving in the Puttur division’s 38 villages. It had served about 4,900 people in the last 81 days, he said. He added that during COVID-19, the KSRTC had initiated many best practices to help society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-bags-skoch-order-of-merit/article37572208.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘BJP hiding scam by dragging in my deceased son’s name’||Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Thursday alleged that the State unit of the BJP was trying to hide their corruption in the bitcoin scam by dragging the name of his deceased son. “The BJP Karnataka is trying to get personal to pursue their dirty agenda in politics,” he said on Twitter. The former Chief Minister demanded that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai order a probe into the scam by a judge oftheSupreme Court and include the period of the Congress Government’s term. The BJP Karnataka has alleged that his late son Rakesh was seen with Sri Krishna’s friend Hemant Muddappa in a photo. “Then how can we interpret the photo of Narendra Modi with Nirav Modi during 2018 World Economic Forum?” Mr. Siddaramaiah demanded to know, attaching a photograph of the Prime Minister and Mr. Nirav Modi.  “It is alleged that an important BJP leader of the State had received bitcoins as quid pro quo for mediating the release of Hemath Muddappa when he was arrested with Sri Krishna. State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel may know who that leader is,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-slams-bjp-for-dragging-sons-name/article37572122.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 313 new cases||Karnataka on Thursday reported 313 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 29,92,897. Bengaluru Urban reported 179 cases and two deaths. With four deaths, the toll rose to 38,165. This is apart from 29 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 369 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recoveries to 29,47,354. The State now has 7,349 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 0.36%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 1.27%. As many as 86,690 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-313-new-cases/article37572190.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ph.D scholars of BU come out in support of Hamsalekha||Bangalore University research scholars came out in support of music director Hamsalekha several days after his statement on the late seer Vishwesha Theertha Swami stirred a hornet’s nest. The students held placards and banners and expressed their support to the music director. Mr. Hamsalekha, during a programme, had said that while an “upper” caste person going to a Dalit’s house was celebrated such as in the case of the late seer, the important question was if it would also work in the reverse. He had also commented on the food habits in the context and asked if the “upper” caste people would share the food consumed by Dalits during the visits. Facing an army of trolls, Mr. Hamsalekha had later apologised. A research scholar said: “Mr. Hamsalekha has touched upon the reality of the caste system. People should avoid tokenism and instead focus on actual empowerment of people from the oppressed communities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/phd-scholars-of-bu-come-out-in-support-of-hamsalekha/article37572178.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Bitcoins haven’t disappeared’||Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant onThursday said the alleged disappearance of the 0.08 bitcoins is “false” and it is in the safe place of the police wallet, under the knowledge of the court. In a clarification, Mr. Pant said the 0.08 bitcoins with three cryptocurrencies, with a total value of Rs. 2.5 lakh (as per the then rates), were seized from RobinKhandelwal and transferred to police wallet and the same had been intimated to the court and mentioned in the chargesheet. CCB investigation in January found Kolkata-based bitcoin trader Robin helping Sri Krishna in his dealings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bitcoins-havent-disappeared/article37572212.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Body of youth who fell from train found after 10 days||Ten days after a 19-year-old youth lost his balance and fell from a moving train, the Upparpet police recovered his body from the banks of the Lokapavani river in Srirangapatna on Thursday. The deceased, Abhishek, who worked as a helper at a bar and restaurant in Gandhinagar, was reportedly trying to take a selfie when he fell. “Abhishek along with four of his friends boarded a train to Mandya on the night of November 8 from Majestic to attend a religious programme. He called his mother from the station to inform her that he was coming home,” said Deputy Commission of Police (West) Sanjeev Patil. While the train was approaching Pandavapura, around 2 a.m., he was seen clicking selfies near the door, according to one of friends. He told the police that Abhishek lost his balance and was seen hanging onto the coach door before “disappearing”. Instead of sounding an alarm, his friends got down at Mandya and searched for him on the tracks before alerting his family members. Based on a complaint filed by a relative, the Upparpet police questioned his friends and later took the help of their Mandya counterparts, railway police and local fishermen to search for Abhishek. His body was recovered from the banks of the river, around 7 km from the spot. “Inquiries revealed that Abhishek had leaned out of the door to take a selfie and failed to notice an iron bar of the bridge passing by. He fell into the river and due to heavy rain got was swept away,” said a police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/body-of-youth-who-fell-from-train-found-after-10-days/article37572180.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ex-councillor found dead||Former civic councillor M.B. Shivappa was found dead at his house in Chandra Layout on Thursday. The police are probing why he ended his life. “The incident took place at 4.30 p.m.,” said a police officer.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ex-councillor-found-dead/article37572183.ece
19 November 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Degrees conferred||MBA students of Canara Bank School of Management Studies, Bengaluru City University, were conferred degrees on Tuesday, the Graduation Day. Chief Guest, Manish Chowdhary, an alumnus of IIT Delhi and IIM Bangalore, spoke on the importance of continuous learning, and being a student forever to seek knowledge from all possible avenues. In the presidential address, V-C of Bengaluru City University, Prof. Lingaraja Gandhi, stressed on the significance of education in the present scenario, setting up personal and professional goals. He also spoke about the concept of learn, relearn and unlearn, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/degrees-conferred/article37572194.ece
19 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Survey of crop loss mooted||Coffee Board CEO and Secretary K.G. Jagadeesh has requested the Deputy Commissioner of Hassan to conduct a survey of losses suffered by coffee growers due to the heavy rains. The officer held a video conference with the Deputy Commissioners of coffee growing areas on Thursday. Along with the officers of the Coffee Board, the Revenue Department officials could do a joint survey. A special team could be constituted for the purpose, he suggested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/survey-of-crop-loss-mooted/article37572627.ece
19 November 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||BJP will win all seats: Eshwarappa||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa exuded confidence that the BJP would win all MLC seats going for the polls next month and the party would come back to power in the next Assembly with 150 seats. He spoke to presspersons before taking part in the Jan Swaraj convention organised by the party in Chikkamagaluru on Thursday. The achievements of the State and Central Governments would work in favour of the party in the coming elections, the Minister said. The party would face the elections under collective leadership. Revenue Minister R. Ashok said the farmers who suffered a loss due to heavy rains would get relief soon from the State Government. . “We will take clearance from the Election Commission, as the model code of conduct in the wake of Council elections is in effect, and release the amount”, he said. Former Union Minister D.V.Sadananda Gowda said growers of areca and coffee suffered a huge loss due to heavy rains. A delegation of MPs would meet the Union Minister of Commerce seeking relief for the growers. Union Minister of State Shobha Karandlaje said BJP candidate M.K.Pranesh would win the MLC seat in Chikkamagaluru. Among the 2,431 voters, the BJP has the support of more than 1,500, she said. Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar, Political Secretary to CM D.N.Jeevaraj, and MLAs Belli Prakash and D.S.Suresh, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-will-win-all-seats-eshwarappa/article37572628.ece
19 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||High Court judges feted||New judges of the Dharwad Bench of the High Court of Karnataka, Justice J.M. Khazi and Justice S. Rachaiah, were felicitated by the office-bearers of the High Court Bar Association in Dharwad on Thursday. Justice Khazi said that the role of advocates in the delivery of justice was crucial and Dharwad lawyers cooperated well with the judiciary in ensuring speedy justice. Justice Rachaiah said that dedication, perseverance, and respect for elders would take a individual to new heights. President of the association Suresh Hudedgaddi presided over the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-judges-feted/article37572431.ece
19 November 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Farmers slam use of land for non-industrial purposes||Opposing the Government’s move to hand over farmland, specially acquired for industrial development, for non-industrial purposes, the farmers of Narendra and surrounding villages took out a protest march and staged a demonstration in Dharwad on Thursday. After marching to the Deputy Commissioner’s office, the farmers held a demonstration and demanded that the land acquired for industrial development should not be utilised for non-industrial purposes. Addressing the protesters, farmers’ leaders said that the KIADB had acquired land from farmers claiming that the Government would set up industries and also construct houses for labourers working in the industrial area. Having acquired hundreds of acres for the purpose of industrial development in Narendra and surrounding areas, the KIADB was allotting the land for other purposes, they alleged. They pointed out that the land was acquired at a cost of Rs. 85,000 per acre, far less than the market value. Already challenging the same, several farmers had approached court seeking better compensation and the matter was still pending. The farmers of Narendra and surrounding villages had donated the land on the assurance that one of their family members would get jobs in the industries being set up. However, KIADB was selling the land to private parties for non-industrial purposes, they alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-slam-use-of-land-for-non-industrial-purposes/article37572434.ece
19 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘NK projects to be completed quickly’||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that all irrigation projects in North Karnataka, including lift irrigation projects, constructing balancing reservoirs and modernisation of irrigation canals, will be completed and put in use within the stipulated time. “When I was Water Resources Minister, the Government had allocated Rs. 1,200 crores for the modernisation of Tungabhadra canals. As a result, the works are completed,” Mr. Bommai said, adding that the Koppal Lift Irrigation project is in its final stage. He was addressing a public gathering after flagging off the Jan Swaraj Yatra organised by the BJP in Koppal on Thursday. “The Congress had undertaken Namma Nadige Krishneya Kadege [our march towards Krishna] Yatra just for power. The party leaders had promised Rs. 50,000 crore for various irrigation projects in the State. But, they released only Rs. 17,000 crore during their tenure. It is because of their breach of people’s trust that the party had to lose power and sit in the Opposition,” Mr. Bommai said. Recalling former Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s commitment to the development of Kalyana Karnataka, Mr. Bommai said that the region’s name was changed from Hyderabad Karnataka to get rid of a sense of slavery with the word Hyderabad. He also declared that he would provide the region with Rs. 3,000-crore special grants every year to take forward the initiatives of Mr. Yediyurappa for the development of the region. “As much as 30 tmcft silt is accumulated in Tungabhadra Reservoir reducing the storage capacity of the dam. We are planning to build a balancing reservoir so that the loss of water could be compensated by storing an equal amount of water in the new reservoir. The Detailed Project Report for the Rs. 20-crore project is being prepared and Rs. 14 crore has already been released. The project would be materialised by taking consent from Andhra Pradesh,” Mr. Bommai said. Mr. Bommai said that he never thought he would become the CM. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah have assigned me the job and I would work hard to meet their expectations by bringing positive changes to people’s lives,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nk-projects-to-be-completed-quickly/article37572427.ece
19 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Legal awareness centre||A free legal awareness and aid centre for students was inaugurated at Nagareshwar School premises here on Wednesday. Principal District and Sessions Judge Jagadish V.N. inaugurated the centre established by the Mahatma Gandhi Consumers’ Welfare Forum. Vaijanath Jhalaki, State secretary of the forum, said that the centre will offer legal awareness and aid to the students throughout the year for free. “We have poor legal awareness among the people, especially in rural areas. Many people are deprived of justice simply because of a lack of awareness about their rights. We are planning to reach out to large sections of people through childre. ” Mr. Jhalaki said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/legal-awareness-centre/article37572436.ece
19 November 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Honour for students||Students of the Muktambika College of BBA and BCA for Women have done well in the BBA and BCA examinations conducted by the Karnataka State Akkamahadevi Women’s University during August-September 2020. According to the results, Nishabda G.K. has bagged the first rank in the BBA examination by securing 91.59% marks and Ritu S. Bhairamadagi has bagged the first rank securing 87.08% marks in the BCA examination. While Shivani S. bagged the ninth rank with 86.68% marks, Meghana bagged the fourth rank in the BCA examination by securing 81.66%. Other students who secured ranks in the BCA examination included Rashmi Mogare (fifth rank with 79.97%), Savitri (sixth rank with 79.89%), Shivani (seventh rank with 79.86%), Simran (eighth rank with 79.69%), and Ashwini (10th rank with 77.81%)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/honour-for-students/article37572437.ece
19 November 2021||Kudremukh,KARNATAKA||‘Detailed survey of Shola forests needed’||A meet on conservation of Sholas here has stressed on the need to take up a detailed survey to record the extent of Sholas in Karnataka to augment further its conservation efforts. The Kudremukh Wildlife Division, Karkala, Udupi district, organised the ‘Shola Utsav’ on Wednesday to deliberate upon the status, threats, conservation and importance of shola forests and grasslands. Shola forests — tropical montane forests — have been touted by recent studies as being among the most threatened ecosystems globally. Deputy Conservators from eight Shola spread divisions said that in addition to the Shola managed by the Forest Department, some land under Shola is under the Revenue Department. There is no clarity on how such land under the Revenue Department is being protected. A comprehensive survey can help in planning joint strategies to conserve Shola as a whole. Stressing on the importance of Shola, Ruthren Periyasamy, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Kudremukh Wildlife Division, said that the State Budget for 2020-21 had proposed about the survey of Shola to protect and conserve the biodiversity of these forests. A grant of Rs. 5 crore had been allocated for it. Stating that protecting Shola from fire is a challenge, Sanjai Mohan, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Head of Karnataka Forest Force, said that the Forest Department has information on Shola in “bits and pieces”. Now a project has been submitted to the department on the survey. No survey by a single agency has been taken up so far. Speaking on the fern, a forest weed now widely seen in Shola, Smitha Hegde, Professor, Centre for Science Education and Research, Nitte (Deemed to be University) said that it has been identified as the fourth largest weed globally. It caught fire easily resulting in forest fire. It cannot be wiped out easily as it lived as long as 150 years. Possibility of making briquettes out of it can be explored. Meanwhile, a scientist said that fern in the grasslands also helped in the percolation of rain water and preventing soil erosion and grasslands in Shola also served as sponge by holding rainwater. In addition to Forest Department officials, scientists, researchers and students took part in the deliberations. The Deputy Conservators of Forest from Kundapur, Koppa, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu, Dakshina Kannada, and Bhadra Wildlife Sanctuary and Prakash S. Netalkar, Conservator of Forests, Mangaluru Circle, participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/detailed-survey-of-shola-forests-needed/article37572613.ece
19 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Drive begins against buses not displaying boards in Kannada||The Transport Department on Thursday launched a special drive against buses that do not display destination boards in Kannada and booked 22 cases. Fines of Rs. 2,000 each were imposed on the erring bus operators, while the verification of documents was on, said Dakshina Kannada Regional Transport Officer Ramesh M. Vernekar. Compound fine could be levied if any other shortcomings were noticed during document verification, he told The Hindu . Social activist Gopalakrishna Bhat had complained to the RTO that many private stage carriage buses operating in the district, particularly on long routes, do not display destination boards in Kannada. They only display the board in English thereby inconveniencing passengers who do not know English, he had said.  Mr. Vernekar further said the department would continue the special drive for a week. It was mandatory for every bus operator, be it private or road transport corporation, to display destination boards in the State language, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drive-begins-against-buses-not-displaying-boards-in-kannada/article37572608.ece
19 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Complaint filed after person impersonates MRPL MD||A case has been registered after a person impersonated the Managing Director of Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited and reportedly sent emails to some employees seeking their WhatsApp numbers. In the complaint with the Cyber Economic and Narcotic Crime Police station recently, MRPL General Manager (Security) I.V.Muralidaran said a person on November 13 impersonated M. Venkatesh, MD, and sent a mail from edirector@gmail.com to 361 MRPL employees asking for their numbers. Nearly 50% of those employees replied with their numbers. A couple of employees personally called Mr. Venkatesh and asked about the email. After finding out that he was impersonated, Mr. Venkatesh initiated the process of filing the complaint, Mr. Muralidharan said. The CEN police said action has been initiated to trace the accused. In a statement, MRPL General Manager (Corporate Communications) Rudolph Noronha said there have been multiple efforts to use MRPL’s name with malicious intention. Mr. Noronha asked people to take note that all official emails from MRPL end with the domain name ‘@mrpl.co.in’. In the past, MRPL has cautioned against fake employment letters and fake letterheads that have been used to defraud people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complaint-filed-after-person-impersonates-mrpl-md/article37572606.ece
19 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Pustakada Goodu launched at Kombaru bus stand||Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat CEO Kumara on Thursday launched Pustakada Goodu, at the Kombaru bus stand in Kadaba taluk. Sponsored by Kombaru Gram Panchayat, the Pustakada Goodu contains newspapers, magazines, and other relevant books for the travelling public. Those waiting to board buses may take out the publications, read them till their buses arrive, and keep them back in the same place tidily. Kadaba taluk panchayat executive officer Naveen Bhandary, Dakshina Kannada District Working Journalists’ Association president Srinivas Nayak Indaje and others were present. Earlier, Mr. Kumara distributed notebooks sponsored by KIOCL to students of four government schools in Siribagilu and Kombaru villages in Kombaru. The Dakshina Kannada District Working Journalists’ Association and the Kadaba Taluk Journalists’ Association jointly organised the programme wherein the company sponsored notebooks as its CSR initiative. Praising the associations, Mr. Kumara said journalists in the district have been rendering many social services and distribution of notebooks was one among them. The associations’ village stay initiative has helped focus on problems faced in such villages and find solutions to them, he said.  KIOCL General Manager (HR) Ramakrishna, Senior Manager Murugesh, district information and public relations officer H.G. Raviraj, district association president Srinivas Nayak Indaje, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pustakada-goodu-launched-at-kombaru-bus-stand/article37572611.ece
19 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Award for Dheemkita Yakshagana Kendra||Alva’s Dheemkita Yakshagana Kendra of Moodbidri has been selected for this year’s Shri Vishwesha Tirtha award, which is given by Udupi’s Yakshagana Kalaranga. In a press release, the Alva’s Group of Institutions said the Yakshagana Kendra has been training students in Tenkutittu and Badagatittu Yakshagana forms. Apart from training students to stage Yakshaganas, they are trained in singing and other aspects of ‘Mummela’ and ‘Himmela’ of Yakshaganas. Since the last four years, the kendra has been conducting two-year diploma course for which students receive a monthly stipend of Rs. 500. The Kalaranga will present the award during a function at Udupi Mutt’s Rajangana on November 28. The award comes with a cash award of Rs. 50,000 and a citation, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/award-for-dheemkita-yakshagana-kendra/article37572605.ece
19 November 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Haemorrhoid treatment camp today||Alva’s Ayurvedic Medical College, Puttige Padavu, Moodbidri, has organised a free haemorrhoids (Moola Vyadhi) treatment camp on its campus on Friday. The camp will be conducted at its Shalya Tantra section between 9.30 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. For details, call 9663555378 or 9620480722.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/haemorrhoid-treatment-camp-today/article37572609.ece
19 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||House caves in, elderly man rescued||An elderly person who was trapped amidst debris after the house where he was living collapsed following heavy rains here on Wednesday evening, was rescued and admitted to hospital. The 72-year-old person is identified as Ramnath, a resident of Khille Mohalla on Uttaradi Mutt Road. The house was in run-down condition and its walls had become weak in the rains that had been lashing the city since many days. The structure came crashing down and the elderly man got stuck amidst the rubble, unable to run out for safety. The senior citizen’s neighbours alerted the Fire Department whose personnel rushed to the spot and rescued Mr. Ramnath, who sustained minor injuries. He was immediately rushed to hospital where he is said to be recovering. Building collapses Seven persons escaped narrowly when an old building on the busy Ashoka Road here came crashing down after heavy rains on Wednesday evening. The building was located in front of the office of the City Crime Branch. Last evening’s downpour disrupted normal life with rain lashing most parts of the city for over two hours, flooding many roads and basements of many apartments. According to reports, the occupants of another portion of the building ran for safety on hearing the creaking sound from the main structure that eventually collapsed. The building was mostly unoccupied when the incident occurred. A team from the Mysuru City Corporation rushed to the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/house-caves-in-elderly-man-rescued/article37572634.ece
19 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Onus on Cong. to provide evidence’||A.H. Vishwanath, BJP MLC, has accused Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah of drawing the present government and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai into the bitcoin controversy without a shred of evidence. Speaking to media persons in Mysuru on Thursday, Mr. Vishwanath said that political leaders were talking and spreading canards without any clue about bitcoins and no one had documentary evidence to prove the alleged scam. Since the Congress has raised the issue, the onus is on it to furnish evidence, he added. He turned the guns on Mr. Siddaramaiah and said he being the former Chief Minister and having presented the State Budget 14 times should be in a position to explain the controversy surrounding bitcoin. “Mr. Siddaramaiah had ordered a ‘redo’ in the Arkavathy land denotification scam and gave currency to the phrase and hence, he should be in a position to grasp and explain the bitcoin scam as well,” said Mr. Vishwanath. He also lampooned JD(S) supremo and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy for stating that he would provide proof “within two weeks”. Let leaders stop talking about it without understanding what the bitcoin issue is all about instead of adopting ‘hit and run’’ tactics, said Mr. Vishwanath. There was no point in trying to draw Mr. Bommai into the controversy who, Mr. Vishwanath said, was giving a good administration. The BJP would face the next Assembly elections under his leadership, he added. Referring to the MLC elections, Mr. Vishwanath said the situation had come to such a pass in the Congress that the aspiring candidates had to pay non-refundable fee of Rs. 1 lakh for the application besides assuring a bank guarantee of Rs. 15 crore. But he said the situation was more or less similar in all the parties and there was none to question corruption and internal malpractices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/onus-on-cong-to-provide-evidence/article37572635.ece
19 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Hebbal Lake, zoo projects launched||Infosys Foundation, the philanthropic and CSR arm of Infosys, on Thursday announced the inauguration of three infrastructure development projects in Mysuru. The Foundation had supported the rejuvenation of Hebbal Lake and the construction of a sewage treatment plant on the lake premises at a cost of Rs. 107 crore, and an enclosure for housing gorillas at Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens (Mysuru zoo) at a total cost of Rs. 7.3 crore. Deputy Commissioner Goutham Bagadi, and Sudha Murty, Chairperson, Infosys Foundation, virtually inaugurated the projects. The inauguration of rejuvenated Hebbal Lake, gorilla enclosure and the foundation stone laying for another enclosure for housing gorillas at the Mysuru zoo was also virtually attended by Ravi B.P., APCCF and Member Secretary, Zoo Authority of Karnataka, and Ajit M Kulkarni, Executive Director, Mysuru zoo. In a press release issued here on Thursday, Ms Murty, who spoke on the occasion, said: “Infosys Foundation has always embraced its responsibility to create a positive impact on the environment and the communities it works in. We are happy to complete these infrastructure projects in Mysuru and are grateful to the government for their support in this endeavour.” Infosys Foundation will also enable support infrastructure including walkways, permanent fence walls, lighting, and garbage disposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hebbal-lake-zoo-projects-launched/article37572629.ece
19 November 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Many normal beds upgraded to ICU category at K.R. Hospital||As many as 35 normal beds at the State-run Krishnarajendra Hospital (K.R. Hospital) in Mysuru have been upgraded into step-down ICUs to facilitate critical care. A 24 x 7 Central Monitoring Cell has been set up at the hospital to enable healthcare staff to monitor multiple patients remotely, from gynaecology and surgical ICU departments, who were previously monitored manually only every couple of hours. K.R. Hospital is one of the largest hospitals attached to the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) in Mysuru district with a total bed capacity of over 1,300. It was designated a COVID-19 hospital last year. The upgradation has been done as part of MillionICU, an initiative that addresses the shortage of ICU beds and staff in public hospitals. It facilitates critical care for 1,000-plus patients over the next three months. MMCRI Dean and Director C.P. Nanjaraj, K.R. Hospital Medical Superintendent Nanjundaswamy, H.G. Manjunath from the Department of Anaesthesiology, Suneetha, professor and HoD, Department of Medicine, and Dozee CEO and co-founder Mudit Dandwate were present during the launch. In Karnataka, MillionICU has upgraded Victoria Hospital, Charaka Hospital, Jayanagar General Hospital, Mysore District Hospital, BRIMS Bidar, KIMS Hubballi, and SIMS Shivamogga and plans to install 500 more healthcare devices in the coming months. The initiative aims to help upgradation of hospital infrastructure that had stretched beyond limits during the second wave of COVID-19. “Learning from the experience of dealing with a pandemic, hospitals across the country are now preparing to monitor a large number of patients in real-time. Hospitals are looking for newer technologies that can cover more patients for monitoring and treatment, helping healthcare workers manage time and resources better. The MillionICU supports the urgent need for strengthening the long-term public health infrastructure and making quality healthcare services available, accessible and affordable to the vast majority of the population in India,” a press release said here. The initiative was launched by Dozee, a contactless remote health monitoring startup, with the goal of enabling public hospitals to tide over the COVID-19 crisis in the short-term and bring about a rapid, long-term transformation in public healthcare infrastructure. It aims to help upgrade critical care infrastructure in several government hospitals. “MillionICU aspires to upgrade the critical care infrastructure in the country. It offers an opportunity for the government hospitals to use technology for quickly augmenting the much required HDUs and ICUs. The start-up has set a goal of installing 50,000 step-down ICU beds in the next 12 months and take it to 1 million in the next 3 years. The initiative has already benefited 32 such hospitals in 20 districts in the country,” the release issued here said. Dozee was started in 2015 by IIT graduates Mudit Dandwate and Gaurav Parchani and have till date raised over Rs. 63 crore. They have been awarded grants by the Central Government’s BIRAC, Sine IIT Bombay, ACT, and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the release said.  24 x 7 Central Monitoring Cell set up at the teaching hospital of MMCRI to enable healthcare staff to monitor multiple patients remotely It facilitates critical care for 1,000-plus patients over the next three months. Initiative has already benefited 32 such hospitals in 20 districts in the country It was launched by Dozee, a contactless remote health monitoring startup, with the goal of enabling public hospitals to tide over the COVID-19 crisis||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-normal-beds-upgraded-to-icu-category-at-kr-hospital/article37572631.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Marine sanctuary will come up at Honnavar’||The department has already organised festivals of birds, bee and butterflies, and Mahseer fish. The new festivals will be their continuation. Ruthren Periyasamy, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Kudremukh Wildlife Division, Karkala said that the festival had been organised to create a platform for strengthening further the ‘Shola forests and grasslands’ in association with local people, scientists, and all other stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/marine-sanctuary-will-come-up-at-honnavar/article37572617.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Vijayapura to Mangaluru train to be restored||The services have commercial halts at Basavana Bagewadi Road, Alamatti, Bagalkot, Guledagudda Road, Badami, Hole Alur, Mallapur, Gadag, Hubballi, Karajagi, Haveri, Byadagi, Ranebennur, Harihar, Davangere, Kadur, Arsikere, Hassan, Sakleshpur, Subrahmanya Road, Kabaka Puttur, and Bantwal. Train No. 07377 leaves Vijayapura at 6.15 p.m. instead of the earlier 6 p.m. to reach Mangaluru Junction at 12.40 p.m. the next day. In the return direction, Train No. 07378 leaves Mangaluru Junction at 4.45 p.m. instead of the earlier 4.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vijayapura-to-mangaluru-train-to-be-restored/article37572616.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Mangaluru  Bharatiya Janata Party: Jana Swaraj samaveha, Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shobha Karandlaje, ministers K S Eshwarappa, R Ashok, S T Somashekara, S. Angara and former minister D V Sadananda Gowda to speak, Adyar Garden, 3 p.m. Udupi Bharatiya Janata Party: Jana Swaraj samaveha, ministers K S Eshwarappa and Kota Srinivasa Poojary speak, town hall, Ajjarakadu, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/engagements/article37572614.ece
19 November 2021||Kannur,KERALA||YC activists stage stir in front of VC’s house||Youth Congress workers on Thursday staged a stir in front of the house of Kannur University Vice Chancellor Gopinath Ravindran and blocked his vehicle protesting against the decision to shortlist Priya Varghese, wife of K.K. Ragesh, private secretary to the Chief Minister, for the post of Associate Professor. They alleged that Ms. Varghese was not qualified for the post as per University Grants Commission norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yc-activists-stage-protest/article37572499.ece
19 November 2021||Kasaragod,KERALA||General OP at Kasaragod MCH from next month||Health Minister Veena George on Thursday said general outpatient (OP) service would start functioning at the Kasaragod Medical College Hospital from the first week of December. After visiting the hospital building at Ukkinadukka in Kasaragod on Thursday, she said the building had been functioning as a COVID hospital for some time now. However, work was in progress to launch the general OP service. “A decision has been taken to start the OP first. The hospital would have inpatient treatment facilities later,” she said. The Minister said the government had decided to provide the service of a neurologist at the hospital taking into account the treatment requirements of endosulfan victims. “The hospital block of the medical college will be completed on time. It is expected that medical education will start at the Kasaragod medical college by 2023-24,” she said. Protest staged Meanwhile, Youth Congress workers staged a protest against the Minister at Kanhangad. They demanded the immediate reopening of the Mother and Child Hospital, timely completion of the medical college and the cancellation of the alleged illegal employment of the wife of an accused in the Periya twin murder case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/general-op-at-kasaragod-mch-from-next-month/article37572497.ece
19 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Crime Branch to probe models’ accident case||The district Crime Branch has been handed over the investigation into the accident at Chakkaraparambu that killed three persons, including two models, on November 1. A team led by Assistant Commissioner Biji George will probe the case. The case, which was initially considered an accident, has turned controversial with the arrest of seven persons. Initially, the lone survivor of the car, Abdul Rahman, alone was arrested for culpable homicide not amounting to murder and driving under the influence of alcohol. The remaining six, including the owner of the hotel where the victims had reportedly partied late into night before speeding to their death, were arrested on Wednesday. The owner and his technicians and employees were arrested on the charge of suppressing evidence after the hard disc containing crucial images of the party went missing. The Crime Branch will record the statements of those who attended the party. Senior police sources ruled out delay in the probe or the presence of any VIP at the hotel on the day. All accused get bail Meanwhile, all the accused in the accident were granted bail by the trial court on Thursday. Earlier, in its remand report, the police submitted that five of the accused, employed at the hotel owned by second accused Roy J. Vayallaat, removed the hard disk and threw it into the Kochi backwaters to destroy evidence. The hard disk of the computer network of the hotel was removed for destroying the evidence of the second accused providing liquor or drugs to the accident victims at various places in the hotel, the police suspected. The second accused was a rich and influential person, who, if enlarged on bail, could destroy the evidence and influence the witnesses, the police submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crime-branch-to-probe-models-accident-case/article37572510.ece
19 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Steps on to bring child back||With time fast running out, those at the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare (KSCCW) have begun liaisoning with various Government agencies both in Kerala and Andhra Pradesh for bringing back the child, reported to be that of Anupama S. Chandran, to the State. The five-day deadline fixed by the Child Welfare Committee, Thiruvananthapuram, for bringing the baby back from Andhra Pradesh will expire on Monday.  The Hindu had reported on Thursday that the CWC had directed the council to bring back the child and conduct a DNA test.  Complex task “The council is left with a delicate, impassioned and yet complex task of taking the baby back from foster care, that too from a different State. One cannot barge into the house of the couple, and snatch away the baby. It is a tricky job that has to be carried out with much empathy,” said council sources. Despite the challenges involved in the task, the council will implement the directive of the CWC and will not seek any extension of time. The council needs to ensure adequate police protection for its team, which has to be sent to Andhra Pradesh, and also the baby. It also needs to establish a rapport with its counterparts in Andhra. The police in A.P. also need to be looped in for the smooth transfer of the baby,” sources said. The Andhra couple needs to be convinced of the order issued by the CWC. The support of the State Government may also be necessary as the adoption case has become an inter-State affair. The members of the team and their travel plans will be finalised shortly. Meanwhile, the CWC is understood to have issued a separate directive to the council to provide adequate counselling and emotional support to the Andhra couple who are likely to face emotional upheaval when the baby would be taken away from them.  Five-day deadline set by Child Welfare Committee will expire on Monday CWC directive to provide counselling, emotional support to Andhra couple||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steps-under-way-to-bring-child-back/article37572500.ece
19 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Candidates file nomination papers||Battle lines have been drawn in the Gandhi Nagar Division of the Kochi Corporation with the key contestants filing their nomination papers. While Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate Bindu Sivan and National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate P.G. Manojkumar filed their nomination papers on Wednesday, United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate P. D. Martin submitted his papers on Thursday. The election in the division was warranted following the death of CPI(M) councillor K.K. Sivan. While the CPI(M) fielded Ms. Bindu, the wife of the deceased councillor, the UDF leadership decided to give Mr. Martin, who had unsuccessfully contested against Sivan last time, one more chance. Mr. Martin, accompanied by party workers and leaders, submitted his papers before the returning officer at the Corporation. The last date for filing the nominations is November 19. The poll will be on December 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/candidates-file-nomination-papers/article37572507.ece
19 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Maharaja’s College principal transferred||The special grade principal of Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam, Mathew George, has been transferred to Government Victoria College in Palakkad, and the special grade principal of the Palakkad college, Mercy Joseph, has been transferred to Maharaja’s as the new principal. The transfer of Dr. George is reportedly linked to the allegations raised against him by the Association of Kerala Government College Teachers (AKGCT), widely perceived as a pro-Communist Party of India (Marxist) organisation. The Directorate of Collegiate Education had ordered an inquiry into the allegations made by the AKGCT. But, Dr. George denied any knowledge of the allegations and said his transfer order did not mention any allegations. The Collegiate Education Directorate had initially ordered its Kollam Deputy Director Unnikrishnan Nair B. to hold the inquiry. However, since he had expressed inability to hold the inquiry, Additional Director at the headquarters Jyothiraj M. had been entrusted with the task, said an order from the Directorate dated November 16. Tree cutting  AKGCT sources said complaints had been raised against the principal. In the second week of October, the Student’s Federation of India (the CPI[M]’s youth wing) unit at the college had prevented the removal of a truckload of wood from trees cut down on the campus. SFI sources had alleged that it was not known if the trees were felled with official permission. Dr. George said he had informed the City Central Police about the development. He also said a tree that had grown into the neighbouring Kerala Water Authority compound had been felled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/maharajas-college-principal-transferred/article37572509.ece
19 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held for murder bid||The North Police on Thursday arrested two persons on the charge of attempt to murder. The arrested were identified as Rahul aka Kannan, 26, of Kedamangalam, and Shefin, 25, of Kalamassery. They were directly involved in the case in which a gang allegedly hurled a country bomb and attempted to hack to death a person identified as Sarath on October 24. Gang of three arrested The Binanipuram police on Thursday arrested a gang of three, including two minors, accused of theft from offering boxes in temples. Among the arrested was Muhammed Fayas, 21, of Eloor North. They are accused of having carried out similar thefts in Aluva West and Kunnathunadu police station limits as well. They allegedly used to move around in stolen motorcycles and pull off the thefts during nights. They had allegedly stolen from the offering box of a temple in Binanipuram last month. Chain-snatching The Muvattupuzha police on Thursday arrested a man accused of snatching the chain of a differently-abled woman living alone. The arrested was identified as Gireesh Kumar of Aarakkuzha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-for-murder-bid/article37572515.ece
19 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Sub inspector trainees visit Naval Base||A training visit for general executive sub inspector trainees from the 30th C batch of Kerala Coastal Police Academy, Thrissur, was conducted at the Naval Base between November 16 and 18. A total of 162 trainee cadets accompanied by six training staff visited the Naval Base. The cadets visited the Coastal Defence Headquarters and Joint Operations Centre (Kochi) where they were briefed about the coastal security mechanism and the Integrated Underwater Harbour Defence Surveillance System. The cadets also visited the Sagar Prahari Bal (Kochi), where they were provided a brief on the practical aspects of coastal surveillance. An organised visit was also conducted onboard INS Magar The training conducted by the Naval Officer-in-Charge (Kerala) under the aegis of the Southern Naval Command was aimed at exposing the trainees to pertinent aspects of coastal security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sub-inspector-trainees-visit-naval-base/article37572511.ece
19 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||UDF will stage comeback: Satheesan||The United Democratic Front (UDF) will stage a comeback in the State, Opposition leader V.D. Satheesan has said. Speaking at the UDF district convention, Mr. Satheesan said the anti-people policies of the State and Central governments would be exposed. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre was whipping up emotional issues to continue in power. It was also ignoring the issues faced by the masses, he said. Mr. Satheesan said the Rs. 64,000-crore SilverLine project would do no good to the State and would lead to serious environmental issues. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s decision to allow Tamil Nadu to strengthen the baby dam had resulted in heightened anxiety about the safety of the Mullaperiyar dam, he said. The UDF was in favour of decommissioning the existing dam and constructing a new one in its place, he added. UDF district chairman Dominic Presentation presided. UDF leaders M.M. Hassan, Abdul Rahiman Randathani, G. Devarajan, MP Hibi Eden, and MLAs P.J. Joseph, Anoop Jacob, Mons Joseph, K. Babu, T.J. Vinod, Anwar Sadath, Eldhose Kunnappilly, and Mathew Kuzhalnadan attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-will-stage-comeback-satheesan/article37572508.ece
19 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Navy Week observance||In consonance with the theme of the Navy Week 2021, “Indian Navy – Combat Ready, Credible and Cohesive”, the Southern Naval Command (SNC) will lay out a host of programmes from the last week of November. Navy Day is observed on December 4 every year, since it was on the day in 1971 that missile boats of the Indian Navy launched a daring attack on the Karachi harbour, paralysing Pakistan’s entire coastal defence apparatus. The year 2021 marks the 50th anniversary of the 1971 Indo-Pak War - the historic victory of India’s armed forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-week-observance/article37572513.ece
19 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held for murder||The Puthencruz police have arrested a man on the charge of murdering his brother. The arrested was identified as Sreekanth, 33, of Puthencruz. The incident took place on October 16. The accused had taken his younger brother, Sreenath, to a private hospital in Kolencherry claiming that he had collapsed. He was declared brought dead. However, a wound noticed by the police during the inquest turned out to be the turning point. Sreekanth allegedly stabbed his younger brother using apair of scissors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-murder/article37572514.ece
19 November 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Girl moves HC seeking action against cop||An eight-year-old girl who was allegedly insulted and humiliated by a Pink Police constable recently approached the Kerala High Court on Thursday seeking a directive to the State Government to take exemplary action against the police officer and a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh for infringing her and her father’s fundamental rights. In her petition, the girl from Thiruvananthapuram said she was a Class III student. She along with her father Jayachandran was watching a giant Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) machinery being transported on a truck at Moonnumukku, near Attingal. A vehicle of the Pink Police was parked three metres from their scooter. When she and her father were drinking water from a nearby shop, civil police officer Rejitha shouted at them to return her mobile phone. The officer accused them of stealing her phone from the patrol vehicle and humiliated them in public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/girl-moves-hc-seeking-action-against-cop/article37572564.ece
19 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Awards for Cochin Shipyard, BPCL||The year’s Kerala State Productivity Council’s Productivity Awards, better known as FACT MKK Nayar Memorial Productivity Awards, have gone to the following institutions. Industry category I (turnover above Rs. 750 crore): Best Productivity Performance Award: Cochin Shipyard Ltd. Second Best Productivity Performance Award: BPCL Kochi Refinery, Ambalamugal. Industry category II (turnover Rs. 250 crore to Rs. 750 crore): Best Productivity Performance Award: Tata Consumer Products Ltd., Pallivasal Packeting Centre, Munnar. Second Best Productivity Performance Award: Malabar Regional Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union Ltd., Wayanad Dairy. Second Best Productivity Performance Award: Amphenol FCI, Mulanthuruthy. Industry category III (turnover Rs. 50 crore to Rs. 250 crore): Best Productivity Performance Award: HLL Lifecare Ltd., Peroorkada Factory, Thiruvananthapuram. Second Best Productivity Performance Award: Kerala Agro Machinery Corporation Ltd., Palakkad. Industry category IV (turnover below Rs. 50 crore): Best Productivity Performance Award: Technoflex Rubber Products, Irapuram. Second Best Productivity Performance Award: The Kerala Ceramics Ltd., Kundara, Kollam. Service organisation: Best Productivity Performance Award: Kerala Financial Corporation, Thiruvananthapuram. Second Best Productivity Performance Award: Wonderla Holidays, Pallikkara, Kochi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/awards-for-cochin-shipyard-bpcl/article37572517.ece
19 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kudumbashree polls on Dec. 20||Election to neighbourhood groups, area development societies and community development societies under the State Kudumbashree Mission is to be scheduled on December 20 to enable a fresh set of leaders to take charge by January 26, 2022. The organisation has flourished, finding employment opportunities for women and providing them social and economic support through a number of group-based activities that range from micro-enterprises to social empowerment activities. Poll postponed Mission sources said here on Thursday that the elections to the three-tier Kudumbashree setup had been postponed for a year due to the COVID-19 lockdown as well as last year’s elections to local government bodies. The Kudumbashree office-bearers are elected for a period of three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kudumbashree-polls-on-december-20/article37572563.ece
19 November 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi accident: driver moves court for anticipatory bail||The Kerala High Court on Thursday sought the response of the police to a petition moved by Syju M. Thankachan, the driver of an Audi car that had allegedly chased the car in which two deceased models Ansi Kabeer and Anjana Shajan were travelling, seeking anticipatory bail. He said in his petition that he met Abdul Rahman, the accused in the case, at Number 18 Hotel and the accused was heavily drunk. While he was leaving the hotel to his house at Kakkanad, Rahman and three others left the hotel at breakneck speed. The petitioner, as a token of good gesture, advised the accused not to drive the car as he was in an inebriated state. But, they did not heed the advice and left the hotel. Later, on seeing the car driven by the accused pulled over by the side of the road near Kundannoor junction, he too stopped his car, stated the petitioner. He again persuaded the co-passengers of that car not to allow the accused to drive as he was intoxicated and was driving at a high speed. However, they disregarded his advice. On his way, the petitioner saw a bike lying on the side of the highway near Chakkaraparambu. He immediately called up the police control room. After informing the police, he came to the accident spot. It was only then that he came to know that the vehicle driven by the accused had met with the accident, said the petition. The petitioner said that he came to know from the media that the accused had stated that he had tried to chase the vehicle and thereby had led to the vehicle losing control and ramming the motorcycle, resulting in the crash. The petitioner said he was innocent and had nothing to do with the accident. He apprehended that he would be arrested and subjected to third-degree methods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/driver-of-second-car-moves-anticipatory-bail-plea/article37572503.ece
19 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||KSRTC complex report: panel seeks more time||The five-member committee assigned to review the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) report on the faulty construction of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus terminal-cum-shopping complex is likely to take more time to submit its report. The committee, constituted by the Transport Department in the last week of October, was asked to submit its recommendations on rehabilitation of the building within a fortnight. Now the report could be submitted only next month, sources said. A reason cited is that three members, including Prof. Nirjhar Dhang, Head of the Department, Department of Civil Engineering, IIT Kharagpur, were unavailable to reach Kozhikode. The other members of the panel are Chief Technical Examiner S. Harikumar (convener); T.M. Madhavan Pillai, Department of Civil Engineering, National Institute of Technology-Calicut; L. Beena, Chief Engineer (Buildings) Public Works Department; and K.R. Bindu, College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram. The panel was asked to examine the report submitted by P. Alagusundaramoorthy, Professor, Structural Engineering, IIT-M that stated that the multi-storey twin tower complex on the Mavoor Road in Kozhikode city constructed six years ago at the cost of Rs. 74.63 crore had serious structural flaws. The report had also mentioned that 20% of the pillars of the terminal were structurally weak and required immediate strengthening. Sources said that Prof. Dhang had sought at least 10 days to fly down to Kozhikode. Two other panellists — Ms. Beena and Prof. Bindu — based in the State had also not visited the site. The report could be prepared only after the three of them visited and inspected the KSRTC complex. Meanwhile, the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) headquarters is yet to take a decision on a preliminary report submitted by its Kozhikode unit to take up a case on the irregularities in the construction of the building. The Vigilance report had pointed out that the complex had been constructed without the prior approval of the Kozhikode Corporation. An application for the building plan was submitted only after the completion of the structure, it said. The Kerala Transport Development Finance Corporation (KTDFC) had constructed the twin tower, which was inaugurated on June 1, 2015. The first tower has 10 floors and the second 11 floors including space for parking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-seeks-more-time-to-submit-report-on-ksrtc-complex/article37572495.ece
19 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Navy pavilion unveiled at IIM-K business museum||Vice Admiral Anil Kumar Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command, unveiled a pavilion dedicated to the Indian Navy at the Indian Business Museum of the Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode (IIM-K) here on Thursday. A news release said the Indian Navy pavilion is the first pavilion dedicated to the country’s defence forces and has been set up by the Indian Naval Academy, Ezhimala. It displays a replica of the indigenous ‘Anti Submarine Warfare Corvette’ built by the Garden Research Shipbuilders and Engineers Ltd (GRSE), under the Ministry of Defence. The corvette boasts of 90% indigenous content with a tonnage of 3,250 tonnes and till date GRSE has delivered three such warships to the Indian Navy. Besides this, the visual display units will also showcase videos of the ‘Life in Indian Navy’, the rigorous training modules of the world’s seventh largest Navy along with a dedicated video showing Indian Navy’s push for self-reliance through indigenisation. As the museum attracts many young visitors, it also lists out various entries through which dedicated citizens can join the force, along with galleries depicting the Navy’s role in providing humanitarian assistance, disaster relief and the historical sea battles it had won. In his address, Vice Admiral Chawla said that India’s growing economic strength and prosperity would benefit immensely from rediscovering the sea-faring prowess of yore. He recounted how the powerful navies of the Cholas played a vital role not only in the expansion of their empire, but also in propagating Indian culture and Indian thoughts beyond maritime boundaries as early as in the 10th century AD. Prof. Debashis Chatterjee, Director IIM-K, who in his first stint at IIM-K was the brain behind the concept of an Indian Business Museum, said the Navy pavilion was a tribute to the defence forces who through their sheer determination and technical prowess have spearheaded innovation and indigenisation to not only compete with the best of the world, but also safeguard the interests of businesses beyond India’s shores. The Reserve Bank of India pavilion and the India in Space Gallery set up by the Indian Space Research Organisation are the other star attractions of the Indian Business Museum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-pavilion-unveiled-at-iim-k-business-museum/article37572494.ece
19 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Gang member arrested after drama in Kozhikode||The police on Thursday nabbed the member of a hired gang, who is reportedly involved in cases across districts, after he gave them the slip twice during the day and created panic in the middle of a road at Kattangal in Kozhikode district. Three members of the District Anti-Narcotics Special Action Force (DANSAF) were injured in the melee. According to sources, Tinku alias Shiju, who is part of a hired gang, is a native of Peringalam. The police got a tip-off on Thursday that Tinku was participating in a wedding event somewhere between Mavoor and Kunnamangalam. Though he was nabbed from there, Tinku managed to flee. Additional police force was roped in to catch him. Tinku was later taken to the Kunnamangalam police station. He gave a slip to the police there as well and ran away. Tinku hit himself on a tree to injure himself in a bid to create panic. He later hopped on to the top of a taxi car in the middle of the road and started shouting at the police. As curious onlookers gathered, local residents helped the police take him into custody. Some DANSAF members sustained injuries in the incident. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gang-member-arrested-after-drama-in-kozhikode/article37572496.ece
19 November 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Congress suspends two leaders||The Congress has suspended two of its local leaders and asked a former district committee president to apologise in public for the assault on mediapersons during an alleged meeting of one of the party factions in Kozhikode last Saturday.      K. Praveen Kumar, District Congress Committee (DCC) president, said in a release on Thursday evening that C.G. Prasanth Kumar, Mankavu block committee former president, and Rajeevan Thiruvachira, president of the Arakkinar mandalam committee, would face action. U. Rajeevan, former DCC president, would have to tender an apology through the media. Suresh Keechambra, DCC general secretary and Feroke block Congress committee president, would get a public warning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-suspends-two-leaders/article37572498.ece
19 November 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Plan to decongest Nilackal base camp||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus station at Pathanamthitta, a major stopover of bus services to Sabarimala from different parts of Kerala, is all set to become the hub of special services run by the utility to Pampa. The new initiative, according to officials, forms part of a plan to decongest the Nilackal base camp, besides offering more amenities to pilgrims. The corporation has started preparing the operational area to receive the services, the first of which is slated to operate on November 22. Chain services Under the new system, Pampa special services from different centres via Pathanamthitta will wind up their operation at the station here while passengers are required to continue their onward journey on chain services using the same ticket. These tickets will have a validity of four hours, which will ensure that the passenger gets enough time for rest and refreshments.  The chain services, which will be operated using a fleet of 50 services in the first phase, will run every five minutes during the season. Officials say the number of buses would be raised based on demand . As part of the project, the KSRTC is establishing facilities for the pilgrims, including restrooms and luggage space. Plans are afoot to arrange biotoilets in association with the Pathanamthitta municipality while Kudumbashree will open a canteen. Circular services connecting temples in and around the region will be operated from the Pathanamthitta bus station. Meanwhile, authorities on Thursday opened a special Sabarimala ward at the Ranni taluk hospital. The hospital run by the Health Department at the Sannidhanam too has been functional. Services of 70 health workers, including medical doctors and paramedical staff, have been made available at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plan-to-decongest-nilackal-base-camp/article37572561.ece
19 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB likely to hike power tariff by 8-10%||The Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission (KSERC) has finalised and published the regulations for determining electricity tariffs. With the notification of the Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions for Determination of Tariff) Regulations, 2021, the stage is set for a power tariff revision from April next year. Indications are that the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) will seek a tariff hike ranging between 8% and 10%, although a decision is yet to be finalised on this point. Tariff proposals The regulations require the KSEB to submit the Aggregate Revenue Requirement (ARR) and tariff proposals by December 31. Fresh tariff orders are likely to come into effect on April 1, 2022 as the term of the prevailing tariffs ends on March 31. Once the KSEB submits its proposals, the commission will hold public hearings before finalising a decision. The regulations now notified cover a block of five financial years, or control period, starting from April 1, 2022 to March 31, 2027, under the multi-year tariff framework (MYT). The KSEB and other distribution licensees are expected to file proposals for each year separately under this system. A midterm performance review will be held in 2024-25, according to the regulations. Senior KSEB officials said on Thursday that the proposals were under preparation, but indicated that the State power utility was likely to seek a hike between 8% and 10% this time. Power tariffs were last hiked on July 8, 2019. On March 19 this year, the commission had extended the validity of the retail supply tariffs from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022, or until new tariffs were declared, whichever comes earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kseb-likely-to-hike-power-tariff-by-8-10/article37572574.ece
19 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2.9% rural kids not on school rolls||The percentage of rural children not currently enrolled in school in the State has increased to 2.9% in one year. The most affected are girls, with 4.1% not enrolled as compared to 1.7% for boys, according to the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2021. As per ASER 2020, the percentage of children in the 6-14 age group not enrolled in schools in the State was nil. However, a year later this has increased to 2.9. The proportion of children currently not enrolled across India remained the same as it was in 2020 – 4.6%. The ASER survey looks into how children studied at home during COVID-19 and the challenges that schools and families face as schools reopen. The State also showed a clear shift towards government school enrolment, up from 47.9% in 2018 to 59.8% this year. There has been a slight dip from last year, though, when it was 60.9%. As many as 91% of the students in the State received online education, the highest in the country. Nationwide, only 24.2% had online education. Both government and private school sectors in the State had good numbers for online education – 88% for government schools and 96.4% for private schools. Kerala had the highest percentage of enrolled children with a smartphone available at home - 97.5. Of them, 76.2% were able to access it for their studies at all times, while 21.2% had access sometimes. As many as 2.6% of the children had no access to a smartphone. This was higher than in Himachal Pradesh and Punjab where only 0.8% and 1.1% of the students respectively had no smartphone access. As many as 74.3% of the households in the State with children in Classes I to VIII reported receipt of learning materials/activities when schools had not reopened. Himachal Pradesh though had more success with 84.9% of the households reporting learning material receipt. As per the survey, 18.8% of the enrolled children took tuition. This was up from 11.1% in 2020, but down from 28.2% in 2018. The proportion of children taking tuition on an all-India basis has increased, regardless of grade, school type, or sex, as per the survey. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in a Facebook post, said the ASER report underlined the State’s success in facilitating online education for students despite the challenges posed by the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/29-rural-kids-not-on-school-rolls/article37572572.ece
19 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Discussion on POCSO, Juvenile Justice Acts||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights held a discussion with officials of the State Crime Records Bureau and the District Crime Records Bureau on the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act on Thursday. Commission chairperson K.V. Manoj Kumar delivered the introductory remarks. The opinions and recommendations will be collated and a report submitted to the Government. Steps to address any inadequacies in the laws would also be taken, the commission said. The meeting discussed issues such as protection of children and those related to their physical, mental, social and educational aspects. A model questionnaire prepared by the commission for collecting details of POCSO cases and inadequacies in information available and how to address them were discussed at the meeting. A special questionnaire prepared by the commission’s juvenile justice cell was approved. The meeting also decided to take steps to provide information as per the questionnaire to the commission every month. Commission members Babitha Balraj, K. Nazeer, P.P. Syamala Devi, and Fr. Philip Parakatt; senior technical officer Alfred J. George; and secretary Anitha Damodaran were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/discussion-on-pocso-juvenile-justice-acts/article37572682.ece
19 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||6,111 new cases in State||Kerala reported 6,111 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday when 66,693 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State’s cumulative COVID-19 burden, ever since the pandemic began, now stands at 50,84,095 cases. The official cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State now stands at 36,847 with the State adding 372 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Thursday. These include 51 deaths which occurred in the past few days and 321 deaths which have now been accepted as COVID deaths by the Government as per the new guidelines of the Centre and following the appeals filed by families 7,202 recover The State’s active case pool had 62,288 patients on Thursday, with 7,202 people reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. Only 6.8% of the active cases are currently admitted in hospitals or field hospitals like COVID first-line/second-line treatment centres. Current ICU occupancy of COVID patients in both public and private hospitals has reduced further to 817, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support also dropped to 321 on Thursday. On Thursday, the number of patients newly admitted to hospitals with COVID was 322. Hospitalisations have stabilised around the 5,000 mark and at present, 5,187 persons are being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 848, followed by Ernakulam 812, Kozhikode 757, Thrissur 591, Kottayam 570, Kollam 531, Kannur 348, Wayanad 289, Malappuram 287, Idukki 274, Palakkad 269, Pathanamthitta 253, Alappuzha 185 and Kasaragod 97 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6111-new-cases-in-state/article37572570.ece
19 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Board to submit tariff petition to KSERC||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) said on Thursday that it expects to submit a tariff petition to the Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission (KSERC) by December 25. The power utility, in a statement issued here today , said it would seek only a just revision in line with the tariff determination regulations notified by the commission. The power utility pointed out that the new tariffs could not be predicted now as these are decided by the commission after holding public hearings. Last tariff In the last tariff revision in July 2019, the tariffs had gone up by 7.32%, taking the average tariff to Rs. 5.75 per unit, sources said. And in the revision prior to that in April 2017, the tariffs went up by 4.77%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/board-to-submit-tariff-petition-to-kserc/article37572575.ece
19 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||e-Sanjeevani, Karunya schemes bag awards||Two initiatives of the State Government, e-Sanjeevani telemedicine system and Karunya Benevolent Fund, have received accolades at the Governance Now fourth digital transformation awards ceremony, an official release issued by the office of the Health Minister said here. e-Sanjeevani was credited for delivering health-care services to people on the tele-medicine platform during the COVID-19 pandemic. Health insurance The other award was for linking the Karunya Benevolent Fund with Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhati (KASP) health insurance scheme on its transaction management system Through 47 specialty outpatient clinics, e-Sanjeevani, provided tele-medical consultations to 2.9 lakh people during the pandemic, ensuring that access to health-care services was not denied to people 10,000 benefit By linking KBF to KASP, KBF beneficiaries were ensured treatment from all empanelled hospitals under the State Health Agency under the KASP scheme. Through this integration, 10,000 KBF beneficiaries were provided assistance to the tune of Rs. 64 crore under KASP, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-sanjeevani-karunya-schemes-bag-awards/article37572679.ece
19 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Order on referendum for teachers’ forum revised||The General Education Department has revised an earlier order dating back to 2011 that dealt with conducting a referendum to recognise a teacher organisation for the entire teaching community. The 2011 order, issued in the wake of a High Court order on a writ petition filed by the Deseeya Adhyapaka Parishath, accorded sanction for conducting the referendum and also approved a scheme for it. Hurdles As per the order, the numerous teacher organisations in the Government and aided sector posed a lot of hurdles in resolving teachers’ issues, and hence the Government intended to recognise the association representing the entire teaching community as a single group through the referendum. The Director of Public Instruction was authorised as the Special Officer (Referendum). However, it later came to the attention of the authorities that Rule 51 and 52 of Chapter XIV C of Kerala Education Rules (KER) envisaged multiple service organisations for each distinct class of staff in secondary and primary schools. Condition One of the conditions in the KER for recognition of an association is that it must consist of a distinct class of teachers and must represent not less than 25% of the total strength of that class. Since the 2011 Government order would run contrary to the spirit of the KER, the order has now been revised to the effect that the referendum should be conducted strictly in accordance with the provisions of the KER.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/order-on-referendum-for-teachers-forum-revised/article37572681.ece
19 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PWD shifting to e-office||The Public Works Department (PWD) is fully migrating to the e-office system. A meeting of the PWD Mission Team chaired by Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas decided to shift department operations fully to the e-office system by December-end. Activities in this regard in the circle and divisional-level offices have entered the final phase. Sub-division and section offices will follow. The e-office mechanism will speed up the functioning of the department and also ensure transparency in the movement of files.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pwd-shifting-to-e-office/article37572685.ece
19 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Communication research centre at NISH||The State’s first Centre for Research in Communication Sciences (CRCS) will soon be opened at the National Institute of Speech and Hearing (NISH) here, seeking to enhance the holistic care and rehabilitation of the differently abled community. The CRCS has been designed as a facility for higher learning and research to bring about a qualitative change in the lives of people with communication disorders, a NISH release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/communication-research-centre-at-nish/article37572680.ece
19 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||T.N. students to be included in Plus One allotment||Students who were promoted from Class X in Tamil Nadu will be given an opportunity to be included in Plus One allotment in the State, Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty has said. The General Education Department decision has come as a relief for the students who are waiting to take part in the Plus One allotment process. The Tamil Nadu Government had decided against conducting the Class X public examinations in the wake of the COVID-19 situation. All students were given Class X pass certificates without specifying marks or grades. However, in Kerala, the rank list for Plus One higher secondary admission is prepared on the basis of grade/marks secured in the Class X public examinations. As a result, students who had passed Class X from Tamil Nadu could not be considered for Plus One admission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tn-students-to-be-included-in-plus-one-allotment/article37572573.ece
19 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Senior citizens to organise protest||The Senior Citizens Service Council will organise a protest near the Central Railway Station at Thampanoor on November 25 in protest against the alleged neglect of the elderly by the Union Government. Former Minister and Communist Party of India leader C. Divakaran will inaugurate the dharna at 11 a.m. Various demands The council is seeking reinstatement of the 40% concession for the elderly in rail fare. They are also demanding an increase in the Central share in pension from Rs. 200 to Rs. 2,000, setting up a department and commission for the welfare of the elderly, free health insurance and rolling back of privatisation of Railways, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/senior-citizens-to-organise-protest/article37572683.ece
19 November 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||848 COVID-19 cases in district||The district logged 848 COVID-19 cases and 830 recoveries on Thursday. The test positivity rate stood at 11.1%. The active case pool stood at 8,968, the district administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/848-covid-19-cases-in-district/article37572684.ece
19 November 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Licence to be made mandatory for pet shops||Licence will be made mandatory for pet shops in the State, Minister for Animal Husbandry J. Chinchurani has said. She was speaking here on Thursday after chairing the first meeting of the revamped State Animal Welfare Board (SAWB). The Government also planned to strengthen the Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme, the Minister said. Union Government’s pet shop rules and dog breeding rules would be strictly enforced, she said, adding that awareness programmes were planned for pet shop owners and dog breeders. Drawing attention to increasing incidents of cruelty to animals, Ms. Chinchurani said that the district-level Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) would be strengthened by including the District Collector along with the District Panchayat president in the managing committees. The Indian Veterinary Association (IVA) had evinced interest in participating in the ABC programme. Their application would be forwarded to the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI), the Minister said. Animal shelters The SAWB has decided to recommend the Local Self-Government (LSG) Department to introduce animal shelters, animal adoption schemes and feeding points for stray dogs in line with a Kerala High Court order on the matter. The High Court has issued orders allowing pets in apartments and flats. Complaints regarding this matter will be dealt with by the SAWB. The public can email their complaints/grievances to sawbkerala@gmail.com. Veterinary surgeons would be posted on contract at the Animal Husbandry Department check-posts where their services were not available now, the Minister said. Elephant squads ‘Elephant squads’ would be formed in all districts by providing specialised training to veterinary doctors in a bid to ensure proper care for captive elephants in the State, she said.  The Minister released a handbook on laws governing pet shops on the occasion.  Plan to strengthen Animal Birth Control programme. J. Chinchurani Minister for Animal Husbandry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/licence-to-be-made-mandatory-for-pet-shops/article37572562.ece
19 November 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Francis, Raghu win akademi fellowship||Artist K.A. Francis (left) and sculptor G. Raghu (right) have won the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi fellowship for 2020. The fellowship, which carries a purse of Rs. 75,000, citation, and certificate, has been given to the artists for their contributions in the field of painting and sculpture. K.A. Francis, former chairman of the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi and former president of the Kerala Chitrakala Parishat, had won many awards, including the Lalitha Kala Puraskaram (2015) and the newspaper layout design award by the Central Government. Raghu, who makes his sculptures in terracotta and ceramic, had won the contemporary Indian art biennale awards instituted by the Bharat Bhavan in 1978 and 1988.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/francis-raghu-win-akademi-fellowship/article37572569.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Congress leaders’ meet||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/congress-leaders-meet/article37572654.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||For tax cut on fuel||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-tax-cut-on-fuel/article37572687.ece
19 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fillip to medical education in State||Medical education in the State will get a fillip with the appointment of 2,190 teaching faculty in many specialities, staff nurses and paramedical staff in the posts that are under the control of the Director of Medical Education. A sanction order to this effect has been issued by M. Ravi Chandra, Principal Secretary (COVID-19 Management and Vaccination), Department of Health, Medical and Family Welfare. “These 2,190 additional posts in the medical colleges and teaching hospitals will help provide effective delivery of health services in the State,” he said in G.O. Ms. No.140 issued on November 17. Expansion of services The Anantapur Super Speciality Hospital would get functional as majority of the posts would get filled. These appointments would fulfil the much-awaited expansion of the services in the Government General Hospital. Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy said that the posts notified through the G.O. would be filled soon through the counselling method and the process was likely to be completed by the end of January, 2022. The three institutions in Anantapur – the Government Medical College, the Government General Hospital, and the Super Speciality Hospital under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) – would get 230 posts out of the 2,190 sanctioned in the State, he added. The break-up of the total number of posts is as follows: professor (51), associate professor (187), assistant professor (130), staff nurse (1,040), and paramedical staff (782). Under PMSSY, Vijayawada and Anantapur would each get 11 professor posts, 16 associate professor posts, and 43 assistant professor posts. Under the State government appointments, the medical college in Anantapur would get two professor posts, while seven would go to Andhra Medical College in Visakhapatnam.  Associate professor posts The associate professor posts sanctioned in government medical colleges were as follows: Kadapa 21; Anantapur 14; Kurnool 17; Guntur 15; and Siddhartha Medical College, Vijayawada, 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fillip-to-medical-education-in-state/article37572142.ece
19 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CJI to take part in Sathya Sai Institute convocation||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana will be the chief guest at the 40th convocation of the Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Learning, a deemed-to-be-University, at Puttaparthi on November 22 (Monday). Mr. Ramana, along with his wife, is scheduled land at Puttaparthi airport from Bengaluru in a special helicopter on November 21. After participating in the 96th birth anniversary celebrations of Sri Sathya Sai Baba and the convocation of the institution, Justice Ramana will leave for Bengaluru, Anantapur Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan said on Thursday. Meanwhile, the Sathya Sai Baba birth anniversary celebrations began on Thursday morning with Sri Satyanarayana Pooja and Rathotsavam, but the number of devotees was limited in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cji-to-take-part-in-sathya-sai-institute-convocation/article37572143.ece
19 November 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP wins 6 of 16 MPTC seats in Anantapur||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) candidates won six of the 16 Mandal Parishad Territorial Constituency (MPTC) seats in Anantapur district, while the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) won the Chilamattur ZPTC seat and 10 MPTC seats on Thursday. Golla Anusha of the YSRCP won the bypoll by a margin of 2,937 votes in Chilamattur ZPTC seat, while the party candidates won one MPTC seat each in Chilamattur, Madakasira, Mudigubba, Kanaganapalli, Narpala, Parigi, Peddapappur, and three in Gorantla mandals. The TDP candidates won one MPTC seat each in Singanamala, Peddavadugur, Penukonda, Pamidi, and two in D. Hirehal in Rayadurg Assembly Constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-wins-6-of-16-mptc-seats-in-anantapur/article37572140.ece
19 November 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red alert for Chennai withdrawn, land interaction shears depression||Intermittent rain lashed many places in and around Chennai on Thursday as the depression over the southwest Bay of Bengal moved closer inland. The India Meteorological Department said the depression lay 100 km south-southeast of Chennai and moved at a speed of 18 kmph over the past few hours. The IMD withdrew the red alert for Chennai and surrounding districts as there were slim chances of extremely heavy rain. However, an orange alert, indicating heavy to very heavy rain, has been issued for Chennai and neighbouring districts as the system may cross between Puducherry and Chennai in the early hours of Friday. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said the land interaction had sheared the depression and reduced cloud cover. The system would trigger heavy to very heavy rain in several interior districts, including Tiruvannamalai, Salem and Krishnagiri, on Friday. Places, including Chennai and Kallakurichi, may experience heavy rain on Friday. On Thursday, several places received moderate to heavy rain. As the system moved closer to the Tamil Nadu coast, places such as Cuddalore (10 cm), Puducherry (15 cm), Thirukovilur in Kallakurichi (11 cm) and Cheyyur in Chengalpattu district (8 cm) received heavy rain till 5.30 p.m. Meenambakkam in Chennai recorded 5 cm, Nungambakkam, 3 cm, and West Tambaram, Villivakkam, Anna University and MRC Nagar in Chennai and Tiruttani, 4 cm each. Several weather stations received considerable rain during the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. Kundadam in Tiruppur district registered 20 cm, the day’s heaviest rainfall in the State. A holiday has been declared for schools and colleges in several districts, including Chennai, Vellore, Tirupattur, Ranipet and Perambalur. In Chennai, intermittent rain since the early hours of Thursday increased waterlogging in parts such as Pulianthope and T. Nagar that are yet to recover from the torrential rain last week. Power supply to many areas was disrupted following the heavy rain forecast. Five cattle head were electrocuted when they came into contact with a live wire at Medavakkam. Mr. Balachandran said the rain in Chennai might decrease from Friday noon. However, the wet weather in the State might continue till November 22. The intensity of rain in the Chennai region might reduce because of the land interaction with the weather system. Meanwhile, the Central Water Commission has warned of an increase in the level in the rivers around the city and in districts such as Cuddalore, Villupuram and Tiruvannamalai. This may lead to inundation of surrounding areas till November 20. The Sathanur and Veedur dams may get significant flows. The Water Resources Department increased discharge from the Chembarambakkam, Red Hills and Poondi reservoirs as more inflows from the catchments were expected. According to the Tiruvallur district administration, the discharge from the Poondi reservoir was stepped up to 12,000 cubic feet per second (cusecs) as more floodwater was expected to flow from the Nagari, Nandhi and Kosasthalaiyar rivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/imd-withdraws-red-alert-for-chennai/article37572221.ece
19 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials put on alert as heavy rains lash Chittoor, Kadapa||Heavy rain lashed all the 66 mandals in Chittoor district on Thursday, recording a rainfall of 2,218.8 mm. Tirupati Urban mandal received 88.8 mm rainfall, the highest in the district, while Gudupalle mandal received the least (8.2 mm) by Thursday morning. The district adminsitration has put the officials on high alert for the next 20 hours in view of the forecast that the well-marked low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal off north Tamil Nadu-south Andhra Pradesh coasts with an associated cyclonic circulation is likely to intensify into a depression in the next 12 hours. Under the influence of the weather system, Chittoor, Madanapalle, and Tirupati revenue divisions saw heavy downpur from 10 a.m. which continued till the late evening. Traffic comes to halt Vehicular traffic on the busy Tirupati-Kadapa highway came to a halt for several hours, with water overflowing on to the roads at several places including Balapalle and Kukkaladoddi on the Chittoor-Kadapa border. The police rushed to the spot and cleared the traffic. The motorists have been warned to avoid crossing the overflowing causeways. According to information, the Bahuda River in Madanapalle division was in spate owing to heavy inflows from the upper reaches of Karnataka. The irrigation officials lifted the gates of the Krishnapuram reservoir near Karveti Nagaram and the Araniyar project at Pitchatur and released water into the streams that flows towards Tamil Nadu. They also alerted their counterparts in the neighbouring State. The district administration arranged tom-tom to caution the people living in the low-lying areas in Madanapalle division to immediately move into rehabilitation centres. The areas in the limts of the Chittoor Municipal Corporation saw a downpour from Thursday morning. The Neeva River was in spate and heavy inflows were recorded at the NTR Jalasayam. The officials said that the water level at the reservoir was under constant watch and gates would be lifted if needed. Normal life was thrown out of gear in Chittoor as the residential areas near the Neeva riverbed were inundated. Municipal Commissioner P. Viswanath inspected the low-lying areas and instructed the officials to constantly monitor the situation and take appropriate steps to evacuate the people from affected areas. Heavy inflows were also reported at the Araniyar project and the Kalangi reservoir. Holiday declared Collector M. Hari Narayanan told the media that teams of NDRF and SDRF were deployed in Chittoor district. He said that Thursday and Friday had been declared holidays for all educational institutions. According to information, the neighboring Kadapa district also received heavy rainfall in the last 24 hours. A precipitation of 661.2 mm was recorded in Jammalamadugu, Kadapa and Rajampeta divisions between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-put-on-alert-as-heavy-rains-lash-chittoor-kadapa/article37572145.ece
19 November 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP MLC nominee wins unanimously||Krishna Raghava Bharath, the ruling YSRCP’s candidate for the MLC (local bodies) seat from Chittoor was declared elected unanimously, a few hours after he filed his nomination papers on Thursday. Mr. Bharath is the YSRCP’s in-charge for Kuppam Assembly constituency. Though it was widely expected that he would be contesting the 2024 Assembly elections from Kuppam, his name had figured for the MLC seat last week. Meanwhile, the YSRCP won five of the eight MPTCs for which the results were declared on Thursday. The TDP won three. The YSRCP bagged the Bangarupalem ZPTC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-mlc-nominee-wins-unanimously/article37572644.ece
19 November 2021||Dokiparru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Koti Deepotsavam held at Dokiparru temple||Koti Vattika Deepotsavam was held on Thursday to mark Karthika Deepotsavam at Sri Bhoo Sametha Sri Venkateswaraswamy temple at Dokiparru Mahakshetram in Gudlavalleru Mandal of Krishna district. The event was supervised by the founding trustees of the temple P.V. Krishna Reddy and his wife, Sudha Reddy. Archana and special pujas were performed in the morning. Before the Koti Vattika Deepotsavam, Ms. Sudha Reddy inaugurated the newly established Goshala. Devotees can now perform “Go Seva” at the Dokiparru Mahakshetram on every pournami (full moon day).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/koti-deepotsavam-held-at-dokiparru-temple/article37572762.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||KCR warns Centre on paddy procurement||Replacing the pink scarf with a green scarf in a reminder of past days of agitation, Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao sat in protest for the first time since he came to power, seeking a “straight answer” from the Centre on whether it would buy paddy or not. The dharna chowk at the city’s Indira Park saw Mr. Rao’s presence for the first time in the last seven years as he roared from the platform literally, warning the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Government at the Centre not to play with the future of the farmers. ‘Be crystal clear’ “I am requesting the Centre with folded hands to be crystal clear on whether it plans to procure the entire paddy in the next season or not,” he said and warned that if they continue to force farmers to go for paddy cultivation with false assurances, the leftover paddy would be thrown in front of the BJP offices. “You cannot derive political mileage putting farmers’ future in distress,” he warned. Accusing the BJP government of brutally suppressing the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws, he said if there was a need the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) would take a leadership role in sustaining the fight. “We will oppose the farm laws till the last drop of our blood,” he said, reminding that once the TRS took up any issue it would take it to the logical end. Mr. Rao warned that he cannot be bullied with warnings of arrests or inquiries and challenged the BJP to conduct any inquiry against him if the party has guts. “KCR doesn’t fear anyone,” he said and accused the BJP of indulging in character assassination of its political rivals through the social media. “All you know is communalising the society for political benefit and rake up Pakistan during the elections.” Arguing that the BJP and other parties have failed the nation, he said it was shameful that India figured at the 101st place in the Global Hunger Index survey much below Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal. There is no vision for these leaders to utilise the available water to cultivate the 40 crore acres of cultivable land in the country. He said Telangana was a great example of how a vision could change the lives of people and reminded that the new State provided sufficient water and free quality power instilling confidence among farmers of a bright future. While the State achieved record agriculture output it was the responsibility of the Centre to procure every grain through the Food Corporation of India (FCI) that has the mechanism to procure and facilities to store the produce, he said. The Chief Minister also requested the farmers to think realistically and not fall in the trap of the BJP leaders. Later, he led a delegation to Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan and submitted a memorandum to her seeking clarity from the Centre on paddy procurement. Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy, Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao, Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao and all other Cabinet colleagues of KCR were present apart from party MPs, MLAs and MLCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kcr-warns-centre-on-paddy-procurement/article37571879.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP, TRS formed ‘Joint Acting Committee’ to cheat farmers: Revanth||Telangana Congress has accused the Chief Minister, K. Chandrasekhar Rao and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of forming what it termed a ‘Joint Acting Committee’ (JAC) and enacting a drama to escape from procuring the paddy cultivated in Telangana. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A. Revanth Reddy alleged that CM was indulging in a drama trying to divert the attention from the real issue of farmers. “While the farmers are demanding the government to procure paddy of this season, CM is creating a fake fight with the Centre for the next Yasangi season,” he said. Mr. Reddy was speaking after leading a protest of the Telangana Congress at the Agriculture Commissioner’s office demanding the government to procure paddy as announced earlier. He said it was the CM who repeatedly announced that the government would procure every grain and he is simply absolving himself of the responsibility leaving the farmers in lurch. He said if the CM was sincere, he should go to the agriculture fields and procurement centres while the BJP leaders should go to New Delhi to pressurise the Central government. The Congress chief asked the Chief Minister to sit on the dharna at Jantar Mantar when Parliament session begins on November 29. “Protest inside Parliament if you are sincere and also pass a resolution in the Assembly. But CM is more worried about enquiry into his role in the Sahara scam,” he claimed. He reminded that it was the Congress government that set up Food Corporation of India (FCI) godowns and never let down the farmers on procurement or support price. Mr. Revanth Reddy said the Congress will reach out to the farmers going to the threshing floors in the agriculture fields where the harvested paddy is waiting to be procured. All the leaders will go to the threshing floors from Friday and it will continue till November 23. He will be present in Kamareddy with the farmers on Friday. He also gave the government time till November 23 to procure paddy or else the party will lay siege to Pragati Bhavan. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka asked if it was not the duty of the State government to procure if the Centre was not willing to do so. He said it was strange for the government to sit on a dharna forgetting its duty of procurement. “I have not seen such governments earlier,” he said referring to both TRS and BJP governments. Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy alleged that KCR had entered into a secret pact with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and politicising the issue to escape from his responsibility. D. Sreedhar Babu and Seethakka, MLAs, T. Jeevan Reddy, MLC, senior leaders Ponnala Lakshmaiah, Mahesh Kumar Goud, Damodar Rajnarsimha, Hanmantha Rao, Sampath Kumar. G. Chinna Reddy, Mallu Ravi, Anvesh Reddy, H. Venugopal and Balaram Naik were among present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-trs-formed-joint-acting-committee-to-cheat-farmers-revanth/article37571880.ece
19 November 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 gates of Somasila reservoir lifted, 75,994 cusecs discharged||Heavy rain pounded several parts of the south coastal Andhra Pradesh under the influence of the low pressure over the the Bay of Bengal on Thursday. Normal life was thrown out of gear in several places in Nellore district as there was no let-up in the downpour through out the day. The rain left many roads in Nellore, Naidupeta, Ongole and other towns in the region under a sheet of water. People living in the low-lying areas and closer to Penna river had a hard time following the heavy showers. Vehicular traffic in Marripadu, Chejerla and Atmakur mandals was disrupted. According to meteorology officials, the weather system is liklely to cross the coast closer to Chennai and heavy to very heavy rain is expected in south coastal Andhra Pradesh in the next 48 hours. Fishermen have been warned against venturing into the sea as squally wind with a speed reaching 45 km to 55km per hour is likely to blow in the next 24 hours. The sea surface remained very rough and water advanced towards some hamlets on the shore in some places. Meanwhile, irrigation officials lifted 10 crest gates at the Somasila reservoir, letting out 75,994 cusecs of water. The water at the reservoir reached 70.7 tmcft following an inflow of 70,210 cusecs, leaving a flood cushion of only 7.83 tmcft, the officials said, adding that the inflows would go up further in view of heavy rain in the catchment areas. According to preliminary assessment made by the Agriculture Department, standing crops in more than 4,000 acres had been damaged, apart from paddy nurseries in 2,500 acres. Agriculture Joint Director (Nellore) Y. Anandakumari urged the farmers to delay the sowing operations and go for short-duration varieties. Kaluvaya recorded 103.8 mm of rain, the highest in th district, followed by Marripudi (99.8mm), Atmakur (79.4 mm), A.S. Peta (75.4 mm), Chejerla (73.8 mm), Ananthasagaram (71.2 mm), Vinjamur (70.2 mm), Sullurpeta (59.4 mm), Nellore (55 mm) and Tada (45.2 mm), said Chief Planning Officer T. Suresh Kumar. In Prakasam district, Kothapatnam recorded the maximum rainfall of 28.4 mm, followed by Gudlur (25.8 mm), Kandukur (22.2 mm), Tallur (20.2 mm) and Lingasamudram (16.4 mm).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-gates-of-somasila-reservoir-lifted-75994-cusecs-discharged/article37572149.ece
19 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Raghavulu backs KCR’s stir on paddy procurement||Extending support to the stir launched by the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) against the ‘discriminatory’ paddy procurement policy of the Centre, CPI (M) Polit Bureau member B.V. Raghavulu urged Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to take a cue from his Telangana counterpart K. Chandrasekhar Rao and confront the Centre on various issues. “The Centre’s paddy procurement policy is against the interest of the southern States. It is time the YSRCP government made it a common cause,” he told the media on Thursday, while welcoming Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao’s statement to join the farmers’ struggle against the three controversial farm laws. He accused the Centre of meting out a raw deal to Andhra Pradesh on various fronts including funds for the capital and Polavaram project and Special Category Status (SCS) to the residual State post-bifurcation and wondered as to why the the YSRCP government was remaining silent. He expressed dissatisfaction over the tardy implementation of the multi-crore Pula Subbaiah Veligonda project, the lifeline of Prakasam district. The pet project of former Chief Minister late Dr.Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had seen the light of the day even after two decades, he lamented, adding that the project had not come to fruition as even the meagre allocation of funds for the project remained unspent. Backing the local granite polishing units who have decided to go on a war path, Mr. Raghavulu said that most of the units were sick because of the high royalty on the rough granite blocks and increase in electricity charges. The State government should adopt pro-granite unit polices to bring the units out of the red, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/raghavulu-backs-kcrs-stir-on-paddy-procurement/article37572147.ece
19 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Incessant rain puts brakes on ‘maha padayatra’||Jubilant Amaravati farmers welcomed the Bharatiya Janata Party's decision to take part in their “court to temple Mahapadayatra” to Tirumala, which was suspended for the day following heavy rain in Prakasam district on Thursday. “The BJP’s stand to actively take part in the yatra is a welcome development,” Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti co-convener G. Tirupati Rao told The Hindu . Now the farmers expect the BJP-led government at the Centre to submit an affidavit making its stand clear as and when sought by the Andhra Pradesh High Court, which is hearing the case relating to Capital Region Development Authority Repeal Act, he said. With this, all major opposition parties, including the BJP‘s ally Jana Sena Party, Telugu Desam Party, Communist Party of India and the CPI(Marxist), had backed the farmers stir to exert pressure on the YSR Congress Party to scrap its three-capital policy. The BJP's decision followed a reported direction from Union Home Minister Amit Shah to the party rank and file to take a plunge into the farmers’ movement for retaining Amaravati as the sole capital of Andhra Pradesh. Though the saffron party was sympathetic to the farmers’ cause, the party adopted a wait-and-watch approach as the matter was sub-judice, party sources said. The farmers, who have been taking part in the ‘maha padayatra’ braving intermittent rain in the last few days, decided to cancel their march at least for a day as the showers turned sharper on Thursday. “We will review the situation later on whether to continue the march or not on Friday'” Mr. Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/amaravati-farmers-welcome-bjps-decision/article37571883.ece
19 November 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||NIA raids houses of Maoist sympathisers||Sleuths of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday conducted searches in the residences of alleged Communist Party of India (Maoist) sympathisers and civil rights activists in Prakasam district. The NIA sleuths assisted by the local police raided the house of revolutionary writer G. Kalyan Rao at remote Alakurapadu village, near Tangutur in the early hours. They also conducted searches in the house of Macherla Mohan Rao in Chirala. “Some incriminating documents have been seized during the searches,” according to police sources here. Mr. Kalyan Rao is the co-brother of top Maoist leader Akkiraju Haragopal alias Ramakrishna alias RK, who died recently, and had espoused revolutionary ideology through his books. Mr. Mohan Rao is a leader from the weaver community of Chirala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nia-raids-houses-of-maoist-sympathisers/article37572645.ece
19 November 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP stuns YSRCP in Hiramandalam byelection||The ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP), which is on a winning streak across the State, received a jolt in Srikakulam district on Thursday with its arch-rival Telugu Desam Party (TDP) scoring a surprise victory in the bypoll conducted to the Hiramandalam Zilla Parishad. TDP candidate Pogiri Buchhibabu defeated Pathapatnam MLA Reddy Shanti’s son Reddi Shravan Kumar by a narrow margin, enthusing the cadres of the opposition party in the region. While Mr. Buchhibabu got 7,906 votes, Mr. Shravan got 7,847 votes. The credit for the TDP candidate’s victory is chalked up to its campaign, which revolved around portraying Mr. Shravan as an outsider who would remain inaccessible to locals on account of spending most of his time in Delhi. The YSRCP also suffered a setback in Amadalavalasa Assembly constituency, represented by Speaker Thammineni Seetharam. The TDP won the Katyacharyulapeta MPTC seat, which falls under Amadalavalasa constituency. The YSRCP, however, won most of the MPTC seats. Out of the 15 MPTC seats, the ruling party won 10 while the TDP won five. The results provided a much-needed boost to the TDP cadres in the district. The party was defeated in all 37 ZPTC seats previously but could only win the lone Hiramandalam ZPTC seat. Srikakulam MP Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu and TDP Pathapatnam in-charge Kalamata Venkata Ramana thanked the voters for ensuring the victory of the TDP in the bypolls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-stuns-ysrcp-in-hiramandalam-byelection/article37572674.ece
19 November 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fishermen told not to venture into sea for 2 days||The Srikakulam district administration on Thursday raised its guard after the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted heavy rains under the impact of a low pressure for the next few days. Collector Shrikesh B. Lathkar instructed officials to closely monitor the situation in the district, which was already affected by heavy rains recently due to a depression off the Tamil Nadu coast. Fishermen would be asked not to venture into the sea for the next couple of days as rains and strong winds blowing up to 60kmph are predicted along the coast, the Collector said. Vizianagaram Collector A. Suryakumari directed Revenue and Fisheries Department officials to monitor the situation closely. She said that fishermen living in Bhogapuram and Pusapatirega mandals were asked not to venture into the sea due to the inclement weather.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fishermen-told-not-to-venture-into-sea-for-2-days/article37572153.ece
19 November 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||NCC cadets on a trekking expedition in Tirupati||As many as 250 NCC cadets, accompanied by 15 ANOs from across the country, are on the All India Trekking Expedition, which is under way in Tirupati. The camp, organised by 35 Andhra Battalion of the NCC and conducted by the Tirupati group, is aimed at inculcating the spirit of adventure while promoting national integration by providing opportunities to let the cadets understand the nation’s diversity, said Colonel Y. Durgrakoti, Commander of Tirupati group and the trek manager. Deputy Camp Commandant Col. Ajay Basnet and Training Officer Lt. Col. S. Ranganathan led the cadets to the hilly terrain of Tirumala, right from Srivarimettu to Pulibonu jungle, Kalyani dam to Sri Venkateswara Zoological Park. Besides, sporting events such as basketball, volleyball, tug of war were also conducted. The camp will end on November 19 (Friday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ncc-cadets-on-a-trekking-expedition-in-tirupati/article37572151.ece
19 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan: A.P. is a role model in tackling crimes against women||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said on Thursday that Andhra Pradesh stood first in the country in completing investigation of 93.6% cases pertaining to sexual offences committed against women in less than 60 days, whereas it was a minuscule 14.5% during the TDP regime, while the national average was 40%. This reflected the priority given by the YSRCP government to bringing the culprits to book expeditiously, thereby setting a role model for other States in tackling crimes against women. Making a statement on women empowerment in the Legislative Assembly, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the average time taken to finish the probe in rape and murder cases under the TDP government was 318 days, which was brought down to 42 days. Similarly, gang rape cases were currently being investigated in 42 days against 257 days previously. Cases booked under the POCSO Act were being dealt with seriously in a reasonable time-frame and 2,17,647 sexual offenders had been geo-tagged in the last two-and-a-half years, the Chief Minister said. Disha App The Chief Minister said the Disha App was a grand success as about 90 lakh women had downloaded it in their mobile phones. It helped save 6,880 women in distress, he added. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said a host of welfare schemes such as YSR Pension Kanuka, YSR Aasara, Sunna Vaddi, and YSR Cheyutha launched by the government helped in improving the lot of women, and the results were evident from the decisive mandate won by the YSRCP in the just-concluded municipal elections. ‘Malicious propaganda’ He advised TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, who was not present in the House, to realise the futility of conspiring against the government as people continued to repose their confidence in it in spite of the malicious propaganda unleashed by the opposition parties. He alleged that the government was dragged to courts at the behest of Mr. Naidu to derail its welfare agenda, but to no avail as people saw through his game plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-ap-is-a-role-model-in-tackling-crimes-against-women/article37572642.ece
19 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP backs Amaravati farmers’ stir||Bharatiya Janata Party State unit president Somu Veerraju on Thursday announced his party’s decision to participate in the Amaravati farmers’ Maha Padayatra on November 21, at a meeting of the SC Morcha here, amidst reports that Union Home Minister Amit Shah exhorted them to press for retention of the capital in Amaravati. Mr. Veerraju, party’s national general secretary Daggubati Purandeswari, national executive member Kanna Lakshminarayana, national secretary Y. Satya Kumar, and MPs Y.S. Chowdary and C.M. Ramesh will join the farmers on the given date. Addressing the meeting, Mr. Veerraju said the government’s proposal to split the capital into three parts was retrogressive, and asserted that the capital would be developed by the Union government, which had already given Rs. 2,500 crore for infrastructure creation. He said the BJP was with Amaravati farmers, and questioned if the State government was oblivious to the fact that the works done so far in Amaravati would not be possible without support from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-backs-amaravati-farmers-stir/article37572651.ece
19 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu slams State govt. on rising prices||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu and the party MLAs and MLCs took out a protest rally to the Assembly on Thursday, raising slogans against “anti-people policies” of the YSRCP government. In the morning, the Opposition leaders assembled at Venkatapalem and paid tributes to the party founder, N.T. Rama Rao, by garlanding his statue. Mr. Naidu said the people of the State were at the receiving end because of the YSRCP’s “misrule.” “We pay highest charges in the country for petrol, diesel, and for power. The common man is overburdened with municipal taxes, including the latest cess on garbage collection,” Mr. Naidu said, expressing concern over the “falling living standards of the people of the State.” The opposition leader said the TDP would continue its fight and bring the government to its knees on the price rise issue. Mr. Naidu later led the protest rally that entered the Assembly premises amidst slogans demanding rollback of fuel price hike and immediate steps to bring down the prices of essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-slams-state-govt-on-rising-prices/article37572648.ece
19 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students protest against govt. decision on aided institutions||Representatives and members of various student organisations staged a protest at Lenin Centre here against the government’s decision regarding aided educational institutions on Thursday. The protesters’ bid to march to the Assembly in Velagapudi as part of the ‘Chalo Assembly’ call was foiled by the police. Mild tension prevailed as the protesters were detained by the police. Student activists of the Students’ Federation of India (SFI), Progressive Democratic Students’ Union (PDSU), All India Students’ Federation (AISF), All India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO) and Telugu Nadu Students’ Federation (TNSF) were detained and sent to various police stations in and around the city. The students demanded withdrawal of government orders 42, 50 and 51 of the Education Department issued in connection with aided institutions. SFI State general secretary G. Ranganna, AISF State vice-president Johnson Babu, PDSU State president R. Ravi Chandra and AIDSO State secretary V. Harish Kumar led the protests. They said the Jagan Mohan Reddy government’s main intention behind taking over the aided institutions was to take over their assets. With the government’s decision, several aided institutions would turn into private institutions and students would be burdened, they said. This change in the management of the institutions would adversely impact over 3.4 lakh students in the State, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-protest-against-govt-decision-on-aided-institutions/article37572766.ece
19 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Government deliberately ignored suitability of Amaravati as capital’||Amaravati satisfied the parameters laid down for the location of the capital of the successor State of Andhra Pradesh, but the present government deliberately ignored it and carried its predetermined agenda forward with little regard for the basic tests of law and the concomitant obligations which it is bound to fulfil, said advocates appearing for Amaravati farmers in the High Court during the hearing on petitions that challenged the AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts. Counsels for petitioners also argued that the Boston Consulting Group (BCG), the G.N. Rao Committee and the High Power Committee formed to look into the recommendations of BCG and G.N. Rao panel endorsed the concept of ‘three capitals’ without consulting the farmers. Further, the advocates insisted that the ‘three capitals’ model which the government sought to emulate from South Africa was a failed experiment according to experts there whose views they claimed to have obtained. They went on to assert that Amaravati has the advantages of abundant water facility, superior connectivity, favourable climate, proximity to large urban centres, relatively less costs and ease of construction and land acquisition, centrality and topography but all these were brushed aside. Amaravati has no concerns related to defence and security unlike in the case of Visakhapatnam which was a sensitive location due to the presence of the Eastern Naval Command.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/government-deliberately-ignored-suitability-of-amaravati-as-capital/article37572643.ece
19 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two more succumb to COVID-19 in State||The State reported two more deaths due to COVID-19 and 222 infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The cumulative toll and tally reached 14,423 and 20,70,738 respectively, while the total recoveries stand at 20,53,755. The recovery rate slightly increased to 99.17% with 275 patients recovering in the past day. The number of active cases also came down to 2,560. The test positivity rate of the 31,473 samples tested in the past day was 0.70%. The overall test positivity rate of the 3.009 crore samples tested was 6.88%. Krishna and Prakasam districts reported one death each in the past day, while Guntur reported the highest tally of 38 cases among the districts. It was followed by Visakhapatnam (35), Krishna (31), Chittoor (28), West Godavari (22), East Godavari (17), Kadapa (10), Srikakulam (6), Prakasam (5), Anantapur (3), Vizianagaram (2) and Kurnool (1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-state/article37572764.ece
19 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC lifts model code||The State Election Commission (SEC) lifted the model code of conduct with effect from 5 p.m. on Thursday. In a release on Thursday, State Election Commissioner Nilam Sawhney said that the code of conduct came into force from November 1 in the local body constituencies notified for election. The poll was held in panchayats, urban local bodies and ZPTCs and MPTCs on November 14, 15 and 16 respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-lifts-model-code/article37572768.ece
19 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh stages sit-in at police station||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh on Thursday staged a sit-in at the Pedakurapadu police station demanding the immediate release of the leaders of various student organisations who were arrested in the morning for their ‘chalo Assembly’ protest against the merger of aided educational institutions. “The government did not respond to our seven-day deadline. Today, we proposed our protest at the Assembly, and soon we will demonstrate in front of the houses of the Chief Minister and his Cabinet colleagues,” Mr. Lokesh said. He said the agitation would not stop till the government dropped its merger proposal. He demanded that the four G.O.s on merger be revoked and alleged that the government was eyeing prime lands under the pretext.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-stages-sit-in-at-police-station/article37572649.ece
19 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu alleges ‘poll excesses’ by YSRCP||Accusing the YSRCP of resorting to “poll excesses,” TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday urged the State Election Commission to look into the “anomalies” in the counting of votes polled in the ZPTC and MPTC elections. In a statement, Mr. Naidu said TDP nominee P. Buchibabu won over the YSRCP candidate Sravan by a majority of 59 votes in Hiramandalam ZPTC. But the officials permitted re-counting under pressure of the ruling party leaders even after the TDP candidate was declared the winner, he alleged. Mr. Naidu said the party would take the issue to the court. Citing another example, he said TDP candidate Nageswara Reddy for Juturu MPTC won by polling four votes more than his YSRCP contender. The ruling party demanded recounting and the result was the same. “But the officials colluded with the YSRCP leaders and declared their party candidate winner by one vote,” he said, and demanded that the SEC rectify the ‘anomalies’ by declaring the TDP candidates as winners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-alleges-poll-excesses-by-ysrcp/article37572650.ece
19 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. Police tops in probing sexual offence cases||The Andhra Pradesh police secured the first place in investigation of sexual offence cases related to crime against women and children, with 93.9% compliance rate. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has introduced Investigation Tracking System for Sexual Offences (ITSSO) and stipulated 60 days for probing and filing charge-sheets in sexual offence cases. DGP D. Gautam Sawang said instructions had been given to the range DIGs and SPs to expedite investigation in sexual offence cases within the stipulated period. Police action and investigation in the cases of crime against women and children across the country was being monitored by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. Dedicated and special tracking mechanisms had been put in place for this purpose (ITSSO) by the Centre, the DGP said. “In all, 1,307 cases of sexual abuse on children and women were registered from January 1 2021, to October 30. The police submitted final investigation reports in 1,060 cases and the actual compliance rate is 93.9% in the State,” Mr. Sawang said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-police-tops-in-probing-sexual-offence-cases/article37572760.ece
19 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIT-AP signs MoUs to promote IoT and AI||VIT-AP on Thursday signed an MoU with Intel for setting up a Centre of Excellence in Internet of Things (IoT) and another pact with Boston IT Solutions (India) Pvt. Ltd, Bengaluru. Vice-Chancellor S.V. Kota Reddy said partnership with Intel would enhance the students’ technical skills and would help them bridge the gap between the industry and academic. He signed the second MoU with Laxmi Nageswari, global head of AI Education and Solutions. He said it would facilitate initiatives such as jointly building real time applications to carry out joint research and consultancy work on latest technologies in AI and Robotics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vit-ap-signs-mous-to-promote-iot-and-ai/article37572769.ece
19 November 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP bags 6 MPTC seats in Krishna||The ruling YSRCP won six out of seven MPTC seats in Krishna district for which polling was held recently. Election were held to Devaragunta (MPTC) of Nuzvid mandal, Chinnautapalli of Gannavaram mandal, Konakanchi of Penuganchiprolu mandal, Vanuduru and Mudinepalli-2 of Mudinepalli manal, Parachivara of Nagayalanka mandal and Edara-1 of Agiripalli mandal. The Telugu Desam Party won the MPTC seat of Vanuduru of Mudinepalli mandal while the YSRCP contestants won the remaining six MPTCs, according to the district officials. Counting of votes polled for three ZPTC elections in Visannapeta, Pedana and G.Konduru mandals is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-bags-6-mptc-seats-in-krishna/article37572770.ece
19 November 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor’s health stable||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, who tested COVID positive, is in clinically stable condition at the AIG Hospitals in Hyderabad. He is maintaining normal oxygen saturation and vitals and is feeling better. A multidisciplinary team of doctors is continuously monitoring his health round the clock, said a bulletin issued on Thursday. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy spoke to the Governor on phone at tea-break during the Assembly session and enquired about his health and wished him speedy recovery. The Chief Minister said he had a word with the doctors, who informed him that the Governor was brought to the hospital at the right time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governors-health-stable/article37572640.ece
19 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ruling party wins in Anandapuram ZPTC||Korada Venkata Rao of the ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) defeated Appa Rao Thatraju of the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) in the Anandapuram ZPTC elections, the counting of votes for which was done on Thursday. Mr. Venkata Rao polled 17,539 votes while his nearest rival Mr. Appa Rao polled 13,784 votes. Dukka Venkata Rao of the Jana Sena Party (JSP) polled 3,667 votes while Padala Ramana of the Indian National Congress (INC) secured 264 votes. The total voters in the Anandapuram ZPTC were 49,336 and the votes polled were 36,517. Of these, 998 were declared ‘invalid’ while 263 chose NOTA. Malla Kasi Suresh, who contested as an Independent, won the Nagulapalli-II (Munagapaka) MPTC by defeating his nearest rival Malla Malleswari of the YSRCP. Mr. Suresh polled 812 votes while Malleswari polled 757 votes. Malla Suresh (TDP) secured 174 votes while Hema Naidu Yellapu (JSP) got 56 votes. In Bhimaboyina Palem (Makavarapalem) MPTC Satyanarayana Ruttala of the YSRCP emerged victorious by bagging 1,235 votes while his nearest TDP rival Chintala Veerraju bagged 1.214 votes and BJP candidate Danimireddi Satyanarayana secured only 18 votes. In Dibbapalem-III(Atchutapuram) MPTC, the TDP candidate Narasinga Rao Neerukonda bagged 776 votes and won over his YSRCP rival Neerukonda Ashok Kumar, who secured 689 votes. In Pakalapadu (Golugonda) MPTC Yella Lakshmi Durga of YSRCP secured 1,710 votes and won over Venkatalakshmi Mookala (TDP), who secured 1,271 votes. BJP candidate Killada Somulamma secured only 12 votes. The MPTC/ZPTC by-elections, held in the district on Tuesday, witnessed an overall turnout of 75.28%. Earlier, on Thursday morning, Collector A. Mallikarjuna went to the counting centre at Anandapuram and inspected the arrangements made for counting. He inquired about the counting of postal ballots. Later, he supervised the segregation of ballots and directed the polling staff to ensure transparency in the counting process. Returning Officer and Zilla Parishad CEO Nagarjuna Sagar, Assistant RO Vijay Kumar Raju, RDO Penchala Kishore, Tahsildar Venugopal and MPDO Lavaraju were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ruling-party-wins-in-anandapuram-zptc/article37572776.ece
19 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Depression forms in bay; heavy rainfall likely in southern A.P.||A depression formed over southwest Bay of Bengal off Tamil Nadu coast on Thursday and lay centred 150 km south-southeast of Chennai, 120 km east southeast of Puducherry and 150 km east northeast of Karaikal. It is likely to move west-northwestwards and cross north Tamil Nadu and south Andhra Pradesh coast around Chennai by Friday morning, according to a bulletin issued by the Cyclone Warning Centre here on Thursday. Rain or thundershowers are very likely to occur at most places over coastal Andhra Pradesh, Yanam and Rayalaseema. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely in Prakasam, Nellore, Kadapa, Chittoor, Kurnool and Anantapur districts, and heavy rain is very likely at one or two places in Guntur and Krishna districts. Local Cautionary signal no. III has been hoisted at Machilipatnam, Nizampatnam, Krishnapatnam and Vadarevu port. Distant Cautionary signal no. 1 has been hoisted at Visakhapatnam Port and DC-I, with section signal IV, has been hoisted at Kakinada and Gangavaram Ports. Strong winds, with speed reaching 40 to 50 kmph, gusting to 60 km/hr, are likely over coastal AP and Yanam till Friday. The sea condition will be rough and fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea. The rainfall (in cm) recorded during the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday, are: Atmakur (8), Vinjamur (7), Sullurpeta (6), Rapur (5), Tada (5), Nellore (4), Venkatagiri and Palakonda (Srikakulam district) 4 cm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/depression-forms-in-bay-heavy-rain-likely-in-southern-ap/article37572773.ece
19 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two women Maoists surrender||Two women members of the banned CPI (Maoist) Thambelu Seetha alias Nirmala and Pangi Lachi alias Shailu surrendered before the Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao here on Thursday. Both the Maoist leaders were key members of the Pedabayalu Area Committee. While Seetha was allegedly involved in two murders, two landmine blasts, two kidnappings and three other offences, Shailu was allegedly involved in two murders and four exchanges of fire, including the ones at Palasamudram and Teegalametta Koyyuru this year. The surrendered Maoists cited ill-health, disillusionment with the movement, security forces making deep inroads into the Maoist strongholds, and the wish to lead a normal life as the main reasons for their surrender. CRPF 198 Battalion Commandant Kavindra Kumar Chand and 234 Battalion Commandant Sanjev Kumar Dwivedy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-women-maoists-surrender/article37572118.ece
19 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF simulates rescue during building collapse||Trained personnel from the 10th Battalion of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Vijayawada displayed their search and rescue skills in a mock drill in a simulated ‘Collapsed Structure – Search & Rescue’ operation which was conducted at Hawa Mahal in the city on Thursday. The team members demonstrated how the NDRF takes up rescue and relief operations during a building collapse. The NDRF teams showcased how they would cut through the walls of the collapsed building, take out people stuck inside and shift them to medical outposts. A large number of students and NCC cadets witnessed the mock exercise as NDRF teams demonstrated how they shift injured people from the top of a building using ropes and shift them to ambulances. NDRF personnel displayed the boats and equipment used during rescue operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ndrf-simulates-rescue-during-building-collapse/article37572782.ece
19 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Resident associations meet GVMC Commissioner||Executive Committee members of the Andhra Pradesh Federation of Resident Welfare Associations (APFERWAs) on Thursday met Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Lakshmisha to discuss civic issues. Extending support on behalf of the GVMC, Mr. Lakshmisha appreciated the contributions of RWAs to the development of colonies as part of social responsibility. The Commissioner said that he would conduct regular zone-wise meetings with the RWAs and would strive to provide all amenities and take up development activities in the colonies. The GVMC Commissioner added that from now, he would include a representative from the local RWA, apart from corporators during his ward visits in the mornings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/resident-associations-meet-gvmc-commissioner/article37572783.ece
19 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||From Nov. 23, Vizag-Kirandul express to get LHB coaches||East Coast Railway (E Co R) has decided to introduce modern Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches for the Visakhapatnam-Kirandul-Visakhapatnam express, as part of its plan to convert conventional coaches of important trains with LHB coaches, with effect from November 23. The LHB coaches, based on German technology, offer better riding comfort, are lighter in weight, have higher speed rating as well as higher load-carrying capacity. Train 18551 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul express will run with a revised rake of LHB coaches with effect from November 23 and 18552 Kirandul-Visakhapatnam express will run with LHB coaches with effect from November 24. Vistadome coaches will be attached in the rear of 18551/18552 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul express.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/from-nov-23-vizag-kirandul-express-to-get-lhb-coaches/article37572777.ece
19 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman dies, boy injured in cylinder blast||A 55-year-old woman died while her grandson was severely injured in a gas cylinder blast at their home in Sriharipuram area of the city on Thursday. The deceased was identified as A. Narayanamma (55). Her grandson Naveen sustained severe injuries to his legs and is undergoing treatment at hospital. Police said that the blast occurred on Thursday morning. Soon after the blast, the duo was rushed to King George Hospital (KGH) where Narayanamma succumbed while undergoing treatment. Doctors said that the condition of Naveen is stable. The house was partially destroyed. Malkapuram police registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-dies-boy-injured-in-cylinder-blast/article37572779.ece
19 November 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘kills’ father||A 60-year old man was allegedly murdered by his son at Bangarayyapeta under Narsipatnam Rural police station limits on Wednesday. Police said Jayaram (35) killed his father Mallanna (60) after a heated argument over his marriage proposals. Police said that Jayaram is mentally unstable and is undergoing treatment since 2010. Narsipatnam Rural Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-kills-father/article37572780.ece
19 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held in murder case||The city police on Thursday arrested three persons including a woman and charged them with the murder of a man named A. Srinu (26) that took place at ASR Nagar near Thatichetlapalem on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as A. Chinnodu (51), A. Pandu Amma (48), wife of Chinnodu, and A. Gollayya (51). Srinu was reportedly harassing Chinnodu’s daughter-in-law and Chinnodu had reportedly warned Srinu several times. On Tuesday night, Chinnodu killed Srinu after a heated argument, according to police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-held-in-murder-case/article37572784.ece
19 November 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blankets given away on Sathya Sai Jayanti||As part of Sri Sathya Sai Baba’s 96th birth anniversary celebrations, Visteel Mahila Samithi president Nupur Bhatt distributed woollen blankets and plastic mats to inmates of Social Welfare Hostel for Girls at Paravada on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blankets-given-away-on-sathya-sai-jayanti/article37572778.ece
19 November 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dental surgery workshop in Vizianagaram||Indian Dental Association member and V-Dental Care Managing Director John Madugula said dental implant surgery would be a boon for patients as it helps fixing artificial teeth without disturbing the healthy ones. Speaking as the chief guest in a two-day workshop on dental implant surgery here on Thursday, he said the new technology had enabled dentists to complete the dental implant surgery within an hour.  Several dentists and students of dental colleges in the North Andhra region took part in the workshop. More experts will participate on the second day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dental-surgery-workshop-in-vizianagaram/article37572673.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Let there be light||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/let-there-be-light/article37572772.ece
19 November 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Jayashankar statue vandalised in Manuguru||A statue of Telangana ideologue Jayashankar was vandalised by unidentified persons at Bombay Colony in the coal town of Manuguru in the small hours of Thursday. The statue of Jayashankar was found decapitated beyond recognition, sources said. The incident sent shock waves in Bombay colony and its surrounding areas. Jayashankar’s statue was unveiled in the coal town in memory of the renowned educationist and Telangana ideologue in 2018. The Manuguru police inspected the incident site and launched a detailed investigation to identify the miscreants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jayashankar-statue-vandalised-in-manuguru/article37572485.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Alternate roads to ease traffic on NH 65||Three important stretches with heavy vehicular traffic in the East Zone of the city are set to be developed so that they can serve as alternative routes to the major thoroughfares. GHMC is taking up the three stretches, respectively in Kothapet, LB Nagar and Mansurabad areas, and developing them into 100-feet roads. The first among them is the road between Kothapet and Nagole crossroads, which already carries high volumes of traffic, and takes the burden off the highway, especially during peak hours. Despite its potential, the 2.4 kilometre stretch with heavy commercial activity has been neglected for a long time, with only occasional repair and patchwork. Also on the cards is the widening of the stretch linking the Inner Ring Road from Kamineni Hospitals with NH 65 near Vanasthalipuram, via Mansurabad. Development of the three kilometre road running via various colonies of Mansurabad, coupled with infrastructural facilities being created at LB Nagar crossroads under the Strategic Road Development Plan, is expected to provide major relief to commuters harried by frequent traffic slowdowns in the area. Commuters from Saroornagar too will have something to thank for, when the inconspicuous stretch connecting the Saroornagar lake bund with LB Nagar crossroads at Bairamalguda becomes wider. The 2.35 kilometre diagonal bypass takes the burden off the Saroornagar main road and the highway, thus providing a hassle-free commute for vehicle riders on three stretches. All the three motor paths with varying widths between 50 and 60 feet will be developed into 100-feet two-way roads, with proper medians and signages, a senior official from GHMC informed. The proposals have received the stamp of approval and property acquisition is underway, he said. Also on the drawing board stage are two more road widening proposals, one among them, connecting the Inner Ring Road at Bandlaguda with NH 65 near Outer Ring Road via Kuntlur. The 11.5 km stretch, if developed, will provide an uninterrupted alternative route parallel to NH 65 from Kothapet up to ORR. The second proposal is to develop the road between Meerpet and B.N. Reddy Nagar areas, which would enhance connectivity to Sagar Ring Road, officials say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/alternate-roads-to-ease-traffic-on-nh-65/article37572459.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Preterm babies get the best care at Niloufer Hospital||Around 30 infants who were born preterm (before 37 weeks of pregnancy) and recovered at Niloufer Hospital were brought to the health facility by their mothers to celebrate the New Born Baby Week (November 15-21) held on Thursday. Specialist doctors from the Neonatology department of the government hospital said they handle hundreds of newborns including preterm babies every month. Head of the department Dr M Alimelu said that taking care of preterm babies is costly. “Several people who have spent lakhs of rupees for treatment at private hospitals have admitted their babies at our hospital and they have recovered,” said Dr Alimelu. An associate professor at the department, Dr L Swapna said that after discharging the preterm babies, they follow up the patients for up to one-and-half years. This is done to track maturity of eyes, brain and other factors. Doctors from the Paediatrics department, Obstetrics and Gynaecology department too were present at the celebrations. Risk factors A similar programme was held by KIMS Cuddles in Hyderabad on Wednesday where around 300 children along with their families gathered to increase the confidence that preterm babies who receive optimised care can reach normal developmental outcomes in childhood was also conducted. Dr Aparna C, Clinical Director, Neonatology said that the risk factors for preterm birth are adolescent pregnancy, short time gaps between births, unhealthy pre-pregnancy weight (underweight or obesity), chronic disease (e.g., diabetes), infectious diseases (e.g., HIV), substance abuse (e.g., tobacco use and heavy alcohol use), heavy physical labour during pregnancy and poor psychological health. “Prevention of preterm birth is certainly better than cure. A few cost-effective interventions to prevent preterm births are family planning, especially for girls in regions with high rates of adolescent pregnancy; promoting better nutrition, prevention and screening or management of sexually transmitted infections (STIs), e.g., HIV and syphilis; environmental and occupational health and education for women,” she said. She added that in the recent times the role of hormones such as progesterone in high risk mothers and low dose aspirin have been shown to be useful to prevent prematurity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/preterm-babies-get-the-best-care-at-niloufer-hospital/article37572446.ece
19 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||7 IPS officers get temporary attachment||Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy issued orders temporarily attaching seven IPS officers of 2017 and 2018 batches as Additional SP (Admin) in various districts. The development came two days after a report ‘No clarity on postings for new IPS officers of Telangana cadre’ was published in these columns explaining the concerns of the young officers about not being given postings even after joining the service of the State a year ago. Rupesh Chennuri, an IPS officer of the 2017 batch, presently attached to SP Mulugu, was temporarily attached as Additional SP (Admin) Jagtial, his batchmates and ACP (Mancheral) Akhil Mahajan and Nitika Pant, were attached as Additional DCP (Admin) Ramagundem Commissionerate and Additional SP (Admin) Sangareddy respectively. The officers of the 2018 batch, B. Bala Swamy, Yogesh Goutam and Vaibhav Gaikwad, were attached as Additional SP (Admin) Medak, Mahabubabad and Additional DCP (Admin) Warangal Commissionerate, respectively. Ritiraj, who was with Karimnagar Police Commissionerate as ASP, was temporarily attached as Additional SP (Admin) Suryapet. For the last several months, these officers were attached to Commissioners of Police and District Superintendents of Police without any independent charge. Some of their batch mates were attached to police sub-divisions in districts in existing vacancies. “Though the administrative postings have no challenge of performing on the field and there would be zero learning for competitive regular IPS officers, we are at least happy that we got some independent attachment, although it is temporary,” an officer said on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, senior IPS officers have raised concerns over the attachment of their young colleagues to districts where promotee officers or non-IPS officers are posted as district SPs. “In the seniority list, these officers will be above and seniors to the SPs of their respective districts. It will set a wrong precedence and will affect the morale of the young officers,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seven-ips-officers-get-temporary-attachment/article37572465.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR is anti-farmer: Eatala||Former Minister and newly re-elected from Huzurabad on the BJP platform Eatala Rajender came down heavily on Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, calling him ‘anti-farmer’ and accused him of trying to shift his own failures at the Centre by staging ‘protest drama’ at Indira Park, instead of providing succour to beleaguered paddy farmers awaiting procurement for several days. “Farmers are in distress for the last 45 days and worried about their produce out in the open which is getting spoilt, but we have a Chief Minister shamelessly and irresponsibly not doing his duty and protesting at the same 'Dharna Chowk' which he said was not required for the last seven years. It is an effort to make people forget the bypoll loss and divert their attention, however, historical events are not easily forgotten and a right lesson will be taught,” he said. Addressing his first press conference at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office, Mr. Rajender said Mr. Rao may want to declare a 'war' against the Centre, but he should realise his own ‘downfall’ had begun as the Telangana people were not going to trust his ‘shifting stances’ and ‘falsehoods’ on agriculture any more. Referring to ‘double speak’ on farm laws, growing fine rice, cotton or maize, he said. “There is no future for your party or your family in the coming days.”. Pointing out that the CM had spoken of farmers growing one crore metric tonnes of paddy due to power and water availability on the floor of the Assembly, he said: “Stand by your own promises. Farmers grew paddy because of good rains and not due to any lift irrigation project. Did he (CM) show any foresight about how to market excess production? Policies especially those concerning agriculture should be based on scientific inputs and not on whims and fancies of the CM," he charged. In any case, the Centre was committed to purchase any amount of raw rice but not boiled rice for which TS had to make alternative arrangement bringing in new technology and awareness programme about which nothing had been done till date. "There is no money with this government due to Mr. Rao's profligate policies to take up drip irrigation, soil testing or even provide farm insurance. A sum of Rs. 513 crore was returned to the Centre as the government could not give matching grant which could have ensured Rs. 905 crore aid to the farmers,” explained the BJP leader. Except for ‘Rythu Bandu’, the TRS government had ignored other development modes including developing horticulture and aspects like polyhouses et al. Farm loan waiver was halted after just Rs. 500 crore was disbursed when projected amount was Rs. 24,000 crore forcing the farmers to depend on money lenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-is-anti-farmer-eatala/article37572481.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Traffic diversions for SRDP works||Chaos is set to pervade the inner ring road at LB Nagar in the coming days, as the service road near the LB Nagar Police Station has been closed for carrying out the works pertaining to the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP). Traffic diversions have been put in place to facilitate construction of the Right Hand Side (RHS) vehicular underpass at LB Nagar junction. Work is on at brisk pace towards targeted date of completion on January 31, a press statement issued by GHMC informed. Deep excavation has to be carried out at the police station for construction of retaining wall towards Secunderabad, where width of the service road is very narrow, and will not cater to the road traffic, the note said. Considering the high risk associated with commuting on this road, it has been closed for a month, necessitating traffic diversions, the note mentioned, proposing two diversion routes. Traffic coming from the Alkapuri Junction may take the service road near the Kamineni flyover and take right to the SIRIS road near the Kamineni Junction rotary to move towards the Vijayawada highway. Alternatively, they may take the left hand side vehicular underpass to Bairamalguda junction, and take left towards Chintalkunta road underpass to reach the highway. Already, tortuous diversions are in place at the junction for facilitating the SRDP works, and the latest diversion will only worsen the situation. The straight road from Kothapet towards Hayatnagar has been closed down at LB Nagar junctions for months now, and the vehicles are diverted towards Nagole side, to take a U-turn and return to the highway past the junction. Inner ring road towards Bairamalguda too has been shut down near the junction, necessitating vehicles to take a left towards Hayatnagar, and a U- turn, to return to the ring road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-diversions-for-srdp-works/article37572460.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Preterm birth complications leading cause of child mortality in India||Families go through tough times if a baby is born with health complications. The situation of families with preterm babies (before 37 weeks of pregnancy) is not hard to imagine: prayer on the lips, trying everything to help the baby recover, heightened concerns. There is a reason to focus on the latter situation as National Neonatology Forum (NNF)-Telangana State chapter members said that 13% of the births in our country are premature births. They have added that preterm birth complications are the leading cause of death among children under five years of age, responsible for approximately one million deaths in 2015. Three-quarters of these deaths can be prevented with current, cost-effective interventions in India. As part of World Prematurity Day that was observed on Wednesday, the NNF members on Thursday have detailed the risk factors for premature births, possible measures to try avoid them, what can mothers do, role of family members in taking care of preterm babies at home, importance of breastfeeding and kangaroo care and other crucial aspects. Secretary of the State chapter, Dr Ramesh B Dampuri and others addressed a virtual press conference held on Thursday. Pointing out the misconception that preterm babies end up with incomplete growth, they flagged it as a false belief and cited names of prominent politicians, scientists including Albert Einstein who had flourishing lives. President of the State chapter, Dr Srinivas Murki said that more than 50% deaths or more of newborns are due to prematurity. “If a woman has labour pains before 34 weeks, she should meet a Health Care Worker who will give antenatal steroids which helps in maturity of organs in fetus. And if a mother is expecting delivery before the due date, she should be admitted at a health facility where premature babies are delivered ,” said Dr Srinivas. He added that if a mother has leaking per vaginum during pregnancy, or has rupture of membrane, then mother has to be given antibiotics. He has suggested mothers to visit their preterm babies in SNCUs or NICUs to give milk to babies through tube, spoon. Problems do not end after the babies are discharged to home, said Dr Dinesh Chirla, national joint secretary, NNF. “Nutrition, appropriate feeding is important at this stage. Mother’s milk has to be preferred. Alongside, supplements with vitamins, calcium, iron, vitamin D are given too to the baby to ensure they do not have nutritional deficiencies. People should wash hands before they handle the babies,” said Dr Dinesh, director of Rainbow Hospitals. He added that as preterm babies can become cold easily, maintaining warm temperature is important: they have to be wrapped up. Vaccinations have to be taken on time. Senior paediatrician, Dr U.S. Jagadish Chandra said that we cannot totally avoid preterm deliveries because of congenital problems, genetics, uterine anomalies. “What can be controlled are hypertension, incompetent cervix, diabetes, avoiding child marriages, taking care of mothers’ nutrition,” he said. All of them stressed on importance of monitoring growth of eyes, brain, and bones in the babies for early detection of complications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/preterm-birth-complications-leading-cause-of-child-mortality-in-india/article37572444.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plan sector-specific events for attracting investors: KTR||Telangana Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Thursday urged officials of the IT and Industries departments to identify industry bodies for potential collaboration and conduct sector-specific events to attract investors. The Minister, who held discussions with frontline officers of the two departments, said this while underscoring the need to gear up to capture the evolving opportunities in a post-COVID world. Mr. Rao’s office in a release on the meeting said the pandemic, which had disrupted the world in many ways, has also opened up several opportunities for countries like India. Progressive States like Telangana have an advantage in capturing these opportunities. “We have to build on the positive image Telangana has built over the past seven years by way of EODB top ranking and attracting marquee investments. Attracting new investments is important since it provides employment to lakhs of local youngsters,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plan-sector-specific-events-for-attracting-investors-ktr/article37572449.ece
19 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Telangana Yuvathi Mandali empowering women||In October 1935, around the time of Dasara, five women got together at the home of Yellapragada Sitakumari in Malakpet and decided to do something about women empowerment. More than 86 years later, inside the office of Telangana Yuvathi Mandali, its secretary Nivedita Kumar talks about how the institution has shaped the life and careers of thousand of young women and girls. Affordable fee “Ours is a non-profit organisation and we keep fee low so that it remains affordable,” says Ms. Kumar, about Telangana Yuvathi Mandali which now runs a clutch of educational institutions with the newest offering being a Master of Business Administration course. The organisation got involved with women’s education when it started Sisu Vihar Montessori School in 1955. A few decades later, in 1995, the Telangana Yuvathi Mandali started a junior college for women with a strength of 35 students and seven teachers. “We are marking the silver jubilee of the women’s college. We planned to celebrate it last year but due to COVID-19 lockdown, it got postponed. We are planning to have the valedictory function in January. Vice President M. Venkaiah Naidu has promised to grace the event,” says Ms. Kumar. Unexpected challenges But as the institution with its base in Barkatpura goes about working with women in the marginalised sections and those on the fringe it faces newer and unexpected challenges. “We are treated like any other for-profit private institute and have to pay commercial rates for everything. The civic administration now wants to cut through our property for road widening,” informs Ms. Kumar pointing to the parking area of the educational institution. While the road from Provident Office onwards is narrow, widening the junction will only create a bottleneck, she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-yuvathi-mandali-empowering-women/article37572453.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Acceptance of IAS officer’s resignation challenged||A PIL petition challenging the acceptance of the resignation of IAS officer P. Venkatarami Reddy, who filed nomination for MLC election as TRS candidate, by Chief Secretary was filed in Telangana High Court on Thursday. The plea, likely to be heard by the High Court soon, was filed by J. Shankar and R. Subender Singh, hailing from Karimnagar and Siddipet respectively. They sought a direction from the court to instruct the Election Commission of India and the Telangana State Legislative Council to reject nomination papers of Mr. Reddy. The petitioners also wanted the court to declare acceptance of the officer’s resignation as arbitrary and illegal as it was in violation of rule 5 of All India Services (Death and Retirement benefits)-Rules-1958. They requested the court to stay the acceptance of the officer’s resignation. They contended that a notice has to be given three months in advance to Department of Personnel and Training Secretary if an IAS officer opts for resignation or voluntary retirement. But Mr. Reddy attended the office work on November 14 and applied to the State government seeking permission for resignation (voluntary retirement). The same day, the State government accepted his resignation. The next day, he was selected as candidate for Member of Legislative Council (MLC) post by the ruling party. Two days after resignation, he filed his nomination papers. The petitioners contended that the Chief Secretary had no power to accept resignation of an IAS officer. They stated that to be eligible to contest as Member of Legislative Council a person should not be a government servant. However, even before Mr. Reddy’s resignation was not formally completed, the Telangana Legislative Council accepted his nomination papers and this was not justified, the said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/acceptance-of-ias-officers-resignation-challenged/article37572475.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vice-President releases Srimadramayanam||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu hailed Ramayana as a timeless epic that highlights performing one’s duty is as important as asserting one’s rights. In fulfilling his responsibilities towards his family, people and kingdom, Lord Rama remains an ideal for mankind, he observed on Thursday. Releasing the book, Srimadramayanam , written by Sasi Kiran, personal secretary to Union Minister for Tourism & Culture G. Kishan Reddy, Mr. Naidu reflected on the life of Lord Rama and said that as a ruler, he epitomised the highest qualities of leadership, good governance and observance of the rule of law. Stating that Lord Rama lived a selfless life for the benefit of society, he wanted the youth of the nation to be inspired by His message. The V-P congratulated the author and the publishers for bringing out the book. He also underlined the need to popularise literary classics and poetic works of various Indian languages, especially among the youth. Everyone should strive to protect and promote Indian languages. Publisher Emesco Vijayakumar, and other dignitaries participated in the event, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vice-president-releases-srimadramayanam/article37572451.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Multiple global challenges for India’||India needs policy focus in areas like infrastructure development, accelerating labour intensive manufacturing, education and skill of workers, improving social sector development and sustainable development, said director and vice-chancellor of Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research, Mumbai, S. Mahendra Dev. He stated that India has to face many global challenges such as climate change, urbanisation, migration, technologies like automation, increased inequality, changes in political factors like the US and China policies, Brexit and protectionism. While delivering the Waheeduddin Khan Memorial Lecture on ‘Beyond India @75: Growth, Inclusion and Sustainability’ at the Centre for Economic and Social Studies (CESS) on Thursday, Prof. Dev said that there are issues like geopolitical challenges with a new bipolar world — USA/China — emerging in the recent past with old bipolar world — USA/Russia. Explaining various issues that would impact the economic growth of India, Prof. Dev said that the government has mentioned that India would achieve $ 5 trillion economy by 2024 but it would take another four to five years. Referring to credit in the national economy, he said that it was only 50% of GDP compared to 100% in many other countries. He stressed the need to keep credit flowing to all categories of economic agents – firms and households. “Diversification of cropping pattern towards millets, pulses, oil seeds and horticulture is needed for equal distribution of water, sustainable and climate resilient agriculture,” he said, adding that agriculture should change towards high value production, better remunerative prices and farm income.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/multiple-global-challenges-for-india/article37572455.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High wave warning and rainfall sounded||High wave/ocean state warning/alert has been issued for Tamil Nadu and AP in view of the depression over southwest Bay of Bengal off north Tamil Nadu coast that moved west-northwestwards with a speed of 23 kmph during past three hours and lay centred about 250 km south-southeast of Chennai, 220 km east-southeast of Puducherry and 210 km east- northeast of Karaikal. It is very likely to continue to move west–northwestwards and cross north TN and south AP coasts between Puducherry and Chennai by early morning of November 19, said a joint ‘Ocean State Forecast’ bulletin issued by Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) - India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday evening. High waves in the range of 2.5 – 3.4 metres are forecasted off Northern TN coast (from Point Calimer to Pulicat) with surface current speeds varying between 75 - 195 cm/sec. High waves in the range of 3.0 - 3.4 metres are predicted off southern TN coast (from Kolachal to Kilakarai) with current speeds varying between 44 - 75 cm/sec. In AP, high waves in the range of 3.0 - 3.4 metres are forecasted along the coast between Dugarajapatnam to Baruva with current speeds varying between 75 - 175 cm/sec. Offshore around the system, high waves in the range of 2.7 – 3.7 metres are forecasted about 250 km east -southeast of Chennai with surface current speeds varying between 75 - 185 cm/sec. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into southwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal and along and off TN, Puducherry and south AP during next 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-wave-warning-and-rainfall-sounded/article37572471.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Natco launches drugs for cancer treatment||Natco Pharma has launched in India a fixed-dose combination of Trifluridine and Tipiracil, which is indicated for treatment of advanced colorectal and gastric cancers and 10mg strength of Everolimus tablets (generic for Afinitor) used in treatment of certain cancers in the US market. Tipanat, the brand name under which the fixed-dose combination tablet has been launched, is a novel antineoplastic nucleoside. Approximately 1.25 lakh new cases of advanced colorectal and gastric cancers are reported every year in India. Tipanat will be available in a pack of 20 tablets in a bottle, the drug maker said in a release. In another release, the company said that marketing partner Breckenridge Pharmaceutical Inc has launched the 10mg strength of Everolimus tablets in the US market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/natco-pharma-launches-cancer-drugs/article37572463.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Uber service in Warangal||Uber has launched autorickshaw and car services in Warangal and with it expanded to 100 cities across India. A range of autorickshaw and cars were available on its platform in the city, it said in a release. Congratulating the firm, Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao said, “Easy and smart mobility solutions are at the heart of building smart cities. Public and private collaborations such as this can go a long way in building efficient connectivity between the three urban cities of Kazipet, Hanamkonda and Warangal, as well as providing first and last mile connectivity to railway stations and the airport. Uber said India represents a tremendous opportunity and it is pursuing a target of expanding to 200 cities. The firm said it had in April began a campaign to support vaccinations by compensating drivers for the time spent in getting the shots. As of November, almost three lakh drivers received at least one shot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uber-service-in-warangal/article37572464.ece
19 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man flees after killing wife with spade||A homemaker was murdered allegedly by her drunkard husband while she was sleeping at home at Mailardevpally in the late hours of Wednesday. According to the police, the accused, Jangaiah (60), who was earlier into milk business, was addicted to alcohol and had frequent altercations with his wife Meena (46) and their children. On Wednesday night too, he had a fight with Meena till 10.30 p.m.. Around 12.30 a.m. on Thursday, Jangaiah allegedly hit his wife’s head with a spade. She suffered severe injuries and died on the spot. A case was registered and teams were formed to nab the accused. Auto driver robbed An auto driver was allegedly robbed by a group of people on old Kurnool highway under Mailardevpally police station limits on Wednesday night. Mosin told police that around 9.30 p.m., his three-wheeler was intercepted by a group of men carrying a firearm and sharp objects. “They attacked him and took away his mobile and Rs. 3,200 cash,” police said. Suicide bid Assuming that his personal problems might get the attention of CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao, an agriculture labourer from Suryapet district, attempted to end his life by dousing himself with kerosene near Raj Bhavan on Thursday afternoon. He was counselled later and let off.  (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-flees-after-killing-wife-with-spade/article37572466.ece
19 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Tobacco products worth Rs. 57 lakh seized, one held||Over 1,475 kg banned tobacco products worth Rs. 57 lakh were seized by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (East Zone) team on Thursday, and one person was arrested. Acting on a tip-off, the team along with Afzalgunj police raided a godown at New Osmangunj and found huge quantities of various tobacco products. They apprehended D. Chinna Nagaraju of Bandi Metta from Kurnool district, AP. Addressing a press conference on Thursday to divulge details about the raid, Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said that for the last four decades, Nagaraju’s family was into procurement and sale of tobacco products. He was also a wholesale supplier of beedis. In 2017, when Nagaraju visited Delhi, he came in contact with one Naresh from Chandni Chowk, a wholesale supplier of tobacco products. Accordingly, the accused started placing orders to Naresh, and when the State government prohibited the sale and transportation of chewing tobacco products, he took a godown on rent to hide his products and continued the supply, Mr. Kumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tobacco-products-worth-rs-57-lakh-seized-one-held/article37572468.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Integrated Secretariat likely by mid-next fiscal||Construction of the new integrated Secretariat complex is unlikely to be completed any time soon. The construction works of the massive complex planned with plug and play facilities for all departments commenced last November after selection of Shapoorji Pallonji Group as executing agency. Taken up with an estimated Rs. 616 crore after incorporating provisions for state-of-the-art facilities, the project was designed with lower ground, ground and 11 floors with a built up area of 64,989 sq.m (around seven lakh sq.ft). The works on the complex which progressed briskly in the initial stages were hit by the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic for close to three months. Works on the basement of the complex have been completed ever since and laying of slabs for the seven floors of the primary building are in progress now. Senior officials said slabs for sixth floor on the west side, fifth floor on north and south and fourth floor on the eastern fringe had been completed. Brick works are also being taken up floor wise and this will be followed by service plumbing, electrical and other works. “We are expecting the slab works for all floors including the four towers planned apart from the primary building by the end of the first half of the next financial year,” a senior official told The Hindu . A delegation of the government officials and representatives of the construction agency visited Rajasthan for the red sandstone that would adorn the outer rim of the building. “The quarry has been finalized and the sandstone will start arriving as and when the finishing works are taken up,” the official said. Woks on the project commenced after the government completed all the formalities and handed over the possession of the land to the construction agency. A deadline of one year was fixed for the completion of the project with a condition that the integrated complex completed in all respects should be handed over in the third week of November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/integrated-secretariat-likely-by-mid-next-fiscal/article37572482.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||60,000 applications for liquor shops||Over 60,000 applications were received by the authorities to get licence for running liquor shops in the State as the deadline for the purpose ended but there were long queues of applicants even beyond the time who were waiting at excise stations to submit the papers on Thursday evening. The applications were made for 2,620 shops, which was 404 more than the existing ones. The State government allotted 363 shops (15 per cent) for Gouds, 262 (10 per cent) for SCs and 131 (5 per cent) for STs. The applications were collected with a non-refundable fee of Rs. 2 lakh. The government had received a total of 48,784 applications with a fee of Rs. 2 lakh on the previous occasion two years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/60000-applications-for-liquor-shops/article37572483.ece
19 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||45 kg ganja seized, 11 arrested in three days||In the last three days, Cyberabad police registered four cases and arrested 11 persons on charges of drug peddling. They seized 45.154 kg ganja and five grams of MDMA from the accused. Police also registered 160 e-petty cases. “Bulk buyers, local retailers and drug transporters are on police radar to curb ganja peddling and use,” Commissioner of Police M. Stephen Raveendra said. So far, they have invoked PD Act against eight peddlers and requested people to inform the police about drug suppliers through ‘Dial 100’ or Cyberabad NDPS Enforcement Cell: 7901105423 or WhatsApp number 9490617444. Suicide bid near Raj Bhavan Assuming that his personal problems might get the attention of CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao, an agriculture labourer from Suryapet, attempted to end his life by dousing himself with kerosene near Raj Bhavan on Thursday afternoon. According to Punjagutta police, Nagaraju did this when Ministers were coming out of Raj Bhavan after meeting the Governor. He was counselled and let off.  (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/45-kg-ganja-seized-11-arrested-in-three-days/article37572461.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Caspian Debt adds nine SMEs to portfolio||Caspian Debt, which provides loans to start-ups and social enterprises, has added nine new SMEs operating in varied sectors to its portfolio up to October this fiscal. The loans disbursed were from Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 5 crore and fund their operational requirements. The funding will help the enterprises manage working capital cycle, procure raw materials and strengthen supply chains, the Hyderabad-based firm said on Thursday. Chakr Innovation, Retas Enviro, Eggoz, Varcas Automobiles, Samosa Singh, Sevamob Ventures, Hesa Enterprises, Payagri Innovations and Process Nine Technologies are the nine SMEs and operate in food and agriculture, education and skill development, clean energy and healthcare sectors. Head of Caspian Debt Avishek Gupta said, “There is enormous scope for growth in the SME sector. We have witnessed the stability and resilience of SMEs during the pandemic and other economic crises in the past.” He cited challenges on the logistics front, supply chain disruptions, stalled projects in the execution stage and delays in collection of receivables the SMEs had faced as a result of the lockdown triggered by the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/caspian-debt-adds-nine-smes-to-portfolio/article37572448.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM to lay foundation stones for new hospitals||The foundation stone for new hospitals in and around Hyderabad limits would be laid by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, said State Health Minister T Harish Rao after launching seven ambulances at a programme held in Koti on Thursday. Of the seven, four have life-support systems. The emergency vehicles will be used at teaching hospitals such as Gandhi Hospital. There are a total of 429 ‘108 ambulances’ in the State. The Minister said that new vehicles will be pushed into service on need basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-to-lay-foundation-stones-for-new-hospitals/article37572447.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AP Governor’s condition is stable||Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan is in a clinically stable condition. He got admitted at AIG Hospitals, Gachibowli, on Wednesday. The corporate hospital’s administration stated earlier that he was diagnosed with moderate COVID. On Thursday, they stated that his condition was stable, maintaining normal oxygen saturation and vitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ap-governors-condition-is-stable/article37572473.ece
19 November 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSRTC move on loos for women||The TSRTC has issued instructions to its staff to keep in mind convenience of women passengers and make efforts to stop only at dhabas and restaurants that have clean toilets on long distance routes. The move came after a woman passenger informed TSRTC on how difficult it is to access toilets on long distance routes. “Whenever the bus reaches any toll plaza on the highway, the service driver must announce in the bus that passengers can use the convenience rooms available at toll plazas enroute to relieve themselves. This helps women passengers use the facility since they are safe,” the circular reads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-move-on-loos-for-women/article37572470.ece
19 November 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Will do justice to farmers: Collector||Collector S. Harish said that they would do justice to those farmers whose lands were encroached upon. He said that the report would be submitted to the officials concerned. Mr. Harish visited Achampet and Hakimpet villages on Thursday where the survey was on in the lands of Jamuna Hatcheries owned by E. Jamuna, wife of BJP MLA E. Rajender, and her family members. Allegations were levelled against Jamuna Hatcheries that it had encroached upon some government lands and assignment lands of neighbouring farmers. The land issue had become a clash point and witnessed resignation of Mr. Rajender and his re-election from Huzurabad Assembly constituency. A few weeks ago, the revenue and survey departments issued notices to Jamuna Hatcheries and some farmers stating that they would be conducting a survey of lands on November 16, 17 and 18 and the survey is still continuing. Speaking to reporters after the visit, Mr. Harish said that the survey was conducted based on the complaints they had received in April and Jamuna Hatcheries had approached the court seeking stalling of survey in view of the prevailing coronavirus conditions at that time. He stated that as per the directions of the High Court the survey was commenced and completed in these two villages. About eight tames participated in the survey. “Yesterday some farmers came to collectorate and met me. They urged completion of the survey at the earliest and justice to them. We have promised them to do so. We will finalise how much assigned land and government land was there,” said Mr. Harish. The Collector interacted with RDO Shyam Prasad and Tahasildar Malthi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-do-justice-to-farmers-collector/article37572477.ece
19 November 2021||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Biometric for sanitation workers||Collector Anurag Jayanthi has instructed municipal officials to introduce biometric attendance system for sanitation workers of the temple town of Vemulawada within a week. He reviewed the master plan for comprehensive development of the temple town at a meeting held in the Collectorate in Sircilla on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/biometric-for-sanitation-workers/article37572486.ece
19 November 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||(Photo available) Additional Collector||Additional Collector (Local Bodies) Rajarshi Shah has suggested that college principals sign Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) with industries and get the students trained in employment and skill development. Participating in a review meeting held here on Thursday with principals of seven government degree colleges, Mr Rajarshi Shah said MoU would help the students in getting jobs once their education was completed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/photo-available-additional-collector/article37572479.ece
19 November 2021||Agra (U.P.),||Free entry for tourists at Agra today||All Centrally protected monuments here will be free to enter for tourists this Friday as per a nationwide directive issued by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to mark the ‘World Heritage Week’. Entry for tourists will be free at Agra Fort, Fatehpur Sikri, Akbar’s Tomb in Sikandra, Itmad-ud-daulah, and others ASI protected monuments. However, tourists will not be able to enjoy the Taj Mahal on the day due to its weekly closing. The entry charge is being waived to mark the ‘World Heritage Week’ held during November 19-25 by the UNESCO, an ASI official here said. “Entry for tourists, including foreign nationals, will be free across the country at the centrally protected monuments as per the directions of the director General office, New Delhi,” Raj Kumar Patel, Superintending Archaeologist of ASI, Agra Circle, said on Thursday. The objective of observing this week is to make tourists aware about their rich heritage, he said. During the week, cultural programmes will be held at these monuments, and ASI officials will hold interactions with students and tourists to make them aware about their heritage, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/free-entry-for-tourists-at-agra-today/article37572537.ece
19 November 2021||Bhopal,||Half of MP's eligible population fully vaccinated against COVID-19: Minister||Half of the eligible population in M.P. has received both the doses of COVID-19 vaccine, Minister Prabhuram Choudhary said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/half-of-mps-eligible-population-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-19-minister/article37572328.ece
19 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||More support pours in for Friday namaz in Gurugram||Amid a raging controversy over the offering of Jumma Namaz (Friday prayers) in open spaces in Gurugram, more support and offers of private spaces poured in for the Muslim community on Thursday via social media platforms. Earlier, a local resident in Sector 12A offered his shop, and the Sikh community offered to allow namaz at a gurdwara. “More and more people are now coming forward on social media to extend offers for spaces for the Friday namaz. We are looking into their offers and their suitability. It is a welcome gesture. It sends across a huge message that, on one hand, there are people claiming to represent a community and spreading hatred in the name of religion, and on the other, there are those extending a helping hand,” said Altaf Ahmed, co-founder, Gurgaon Muslim Council. Among prominent local voices batting for communal harmony is senior journalist Rahul Dev, who said he would have loved to offer his house for Jumma namaz but was staying far off from the places designated for the Friday prayers. “My house will cleanse if namaz is offered here. The reasons and the means for the opposition cause great pain [sic],” Mr. Dev tweeted. Mr. Ahmad, along with other members, visited one of the gurdwaras run by Shri Guru Singh Sabha in the city’s Sadar area. “It is a welcome gesture by the Sikh community, but not a solution to the controversy over the offering of namaz in the open. We need to accommodate a huge population of Muslims and need more mosques for it,” said Mr. Ahmad. Shri Guru Singh Sabha president Sher Dil Sidhu said the aim was to convey a message of communal harmony. Sector 12A resident Akshay Yadav said this was not the first time he had offered his premises for namaz, and that he had allowed his tenant and his friends to offer prayers at his shop during Ramzan four years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/more-support-pours-in-for-friday-namaz-in-gurugram/article37572322.ece
19 November 2021||GURUGRAM,||BJP-JJP Govt. corrupted State’s atmosphere: Hooda||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Thursday said the BJP-JJP Government has corrupted the atmosphere in the State and ruined the system. He said the struggle was not only limited to change the Government, but also to change the environment and system of the State. Mr. Hooda, who was addressing the ‘Vipaksh aapke Samaksh’ (Opposition in front of You) programme organised by the Congress Legislature Party in Jind, said the country’s biggest rally would be organised in the district in the coming days. “Today, taking blessings from Jind, we will go to every district and Assembly constituency of Haryana and will interact with the people through the programme,” he stated. Taking on the State Government, the Leader of Opposition said the BJP-JJP Government had destroyed the governance system in the State as there were no teachers in schools, no doctors in hospitals, no Minimum Support Price and fertilisers for farmers, and no one standing for poor and common man. “I have never seen and heard of such a useless and corrupt Government,” he said. More than two dozen party MLAs, about 100 former Ministers, former MLAs, former MPs and senior leaders were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-jjp-govt-corrupted-atmosphere-of-state-hooda/article37572551.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||KCR warns Centre on paddy procurement||Replacing the pink scarf with a green scarf in a reminder of past days of agitation, Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao sat in protest for the first time since he came to power, seeking a “straight answer” from the Centre on whether it would buy paddy or not. The dharna chowk at the city’s Indira Park saw Mr. Rao’s presence for the first time in the last seven years as he roared from the platform literally, warning the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Government at the Centre not to play with the future of the farmers. ‘Be crystal clear’ “I am requesting the Centre with folded hands to be crystal clear on whether it plans to procure the entire paddy in the next season or not,” he said, and warned that if farmers were forced to go for paddy cultivation with false assurances, the leftover paddy would be thrown in front of the BJP’s offices. “You cannot derive political mileage putting farmers’ future in distress,” he warned. Accusing the BJP Government of brutally suppressing the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws, he said if there was a need, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) would take a leadership role in sustaining the fight. “We will oppose the farm laws till the last drop of our blood,” he said, adding that once the TRS took up any issue, the party would take it to the logical end. “I am in touch with various people to lead the fight against this Government,” Mr. Rao said. The CM warned that he could not be bullied with warnings of arrests or inquiries, and challenged the BJP to conduct any inquiry against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/kcr-warns-centre-on-paddy-procurement/article37572329.ece
19 November 2021||IMPHAL,||Was not aware of presence of woman and child, says RPF||The Revolutionary People’s Front (RPF), an outlawed underground group, in a statement on Thursday clarified that it was not aware of the presence of a woman and child in the convoy that was ambushed on November 13 in Churachandpur district of Manipur. In the joint operation, the People’s Liberation Army, the military wing of the RPF, and the Manipur Naga People’s Front killed five Assam Rifles personnel including Colonel Viplav Tripathi, the commanding officer of 46 Assam Rifles, his wife and eight-year-old son. Four others were also injured. The statement by Rohen Khuman, deputy secretary, publicity, RPF, said that the party follows the Geneva Conventions of 1949 and added that the Army and police know that if there are women and children, the PLA aborts the ambushes. This had happened at Kom Keirak, Keishnmthong and many other incidents. ‘Collateral damage’ It said RPF knows there will be collateral damage in all attacks and that is why attacks are aborted in many instances. It hoped that the souls of the woman and her son, who were innocent victims, shall rest in peace. The RPF was unhappy that some Indian leaders and “media heroes” labelled this outfit as terrorists, extremists, etc. Some of them had said that the RPF was formed by some breakaway members of the Revolutionary Government of Manipur. The statement added there is no relation between the two groups. Despite combing operations, the responsible members of the RPF and the MNPF have not been accounted for. The injured personnel are recuperating in two hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/was-not-aware-of-presence-of-woman-child-says-rpf/article37572543.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Govt. pledges to clean Yamuna by 2025||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced a six-point action plan to completely clean the Yamuna and said he would himself take a dip in the river before the next Assembly elections, fulfilling a promise made by the Aam Aadmi Party in 2020. Mr. Kejriwal said work had already started on the project and that he had set timelines for every small aspect of the project and would keep revisiting its progress every 15 to 30 days to ensure that it is completed by February 2025. Action plan The action plan includes building new sewage treatment plants (STP), increasing capacity of existing STPs, and rolling in new technology to make sure that pollutants do not flow into the Yamuna. The Delhi Government proposes to carry out in situ treatment of the city’s major drains. Work to clean the Najafgarh, Barapullah, Supplementary and Ghazipur drains has started, the Government said. Other measures include diverting industrial waste. The Chief Minister said all industrial waste will be diverted to the common effluent treating plants and promised a crackdown on industries for not sending its waste to the treatment plants. The drainage system of JJ clusters, he said, will be connected to the larger sewer network to completely stop stormwater drains from being polluted. The Delhi Government also proposed to connect every household to the sewer network. The Government plans to complete desilting of the 9,225-km sewer network inside Delhi in the next six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-pledges-to-clean-yamuna-by-2025/article37572321.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||Air quality remains ‘very poor’ in Delhi||The city’s air quality continued to be in the “very poor” category on Thursday and is likely to improve and be in the same range till Saturday. Environment Minister Gopal Rai said that 70% of pollution in Delhi is caused by pollutants coming from outside the city while the rest is contributed by local sources. “The report, which the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) has released after analysing the SAFAR data, matches with The Energy and Resources Institute’s 2016 report, in which it said that 36% was Delhi’s contribution to pollution. This has actually been reduced to just 31% now. The external contribution in the 2016 report was 64%, which has now, according to the CSE report, increased to 69%,” Mr. Rai said. Mr. Rai also urged the Union Environment Minister to call a joint meeting of all the Environment Ministers of neighbouring States in Delhi-National Capital Region to discuss ways to stop stubble burning. The Minister said that the Supreme Court on Wednesday had said that the Central Government accepted that at this time, the contribution of stubble burning was 35%-40% to Delhi’s pollution. “The air quality index (AQI) on Thursday indicates a ‘very poor’ category and is likely to improve but remain the same for the next two days as transport level winds are coming from the east direction preventing intrusion of pollutants from the upwind region. Local surface winds are low and mixing layer height is above one km, resulting in moderate ventilation of near surface pollutants. From November 21, surface winds are likely to be strong, resulting in effective dispersion that improves the air quality,” Government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research) said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/air-quality-remains-very-poor-in-delhi/article37572325.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||Assembly panel asks FB for logs of complaints during Delhi riots||The Delhi Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony has asked Facebook to provide logs of complaints reported by users for a four-month period, during which the Delhi riots occurred last year. “The chairman of the Committee has sought the complaint logs received by Facebook India between January 1, 2020, and April 4, 2020, including the posts which were reported or flagged by the users for being offensive/hateful,” the Assembly said in a statement. The Committee, which was formed last year, is looking into Facebook’s alleged role in the Delhi riots in February 2020. Shivnath Thukral, public policy director of Facebook India, appeared before the Committee and responded to the queries raised by it. Fact-checking agencies Mr. Thukral said that Facebook India ties up with independent fact-checking agencies to filter the misinformation for them. “The chairman of the Committee posed a query to Shivnath Thukral as to how many languages Facebook does host on its platform and whether for those respective languages, Facebook India has proficient fact checkers. It was informed that Facebook India hosts 20 languages but has a system which covers only 11 languages of the 20 hosted languages,” the statement said. Chairman of the Committee and AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said that the panel will take into account the information presented before it after the day’s proceeding and will further deliberate on recalling Facebook officials for another round of proceedings. On August 31 last year, the panel had said that prima facie, it seemed that Facebook had a role in the Delhi riots and it should be treated as a “co-accused”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/assembly-panel-asks-fb-for-logs-of-complaints-during-delhi-riots/article37572318.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: no intention to kill but scare, man tells court||Shahrukh Pathan, who had allegedly pointed a gun at a Delhi Police head constable during the 2020 Delhi riots, on Thursday told a court here that he did not fire shots at the cop and merely wanted to scare him and not kill — a claim opposed by the prosecution. A photograph of Pathan pointing a gun at Delhi Police head constable Deepak Dahiya had gone viral on social media during the communal riots last year. He was arrested on March 3, 2020, and is currently lodged in Tihar Jail. To show that there was no attempt to murder the cop, senior advocate Menaka Guruswamy, representing Pathan, played a 26-second-long video of the incident in the court and said that the accused fired two shots — one in the air and second to his right, following which he had a heated conversation with Dahiya and turned back. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat then asked the lawyer to replay the video and pointed towards the position of Pathan’s gun just before he shot fire in the air. “Look at the position of his gun. It is not pointed up. It is straight [at Dahiya]. When he is taking the aim, it is straight,” the judge said. The advocate, however, clarified that neither of the two gunshots was aimed at the head constable. “The State’s case is based on Dahiya. He is the potential victim and is not fired at. The first is in the air and the second is on the right,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-riots-no-intention-to-kill-but-scare-man-tells-court/article37572323.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||Business as usual cannot clean Yamuna, says CSE||The Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) on Thursday released a note on “What ails the Yamuna”. It also gave solutions to clean the river, including the need to reduce Delhi’s own water demand and build water harvesting systems for capturing rainwater for discharge in the lean season to maintain the flow of the river. The Yamuna is extremely polluted, and currently the levels of faecal coliform (microbes from human and animal excreta) in the river is beyond accepted levels at all points except Palla, where the river enters Delhi. “As per latest [2018] available estimates, Delhi has already spent over Rs. 1,500 crore for cleaning the river; this does not take into account the cost of the common effluent treatment plants that have been built in the city. This is possibly the highest amount spent on river cleaning in the country. But it has not worked, as is evident from the pollution data,” the CSE said. As per the note, Delhi has already built 17 sewage treatment plants (STPs), which together adds up to 40% of the total installed sewage treatment capacity in India. “But these plants remain grossly underutilised. The city does not have the drainage to convey all its excreta to the treatment plants,” the statement said. “There is a need to relearn the science and art of river cleaning. Business as usual will not result in a clean river,” the CSE said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/business-as-usual-cannot-clean-yamuna-says-cse/article37572317.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||DFS starts spraying water||The Delhi Fire Service on Thursday said it has begun spraying water at several areas in the city in view of the rising pollution and specific hotspots have been identified for this purpose. DFS chief Atul Garg said they have identified 13 spots — Anand Vihar, Ashok Vihar, Bawana, Dwarka, Jahangirpuri, Mundka, Narela, Okhla, Punjabi Bagh, R.K. Puram, Rohini, Vivek Vihar and Wazirpur. Fire tenders are being used by the personnel to spray water from hoses. This comes after Environment Minister Gopal Rai directed the DFS to start sprinkling water at specified spots across the Capital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dfs-starts-spraying-water/article37572327.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||Lower courts have to follow hybrid hearing order, says HC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday ordered all subordinate courts in the Capital to strictly adhere to its order permitting hybrid or virtual hearings at the request of parties. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh, which was hearing an application concerning the compliance with the High Court’s direction, said all district courts in the Capital are bound to comply with its order. “This High Court has already issued directions with respect to the system of hearing of matters before the district courts. We make it clear that all subordinate courts falling in all districts of Delhi are bound to comply with the same,” the Bench said. “It can’t be that any judicial officer decides to not obey the said order and deny a request for a hybrid hearing in any matter listed before them,” the Bench ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/lower-courts-have-to-follow-hybrid-hearing-order-says-hc/article37572316.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||City reports 47 new infections||The city reported 47 new COVID-19 cases, taking the caseload to 14,40,575. No new COVID-19-related death was reported in 24 hours for the third consecutive day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-reports-47-new-infections/article37572326.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||‘CM trying to divert attention’||Reacting to the Delhi Government’s plans to clean the Yamuna by 2025, the BJP and the Congress said that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had already wasted seven years without achieving anything and was bringing up the issue due to the upcoming civic polls. The Delhi Congress said that the Chief Minister was trying to divert Delhiites’ attention from the pollution issue in the Capital by announcing plans to clean the Yamuna. Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, said that Mr. Kejriwal has made promises in the past that he will make the Yamuna like the Thames of London, but has forgotten them all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cm-trying-to-divert-attention/article37572319.ece
19 November 2021||Pune,||‘BJP’s only job appears to be stoking communal discord’||Lashing out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the recent violence which broke out in Amravati, Malegaon and other places, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday said that the saffron party’s only job seemed to be to stoke the fumes of communal discord. Speaking in Gadchiroli district during his four-day tour of the Vidarbha region, Mr. Pawar said that whatever had happened in the far-off State of Tripura (reports of mosques being desecrated) should not have had any reverberations in Maharashtra. “At present, some parties are trying to nourish sectarianism and spark communal discord to spread hatred and divisiveness among people. It is our duty to stop these forces and thwart their schemes... Why did the incident in Tripura reverberate in Amravati?” said the NCP chief, criticizing the role of BJP in fuelling communal tensions allegedly for poll benefits. A number of BJP leaders including former Maharashtra Ministers Anil Bonde and Pravin Pote were arrested by the Amravati police in connection with the violence which erupted on November 13 following a call for a bandh given by minority organizations like the Raza Academy, which too, is under the police scanner. Mr. Bonde was released on bail earlier this week. Earlier, speaking in Nagpur, Mr. Pawar launched a broadside against the BJP-led Centre and accused it of attempting to destabilize the Maharashtra Government by using central agencies indiscriminately to target leaders of the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) Government, including former Home Minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh who was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate over money laundering charges and is currently in judicial custody. “Those [read the BJP] who played a role in getting former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh sent to jail will be made to pay the price of every day and every hour for having done so…we will not keep quiet,” warned Mr. Pawar, while insisting that Mr. Deshmukh was innocent. The NCP chief also questioned the whereabouts of former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who had accused Mr. Deshmukh of having ordered him to extort Rs. 100 crore from businesses and establishments, which in turn had compelled the latter to resign. ‘What was Anil’s crime?’ “What was Anil Deshmukh’s crime? One day, Param Bir Singh came to meet me and said he had complained to the Chief Minister against Mr. Deshmukh. When I asked him what it was about, he claimed that Mr. Deshmukh had given him instructions to extort money. Then I asked him if he carried out the instructions. He said he didn’t. So, I am unable to understand what Deshmukh’s crime was if his so-called instructions were not carried out in the first place,” said Mr. Pawar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjps-only-job-appears-to-be-stoking-discord/article37572315.ece
19 November 2021||Raipur,||Flights diverted due to fog||Four flights which were scheduled to land at the Raipur airport were diverted on Thursday morning due to foggy weather and poor visibility in the Chhattisgarh capital city, airport officials said. The flight operations at the Swami Vivekanand Airport here were resumed later in the day, they said. Three flights were diverted to the Nagpur airport and one to Bhubaneswar airport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/flights-diverted-due-to-fog/article37572638.ece
19 November 2021||Hong Kong,||Concern over Chinese tennis star as WTA questions ‘statement’||Concerns are growing about the fate ofChinese tennis star Peng Shuai, who has not been seen in public more than two weeks after alleging sexual abuse by a senior Chinese Communist Party leader. On Thursday, the Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) revealed it had failed to reach Ms. Peng after “repeatedly” trying to contact her. The WTA also raised questions about a statement purported to be from Ms. Peng that was released by Chinese English-language broadcaster China Global Television Network (CGTN). In the statement, which appeared to be a screenshot of a Word document, that was shared on Twitter by CGTN, Ms. Peng said she was “fine” and “resting” at home. It could not be verified whether she did indeed write the statement. “Hello everyone this is Peng Shuai,” the statement began. “Regarding the recent new released on the official website of the WTA, the content has not been confirmed or verified by myself,” it said, referring to the WTA expressing concern about Ms. Peng and the allegations. “The news in that release,” it continued, “including the allegation of sexual assault, is not true. I’m not missing, nor am I unsafe. I’ve just been resting at home and everything is fine.” The statement was, however, not published by the official Chinese media in Mandarin, and was only tweeted by CGTN. It appeared to be aimed at an international audience and to address concerns voiced in recent days not only by the WTA but also by a number of tennis stars, includingNaomi Osakaand Novak Djokovic. In China, however, the news about Ms. Peng’s allegations remains heavily censored and her account on Sina Weibo, a Twitter equivalent, remains hidden from public view. The WTA on Thursday questioned whether Ms. Peng had written the statement. “The statement released today by Chinese state media concerning Peng Shuai only raises my concerns as to her safety and whereabouts,” WTA Chairman Steve Simon said. Doubts over email “I have a hard time believing that Peng Shuai actually wrote the email we received or believes what is being attributed to her. Peng Shuai displayed incredible courage in describing an allegation of sexual assault against a former top official in the Chinese government. The WTA and the rest of the world need independent and verifiable proof that she is safe. I have repeatedly tried to reach her via numerous forms of communication, to no avail. Peng Shuai must be allowed to speak freely, without coercion or intimidation from any source. Her allegation of sexual assault must be respected, investigated with full transparency and without censorship. The voices of women need to be heard and respected, not censored nor dictated to.” The original post by Ms. Peng on November 2 was promptly deleted, while any references to her were subsequently censored on Weibo. In an emotional message, she said had been sexually assaulted by senior party leader and former Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli. She detailed how 10 years ago, when she was 25, Mr. Zhang, then 65, and his wife, had invited her home before he assaulted her. She then narrated how they had subsequently begun a years-long affair, until Mr. Zhang broke it off when he was promoted to the party’s top body in 2012, the Politburo Standing Committee. He resumed the affair three years ago, when, Ms. Peng said, he again forced her to have sex, while his wife was guarding the door. Ms. Osaka was among several tennis stars expressing concern about the allegations and Ms. Peng’s safety. Ms. Osaka said in a statement she was “recently informed of a fellow tennis player that has gone missing shortly after revealing that she has been sexually abused.” “Censorship is never ok at any cost, I hope Peng Shuai and her family are safe and ok,” she said. “I’m in shock of the current situation and I’m sending love and light her way.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/concerns-over-chinese-tennis-star-as-wta-questions-statement/article37571824.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Trade Policy Forum a chance for India, U.S. to align expectations’||Nisha Biswal , president of the U.S.-India Business Council, talks about the U.S.-India Trade Policy Forum (TPF) next week, CAATSA sanctions, the Biden administration’s trade priorities and more. Edited excerpts from an interview:  Should we expect much progress when Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal meets U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Katherine Tai for the TPF, in terms of resolving what have become persistent issues in digital trade, agriculture, medical devices, GSP, etc.? My own expectation based on conversations with both governments is that this is really a more foundational meeting — the first meeting between Ambassador Tai and Minister Goyal. It’s really about trying to re-establish some of the institutional and foundational processes like the Trade Policy Forum. And, so, I’m not expecting that there will be major outcomes that are announced. But I do think that it’s an opportunity for both governments to align expectations, align approaches, and perhaps create a roadmap for where they want to go. So, whether they can, in the process of doing that, try to advance a few key outcomes — I think we would welcome that. We think that there are things that are ready for resolution that both governments and both countries have invested a fair amount of time and effort in trying to resolve. And I think that they should try to get a few of those things done. There’s a sense that the U.S. is at present not keen on negotiating a significant trade deal with India and wants to resolve smaller pending issues first. Should we see this as part of a general approach of the Biden administration to fix existing issues before embarking on more ambitious deals, such as it has done with Europe and the aircraft dispute? Well, certainly the Biden administration has made it fairly clear that it is not focussed right now on negotiating trade deals, but rather on addressing and focussing on domestic competitiveness and on the domestic economy. I think that it’s a mistake to think about domestic competitiveness and resurging the American economy as separate or isolated from eking out trade deals with our close trading partners. I think that the two go hand in hand, particularly since the majority of, or a very significant portion of, American jobs are export-related jobs. That said, I don’t know that the U.S.-India trade conversations to date set themselves up for immediately launching into a conversation about an FTA. I think that there is interest and opening on the Indian side in ways that we have not perhaps seen before, in embarking on that path to an FTA. And I think the Biden administration should lean in as it sees that opening. What would be the impact on bilateral trade of any CAATSA sanctions by Washington on New Delhi for taking delivery of the S-400? Well, first of all, I do not believe and certainly do not think that sanctions should be applied to India. We’ve been very clear at the U.S.-India Business Council, at the U.S. Chamber, that we believe that sanctions against one of our closest partners and most important partners is inappropriate and counterproductive and that certainly there are legitimate concerns around the implementation of the S-400 in terms of the impact on U.S. technology and on interoperability between the U.S. and India. Those are things that both governments need to sort through, but nowhere in that equation does sanctions advance the interests of either country and of the partnership. That said, I think there is so much at stake for both countries that whatever emerges, whether it’s on the CAATSA front or any other front, both nations have a compelling strategic interest to work through any areas of divergence, because the areas of convergence are so critically important for both governments. So, in a hypothetical scenario where there are sanctions, do you see that affecting trade? Inevitably, it will affect many different areas. I don’t know that getting into hypotheticals is productive. I think it’s hard to know. Clearly, an application of sanctions would disappoint and even anger many on the Indian side and what would the implications be? I don’t know. I don’t think we should take that chance. Should we expect labour and environmental standards to be on the table from the U.S. side, when it is eventually ready to discuss a larger trade deal with India? Well, it’s certainly important for the Biden administration and historically has been important for the Democratic Party to make sure that there is appropriate discussion and handling on labour standards and on environment. And frankly, on the environmental factors, that has become even more of an imperative in the current situation on climate change and the climate crisis. Labour and environment don’t necessarily need to be a problem because I think that the Indian government also has strong views on the climate challenges that it is facing, and I think that these can be areas where the two can actually find some common ground and some areas for collaboration. In terms of the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), is that on the table any more, given it’s no longer just a question of the Biden administration admitting India back into the programme but first a question of when the U.S. Congress will reauthorise the programme? I think it should be on the table and I think that the GSP programme is a very important programme. Certainly, we at the U.S. Chamber are urging Congress to reinstate that programme. And we think that a reinstated GSP programme should include India as one of the key partner countries and beneficiaries. I think that it is a win-win for the U.S. and for India.    (With inputs from Suhasini Haidar; full interview at https://bit.ly/NishaBiswal)   Both nations have a compelling strategic interest to work through any areas of divergence, because areas of convergence are so critically important for both||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trade-policy-forum-a-chance-for-india-us-to-align-expectations/article37571826.ece
19 November 2021||Chiayi City,||Taiwan deploys F-16V jets amid China threat||Taiwan held a ceremony on Thursday to commission the first squadron of its most advanced F-16 fighter, a U.S.-made jet that will strengthen the island’s defences against threats by China. President Tsai Ing-wen oversaw the ceremony at an air base in the southern city of Chiayi alongside Sandra Oudkirk, Washington’s de facto Ambassador to Taiwan. “This represents the steadfast promise of the Taiwan-U.S. partnership,” Ms. Tsai said. “I trust that in holding fast to democratic values, there will definitely be more countries with similar values who will stand with us on this front.” The F-16V is an upgraded and much more sophisticated version of Taiwan’s other ageing F-16 fighters which date back to the 1990s. The island also has French-made Mirage jets and its own indigenous warplane. A fourth-generation fighter, the F-16V boasts more advanced radar systems as well as more sophisticated weaponry, navigation and electronic warfare systems. The ceremony prompted a fiery response from Beijing at a press briefing, with an official saying “China opposes any official contact between the U.S. and Taiwan”. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian urged the U.S. not to send “wrong signals to separatist forces”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/taiwan-deploys-f-16v-jets-amid-china-threat/article37571823.ece
19 November 2021||Abuja,||Nigeria attacks toll rises to 43, says official||The death toll from separate attacks this week by heavily armed gunmen on two towns in northwest Nigeria has risen to 43, according to the local government. Dozens of gunmen stormed into Sokoto’s towns Illela and Goronyo on Monday. Sokoto State Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal's office said that toll had risen to 43.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nigeria-attacks-toll-rises-to-43-says-official/article37571818.ece
19 November 2021||Moscow,||Russia tests hypersonic cruise missile||Russia said on Thursday it had carried out another succesful test of its Zircon hypersonic cruise missile, one the latest additions to the country’s arsenal of weapons called “invincible” by President Vladimir Putin. Moscow has in recent years touted the development of weapons that it hopes will give it the edge in any arms race with the U.S.. Hypersonics can travel more than five times the speed of sound and manoeuvre in mid-flight, making them much harder to track and intercept than traditional projectiles. The military said on Thursday it had fired the Zircon missile from a warship and hit a test target in Russia’s Arctic waters. “The shot was conducted on a sea target in the waters of the White Sea,” Russia’s Defence Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-tests-hypersonic-cruise-missile/article37571822.ece
19 November 2021||Washington,||US--Harris||Vice President Kamala Harris said on Thursday she doesn't feel underused, pushing back against media reports of White House tensions between her office and the President's. “I’m very, very excited about the work that we have accomplished,” Ms. Harris said. Ms. Harris said she is clear-eyed that there is a lot more to do, and we’re gonna get it done.”AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-harris/article37571819.ece
19 November 2021||Sokolka,||Poland detains migrants as G7 calls for end to crisis||The Polish Army detained dozens of migrants who crossed the Belarus border and accused Belarusian special forces of masterminding the operation, as G7 Foreign Ministers on Thursday urged Minsk to end the migrant crisis. Around 2,000 people are estimated to be living near the Poland-Belarus border.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/poland-detains-migrants-as-g7-calls-for-end-to-crisis/article37571821.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Can cricket fandom be conflated with patriotism?||The recent ICC Men’s Twenty20 World Cup in the United Arab Emirates once again showed us the glorious uncertainties of cricket. The sport’s twists were evident when title-favourite India got knocked out. Immediately, the knives were sharpened on social media. Worse had happened earlier following India’s loss to Pakistan. Some fans who had celebrated Pakistan’s triumph were arrested and despicable remarks were made about Indian speedster Mohammed Shami’s Muslim identity, which raised the question: can patriotism be conflated with the Indian men’s cricket team? Isn’t sport a medium that cuts across boundaries? In a conversation moderated by K.C. Vijaya Kumar , W. V. Raman and R. Kaushik discuss these questions. Edited excerpts: During the ICC T20 World Cup, reactions on social media were extreme, especially after India’s loss to Pakistan. Some fans were arrested for celebrating Pakistan’s win. Do Partition history and geopolitics complicate sporting encounters with Pakistan? W.V. Raman:This has been going on for years. Even when I was playing, this kind of animosity was built up largely by the media. That trend continues. Over a period of time, India has always got the better of Pakistan, especially in the World Cup. But there have been fantastic matches between both the nations. There’s also camaraderie between the players of both countries and that continues — the cricketers from this generation are good friends. Also, if you see photographs, the players may seem calm, but a lot of other things you get to hear from the media. This kind of hype has been sustained over decades. But it’s also up to the public to realise where to draw the line and deal with this as a sporting event rather than mix it up with other things. R. Kaushik:WV pretty much hit the nail on the head. The important thing that he spoke about is the camaraderie between players. Yes, we have seen tensions between players sometimes on the field. You can think of Aamer Sohail and Venkatesh Prasad or Javed Miandad and Kiran More. Those are things that happen on the field but they don’t spill beyond the field of play. Unfortunately, now, things are magnified because of social media platforms on which people have this great sense of entitlement. You are emboldened by the anonymity that being an [unknown] armchair keyboard warrior gives you and that just escalates the situation. When it comes to fandom, it seems fine to follow Vivian Richards, Roger Federer, Lionel Messi, Usain Bolt or maybe Manchester United. It cuts across national identities. But why is it that when it comes to Indo-Pak sport, it is treated as war minus the shooting? WV:That is the way it is. It’s in fact sold that way. There was a charity game in 1986 or 1987. A lot of hype was created around an exhibition game primarily played to raise funds for an NGO and it was touted as a clash between India and Pakistan. The rivalry between Sunil Gavaskar and Imran Khan, Abdul Qadir and Dilip Vengsarkar, or Kapil Dev and Zaheer Abbas was given hype. It has always been a convention when India plays Pakistan — a lot of other elements are brought into play. I don’t know what the objectives are. Yes, spicing the game up is fine, creating that hype is fine. But it is also the responsibility of the media to stop short of making it something more than a sport. RK:The players sometimes tell you that it’s just another game but that’s for public consumption. In private, many guys say, ‘you have to beat them’. Nobody knows why it is like that. It’s not like there’s a great history of bad blood between the players like how it is between the two countries. It is not there between the people of the two nations. We have all gone to Pakistan and we know how much respect and love they gave us. The important point is what WV said about the media. You have the host broadcaster of a major competition like the World Cup talking about mauka, mauka and having those sorts of ads, which are derogatory to people from both sides, but mainly to the fans of the Pakistani team because of the history between the two nations when it comes to World Cups. Basically, this is a contest that doesn’t need any spicing up, right? It’s a beautifully pre-hyped product and all we need to do is approach the product with the responsibility that it deserves. There were exceptions in the past, like when the Chennai crowd gave a standing ovation to Pakistan during the 1999 Test. Do you think that kind of fandom is possible? WV:We saw what a sporting crowd is all about in Chennai in 1999. I also had a first-hand experience of how the common man sees these matches in Pakistan when I had gone there because the cab driver was telling me that he was looking forward to seeing India and Pakistan play cricket. He was also certain that India had a far superior team and would win the series. But he said he also loves the masala, which meant that people on both sides of the border like the spice, the banter and the emotional highs and lows. But they also know that it’s all about enjoying that particular contest. I think the onus is on some sections of the media to be very judicious and not get carried away because the media can influence the mood of the public. RK:Chennai ’99 will be a bit of an aberration in today’s world. Now, the mindset of the average Indian fan has changed. I don’t think they come to enjoy cricket, they come to watch their team win, which is a sad reflection of the times we live in where you need instant gratification. So, if you have a great contest between bat and ball, I don’t think people appreciate it as much as they would a home victory. The crowds are partisan. You expect more support for the home side, but you also expect them to support the sport. As a fan, if you are interested in the result, you are not interested in the sport. That we want only success is a sign of where we stand as a society. How do you look at what happened to Shami? WV, you coached Bengal when Shami was emerging through the ranks. WV:I had immediately put out a tweet saying that I have seen him and that he gives his all for any team that he represents. During his Ranji Trophy debut, he had dengue but that was detected after the game. But during the game, he bowled his heart out, even though he was running a temperature of 102. That’s the kind of attitude that Shami has. What happened after the Pakistan game was unfortunate. It’s so easy for people to type things. At the same time, it was heartening to see a lot of people support Shami. That settled a lot of matters and people who are mischievous on social media understood that beyond a certain level this won’t be tolerated. RK:Virat Kohli spoke about the whole issue and he spoke beautifully. He had some really strong, harsh and correct words to say. I love the fact that he called the people who are doing all these things ‘spineless’. It’s amazing how only when India loses a match to Pakistan that the religious identity of the person in question comes into play. Nobody said Shami was a Muslim when he got nine wickets on debut against the West Indies and won the Test for India in 2013. Shami is one among the 11 who played and lost to Pakistan. Criticise someone on the basis of their performance but to use religious or caste identity to cast aspersions is really sick. The Indian diaspora, be it in England or Australia, support the Indian team even if they are citizens of those countries. How do you look at this complexity? WV:Fans of Indian cricket, wherever they are, want India to win but it is impossible in sport to come on top of the opponent every time. Fans should show their disappointment in a less subdued manner. Even coaches or players don’t talk about the game immediately after it gets over. Because you may say things that you may not want to say. RK:We have people everywhere and the Indian team is the most loved team wherever it goes. You go to Adelaide and there is overwhelming support, you go to Durban and it’s almost like a home game, you go to Port of Spain in Trinidad and it’s like you are playing in India. When you have thousands of people supporting you when you go abroad, why can’t two to three here support some other team when they play against India? But you suddenly feel that is a blow to our patriotism, which is not on. Is it possible to be patriotic and be accepted for supporting other teams in these times? WV:It is definitely possible as long as you know how to compartmentalise different spheres. When you watch sport, you say yes, I am going to watch good cricket or a good game of tennis or a good round of golf. If you stick to that, then you will have a good time and you will come back. Sport, whether you’re a spectator or player or athlete, is all about the hope of doing better because everyone goes through ups and downs. These days, we see a lot of unwanted incidents happening in the wake of a sporting event. That is why administrators across the world put up notices, be it against racism or other issues. It’s come to that stage, which means that the public is failing to use its powers of discretion in expressing its disappointment and in the way it says things about athletes who it goes to see. RK:We support one team more than the other or one player more than the other. We want those people to win because we sort of vicariously live through them. But if you are a lover of sport, you will be able to strike the balance between disappointment at your hero losing and the delight at seeing a fantastic contest. I have my favourites. I am a big (Rafael) Nadal fan and I want him to win but would I abuse him if he loses? I wouldn’t. Would I abuse Federer if he beats Nadal? I wouldn’t. We must be thankful that we have so many fabulous performances across so many different disciplines. If you cannot appreciate sport for these geniuses, then I don’t think we can call ourselves sports lovers.  The mindset of the average Indian fan has changed. I don’t think they come to enjoy cricket, they come to watch their team win, which is a sad reflection of the times we live in where you need instant gratification. R. Kaushik||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/can-cricket-fandom-be-conflated-with-patriotism/article37571815.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The heavy lifting on climate action must begin||Will the recently concluded, and much reported on, Glasgow climate meeting (COP26) make a difference to humanity’s efforts to address global climate change? Glasgow’s success was that it finished building the scaffolding for climate action initiated through the Paris Agreement. But true success depends on whether countries are receptive to these nudges. Without generating greater political support for implementation within countries, international negotiations do risk becoming the ‘blah, blah, blah’ talk-fests that youth activists such as Greta Thunberg warn about. Hits and misses Yet, Glasgow was necessary for stronger action to address climate change because it put in place levers that stimulate domestic processes, such as the formulation of domestic pledges or ‘Nationally Determined Contributions’ (NDCs). Drawing on the insights from a webinar organised by the Centre for Policy Research, what were Glasgow’s successes and failures? Mitigation, or efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, as always, grabbed the headlines. Glasgow strengthened the Paris Agreement mechanism of eliciting pledges from countries and ratcheting them up over time. It requested countries to update and strengthen 2030 emission targets in their NDCs by the end of 2022, earlier than previously expected, created a benchmark of five yearly cycles for updates, urged countries to prepare long-term emissions strategies, and strengthened mechanisms to scrutinise both. Success at Glasgow was explicitly defined around ‘keeping 1.5 degrees alive’ through such pledges. When added up by modellers, the flurry of net-zero pledges extracted pre-Glasgow, including a surprise net zero by 2070 pledge by India, showed that limiting warming to 1.5º° is still technically feasible, but only just. In the jargon of climate negotiations, Glasgow clarified the ‘ambition cycle’, and this appears to have had results in the form of enhanced pledges. There are two problems with this interpretation. First, the Paris, and Glasgow, approach focusing on target-setting gives insufficient importance to the challenge of implementing those targets. Long-term aspirational targets to ‘keep 1.5 alive’ get the headlines, but detailed shorter term 2030 targets, for which today’s politicians can be held accountable, have received less attention. A focus on shorter term targets and their implementation — which India to its credit has been highlighting — will be important. Second, by calling on countries to strengthen targets to align with the Paris Agreement objectives without explicitly considering that countries have different roles and responsibilities in doing so risks side-stepping, again, the long-standing issue of climate equity. Future arguments over how we know whether a countries’ pledges are adequate and fair are guaranteed. On coal use The question of equity crystallised around a specific high profile clause calling for the ‘phase down of unabated coal power and phase out of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies’. India ended up at the centre of this particular storm, because it was the Indian Minister who read out an amendment modifying ‘phase-out’ to ‘phase-down’ for coal, among other changes, although the language originated from the U.S.-China statement. India’s real concerns included not precluding subsidies for social purposes, such as for cooking gas; querying whether from an equity point of view, all countries should be asked to limit coal use at the same time; and noting the lack of mention of oil and gas. On coal specifically, India is actually on a strong footing substantively, as our investments in new coal-fired plants have been much less than projected even a few years ago. Nonetheless, the term ‘phase-out’ is of considerable importance to vulnerable countries, and, that India introduced the amendment although the language originated elsewhere, has given us a somewhat unnecessary diplomatic black eye. From an environmental point of view, more explicit discussion of coal, but ideally all fossil fuels, is a positive, including for India. From a developmental view, however, India is concerned that explicit mention of coal constrains us in our choice of fuel. A possible way out is for India to explicitly seek global support for an accelerated transition away from coal, an approach taken by South Africa. Adaptation — preparing for the reality that some climate impacts are unavoidable — has long been neglected in global negotiations, reflecting a global power imbalance that places less weight on the concerns of vulnerable nations. In this context, it was a partial win that Glasgow set up an explicit two year work programme for a ‘global goal’ on adaptation. However, the important complementary agenda of ‘loss and damage’ – compensating for unavoidable impacts that go beyond adaptation — received at most lip service. Even though there was discussion of a specific mechanism, backed by funding, to the dismay of small, vulnerable nations, only a ‘dialogue’ was established. At the core is the fear among some developed countries that taking forward the loss and damage agenda will open the door to a call for reparations. Finance, the central issue Climate finance promised to be the central issue of COP26, with considerable frustration from developing countries that the decade-long commitment of $100 billion had not been met. Beyond expressing ‘deep regret’ at this failure — a diplomatic slap on the face for developed countries — Glasgow did no more than establish a work programme on post-2025 financing and continue tracking progress on the $100 billion. The exception was a call to double adaptation finance by 2025. Since current levels of finance are already low, this implies mobilising about $40 billion, which is well short of estimated needs; the United Nations finds current needs are $70 billion and rise considerably in coming years. However, there were indications that the climate finance discussion may become more complex. South Africa announced it had received multi-donor support of $8.5 billion to support a ‘just transition’ out of coal, and India is reportedly negotiating support from the World Bank to address coal mine closures. Former Bank of England Governor Mark Carney indicated that companies committed to net zero initiatives could marshal a scarcely believable $130 trillion, suggesting growing efforts to mobilise private finance. Developing countries have long insisted that publicly funded climate finance is a right devolving from the ‘polluter pays’ principle rather than aid. However, these tendencies suggest that to access substantial funds may require embracing a more multi-stranded approach. There were two particularly important ‘nuts and bolts’ elements of what is called the ‘Paris Rulebook’ that were completed in Glasgow. First, the transparency framework was completed, which includes reporting rules and formats for emissions, progress on pledges and finance contributions. While India and some other countries pushed for separate rules for developed and developing countries, the Glasgow outcomes narrowed this gap. To ratchet up pledges and action over time, this enhanced transparency is crucial and, other than issues of capacity, there is little justification for separate developing and developed country transparency requirements. The second key was completion of agreed rules for carbon markets, the complexities of which had stymied agreement for four years. For example, credits generated from earlier periods, including through the Clean Development Mechanism were permitted, but only from 2013 onwards. Rules were put in place to limit the scope for ‘double-counting’ of credits by more than one country. Support at home is now key What Glasgow accomplished was necessary, if not sufficient, for accelerated climate action. The meeting hit many, but not all, of its procedural benchmarks by building scaffolding for the future. But the real determinant of success or failure rests on national politics and popular support for climate change within countries — how countries use the scaffolding. For India, these politics are complex because they revolve around simultaneously balancing concerns over whether our policy space will be limited by inequities embedded in the global mitigation efforts, and our own interests as a vulnerable country in enhancing and accelerating climate action. A balanced view requires consideration of both objectives. Navroz K. Dubash is a Professor at the Centre for Policy Research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-heavy-lifting-on-climate-action-must-begin/article37571806.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Missing an inclusionary vision for the urban poor||In Chennai, where involuntary resettlement of slum dwellers has been practised for at least two centuries, the last two decades alone have seen over 55,000 families forcibly moved to large state-built ghettos outside the city. In the absence of a policy, these relocations have been governed by ad hoc government orders or by guidelines of specific projects or funding agencies. A narrow outlook In October 2021, the Tamil Nadu government released its first-ever draft “Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy” for public comment. While long awaited, the policy is also premature. It is not anchored in a comprehensive housing and habitat policy that defines a framework for affordable housing, slum clearance, and land use in which the relocation of slum dwellers to remote peripheries is specified as a last-ditch option. The draft policy aims to “ensure that slum dwellers are treated fairly and humanely when they are resettled from objectionable poromboke lands”. But resettlement needs to be located within an explicitly stated vision of integration and inclusion of vulnerable communities into the mainstream. Instead, this policy restricts its scope to managing procedures for eviction and resettlement. Mass ghettos on the peripheries of cities have emerged all over the country as the default mode for rehousing the evicted urban poor. The consequences have been well documented. In places such as Bawana (New Delhi), Vatwa (Ahmedabad), and Mahul (Mumbai), scholars, journalists, and fact-finding committees have highlighted the enduring pathologies produced by these poorly serviced colonies. While broken livelihoods are widely recognised as the most serious impact of resettlement, a host of other problems such as alcohol and substance abuse, criminalisation of youth, and safety threats to women and girls are also endemic to these sites. Many residents sell or rent out their allotments and return to informal settlements in the city to safeguard their painstakingly crafted pathways to a better life. A resettlement policy, dealing as it does with the city’s most vulnerable populations, must be visionary, proactive and far-sighted. It should ensure minimal disruption of the ecologies of survival and mobility that these households have constructed over time. If it needs to uproot them, it must ensure that the state does everything it can to support their rapid re-integration into the urban mainstream and improve their lives. Delhi’s slum rehabilitation policy recognises this by defining in situ rehabilitation as its principle strategy, with relocation envisaged only “in rare cases”. Tamil Nadu led the way Chennai has a history of implementing innovative and inclusionary models of slum clearance. Tamil Nadu historically led the country in providing large-scale low-income housing through land acquisition or by regularising and upgrading informal settlements. The sites and services projects of the 1980s, which produced around 57,000 plots in Chennai, proved scaleable, cost-effective, and successful in facilitating socio-economic mobility for their residents over the long term. The projects built mixed-class and mixed-use neighbourhoods by providing plots of varying sizes for different income groups on State-acquired land, and incorporating industrial and commercial spaces within the sites. By allowing families to design, build, and incrementally expand their homes to accommodate growing families or rental units, these schemes vastly expanded the supply of affordable housing over time with minimal outlay by the State. Despite their peripheral location, they were sited near existing developments where trunk infrastructure such as roads, water supply and public transport was already available. Thirty years later, they have emerged as thriving and dynamic neighbourhoods, well integrated into the urban fabric. The deficiencies Instead of leveraging these achievements to allow low-income families to consolidate their foothold in the city, the Tamil Nadu resettlement policy implicitly clings to the tired and discredited model of mass peripheral resettlement. The policy defines its scope as resettling people evicted “for implementing court orders, other developmental projects or enforcing various acts or rules”. In other words, it simply subserves the government’s implacable intent to remove “encroachers” — defined as non-titleholders — for a wide range of discretionary purposes ranging from mitigating disaster vulnerability to clearing land for “smoothing traffic” or for various infrastructural or developmental projects. Since a large proportion of urban land across Indian cities, including plots purchased and registered, lack the holy grail of legal title, the policy builds on a foundation of widespread vulnerability to eviction without recourse. Contrast this with Odisha’s award-winning slum rehabilitation project which is transforming urban economies and futures by giving land rights to slum dwellers. Despite pious language, the Tamil Nadu draft policy is churlish about any real commitments to integration. For example, in addressing the crucial question of distance, it stipulates that travel time by bus or train “should not be more than half an hour to reach the nearest urban areas from where people are expected to be relocated”. This is, perhaps deliberately, ambiguous. The “nearest urban area” could be a small town. A resettlement colony sited a 30-minute bus ride from a small town can effectively ruralise urban workers, as has occurred in the Gudapakkam resettlement colony built in 2014, about 50 km from Chennai city. A clear stipulation of the maximum distance from the previous residence would do the job that this clause pretends to be doing. The Delhi policy, for instance, specifies that the alternate accommodation will be provided “within a radius of 5 km”. A sensitive policy would build measures to ensure the adequacy, quality and timeliness of amenities in resettlement sites. While “integrated townships with all amenities” has been the stated norm for two decades now, resettlement colonies saw these amenities arrive slowly, haltingly, sometimes a decade or more after the move, often following sustained pressure from residents and activists, and often too late to prevent the irrevocable breakdown of fragile livelihood and educational trajectories. High drop-out rates, of women from the labour force and children from schools, have been the norm in these colonies. Engage with the problems Given this record, the resettlement policy must demonstrate a more convincing intent to provide decent service standards at the new sites. “Transport facilities” cannot mean starting with a few bus routes and increasing them over time, but must comprise adequate, reliable and affordable arrangements before resettlement to ensure that workers seamlessly maintain their links to their workplaces. Livelihood support cannot simply mean “skill development training” which almost surely will not translate into employment for an over-40-year-old vendor from the city. Most crucially, an effective policy must engage seriously with the complex problems that render these settlements unsafe for women, children and youth. Karen Coelho is an Associate Professor at the Madras Institute of Development Studies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/missing-an-inclusionary-vision-for-the-urban-poor/article37571809.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||In Telangana, politics over paddy||Ever since the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won the Huzurabad by-election in Telangana, relations between the national party and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government have deteriorated over the issue of paddy procurement. On November 7, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao held a press conference where he waved copies of various letters from the Food Corporation of India (FCI), the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, and the Department of Food and Public Distribution and said that farmers should not sow paddy as the Centre was no longer procuring paddy in the Rabi season. He also blamed State BJP president Bandi Sanjay for calling on farmers to sow paddy during this Rabi season and for saying that the BJP would make the TRS government buy the paddy. There were tense moments during Mr. Sanjay’s visit to paddy procurement centres in the Nalgonda and Suryapet districts where he said that the “government has to first buy paddy and supply the agreed quantity of rice through the FCI to the Centre”, which he said was not happening. However, Mr. Rao said after the TRS Legislature meeting on November 15, where it was decided that a ‘maha-dharna’ would be held on November 18, that the FCI was yet to specify the quantity of rice it would lift from the Kharif procurement. During the dharna on Thursday, he said about 5,000 of the over 6,600 paddy procurement centres planned were already open and about 10 lakh tonnes of paddy had been purchased from farmers so far. He also wanted clarity from the Centre on whether it would procure parboiled rice milled from the paddy produced in the Rabi season this year as Mr. Sanjay has been asking farmers to cultivate paddy in the Rabi season. In a letter to the Civil Supplies Department of Telangana on September 8, the FCI had said: “Owing to surplus parboiled rice in the country and its limited consumption, the Department of Food and Public Distribution (DFPD-GoI) has made it clear that FCI won’t accept parboiled rice from KMS 2021-22”. The DFPD wrote to the Telangana government on September 30 laying down conditions for lifting of the custom milled rice (CMR) pertaining to the 2020-21 Rabi season, midway of the procurement exercise. It has specifically asked the FCI to take a written undertaking from Telangana that it would not supply parboiled rice in future. Of the 50 lakh tonnes the FCI was supposed to lift for the 2020-21 Rabi season, 24 lakh tonnes were taken and conditions were laid down for lifting another 20 lakh tonnes. As Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy put it, production of raw rice is not economical in Telangana during the Rabi season due to extreme weather conditions. “Processing raw rice from the paddy produced in Rabi is not feasible as the percentage of broken rice in the CMR would be 30-50% against the out-turn of CMR fixed by the Centre at 67% for raw rice and 68% for boiled rice,” he said. This being the case, the State unit of the BJP has been carrying out protests demanding speeding up procurement of Kharif paddy stating that it is slow and inept and also asking farmers to sow paddy again this season, resulting in confusion among the farmings. On the other hand, Civil Supplies Minister G. Kamalakar stated that about 4,500 procurement centres were open and over 9 lakh tonnes of paddy had been purchased till November 16. The State government wants clarity on the raw rice FCI plans to lift from Telangana in a year so that it can advise its farmers on growing paddy as diversification of cropping needs time. While the TRS is trying to portray the BJP as a betrayer of Telangana’s interests, the BJP envisions a bright future for itself. chandrashekar.bhalki@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-telangana-politics-over-paddy/article37571817.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A stimulating alliance||The Centre will release over Rs. 95,000 crore in one stroke to States this month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Monday, after meeting with Chief Ministers and State Finance Ministers to discuss the state of the economy and to sustain the recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. After all, no amount of central policy fixes will suffice to revive the country’s long-somnolent investment cycle without States working in tandem. The Government set aside the spate of recent confrontations with States over revenue, GST compensation concerns, and their fears about ‘encroachment’ on their powers, to initiate an economy-focused dialogue independent of Budget consultations and GST Council machinations. Its ready acceptance of States’ request to expedite the sharing of taxable revenues — as in the case of GST compensation for this year — is a token of the faith it seeks to imbue. While most States have positive cash balances, access now to double the funds than usual will help them ramp up capital expenditure. The cash flow could also help several States catch up on their capex targets, on which hinges an additional borrowing limit of 0.5% of their Gross State Domestic Product. The Finance Ministry’s clarification that the excise duty cuts on petrol and diesel shall not dent the tax pool shared with States has also soothed frayed nerves. The rare and ‘one-off’ meeting with CMs yielded several ideas and policy proposals, including a simple demand that the Centre share leads about prospective investors and enunciate a clear policy on green clearances. While the Finance Ministry believes that investments are on the cusp of a take-off, public investments will need to do the heavy lifting for several more quarters before the private sector can be expected to spur the economy’s growth. The Centre and States need to combine forces to make it an easier and swifter journey through red tape for potential investors. Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal has said that just 10 States have joined the single window clearance system for investors, and four more may join next month. It not only makes sense to sustain this free-wheeling economic dialogue with States because the economy still needs collective hand-holding, but it also merits a broad-basing of the framework to include key economic ministries, and occasionally, the Prime Minister too. Investment facilitation was a key agenda item, so it would have been apt to include the Industry Minister in the deliberations to nudge States into joining the single window system. Closing this somewhat informal channel for dialogue with the States, outside the framework of NITI Aayog and the National Development Council, would be a wasted opportunity with embedded economic costs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-stimulating-alliance/article37571800.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Agreeing to disagree||As much as the virtual summit meeting between Presidents Joe Biden and Xi Jinping, spotlighted multiple points of continuing strategic dissonance between the U.S. and China, it equally appeared to underscore in their minds the need for them to find common ground on contentious issues including trade and tensions surrounding Taiwan and the South China Sea. The summit itself was a long time coming, given that Mr. Xi has not been able to travel abroad owing to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, and Mr. Biden entered office around that time too. Further, in March 2021, at a meeting in Anchorage, Alaska, between senior officials from both countries, a heated exchange ensued after U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said that without the rules-based international order there would be a “much more violent world” and that Chinese activities in Xinjiang, Hong Kong, and Taiwan, threaten that order, and were not internal matters. In that context, it is unsurprising that even though the summit meeting yielded no major breakthroughs, Beijing was quick to claim a diplomatic victory, with Chinese state media proclaiming, “Biden reiterates he doesn’t support Taiwan independence.” Such messaging is almost certainly directed towards a domestic audience given that Mr. Xi is consolidating power to secure a third term for himself, a process that will culminate next year in the CPC’s 20th Congress. At the top of the policy agenda that is causing bilateral friction is trade. After the bruising trade war with China prior to 2020, under a Trump White House, relief came in the form of the Phase 1 Trade Agreement, which requires that China buy $380 billion worth of American goods by the end of 2021. That has not happened, according to some analysts, in part owing to a shortfall in orders from Beijing for Boeing aircraft in view of the aviation slowdown. Yet, compromise may not be far away in this space, as the U.S. Trade Representative hinted that the Trump-era practice of permitting exemptions for certain goods from trade tariffs may be resumed. On Taiwan’s independence, while the U.S. post-summit readouts suggest that Washington is adhering to its long-standing policy in this matter — that it acknowledges but does not recognise Beijing’s claim over Taiwan under the One China policy — the Chinese side indicated that Mr. Xi said, “It is playing with fire.....” Such comments likely signal that China will respond robustly to any western moves seen as strengthening Taiwanese independence, for example through direct arms sales to Taipei. Both sides will have to be even-handed in managing their conflicts on trade and regional tensions or else risk these issues spilling over into the global arena and disrupting the fragile ongoing recovery in economic growth and public health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/agreeing-to-disagree/article37571801.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Peking wooing Arab world||Beirut, Nov. 18: China seems to be mending its diplomatic fences with the Arab countries. This is the impression gained from the Chinese Deputy Foreign Minister, Mr. Chiao Kuanhua’s inaugural speech in the U.N. General Assembly expressing support for Palestinian and other Arab peoples’ struggle against aggression. For while China’s undiluted support for Arab causes was taken for granted few expected such a powerful statement from Peking in the U.N. As screaming banner headlines carried Mr. Chiao’s U.N. speech in the Arab press it was announced from Jordan that an exchange of Ambassadors with China would take place. Peking has no relations with Jordan and Saudi Arabia. Bahrain, Qatar and Oman have no diplomatic ties because of their recent emergence to authority. Peking is now busy trying to improve relations with Cairo and Khartoum (Sudan). Peking has consistently maintained that West Asia problems could only be solved through war and denounced the Russians for working on a political solution. Arab observers are now speculating about the definition of Chinese support — whether they advocate war or a political solution. Meanwhile Israel is growing increasingly suspicious of almost every country. It is suspicious of American intentions because of the Nixon Administration holding up the supply of Phantom jets. The French embargo of 1967 on supply of 20 Mirage fighters is taken as not only a hostile act but also as a breach of contract.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/peking-wooing-arab-world/article37571810.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Auto dealers experience ‘worst festive season in a decade’||Automobile dealers faced their ‘worst festive season’ in a decade, with retail sales declining 18% during the 42-day long festival period this year, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) said on Thursday. “This was the worst festive season in a decade for auto dealers as a semiconductor shortage in passenger vehicles, along with subdued demand for entry-level cars” hurt sales, said FADA President Vinkesh Gulati. “Customers in this category continued to conserve money due to their families healthcare needs,” he noted, adding that the two-wheeler segment continued to witness low sales. “The rural distress in retails coupled with frequent price hikes, triple-digit fuel prices and customers conserving funds for healthcare emergencies kept the demand low. In fact, walk-ins and customer enquiries were also ultra-lean during the period,” Mr. Gulati observed. Total retail sales across segments slid to 20.91 lakh units this festive period, from 25.56 lakh units in 2020, and 26.41 lakh units in 2019, FADA data show. Passenger vehicle registrations slumped 26% to 3,24,542 units, and two-wheeler sales declined by 18% to 15,79,642. Tractor sales also fell 23% to 56,841 units. However, commercial vehicles and three-wheelers saw sales grow 10% to 77,066 units and rise 53% to 52,802 units, respectively. Given the huge backlog of orders in the PV segment, FADA said there was scope for a good recovery in retail sales towards the end of the year if OEMs were able to realign supply with demand. It also urged two-wheeler makers to come up with attractive schemes to help revive entry-level demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/auto-dealers-experience-worst-festive-season-in-a-decade/article37571787.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC allows Centre to sell Rs. 40,000-crore HZL shares||The Supreme Court on Thursday permitted the Centre to go ahead with the proposed sale of its 29.54% residual shareholding in Hindustan Zinc Limited (HZL) in the open market. “The Union government... is exercising its rights as a shareholder,” a Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and B.V. Nagarathna held in a 62-page judgment. The government estimates the value of its shareholding to be about Rs. 40,000 crore. It said the “considered decision” to offload it in the open market was to ‘strengthen revenues for public purposes’. “Since the disinvestment of 70.5% shares in the first instance is not under challenge, HZL has ceased to be a government firm governed by the Nationalisation Act 1976. Effective management and control stand transferred to Sterlite Operations and Ventures Limited. “The transfer of 29.54% of the residual equity shareholding by the Union Government of a company in which it has no surviving control would only raise finances for the government and does not impact management or control,” the court noted. However, the court directed a CBI probe into the 2002 disinvestment in HZL, listing several reasons for suspecting foul play, including the decision at the time to sell 26% instead of 25%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sc-allows-centre-to-sell-rs-40000-crore-hzl-shares/article37571783.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Google Assistant to help book shots; GPay to support Hinglish||Google on Thursday made a slew of announcements for the India market, including Google Assistant-enabled vaccine booking, introduction of ‘Hinglish’ language on Google Pay, and a partnership with Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) for a Rs. 110-crore financial assistance to micro-enterprises. “Across people, businesses, and institutions, the outbreak of COVID-19 has catapulted India’s adoption of digital to unprecedented levels,” Sanjay Gupta, country head & vice president, Google India, said at the seventh edition of ‘Google for India’. Google is piloting its first-ever Google Assistant-enabled, end-to-end vaccine booking flow in India that would guide users through the process of booking a vaccination appointment on the CoWIN website with voice guidance in eight Indian languages at each step. Language option Google said it was also introducing a new feature in Search that would give users an option to access web pages from other languages and view it in their preferred local language. The company also announced an India-first feature that would enable people to hear Search results out loud, making it easier for users who prefer consuming information by listening. For Google Pay, the company announced an additional option of selecting ‘Hinglish’ as a preferred language, a first for Google globally. The company will soon also roll out a speech-to-text support to allow users to use voice as an input to add account numbers into the app to initiate a payment, and an additional feature to split bills for shared expenses within a group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/google-assistant-to-help-book-shots-gpay-to-support-hinglish/article37571785.ece
19 November 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI panel moots law to regulate digital lending||A Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Working Group (WG) on digital lending, including lending through online platforms and mobile apps, has recommended a separate legislation to oversee such lending as well as a nodal agency to vet the Digital Lending Apps. The group ‘set up in the backdrop of business conduct and customer protection concerns arising out of the spurt in digital lending activities’ has also mooted a Self-Regulatory Organisation for participants in the digital lending ecosystem. Besides a separate law to prevent illegal digital lending activities, the group has proposed development of certain baseline technology standards and compliance with those standards as a pre-condition for offering digital lending solutions. It has also suggested that disbursement of loans be made directly into the bank accounts of borrowers and servicing of loans be done only through the bank accounts of the digital lenders. All data collection must require the prior consent of borrowers and come ‘with verifiable audit trails’ and the data itself ought to be stored locally, it mooted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-panel-moots-law-to-regulate-digital-lending/article37571780.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||Centre accepts Cairn’s offer on retrospective tax||Moving quickly towards ending a retrospective tax dispute with a firm that gave India its largest oilfield, the government has accepted Cairn Energy PLC’s undertakings which would allow for the refund of taxes, sources said. The company had earlier this month given required undertakings indemnifying the Indian government against future claims as well as agreeing to drop any legal proceedings anywhere in the world. The government has now accepted this and issued Cairn a ‘Form-II’, committing to refund the tax collected to enforce the retrospective tax demand, two sources in direct knowledge of the development said. Following the issuance of Form-II, Cairn will now start withdrawing all cases in international courts. Once this is complete, the company will be issued a Rs. 7,900 crore refund, they said, adding the withdrawal of cases may take up to three-four weeks. A senior finance ministry official confirmed the government accepting the company’s undertakings.  Cairn will now start withdrawing all cases in international courts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-accepts-cairns-offer-on-retrospective-tax/article37571790.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||Paytm shares tumble 27%, high valuation cited||Shares of One97 Communications Ltd., Paytm’s parent company, made a weak market debut, tumbling more than 27% from the issue price of Rs. 2,150. The stock opened at Rs. 1,955, and ended with a 27.3% decline at Rs. 1,564.15 on the BSE. “Paytm, the biggest IPO in India so far, debuted in the secondary market on a weaker note as compared to our expectations of a flat listing,” Santosh Meena, head of research, Swastika Investmart, said. Ant Group-backed Paytm’s Rs. 18,300-crore IPO was subscribed 1.89 times last week. The offer size was greater than miner Coal India’s Rs. 15,000-crore IPO a decade ago. The subscription that Paytm commanded was “much lower compared to the other recently listed companies,” said Parth Nyati, founder, Tradingo. He added that it was likely the company had sought a high valuation due to its brand value. Founded by Vijay Shekhar Sharma, One97 is a digital ecosystem for consumers and merchants, offering payments and other financial services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/paytm-shares-tumble-27-high-valuation-cited/article37571793.ece
19 November 2021||Bengaluru,||‘80% of global Indians aim to invest in India’||About 80% of respondents who participated in an HSBC survey conducted among 4,152 global Indians said they would make investments in India. Some 32% of third-generation global Indians said they were planning to increase their investments in India to a ‘great deal’ in the next three years. First-generation (45%), second-generation (38%) and third-generation (32%) of global Indian respondents said friends and family would determine their investment plans for India. According to the study, global Indians are planning to make a range of sustainable investments in both India and their country of residence in the next two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/80-of-global-indians-aim-to-invest-in-india/article37571777.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sahara firm to park Rs. 2,000 cr. with SEBI: SAT||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) on Thursday asked Sahara group firm Sahara India Commercial Corporation Ltd. (SICCL) and its then directors, including Subrata Roy, to deposit Rs. 2,000 crore with SEBI within four weeks. Following the deposit, the attachment order against the firm and its directors would be lifted, SAT said in an order. The present appeal had been filed against a SEBI order of October 2018, directing SICCL and its then directors to refund Rs. 14,000 crore collected by the firm via issue of Optionally Fully Convertible Debentures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sahara-firm-to-park-rs-2000-cr-with-sebi-sat/article37571778.ece
19 November 2021||BENGALURU,||‘Indo-U.S. trade sees strong rebound’||The 2021 data indicates a strong rebound in India-U.S. bilateral trade, according to a U.S. official. U.S. Consul General Judith Ravin said growth in economic ties between the two countries had been extraordinary, with trade exploding from approximately $20 billion in 2001 to just over $145 billion in 2019. “The 2021 data indicates a strong rebound, and if it continues, we could be on track to exceed our 2019 numbers,” Ms. Ravin said. U.S. companies continue to be the biggest source of foreign direct investment, fuelling continued growth in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indo-us-trade-sees-strong-rebound/article37571781.ece
19 November 2021||MUMBAI,||Oct. domestic air passenger traffic up 70.5%||Domestic air passenger volume spiked 70.5% in October to 89.85 lakh over the same month of 2020, DGCA data showed on Thursday. The Indian carriers had flown 52.71 lakh passengers in October last year. IndiGo in October 2021 flew 48.07 lakh passengers, accounting for 53.5% of the total domestic traffic. Air India, which is now set to go to its new owner Tata Group, transported 10.61 lakh passengers with an 11.8% market share, according to the data. Full-service carrier Vistara, which is the Tata-SIA joint venture airline, flew 6.96 lakh passengers during October, cornering 7.8% of the total pie.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/oct-domestic-air-passenger-traffic-up-705/article37571788.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kubota adds 5.9% of Escorts for Rs. 1,873 cr.||Farm machinery major Escorts Ltd. and Kubota Corporation on Thursday said the Japanese partner will acquire an additional 5.9% stake in the Indian firm for Rs. 1,872.74 crore, paving the way for the latter to become a majority stakeholder, for which it could end up investing close to Rs. 10,000 crore. Kubota will raise its stake in Escorts to 14.99% after a preferential issue of 93.64 lakh shares. It will become a joint promoter. In a filing, Escorts said Kubota is making an open offer to public shareholders to buy up to 3.75 crore shares representing 26% for Rs. 7,498.31 crore. Assuming full acceptance, Kubota’s stake in Escorts would rise to 44.8% after the first capital reduction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kubota-adds-59-of-escorts-for-rs-1873-cr/article37571791.ece
19 November 2021||Hyderabad,||GMR wins airport project in Indonesia||GMR Airports has emerged as the winning bidder for the development and operation of Kualanamu International Airport in Medan, Indonesia. The bid was won in a closely-contested international competitive bid process, said GMR Airports, with which wholly owned subsidiary GMR Airports International B.V had bid as a consortium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gmr-wins-airport-project-in-indonesia/article37571776.ece
19 November 2021||Chennai,||TVS Supply Chain picks up controlling stake in FIT 3PL Warehousing for an ‘undisclosed sum’||TVS Supply Chain Solutions (SCS) said on Thursday it had acquired a controlling stake in Bengaluru-based FIT 3PL Warehousing Pvt. Ltd., an end-to-end contract logistics services provider. TVS Supply Chain Solutions said it had picked-up 69.1% stake in FIT 3PL, from FIT Consulting and Services Pvt. Ltd.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-supply-chain-picks-up-controlling-stake-in-fit-3pl-warehousing-for-an-undisclosed-sum/article37571789.ece
19 November 2021||Ranchi,||Upbeat Rohit’s men will look to go for the kill||R. Ashwin’s Twitter post on Thursday morning read like a redemption song. “It was good to be back playing T20s for India in India with a good crowd cheering on,” he tweeted. Indeed, Ashwin’s return to the T20I fold has been a long time coming. Under Virat Kohli, the off-spinner was often overlooked, with the likes of Kuldeep Yadav, Yuzvendra Chahal, Rahul Chahar, Krunal Pandya and Varun Chakravarthy getting the nod in the playing eleven. Most recently, Ashwin was surprisingly overlooked for the crucial Pakistan and New Zealand outings in the ICC T20 World Cup, and was given a chance only against the minnows. Proving a point With a skilful 2/23 spell against New Zealand in the first T20I at Jaipur on Wednesday, Ashwin proved that he can thrive in the shortest format. The Tamil Nadu cricketer broke a dangerous 109-run partnership between Martin Guptill and Mark Chapman, defeating Chapman with a classical flighted delivery. In the same over, he had Glenn Phillips all at sea with his variations, before taking him out with a ball which straightened. The second outing at JSCA International Stadium Complex here on Friday will serve as another chance for Ashwin to stake his claim as the nation’s best T20I spinner. Ashwin is pleased to play under new head coach Rahul Dravid, telling the host broadcaster, “He (Dravid) won’t leave much to chance, and he’ll be all about preparation and process, so that we can bring the happiness back into the Indian dressing room.” Suryakumar Yadav is another player who did his reputation no harm. After a disappointing run in the World Cup, Suryakumar returned to the party with a match-winning 40-ball 62. Suryakumar may be comfortable in the No. 3 spot, but the Mumbaikar insisted that he is willing to bat in any position to help the team. “I have batted from the opening spot all the way to five-drop. I’m happy to bat in any position. I’ve been playing at No. 3 for the last three years for my franchise (Mumbai Indians). I like to express myself in matches the way I do in nets. I’ve been playing the same shots for the last two-three years. I enjoy playing in this format,” the ever-confident Suryakumar said after his Man-of-the-match performance on Wednesday. Bhuvneshwar Kumar also has a point to prove. The pacer went wicketless in India’s opening T20 World Cup game, against Pakistan, and was replaced by Shardul Thakur. At Jaipur, Bhuvneshwar served a timely reminder of what he brings to the table. He moved the new ball around corners, and foxed the batters with slower deliveries in the death. There is hope yet for comeback stories under the Rohit Sharma-Rahul Dravid combine.  The teams (from):   India: Rohit Sharma (Capt.), K.L. Rahul (Vice-capt.), Ruturaj Gaikwad, Shreyas Iyer, Suryakumar Yadav, Rishabh Pant, Ishan Kishan, Venkatesh Iyer, Yuzvendra Chahal, R. Ashwin, Axar Patel, Avesh Khan, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Deepak Chahar, Harshal Patel, and Mohammed Siraj.   New Zealand: Tim Southee (Capt.), Todd Astle, Trent Boult, Mark Chapman, Lockie Ferguson, Martin Guptill, Kyle Jamieson, Adam Milne, Daryl Mitchell, Jimmy Neesham, Glenn Phillips, Mitchell Santner, Tim Seifert, and Ish Sodhi.   Match starts at 7 p.m .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-buoyed-by-ashwin-bhuvneshwar-show/article37571903.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Karnataka nails Bengal in the Super Over||From staring at elimination in fading light to a place in the semifinals of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, Karnataka covered the distance riding on skipper Manish Pandey’s handiwork. When Bengal needed a run to win off the last ball, Pandey’s throw found the stumps at the non-striker’s end to run out Akash Deep and forced the Super Over. After Bengal ended at 5 for two off four deliveries of Super Over, Pandey took two runs off the first ball and then sent the next soaring into the stands behind mid-wicket as Karnataka avenged the loss suffered in the league nine days ago at Guwahati. This thriller followed Tamil Nadu’s dominating chase of Kerala’s 181/4 with five wickets to spare. At the Air Force ground, Vidarbha shut out Rajasthan with a nine-wicket drubbing and Hyderabad won by 30 runs against Gujarat. The Karnataka-Bengal face-off turned out to be the match of the competition. After Karnataka posted 160/5, built largely on Karun Nair’s unbeaten 29-ball 55 (4x4, 3x6), Bengal started with a 20-run over from Vijaykumar Vyshak and stayed on course till top-scorer Writtick Chatterjee (51, 40b, 2x4, 3x6) exited in the 15th over. Last-over drama But Karnataka, back in the game after Suchith’s twin-wicket over, had to deal with Ritwik Chowdhury (36 n.o., 18b, 4x4, 2x6). Needing 20 runs off the final over, from medium pacer Vidyadhar Patil, Ritwik hit 6, 6, 1 and Akash Deep hit a straight-driven boundary. Two runs, including an overthrow, followed and Bengal needed a run off the last ball. But Pandey had other ideas. In the Super Over, left-arm spinner K.C. Cariappa scalped Mohammad Kaif off the second ball and Sreevats Goswami was run out — for the second time in the match — off the fourth to set the stage for Pandey to put the finishing touches. Earlier, in the Tamil Nadu-Kerala match, opener Rohan Kunnummal (51, 43b, 5x4) laid the foundation and Vishnu Vinod ensured that Sanju Samson’s second-ball duck did not hurt Kerala by smashing an unbeaten 65 (26b, 2x4, 7x6) as 23, 19 and 20 runs came off the last three overs. Undeterred, TN batters took up the responsibility and even without a half-century, finished the job in a business-like manner. The early loss of N. Jagadeesan brought Sai Sudarshan (46, 31b, 7x7) and Hari Nishaanth (32, 22b, 2x4, 2x6) together. Skipper Vijay Shankar (33, 26b, 1x4, 2x6) and Sanjay Yadav (32, 22b, 1x4, 2x6) gave no respite to Kerala. Shahrukh Khan produced an unbeaten 9-ball 19 with two sixes before M. Mohammad hit the winning six off the first ball he faced.  Saturday’s semifinals: Tamil Nadu vs Hyderabad and Karnataka vs Vidarbha.   The scores: Karnataka 160/5 in 20 overs (Karun Nair 55 n.o., Rohan Kadam 30) tied with Bengal 160/8 in 20 overs (Writtick Chatterjee 51, Ritwik Roy Chowdhury 36 n.o., M. B. Darshan 3/26). Karnataka won in the Super Over.   Kerala 181/4 in 20 overs (Vishnu Vinod 65 n.o., Rohan Kunnummal 51, Sachin Baby 33) lost to Tamil Nadu 187/5 in 19.3 overs (Sai Sudarshan 46, Vijay Shankar 33, Hari Nishaanth 32, Sanjay Yadav 32, Unnikrishnan Manukrishnan 3/26).   Hyderabad 158/5 in 20 overs (Tilak Varma 75, Tanmay Agarwal 31) bt Gujarat 128/8 in 20 overs (Ripal Patel 35, T. Ravi Teja 3/27).   Rajasthan 84/8 in 20 overs (Kamlesh Nagarkoti 39 n.o.) lost to Vidarbha 87/1 in 14.5 overs (Atharva Taide 40 n.o.).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karnataka-nails-bengal-in-the-super-over/article37572158.ece
19 November 2021||Guadalajara (Mexico),||Muguruza emerges champion||Former World No. 1 Garbine Muguruza beat Anett Kontaveit 6-3, 7-5 to become the first Spaniard to win the elite season-ending WTA Finals here on Wednesday. Muguruza, winner of the 2016 French Open and 2017 Wimbledon titles, capped a 2021 campaign that saw her return to the highest level with titles in Dubai and Chicago after three years outside the top 10. The 28-year-old is projected to end the year at number three in the world. “I’m just very happy I proved to myself once again I can be the best, I can be the maestra , like how we say in Spanish,” she said. Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario was the only other Spanish player to reach the WTA Finals championship match, falling to German great Steffi Graf in 1993 at Madison Square Garden in New York. The event was moved to Guadalajara from Shenzhen, China, because of the coronavirus pandemic, and Muguruza — who won back-to-back titles in Monterrey in 2018 and 2019 — was a favourite of Mexican fans.  Doubles winners The doubles title went to the Czech duo of Barbora Krejcikova and Katerina Siniakova, who beat Hsieh Su-Wei of Taiwan and Elise Mertens of Belgium 6-3, 6-4. The Czechs finished the tournament unbeaten to claim their fifth title of 2021 — a haul that included their third career Grand Slam doubles title at Roland Garros and an Olympic gold medal in Tokyo.  The results (finals): Garbine Muguruza bt Anett Kontaveit 6-3, 7-5.   Doubles: Barbora Krejcikova & Katerina Siniakova bt Elise Mertens & Hsieh Su-Wei 6-3, 6-4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/muguruza-emerges-champion/article37571797.ece
19 November 2021||Bali,||Prannoy knocks out Axelsen||P.V. Sindhu, K. Srikanth and H.S. Prannoy registered come-from-behind victories to advance to the quarterfinals of the Indonesia Masters Super 750 badminton tournament here on Thursday. The highlight of the day was Prannoy’s stunning 14-21, 21-19, 21-16 upset victory over Tokyo Olympics gold medallist Victor Axelsen. After losing the first game, Prannoy made a sensational recovery to eke out a memorable win against the World No. 2. This was World No. 32 Prannoy’s first victory in six attempts against Axelsen. Reigning World champion Sindhu, seeded third, took 47 minutes to record a 17-21, 21-7, 21-12 win over Spain’s Clara Azurmendi. Playing against World No. 47 Azurmendi for the first time, Sindhu went down in the first game before putting up a dominant performance in the next two to register a brilliant victory. The two-time Olympic medallist will now lock horns with World No. 30 Neslihan Yigit. Sindhu has a 3-0 head-to-head record against the Turk. Earlier, former World No. 1 Srikanth dispatched Indonesia’s sixth seed Jonatan Christie 13-21, 21-18, 21-15. The unseeded Srikanth will meet Prannoy in the quarterfinals. Bowing out However, it was curtains for young Lakshya Sen and the mixed doubles pair of Dhruv Kapila and N. Sikki Reddy and the women’s pair of Ashwini Ponappa and Sikki Reddy. The 20-year-old Lakshya went down 13-21, 19-21 to the top seed and two-time World champion Kento Momota of Japan.  The results (involving Indians, second round):   Men: H.S. Prannoy bt Victor Axelsen (Den) 14-21, 21-19, 21-16; K. Srikanth bt Jonatan Christie (Ina) 13-21, 21-18, 21-15.   Women: P.V. Sindhu bt Clara Azurmendi (Esp) 17-21, 21-7, 21-12. Doubles: Ashwini Ponappa & N. Sikki Reddy lost to Jongkolphan Kititharakul & Rawinda Prajongjai (Tha) 18-21, 12-21.   Mixed doubles: Dhruv Kapila & Sikki Reddy lost to Supak Jomkoh & Supissara Paewsampran (Tha) 15-21, 23-21, 18-21 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/prannoy-knocks-out-axelsen/article37571894.ece
19 November 2021||KOLKATA,||‘Hero’ Arjun climbs to the top||Earlier this month, Arjun Erigaisi caused a sensation in the Latvian capital Riga. At the Lindores Abbey Blitz tournament, he won his first nine games beating some of the biggest names in international chess. It looks like he is still in that kind of form. The 18-year-old from Telangana moved to the sole lead going into the final day of the rapid section of the Tata Steel Chess. At the end of the second day, he was on five points after having won all his three games at the National Library on Thursday. Following him one point behind him were R. Praggnanandhaa and top seed Levon Aronian, the Armenian who had won his three games on the opening day to take the lead. In third place, with 3.5 points, was Vidit Gujrathi. Arjun will take on B. Adhiban, the man who is struggling to live up to his nickname of ‘The Beast’, in the seventh round, Gujrathi in the eighth and Aronian in the ninth. They are all formidable rivals, but will be aware that the momentum is with the youngster who has the second-lowest FIDE rating for rapid chess among all the 10 contestants here. If it took Arjun 92 moves to win his first game of the day, against R. Vaishali — the Spanish Game progressed to a rook-and-pawn ending — and he needed only 19 to beat Sam Shankland, the third-seeded American. Sandwiched between those wins was the 32-move one against second seed and former World blitz champion Le Quang Liem of Vietnam. While wrapping up the day’s action, Viswanathan Anand, who is here as a mentor and brand ambassador of the tournament, called Arjun “the hero of the day.”  The results: Sixth round: Le Quang Liem (Vie) lost to Parham Maghsoodloo; R. Praggnanandhaa drew with Levon Aronian (Arm); Karthikeyan Murali drew with Vidit Gujrathi; R. Vaishali drew with B. Adhiban; Arjun Erigaisi bt Sam Shankland (USA).   Fifth round: Arjun bt Liem; Shankland bt Vaishali; Adhiban drew with Karthikeyan; Gujrathi drew with Praggnanandhaa; Aronian drew with Maghsoodloo.   Fourth round: Liem bt Aronian; Maghsoodloo drew with Gujrathi; Praggnanandhaa bt Adhiban; Karthikeyan drew with Shankland; Vaishali lost to Arjun.   The standings: 1. Arjun 5; 2-3. Praggnanandhaa and Aronian 4; 4. Gujrathi 3.5; 5-7. Shankland, Maghsoodloo andd Karthikeyan 3; 8. Liem 2.5; 9-10. Vaishali and Adhiban 1 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hero-arjun-climbs-to-the-top/article37571901.ece
19 November 2021||DHAKA,||Jyothi wins women’s individual title||Seasoned compound archer V. Jyothi Surekha toppled two Korean rivals on the trot to claim the compound women’s individual title at the Asian archery championships here on Thursday. After India, comprising Jyothi and young Rishabh Yadav, lost to the Korean duo of Yunhee Kim and Yonghee Choi 155-154 in the compound mixed team final to take the silver medal, Jyothi returned stronger to show her class. The 25-year-old, who secured three silver medals in the World championships in Yankton, USA, in September, shot 13 10s on her way to beat former World champion Yunhee 148-143 in the semifinals. In the final, the Indian produced another brilliant performance to record a narrow 146-145 win over Yoohyun Oh. Jyothi, who won three ends by scoring perfect 30s, had a two-point lead going into the final end. She scored 28 against the Korean’s 29, but still managed to emerge as the champion.  Yoohyun’s final 9 was challenged by the Korean contingent members as they thought it was a 10. However, the judge stuck to his decision. “The Koreans made a hue and cry over the decision and marched to the target which is not allowed as per rules,” said an Indian official. In compound men’s individual competition, the experienced Abhishek Verma got the better of young compatriot Mohit Deshwal 147-146 in the semifinals but lost to Korean Jongho Kim 149-148 to take the silver medal. Mohit also lost his bronze medal match to Sergey Khristich of Kazakhstan 148-145.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jyothi-wins-womens-individual-title/article37571795.ece
19 November 2021||HYDERABAD,||‘Season is filled with possibilities’||Hyderabad FC head coach Manolo Marquez said the team, which finished fifth last season, had to be very positive and optimistic as it begins the campaign in the 2021 ISL with a big game against Chennaiyin FC on November 23 in Goa.      During a virtual media briefing from Goa on Thursday, Marquez said the objective would be to keep improving upon last season’s showing. “Yes, I feel it was a story of missed chances in some big games. But overall it was a fantastic performance,” he said. “We played good football and will definitely try to be much better this time around as the season is filled with full of possibilities,” Marquez said. “The target will be of course to win every game like the opponents too wish,” he said with a big smile. Tough game On the game against Chennaiyin, he said it would be a big and tough game and like all other big teams would have problems in winning for all the teams look equal. “Yes, all our players are available as of now,” he said about his team. “Rohit Danu will be one of the most important players for us. He is just 19 and a very smart player,” he said to another query. “The key to be a successful manager or a coach is to have the passion and for the players also to have the right kind of mental toughness. You have to be strong to brush aside the few disappointments that come your way like feeling down after missing a couple of consecutive passes on the field,” the HFC head coach said. “Well, the rule of each team must comprise four foreign players and seven Indian players is good for the young Indian talent. Indian football has plenty of talented youngsters as was evident when many from the HFC also went on to represent India in the Asian-level championships,” Marquez said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/season-is-filled-with-possibilities/article37572441.ece
19 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Mohd. Sporting is the champion||Mohammedan Sporting ended a 40-year title drought as it reclaimed the prestigious Calcutta Football League’s premier division-A crown, beating Railway FC by a solitary goal at the Salt Lake Stadium, here on Thursday. The ‘Black Panthers’, who last won the league title in 1981, regained the honour, thanks to a goal in the third minute of the action by Trinidad and Tobago forward Marcus Joseph. Mohammedan Sporting gained from the absence of city giants Mohun Bagan and East Bengal, who stayed out of the 123-year-old League citing different reasons. Sporting became the automatic favourite and justified the faith of its supporters by beating a resolute Railways side by the narrowest margin possible. The win brought back memories of its last win in the presence of some of its former players, who were invited by the club to witness the remaking of history. This was the 12th CFL title for Mohammedan Sporting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mohd-sporting-is-the-champion/article37572519.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nitin endures pain, stuns Vanshelboim||Nitin Kumar Sinha continued to enact his magic as he overcame spells of acute physical pain to beat top seed Eric Vanshelboim of Ukraine 3-6, 7-6(4), 6-0 in the pre-quarterfinals of the $15,000 ITF men’s tennis tournament on Thursday. Down 2-4 after losing the first set, the 22-year-old Nitin played with conviction to expose the chinks in his opponent’s game. He failed to serve out the set after taking a 5-4 lead, but handled the tie-break with composure to swing the match around. Underarm serves In the decider, Nitin raced to a 4-0 lead but at 0-40 in the fifth game, unable to serve normal, he executed five underarm serves to telling effect in going up 5-0. There was no further resistance from the top seed and Nitin unleashed a backhand down the line winner to celebrate a memorable victory in two hours and 47 minutes. In the quarterfinals, Nitin will challenge qualifier Vishnu Vardhan who eased past sixth seed Dusty Boyer of the US for the loss of six games. In another lively match, 19-year-old Dev Javia recovered from being down 0-3 in the second set after losing the first, and turned the match on its head against Digvijay Pratap Singh. He will play Philip Sekulic of Australia in the quarterfinals. The Aussie beat fourth seed Manish Sureshkumar who had beaten him in the final last week in Indore. Sekulic put his forceful forehand to good use in shutting out Manish who tried gamely till the end to make a better fight of it. The fourth quarterfinal will be between Niki Poonacha and the second seed Sidharth Rawat.  The results:   Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Nitin Kumar Sinha bt Eric Vanshelboim (Ukr) 3-6, 7-6(4), 6-0; Vishnu Vardhan bt Dusty Boyer (US) 6-3, 6-3; Valentin Vacherot (Fra) bt Zsombor Velcz (Hun) 6-3, 6-2; Abhinav Sanjeev Shanmugam bt S.D. Prajwal Dev 6-3, 3-6, 6-4; Dev Javia bt Digvijay Pratap Singh 3-6, 6-4, 6-2; Philip Sekulic (Aus) bt Manish Sureshkumar 6-4, 6-2; Niki Poonacha bt Rishab Agarwal 6-4, 6-3; Sidharth Rawat bt Arvid Nordquist (Swe) 6-0, 1-0 (retired).   Doubles (quarterfinals): Saketh Myneni & Vishnu Vardhan bt Ishaque Eqbal & Faisal Qamar 7-6(4), 6-2; Paras Dahiya & Parikshit Somani bt Digvijay Pratap Singh & Manish Sureshkumar 5-1 (retired); Julian Cash (GBr) & Zsombor Velcz (Hun) bt Romain Faucon (Bel) & Nicolas Tepmahc (Fra) 6-2, 6-2; Anirudh Chandrasekar & Niki Poonacha bt Adil Kalyanpur & Rishi Reddy 7-6(5), 7-5 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nitin-endures-pain-stuns-vanshelboim/article37572306.ece
19 November 2021||BENGALURU,||Indian National Basketball League from Jan. 4||The Basketball Federation of India (BFI) is set to launch the Indian National Basketball League, a competition featuring the nine best men’s and women’s teams at the Senior National Championship to be held in Indore from January 4 to 10. At a media briefing here on Thursday, it was announced that the league will be played after the conclusion of the senior Nationals in a home-and-away format. But it will not embrace the franchise model that many sports in India have adopted and also has no plans to rope in foreign players. Headstart Arena India, a Punjab-based recreational, cultural and sporting activities company which also has business interests in Australia, has been granted a five-year license by the BFI to run the competition and also help promote the 3x3 version of the game. The BFI-INBL 3x3 project is already underway, with the pilot Bengaluru Open scheduled for this weekend. The initiative is slated to expand to other cities in the days ahead. K. Govindaraj, BFI president, said the INBL’s aim was to provide players with competitive games “every second weekend” to improve their standards and look to qualify for competitions such as the Olympics and World Cups. “At the top will be the high-quality league in the regular format, which will supplement strengthening the National team. And then we will have the pan-India city-based FIBA 3x3 competitions which will increase the participation and bring in new talent,” Govindaraj added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-national-basketball-league-from-jan-4/article37572154.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||India women’s squad for Brazil tourney||The Indian women’s football team head coach, Thomas Dennerby, on Thursday announced a squad of 23 that will travel to Manaus, Brazil to play in a four-nation tournament, involving the hosts, Chile and Venezuela. The team leaves on Saturday. “Brazil is a really good team. No team, since I arrived, has tested our defence as much as Brazil will do next week,” said Dennerby. “Chile is another extremely technical side, but with all the hard work we have put in, we have also raised our levels. “The game against Venezuela will also be particularly tough,” the coach said.  The Brazil squad boasts of legends of the game like Marta da Silva and Formiga Mota. “They have a very good squad with stars like Marta and Formiga. The girls are all looking forward to it. It’s the first time that they will play a team of such stature, and it will be good experience for them all,” Dennerby stated.  The fixtures: Nov. 25: vs Brazil; Nov. 28: vs Chile; Dec. 1: vs Venezuela.   The squad: Goalkeepers: Aditi Chauhan, M. Linthoingambi Devi, Sowmiya Narayasamy; Defenders: Dalima Chhibber, Sweety Devi, Ritu Rani, Ashalata Devi, Manisa Panna, Shilky Devi, Ranjana Chanu, W. Linthoingambi Devi; Midfielders: Indumathi Kathiresan, Sanju, Anju Tamang, Martina Thokchom, Karthika Angamuthu, Kamala Devi; Forwards: Manisha Kalyan, Pyari Xaxa, Renu, Dangmei Grace, Soumya Guguloth and Mariyammal Balamurugan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-womens-squad-for-brazil-tourney/article37572162.ece
19 November 2021||Melbourne,||Boxing Day Test, Australian Open get full-capacity nod||Australia’s Boxing Day Test against England and next year’s Australian Open tennis will be played before a full house, Melbourne authorities said on Thursday as they removed more pandemic restrictions. Victoria Premier Dan Andrews said the State was about to hit 90% vaccination, allowing long-standing restrictions to be swept aside, including capacity limits on sporting events.   World No. 1 Pramod Bhagat defeated Deada Jean Yves Yao from Ivory Coast 21-13, 21-9 in under 22 minutes in the Uganda International Para Badminton tournament here on Thursday. The ace shuttler also won his mixed doubles match, partnering Palak Kohli, defeating India's Shanthiya Viswanathan and Uganda's Bashir Mutyaba 21-11, 21-12. Sukant Kadam, in SL4 category breezed past Nigeria's Ousmane Habi Adamou to win 21-4, 21-5. He and Jyothi Jyothi also won their first mixed doubles round against Italy's Davide Posenato and Rosa Efomo De Marco 22-20 21-17.   The Indian women’s football team head coach, Thomas Dennerby, on Thursday announced a squad of 23 that will travel to Manaus, Brazil to play in a four-nation tournament, involving the hosts, Chile and Venezuela.  The fixtures: Nov. 25: vs Brazil; Nov. 28: vs Chile; Dec. 1: vs Venezuela.   The squad: Goalkeepers: Aditi Chauhan, M. Linthoingambi Devi, Sowmiya Narayasamy; Defenders: Dalima Chhibber, Sweety Devi, Ritu Rani, Ashalata Devi, Manisa Panna, Shilky Devi, Ranjana Chanu, W. Linthoingambi Devi; Midfielders: Indumathi Kathiresan, Sanju, Anju Tamang, Martina Thokchom, Karthika Angamuthu, Kamala Devi; Forwards: Manisha Kalyan, Pyari Xaxa, Renu, Dangmei Grace, Soumya Guguloth and Mariyammal Balamurugan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/boxing-day-test-australian-open-get-full-capacity-nod/article37572218.ece
19 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Belgium keen to gain valuable experience||Backed by a proper structure and a pool of talented players, Belgium is keen to gather valuable experience from the upcoming men’s Junior World Cup hockey tournament starting from November 24 in Bhubaneswar. Belgium coach Jeroen Baart, who was in charge of the under-21 team that took the silver medal after losing to India in the previous edition at Lucknow five years ago, was eager to spot some future stars. “From the group that played in Lucknow, five-six played in the senior team in Tokyo (and won Olympic gold). “I hope a lot of players from this group can do the same. We have enough people following the boys to see if anyone can take the next step,” said Baart. Living the dream Belgium captain Dylan Englebert spoke about his team’s training with the senior side and looked forward to “living the dream” of playing in the marquee event amid COVID-19 restrictions. Belgium is placed with Chile, Malaysia and South Africa in Pool-A. Argentina head coach Lucas Rey said it was difficult for his team to prepare for the big event due to nearly one year of lockdown in his country. Rey said some players’ experience at the 2018 Youth Olympics would help the side. Argentina is in Pool-D along with Egypt, Germany and Pakistan.  USA coach Pat Harris didn’t have unrealistic expectations from his team, which managed to train together for 19 days. “My personal expectation is to develop the boys, see some of the experienced players take leadership roles and guide the younger players,” he said. The USA team, which has five Indian origin players including captain Jatin Sharma, has also benefited by hiring former India coach Harendra Singh. Great mentor “Harendra has been amazing. He has a lot of experience. He has been a great mentor and guide. He has passed on a lot of knowledge to the boys. “Having him going forward is only going to help grow the men’s game. “The main thing Harry brings is his managerial experience,” said Harris. USA is in Pool-C with Korea, Netherlands and Spain. Different participating teams have started arriving in Bhubaneswar for the JWC from Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/belgium-keen-to-gain-valuable-experience/article37572165.ece
19 November 2021||KOLKATA,||Need more tournaments like Tata Steel: Ramesh||The Tata Steel chess, into its third edition now, is the only world-class tournament India hosts in mindsport. For a country that boasts two World champions and some of the most exciting young talents in the game, that is too few. Grandmaster R.B. Ramesh, one of the most successful coaches in Indian chess, believes there should be more quality tournaments. “If we want to see our young players progress to the top, they should be given all the support. They need to play in strong tournaments like this on a regular basis,” he told The Hindu here on Thursday. “Look at the way Arjun Erigaisi has grabbed the opportunity here.” Ramesh said some of the young Indians, including his pupil R. Praggnanandhaa, are playing in strong fields abroad, but should be able to do that at home too. “When you have big tournaments like this one in India, more youngsters will get exposure and the media coverage will help the game grow faster,” he said. “Though Kolkata is the ideal venue for Tata Steel chess, I feel it would be great if it could be conducted in other cities as well. Why can’t more corporate houses be persuaded to sponsor big tournaments?” Ramesh, who has accompanied three of his wards here (Praggnanandhaa, R. Vaishali and Karthikeyan Murali), felt that Viswanathan Anand’s decision to train India’s promising young players is a positive thing. “He is such an inspiring figure for the kids,” he said. “He supports the players greatly. I just had a conversation with his wife Aruna Anand about the kind of off-the-board preparation Praggnanandhaa needs for the Tata Steel Masters at Wijk aan Zee next year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/need-more-tournaments-like-tata-steel-ramesh/article37571899.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Novy Kapadia passes away||Novy Kapadia, a friend of football and footballers, is no more. He passed away on Thursday afternoon following complications from the motor neurone disease he was battling. Kapadia was on ventilator support for more than a month. He was 68. “He was the voice of Indian football,” said fellow commentator Ghaus Mohammad, who grew up in the broadcasting world with guidance from Kapadia. For Kapadia, football was life. “I miss the microphone,” he remarked when I met him a few months ago. Nothing could keep Kapadia away from football. He was an unmissable figure at the Ambedkar Stadium during the season and was busy travelling to various television studios as an expert. Having known him for four decades, I can’t recall Kapadia ever losing his temper. Genial “Man with an inbuilt smile,” was a comment he would cherish. A popular teacher of literature at the Khalsa College, Kapadia always had an ear and time for his students. “An ideal guide in life,” said Harpreet Kaur Lamba, who went on to become a sports journalist. Kapadia’s deep understanding of football and elephantine memory gave him iconic status as an authority on the game. A widely travelled commentator, Kapadia gifted his fans a superb book ‘Barefoot to Boots’ on the history of Indian football. There was hardly a development in football that he was not aware of. The much-loved Kapadia, who also followed cricket and hockey closely, took pride in having covered nine FIFA World Cups, apart from Olympics, Asian Games and Commonwealth Games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/novy-kapadia-passes-away/article37572108.ece
19 November 2021||TURIN,||Zverev breezes past Hurkacz, enters last four||Alexander Zverev set up a clash with Novak Djokovic in the last four of the ATP Finals after a 6-2, 6-4 victory over Hubert Hurkacz on Thursday. World No. 3 Zverev claimed a spot in the semis behind already-qualified Daniil Medvedev in just over an hour and will face the World No. 1 on Saturday for a place in the final. In a hurry Zverev looked like he would have qualification done in very short order after sweeping to the first set in just 26 minutes with a dominating display of tennis. Seventh seed Hurkacz won just nine points in the opening set as Zverev charged to the first four games before serving out to take a quick lead. However Hurkacz unloaded his powerful serve to put the breaks on his opponent, rattling off 10 aces to grab a foothold in the match until finally losing his serve in game nine to leave Zverev with his chance to strike. He made no mistake by winning his serve and making sure of a clash with Djokovic at the weekend. Meanwhile on Wednesday, Norway’s Casper Ruud overcame British alternate Cameron Norrie 1-6, 6-3, 6-4 in the night match to keep alive his chances of reaching the last four.  The results: Red Group: Alexander Zverev bt Hubert Hurkacz 6-2, 6-4.   Green Group: Casper Ruud bt Cameron Norrie 1-6, 6-3, 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zverev-breezes-past-hurkacz-enters-last-four/article37572110.ece
19 November 2021||New Delhi,||BWF gives Padukone lifetime achievement award||Badminton legend Prakash Padukone will receive the prestigious Lifetime Achievement Award this year from the Badminton World Federation (BWF). The BWF Council shortlisted the Indian based on the award commission's recommendation. Badminton Association of India (BAI) had submitted his name for the award. The former World No. 1 and the first-ever Indian World championships medallist, Padukone has contributed immensely to the game. In 2018, he was also honoured with the BAI’s Lifetime Achievement Award. For the Meritorious Service Award, BWF Council has nominated Devender Singh, president, Haryana Badminton Association, S.A. Shetty, secretary-general, Maharashtra Badminton Association, O.D. Sharma, vice-president, BAI, and former BAI vice- President Manik Saha. Alaknanda Ashok, President, Uttarakhand Badminton Association, will receive the Women & Gender Equity Award. The certificates/plaques will be given to all the awardees during the India Open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bwf-gives-padukone-lifetime-achievement-award/article37571896.ece
19 November 2021||Doha,||Hamilton on a crest ahead of Qatar challenge||Fresh from arguably his greatest triumph, Lewis Hamilton will be on the crest of a wave this weekend as he seeks another momentous victory over Max Verstappen at the inaugural Qatar Grand Prix. Just days after the most spectacular win of his career at the Sao Paulo Grand Prix, the 36-year-old, a keen surfer, will be powered by Mercedes’ fighting spirit and a sense of shifting momentum at the Losail International Circuit. New power-unit Protests, controversies and stewards’ reviews aside, Hamilton knows that if he has the same clear speed advantage, courtesy of his new Mercedes power-unit, he can further trim Verstappen’s championship lead. The Dutchman held a 14-point advantage after Brazil, but that may be reduced if a review of his aggressive move to defend his lead at Interlagos results in a penalty that affects the race result. A five-second sanction would relegate him to third and cost him three points, adding more ire to Red Bull’s mounting anger, and apparent disbelief at Hamilton’s speed. “If Hamilton is also so superior this weekend in Qatar, and then in Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi, we can write off the title,” Red Bull’s influential advisor Helmut Marko told F1-Insider .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hamilton-on-a-crest-ahead-of-qatar-challenge/article37572160.ece
19 November 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tavish and Kumkum triumph||Tavish Pahwa and Kumkum Kumari won the boys and girls titles respectively in the AITA Championship series under-14 tennis tournament at the Dhyan Chand National Stadium on Thursday.  The results: Boys: Final: Tavish Pahwa bt Anuj Sarda 6-3, 6-1; Semifinals: Tavish bt Aryaman Gochawal 6-0, 6-0; Anuj bt Pragyan Bhati 3-6, 6-1, 6-1.   Girls: Final: Kumkum Kumari bt Arya Shinde 6-3, 7-5; Semifinals: Kumkum bt Khushi Gaur 4-6, 7-5, 6-4; Arya bt Ela Pandey 6-3, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tavish-and-kumkum-triumph/article37572307.ece
19 November 2021||Mumbai,||MCA chief meets Rahane||Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) president Vijay Patil on Thursday met Indian team skipper Ajinkya Rahane at the State unit’s Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) facility here. Rahane, who will be captaining India in the first Test against New Zealand in Kanpur, has been working hard at the MCA facility since Monday as part of the camp for India Test specialists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mca-chief-meets-rahane/article37572618.ece
19 November 2021||KOCHI,||Shrijana wins under-18 title||Shrijana Thapa blanked Aleena Manoj 10-0 to win the under-18 girls singles title, her second trophy, in the Ernakulam District tennis championships at the Regional Sports Centre here on Thursday. She had won the women’s title on Wednesday. Meanwhile in boys doubles, Karan Thapa and Abel Manoj lifted the under-18 title while Srikanth Menon and Srinath Menon won the under-14 trophy.  The results:   Boys: Under-18 doubles final: Karan Thapa & Abel Manoj bt Kevin Joe & Madhav Menon 6-2, 6-0; Under-16 singles semifinals: Abel Manoj bt Izaak George 8-0; Srikanth Menon bt Shrinath Menon 8-3; Boys: Under-14 doubles final: Srikanth Menon & Srinath Menon bt Krish Wariyar & Izaak George 9-4; Girls: Under-18 singles final: Shrijana Thapa bt Aleena Manoj 10-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shrijana-wins-under-18-title/article37572555.ece
19 November 2021||London,||Brooks says sorry to Pujara for ‘Steve’||Somerset seamer Jack Brooks on Thursday apologised to Cheteshwar Pujara for his role in nicknaming the India Test specialist ‘Steve’ during his time at Yorkshire. Brooks — who joined Somerset in 2018 — also issued an apology for historical racist tweets (2012) as the controversy surrounding Azeem Rafiq’s allegations of institutional racism against Yorkshire continued to haunt English cricket. “It has been commonplace to give nicknames, regardless of creed or race,” Brooks said in a statement that appeared on the Somerset club’s website. “I admit to having used it in this context and now accept that it was disrespectful and wrong to do so. I have reached out and apologised to Cheteshwar for any offence that I have caused him or his family. “At the time I didn’t recognise this as racist behaviour, but I can now see that it was not acceptable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brooks-says-sorry-to-pujara-for-steve/article37571897.ece
19 November 2021||Kampala,||Easy for Bhagat and Kadam||World No. 1 Pramod Bhagat defeated Deada Jean Yves Yao from Ivory Coast 21-13, 21-9 in under 22 minutes in the Uganda International Para Badminton tournament here on Thursday. The ace shuttler also won his mixed doubles match, partnering Palak Kohli, defeating India's Shanthiya Viswanathan and Uganda's Bashir Mutyaba 21-11, 21-12. Sukant Kadam, in SL4 category breezed past Nigeria's Ousmane Habi Adamou to win 21-4, 21-5. He and Jyothi Jyothi also won their first mixed doubles round against Italy's Davide Posenato and Rosa Efomo De Marco 22-20 21-17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/easy-for-bhagat-and-kadam/article37572169.ece
19 November 2021||Chennai,||Bhatt to meet Nanavati||Mohit Bhatt of Maharashtra will take on Kanhav Nanavati (Tamil Nadu) in the boys’ u-19 final of the ISTA junior open squash tournament to be held here on Friday.  The results: Semifinals: Boys: U-13: Aryaveer Dewan (Del) bt Ijaz Mohammed (TN) 11-4, 11-7, 11-5; Darshil Parasrampuria (TN) bt Agastya Bansal (Mah) 11-6, 11-6, 12-10.   U-15: Ks Arihant (TN) bt Udit Mishra (Raj) 11-4, 11-1, 11-7; Priyaan Thakker (Mah) bt Abhiraj Singh (UP) 12-10, 11-5, 11-6.   U-17: Krishna Mishra (MP) bt Arush Chatterjee (Del) 11-4, 11-6, 11-4; Rohan Arya Gondi (TL) bt Shaurya Bawa (Del) 11-7, 6-11, 4-11, 11-9, 11-9.   U-19: Kanhav Nanavati (TN) bt Rutva Samant (Mah) 11-8, 11-7, 11-5; Mohit Bhatt (Mah) bt Adhil Mohammed Syed (TN) 11-8, 11-4, 11-8.   Girls: U-13: Vyomika Khandelwal (Mah) bt Yaavnaa Saravanakumar (TN) 9-11, 11-8, 11-7, 9-11, 11-9; Diva Shah (Mah) bt Kriya Saravanan (TN) 11-8, 11-8, 11-7.   U-15: Anahat Singh (Del) bt Riya Balaji (TN) 11-4, 11-2, 11-5; Navya Sundararajan (UP) bt Ananya Narayanan (TN) 11-7, 11-6, 11-9.   U-17: R. Pooja Arthi (TN) bt Shameena Riaz (TN) 11-5, 11-8, 11-7; S. Akshaya Sri (TN) bt Advita Sharma (Del) 8-11, 11-8, 11-9, 11-9 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhatt-to-meet-nanavati/article37572170.ece
19 November 2021||HELSINKI,||Balaji-Divij combine in semifinals||Sriram Balaji and Divij Sharan beat Denis Istomin and Courtney John Lock 7-5, 6-2 to make the doubles semifinals of the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament here on Thursday. In the WTA event in Uruguay, Riya Bhatia in partnership with Dasha Ivanova of the US was beaten 6-2, 4-6, 14-12 in the doubles pre-quarterfinals by Anna Siskova and Valeriya Strakhova.  The results: $115,000 WTA, Montevideo, Uruguay: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Anna Siskova (Cze) & Valeriya Strakhova (Ukr) bt Dasha Ivanova (USA) & Riya Bhatia 6-2, 4-6, [14-12].   $52,080 Challenger, Champaign, USA: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Aleksandar Kovacevic (USA) & Aleksandar Vukic (Aus) bt Tung-Lin Wu (Tpe) & Arjun Kadhe 7-5, 7-5.   €44,820 Challenger, Helsinki, Finland: Singles (first round): Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Otto Virtanen (Fin) 4-6, 6-4, 6-3.   Doubles: Quarterfinals: Sriram Balaji & Divij Sharan bt Denis Istomin (Uzb) & Courtney John Lock (Zim) 7-5, 6-2; Pre-quarterfinals: Alexander Erler & Lucas Miedler (Aut) bt Sergio Martos Gomes (Esp) & Ramkumar Ramanathan 7-5, 6-3; Balaji & Divij bt Viktor Durasovic (Nor) & Patrik NIklas-Salminen (Fin) 6-2, 6-4.   $15,000 ITF women, Monastir, Tunisia: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Emma Van Poppel (Ned) & Bhuvana Kalva bt Aline Thommen (Sui) & Jennifer Luikham 7-6(6), 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/balaji-divij-combine-in-semifinals/article37572171.ece
19 November 2021||Brisbane,||Wade plans to quit after T20 WC next year||Australia wicketkeeper batter Matthew Wade on Thursday said he may “walk into sunset” after the T20 World Cup Down Under next year. Wade had blazed his way to an unbeaten 17-ball 41 effort to play a pivotal role in Australia’s dramatic five-wicket victory against Pakistan in the semifinal of the recently concluded T20 World Cup. However, he missed out on a Test spot to Alex Carey for the Ashes and now the stumper’s goal is defending the T20 World Cup title at home. “That’ll be my next motivation — hopefully get to that World Cup, defend the title and then I can sail off into the sunset,” Wade was quoted as saying by cricket.com.au . “I certainly won’t be playing (international cricket) beyond that point. That would be my goal from here.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wade-plans-to-quit-after-t20-wc-next-year/article37572173.ece
19 November 2021||Monaco,||Russian doping suspension extended||Russia's doping suspension from track and field was extended into a seventh year, with cautious praise for reformers and a warning that not everyone supports their changes. World Athletics voted to maintain the suspension, which was first imposed in November 2015, at its congress. The sport's governing body didn't give a breakdown of the voting totals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/russian-doping-suspension-extended/article37572159.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||ATK MB faces Kerala Blasters challenge in season opener||An absorbing contest is on the cards as last edition’s runner-up ATK Mohun Bagan meets former finalist Kerala Blasters FC in the opening match of the Indian Super League’s eighth season, which gets underway at the Fatorda Stadium in Margao on Friday evening. The Kolkata outfit — born out of the merger of ISL’s most successful outfit ATK FC and Asia’s oldest club Mohun Bagan — has remained in preservation mode, retaining much of previous season’s squad under the very same coach, Antonio Lopez Habas. Kerala Blasters, which ended runner-up twice in 2014 and 2016, is looking to turn a new page under new head coach Ivan Vukomanovic of Serbia. Habas, who admitted that he does not know too much about Blasters’ possible formation and style under Vukomanovic, said he wanted his team to focus on its football morals. “All the time my morals in football are more important. This means that my team will perform its own plan for 80 to 85% while the rest 15 to 20% is respect for the opponent,” Habas said ahead of the opener. Vukomanovic sought to look ahead, putting the past behind. “In football, the good thing is that you can have a new game every three days. In our case, there is a new chapter, there is a new game. So all the history is behind us,” he said. Blasters lost both matches against ATK MB last season, including the opener in which they went down by a solitary goal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/atk-mb-faces-kerala-blasters-challenge-in-season-opener/article37571906.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 07:56 IST,||Sudoku — November 19, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-november-19-2021/article37572910.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Quest for a story||Lingusamy is busy executing something he is doing for the first time in his 20-year-old film career: writing a story. “Honestly, most of my hits, be it Anandham, Run or Paiyaa , never had any solid stories,” says Lingusamy, in a candid interaction at his Valasaravakkam office, “They all had a collection of good sequences and a screenplay. Now, for the first time, I feel like there is a strong storyline in my current film with Ram Pothineni [RAPO19].” This comes after a couple of not-so-favourable outings for the filmmaker; his Suriya-starrer Anjaan (2014) was among the most-panned films of the decade. “I have been enjoying my shoot time with Ram, who is a big star in Telugu. Our camaraderie is very warm and along the lines of the working relationship I enjoyed with the likes of Suriya, Vikram and Madhavan,” he says, adding that he is shooting a whistle-based montage song composed by Devi Sri Prasad at the moment. Ram might be his hero, but Lingusamy is very gung-ho about the villain, played by Aadhi. “After the release, he will reach greater heights,” promises Lingusamy, who singles out Vijay Sethupathi’s villain performance in Vijay-starrer Master among his recent favourites. Big screen craze The last couple of years have been slow for the director, who has patiently worked on his upcoming Tamil-Telugu bilingual, unlike some of his peers who have got busy with OTT projects. Lingusamy admits that he is yet to warm up to the OTT craze. “I can only see myself as someone who makes films for the theatres. Even as a viewer, I find it very hard to watch content on OTT platforms.” He has made just three exceptions in the last year and a half, watching Soorarai Pottru , Sarpatta Parambarai and Malayalam film Home . “For me, theatre-going has always been a fun, happy experience, like indulging in a wholesome meal, while OTT comes across like a quick snack at a fast food joint.” The road travelled Many Tamil directors from the 2000s have fizzled out, but Lingusamy continues to soldier on, despite both hits and failures. “I believe that over the years, my cinematic taste and the ability to spot good cinema is still intact. That is what has kept me in the industry till now.” That taste, he believes, is not just a result of reading and watching: it is from being in good company. Lingusamy’s struggling years in Kollywood saw him staying in mansions populated by aspiring directors, teeming with ideas. “Everybody staying in those rooms would be connected with cinema,” he recalls with a smile, referring to names like Vasantha Balan, Balaji Shaktivel, Nanda Periyasamy, Brinda Sarathy, Nagulan Ponnusamy and Mani Bharathi, all of whom were aspirants back then. “We would discuss each others’ scripts for days. I have even contributed ideas for Shankar’s Kadhalan , even without his knowledge, through his assistant directors. Back then, if one of us had a spark, 10 others would contribute to it, and we would keep fine-tuning it. We didn’t have money or luxury, but our dreams were big. That is why the first films of all these directors are their best work; it contains inputs from so many people who have contributed inputs unknowingly to it, without any jealousy or motives.” It is those friendships he has harboured from then till now that has kept him in good stead. “I am not extremely intelligent nor do I possess great cinematic knowledge, but when you land in good company and are enthusiastic, you will get things done. If you put in 51% effort, the world will conspire to give you the other 49% for a film project to materialise,” he adds philosophically. Whenever he is not thinking of scenes or is busy with meetings, Lingusamy’s favourite activity is not binge-watching but comfort films. “I watch evergreen classics like Sholay , Mother India , Lagaan and Titanic . I watch them like I’m watching them for the first time, and it gives me great happiness. Whenever I watch Nayagan, I think to myself: Will I ever make a subject like this someday? At the same time, whenever a Ranjith or a Vetri Maaran makes a great film, I watch them in awe. There is still so much to do...”   For me, theatre-going has always been a fun, happy experience, like indulging in a wholesome meal, while OTT comes across like a quick snack at a fast food joint Lingusamy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/quest-for-a-story/article37572058.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||And now, legumes hatch eggs||Pea protein mince, soy meat patties, legume-based eggs, plant derived fish fingers... the meat analogue platter is growing. “There is a huge tailwind for plant-based meats in India,” says Abhishek Sinha, CEO, GoodDot, a plant-based meat company from Udaipur that introduced UnMutton Keema on World Vegan Day, November 1. It took his company nearly three-and-a-half years to develop the product and the R&D team is in the final stages of launching plant-based scrambled eggs, omelette, fish fingers and shrimp cutlets. Similarly, to commemorate the day dedicated to veganism, Chirag Kenia, founder, Urban Platter, a platform for all gourmet and culinary requirements, in Bengaluru, too introduced meatless plant-based burger patties. He says, “The plant-based market in India is hungry for diverse options, especially in protein alternatives and we’re just getting started.” Last month, Imagine Meats founded by Bollywood actors Riteish and Genelia Deshmukh, launched a range of nine plant-based products, which include keema, seekh kebabs, nuggets and sausages, as well as full meals like Afghan and Chettinad biriyani. A year old in this space, Mumbai-based Blue Tribe Foods too introduced a range of “look like, feel like, smell like, and taste like” plant-derived chicken nuggets and sausages. The market is getting innovative with products such as legume-based liquid egg, by Kartik Dixit and Shraddha Bhansali’s Evo Foods in Mumbai. Kartik stresses on the fact that the egg similitude is made completely from Indian legumes like chickpea, moong and peas, adding that nutrition is their focus. He says a plant-based egg has 11 grams of protein and is at par with an organic egg that has protein, anywhere, between 10 to 12 grams. A 500 millilitre bottle of liquid egg is equivalent to 10 or 11 eggs. “Trials are on to make the product more baking friendly,” he adds.  New developments  Chirag estimates a 15% increase in “Flexitarians” — people who are vegetarian, non-vegetarian and vegan — to experiment with and opt for more plant-based alternatives. After he turned vegan four years ago, he added more plant-based options to his diet. According to him the pandemic gave people the time to consciously think about their diet and e-commerce made it possible to deliver these curated foods to homes. Abhishek agrees, pointing to a massive jump in awareness in the last one year: “It has skyrocketed, almost a 500 to 800 % increase.” A non-vegetarian, Abhishek’s interest in the field arose from his love for animals. While he was doing his engineering in 2003, he came across a study titled In Vitro Meat, by three Dutch inventors — Willem Van Eelen, Willem Van Kooten and Wiete Westerhof — on cultured meat created from tissue. “It fascinated me and set me thinking, we could make meat using plant tissue; this was the perfect solution for a person like me, who enjoys eating meat but does not want to hurt or kill an animal,” says Abhishek. He founded the company in 2016 with his friend Deepak Parihar. Sohil Wazir, CCO, Blue Tribe, believes that this trend is driven by two factors: Anti-cruelty movement towards animals and the growing awareness of the high carbon footprint of the meat industry. “About 2-3% of the population is aware of the implications of the meat industry on the environment,” he says. Animal agriculture contributes to the second largest carbon emissions after fossil fuels. Genelia discloses a defining moment in her family’s turn towards a plant-based diet, recalling a remark that was casually made by her son: ‘We can’t have a pet dog and eat chicken at the same time.’ “It hit me so hard,” she says adding that Riteish, a meat lover, too wanted to have guilt-free meat.  Overcoming hurdles  Development of plant-based meats is the biggest challenge for the industry that works closely with food and material scientists, chefs, and investors. Abhishek adds that the second biggest challenge is creating awareness of the product but the pandemic has helped in this. Protein extracted from plants is converted into meat analogue by a process of denaturation where protein linkages are altered using heat and pressure. It is then realigned to match the structure of meat. It took nine months for Chirag and his brother Dhaval, who set up Urban Platter as an e-commerce platform in 2015, to develop the burger from “textured soy proteins.” Currently working on developing vegan mayonnaise and butter, the company sources almost 90% of the ingredients locally.  What’s cooking?  Working in the labs of Blue Tribe, chef Nirvaan Thacker who partners QSR, Zaatar and Mozza in Mumbai speaks of the challenges of cooking with mock meats. “Pea and soy are fundamentally different; the meat tends to react differently when used in a Bolognaise sauce or in a lighter preparation like broth. We are working towards addressing these factors,” says Nirvaan. He adds that the speed of development of the ingredients has increased in the last six months and that with every trial, he is able to better the product. By Christmas, he says, they could easily move from working with mince to larger chunks of meats, a chicken roast perhaps. About 40 people who attended the tasting of legume-based eggs at Candy & Green at Breach Candy in Mumbai were floored by the experience and Nirula’s in New Delhi has begun serving burgers made from plant-based mince. With much buzz in this new field of food innovation, 2021 may go down as a year that launched the maximum number of plant-derived meat products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/and-now-legumes-hatch-eggs/article37572097.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Move over pongal, curd rice arancini is here||Lucknowi galaouti kebabs fuel our conversation with Jegan S Damodaraswamy, executive director of Coimbatore’s Sree Annapoorna, at the group’s newly-opened Kove: their first foray into fine dining. The group, best known for its unpretentious and well-loved outlets specialising in ghee dosas, rose milk and quick, friendly service has been an integral part of the city for decades. The founder of the Sree Annapoorna Sree Gowrishankar Group, Damodaraswamy Naidu, is credited with changing the face of eating out in Coimbatore with his first restaurant in 1968. Now, his grandsons want to shake things up again. They have re-launched a 50,000 sq ft property at RS Puram in Coimbatore, with a refurbished Sree Annapoorna restaurant on the first floor, Kove on the second floor and IKON by Annapoorna — a 52-room business hotel — a new player in the business hotel segment. The rooms at IKON by Annapoorna are in two segments – executive and suite, and three halls to host functions and business meetings. An engineer with a Masters in Food Science, Jegan has travelled extensively and is constantly thinking of new ways to refresh the family business, while staying true to its roots. “I was keen to recreate favourites, like the galouti kebab, for vegetarians in a fine-dining ambience. That’s how Kove shaped up,” he says, adding “I wanted to stick to our strengths. Except milk, no animal derivative is used in the menu, including eggs. It is 100% vegetarian right from the word go.” Meeting challenges He admits, however that fine dining is a completely new challenge. “When I took over Sree Annapoorna , I just had to innovate an existing working model. For this one, I had to work really hard,” he laughs. “We customised our cutlery with copper finish and our Swiss water jugs come with an intact lid to limit contamination while filling the glasses. It’s been two years of trial-and-error, great learning, and lots of fun.” Jegan pauses to order his favourite dishes from the menu. In a few minutes, we are enjoying smoky yam galouti kebabs served on squares of saffron naan. Kove’s decor showcases designs inspired by the engineering and textiles sectors that the region is known for. Copper-plated railings gleam, and above, a vibrant ceiling displays fabrics in different textures, prints, and colours. Hand-made ethnic designs make up the flooring. A 25-member team led by Chef Murugesan V from Sri Lanka oversees the kitchen. The most challenging part has been the menu, admits Jegan. “To avoid comparisons with pricing, we kept our Annapoorna staples out. At Kove, they also pay for the experience.” His travel experiences insired him to fuse global ideas with traditional favourites. For example, the curd rice arancini at Kove is a South Indian twist to the Sicilian staple where rice balls are stuffed, coated with bread crumbs and deep fried. Starters include vazhaippoo kola urundai served with curry leaf mayo. There is dim sums: stuffed with spinach, corn and paneer, as well as crystal dim sum with shitake, button and oyster mushrooms. A place called home Breaking with tradition, they are are accompanied by four dips — exo (dried garlic and chilli dip), Korean chillies, spring onions with olive oil, and Sri Lankan kothe. Emphasising the attention to detail here, the dim sum also features a caviar-like hand-made garnish made with balsamic vinegar and agar agar. The menu also features wood-fired Neapolitan pizzas with a crusty, airy base and tortellini made in-house. Yes, there is a bar attached. And yes, local flavours have been infused in the cocktails. Try the sangu poo infusion or thenannarinegroni. What does Kove stand for? “A fusion again of Kovai and love,” says Jegan, adding “What other better name to show our love for the city we owe everything to?”  Fact file    Located at 75, E Arokiasamy Rd, Opp. Hotel Annapoorna, RS Puram, Coimbatore. To book your table, 98422-46780   A parking lot where 100 cars can be parked is coming up soon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/move-over-pongal-curd-rice-arancini-is-here/article37572073.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Screw pine stars for a green Christmas||“This would make your Christmas tree look so good,” says Latha Sundaran, holding up a little screw pine star. She picks up a few more from a box and says, “These are 100% hand-made and environment-friendly.” Beside her is a table full of Christmas decorations made of screw pine. Latha with other women at the Kottapuram Integrated Development Society (KIDS), a non-governmental organisation based in Kottappuram (in Kodungallur, Thrissur district) working with screw pine, has been busy planning their Christmas collection for the past month. “We have made wine bottle holders, hampers, Santa boots, bells, cake boxes and trays,” she says. The women will be crafting more of these based on the orders they get for the season. These come with red and green satin trimmings and bows. Ajitha Harshan is making a wine bottle holder for the first time. “The base of the holder is woven tightly so as to hold the weight of the bottle. It should not take me more than a day to complete this.” The floor of their workshop, adjacent to the office building, has piles of scraggly screw pine, which will be spliced, woven and crafted into bags, mats, files, boxes, coasters, trays and more. This is their first attempt at Christmas decor. Back to base The women are overjoyed to be back at their workstation after months of lockdown. “This place is our second home. This is like a sisterhood, we enjoy this work and the bond we share,” says Mani Soman, while giving the finishing touches to a Christmas hamper. One of the pioneering centres working with screw pine in Kerala, KIDS has been empowering women from in and around the rural regions of Kodungallur since the year it was established in 1988. It launched an exclusive programme in 2000 to train the women, mainly home makers, in screw pine craft. Today, it has grown to become a Craft-Based Resource Centre, with eight units in different parts of Kodungallur. In addition to screw pine, it also works with water hyacinth. “While preserving an ancient craft by contemporising it, we are also hoping that the younger generation would take up the craft that defines their heritage,” says Fr Paul Thomas, executive director of KIDS. Integrated project Currently, KIDS has 150 women artisans working across its eight centres, 30 of whom are differently-abled, but it has trained over 3,000 women. Over 800 people are indirectly associated with KIDS, employed in the collection, drying and dyeing of screw pine and water hyacinth. This has led to a slow revival of an ancient craft that was popular in the region. The coastal stretch between Ernakulam and Thrissur districts is marked by its wealth of screw pine trees — evergreen trees with spiny leaves, which can prevent soil erosion, much like mangroves. “In the olden days, people in the region used to plant screw pine as a wall around their houses,” says Fr Paul. KIDS has over 100 different products for sale (starting from tea coasters to files, floor mats, bags, book marks, sari boxes, table mats, pouches, pen holders and decor items to mention a few). Though it has exclusive outlets at Sargalaya, at Iringal, near Kozhikode and at the Muziris Heritage Zone in Chendamangalam, it recently ventured into e-retail portals. The prices start from Rs. 100 and goes up to Rs. 2,000. To order Christmas decor products, contact 7902705067.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/screw-pine-stars-for-a-green-christmas/article37572079.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Brimming with life||The sight of rains this year is sweetest to R Manikandan and his fellow volunteers from Kovai Kulangal Padhukappu Amaippu. The environmental NGO has de-silted five ponds in the city, all of which are brimming with water. “This has improved groundwater in the regions a great deal,” says the 39-year-old. Manikandan recalls how a farmer in Malumichampatty, who once used to source water from outside to fill up his well for agriculture, is thrilled that he does not have to do that any more, after their team cleared a pond in the vicinity. “We know of 900 such ponds in Coimbatore and are in the process of pinning their location on Google Maps,” explains Manikandan. “We also plan to share these locations on our website kovaikulangal.org,” he adds. This is so that anyone can join the movement, and work on desilting these ponds. While a number of ponds have been encroached upon and filled up with debris, resulting in clogged waterways, success stories such as these give the city hope. The good news is, plenty more such stories are in the making. In Navakkarai in Madukkarai too a pond has recently got a new lease of life. “I remember people digging several borewells in search of elusive water,” says NS Maheshwaran, a resident of Mavuthampathy panchayat there. “At one point, farm owners were digging five to six borewells at one stretch of land,” he says. Maheshwaran, who runs Namma Navakkarai, an environmental NGO that is also into waste management, decided to do something about it. “In 2018, we cleared up a pond there,” he points out. This did the trick. It filled in the rains that followed and Maheshwaran is a happy man when he says that farmers have not dug any new borewells in the region over the past two years. The pond continues to be full, and thanks to his team’s door-to-door awareness programmes, people have stopped dumping garbage into it. At Narasipuram, however, the Poovankuttai pond is languising under piles of garbage, which are steadily growing right inside. An unused toilet complex, built by the panchayat stands in one corner, and there is no space for water to fill. VS Karuppusamy, a farmer in the area, still remembers what it looked like when it was full. “If rains are good, there are chances it will fill up again,” says the 54-year-old. But first, the debris needs to be cleared. “We have tried asking people not to dump garbage inside it, but to no avail,” sighs S Adhilakshmi, who runs a fertilizer and pesticide stop nearby. R Karpagam, the founder of Oli Awareness Movement, is hoping to revive Poovankuttai. “I have been waiting for three years to get permission from Government authorities to de-silt it,” she says. She knows she has a long way to go, but is bent on restoring the pond’s old glory. Arun Krishnamurthy of Environmentalist Foundation of India recently de-silted eight ponds in the city, in places such as Kalapatti, Balaji Nagar, Thottipalayam, and Pudhukuttai Thottam. “They are all filling up with rain water now,” he says. While a lot has been written about Coimbatore’s wetlands fed by the Noyyal river, not much is known of its smaller ponds. According to K Mohan Raj, secretary, Save Coimbatore Wetlands, “Ponds are important to recharge groundwater. They prevent soil erosion, help mitigate floods; rains wash away top soil from agricultural land right into ponds: farmers would carry this back to enrich their fields. This works like a cycle,” he points out. Our man-made waterbodies were commissioned by kings, and were later taken care of by zamindars, according to writer Cho Dharman, who has written about man-made waterbodies in Sool , a novel that won the Sahitya Akademi Award for 2019. “The British left us with 39,640 waterbodies and six lakh wells,” he says. Most of them are in a bad condition. “So many Government buildings have been constructed on ponds,” rues Dharman. Their role of storing water aside, ponds add character to a village. Owing to their size, they attract people, as well as cattle and bird life. “Men and women bathe in ponds, and cattle stop by for a drink,” says Dharman. Of course, this sight is now a rarity. “When I was younger, we devised several games to play specifically in the water,” he says. But now that some of our ponds are having a rebirth of sorts, perhaps it is time to revisit those games?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/brimming-with-life/article37572106.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A super deluxe ride||‘Tum Tum’ is everywhere. The wedding dance number from Tamil film Enemy , released for Deepavali, has been trending this holiday season. Music composer Thaman’s energetic beats, coupled with choreography, seem to have clicked among audiences. At the centre of this hit number is Mirnalini Ravi. “‘Tum Tum’ was the perfect opportunity for me. I’m not an expertly-trained dancer, but I do love to indulge in it, and that it’s become such a success is quite overwhelming.” For someone who is the definition of a modern-day star — she made it into the industry thanks to the the fleeting fame that TikTok and Dubsmash videos provide — Mirnalini is even more thrilled that now people are dancing to her song on social media platforms, with ‘Tum Tum’ going viral on Instagram Reels. “I wouldn’t even have dared to dream of this a few years ago, when I just started recording videos for fun. All I can say is that I’m grateful and lucky.” She admits that not every content creator can make it to the very top. “I was patient with my choices. I could have signed more projects, but I waited for the right scripts. The fact that I started posting TikTok videos well before others caught on to the trend also helped.” Social media led to her being cast in Thiagarajan Kumararaja’s 2019 flick Super Deluxe . Mirnalini’s debut stands out as among the most unique of her characters: she played an alien. “I still remember the director telling me about my role... I was gobsmacked,” she laughs. “But now that the film has attained cult status, I am very happy about my role. It was way better than debuting as a conventional girl-next-door.” The Puducherry native, who featured in both Enemy and MGR Magan recently, is excited for the release of Jango , touted as a time-loop sci-fi thriller. “After two years of waiting, it is fantastic to have three releases back-to-back. But the pressure of waiting to see if people like me in them is intense.” Mirnalini is looking forward to films that portray her as lively and vivacious. Next up, she will be seen in Vikram’s Cobra . “From the teaser, people would have understood that it’s a serious film. My character in it comes as a breath of fresh air and adds emotional quotient.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-super-deluxe-ride/article37572060.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The last supper||A murder at the centre accentuates the drama in Nishanth Kalidindi’s Kadaseela Biriyani , releasing in theatres today. It has the masculine energy you would find in Lijo Jose Pellissery’s work; Nishanth, of course, is a fan of the Malayalam filmmaker. The influence does not end there. Set against a forest backdrop in Kerala, Kadaseela Biriyani is a metaphor for the jungle and the animalistic traits its characters possess, a hat-tip to Tamil filmmaker Thiagarajan Kumararaja’s seminal debut, Aaranya Kaandam . “The post production and editing stage is when we derived some of the stylistic elements from filmmakers like Lijo Jose and Kumararaja’s Aaranya Kaandam . I loved that process,” admits Nishanth, right after a press screening. “ Kadaseela Biriyani is an amalgamation of everything I have seen from filmmakers.” Nishanth and his friends worked to achieve a common purpose: to make a film that has a certain style and treatment. They were bouncing off plot ideas and narrowed on one which eventually became the film. “The writing did not take much time; it was written in a month’s time. But we were concerned more about fitting the style and flavour,” says Nishanth. The style came from not doing certain things we have come to associate with regular commercial films, he says. “For example, the use of high speed shots in our films. We have used very little artificial light and were clear about how to colour the film.” Starring actors Vasanth Selvam, Hakkim Shah and Vijay Ram among others, the film has a technical crew in Azeem Mohammed and Hestin Jose Joseph (cinematography), Vinoth Thanigasalam (background score and sound design) and Ignaitious Aswin (editor). Despite being made on a limited budget, Kadaseela Biriyani boasts a rich visual grammar that you would not normally find in a debutant’s work. That, Nishanth says, comes from his documentary days and being inspired by ‘70 and ‘80s Hollywood films. “I am fascinated by cinema of that era; my all-time favourite is The French Connection . We, in fact, used lenses from the ‘70s... we ensured the camera only observes and doesn’t intrude.” A student of Rajiv Menon’s Mindscreen Film Institute, Nishanth says he studied cinematography primarily to understand the craft of cinema. He has worked on short films and made documentaries for a special school before making Kadaseela Biriyani . Nishanth had to raise funds from friends and families to make his debut work, now presented by Y NOT Studios. “We are not connected to the film industry. By making Kadaseela Biriyani , I was trying to understand the process of filmmaking and that is what you see on screen.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-last-supper/article37572059.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Ambur biryani, the Nobel laureate way||This Nobel laureate cooks everyday. And he believes you should too. A professor of Economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Abhijit Banerjee, shared the 2019 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences with Esther Duflo and Michael Kemer for their experimental approach to alleviating global poverty. (Esther, also an MIT economist, is married to Abhijit.) His latest project, a whimsical cookbook titled Cooking to Save Your Life (published by Juggernaut) is punctuated with humour and exuberant drawings by Cheyenne Olivier. It seems like a dramatic departure from his work as an economist and social scientist. He does not think so. In an interview from Delhi — he and Cheyenne are cooking up imaginative multi-course meals in India as part of the book tour — Abhijit explains how the book is connected to his work as an economist. “We are exploring the social dimension of cooking. I thought it would be boring to just write recipes, to be honest. I wanted to spice it up for myself. So every chapter has an introduction, which is more social science...” The book introduces dishes tailored for specific occasions — from raspberry ceviche for when “you invite the boss home” to masala chips, tossed with minced onions, green chillies and chaat masala, for “the kind of enemy you have to invite home from time to time.” Abhijit adds, “ You are cooking for a reason: because you have someone you want to impress, or someone you are scared of...” In an age of restaurant dinners and takeaway, he is hoping to convince readers, especially kitchen novices, to discover the satisfaction of creating delicious meals for friends and family. “I cook every single day,” he says, “We don’t really go out. We just eat at home. It is my relaxation when I return from work.” Describing their weekly menus, he says, “We get back from work by about 6.30 pm, then I start cooking. Three days a week, I make Indian food, a vegetable, dal and meat. Otherwise its pasta, some soup and salad, or Asian food, like stir fries.” Abhijit started cooking when he was about 15 years old, in Kolkata. “My mother would often travel on work, and then the choice was between the cook, who was very nice and competent but unwilling to experiment, or me making different things.” When Abhijit took over the kitchen, the dining table was laid with “lots of roasts, cakes and pastries. Some learnt from watching my mother, some from recipe books.” Decades later, he has developed a fresh appreciation for simple Indian food. “I consider dal to be India’s greatest contribution yet to human civilisation. Ahead of chess and zero... often also the tastiest dish in a meal, a tribute to the creativity of a billion cash-strapped cooks,” he says in the book, giving the recipe for his favourite comfort food, Bengali mung dal spiked with lemon. Cooking amidst chaos The recipes are charming and irreverent, a collection of tweaked classics and innovative staples, focussing on practical ways to get impressive results, in the midst of the chaos of everyday life. Cheyenne, who was Abhijit and Esther’s au pair and lived with the couple for three years, chuckles about how cooking on the book tour was simple in comparison to their meals at home. Her illustrations are deliberately light, playful and accessible. “Photographs are too idealistic. The reality is you are coming home from work, the kids are around, you are tired... you are cooking in the middle of all that,” she says. The recipes are cleverly constructed, using everyday as well as exotic ingredients and simple techniques. Charred avocados with tahini and pomegranate molasses for instance. Or Ambur biryani, which the book promises takes less than 40 minutes to assemble, with a pressure cooker. And that pandemic staple, made in Abhijit’s home almost once a week: banana bread, but with almond flour. Abhijit has a lot more recipes up his sleeve, but is non-committal about writing a sequel, because, “this book is not just about the recipes. It is the whole structure around it that makes it a book. Putting down recipes is easy, the hard part is to think of the arc...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/ambur-biryani-the-nobel-laureate-way/article37572096.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Polls apart||In Malayalam, ‘ellam sheriyakum’ translates to ‘everything will be fine’. Director Jibu Jacob is pleased at how apt the title of his new film is in a post-pandemic world. Starring Asif Ali and Rajisha Vijayan, the film hits the big screens today. “I was waiting for theatres to reopen. But I was worried if the decision would cause financial loss to my producers. Now, I hope ellam sheriyakum ,” says Jibu, referring to the positive mood in the industry after the reopening of theatres. He is pleased that Dulquer Salmaan-starrer Kurup has brought the audience back to cinemas. “Ours is not a star-driven movie. But there is confidence in the whole team with Kurup getting such an overwhelming response. We hope that the mood continues when our movie releases,” he says. Even though the trailer of his film hints at a political drama, Jibu stresses that “it is a family entertainer, with politics happening to be at its backdrop.” “The story is about the personal lives of politicians, the incidents that happen in their families and how that affects their political career and image. Both the right and left wing party cadres in the State have been featured,” says Jibu, director of Vellimoonga, Munthirivallikal Thalirkkumbol and Aadyarathri . Asif plays comrade Vineeth, leader of the youth wing of a party. He marries Ancy (Rajisha), daughter of KV Chacko (Siddique), prominent leader of the rival party, against his wishes. “Vineeth and Ancy are like chalk and cheese. Ancy, who is outspoken and headstrong, has an upper-hand over Vineeth, who is always low on confidence. His nature eventually causes problems in their relationship,” Jibu says. He adds that all characters have their own political outlook, be it Ancy or Asif’s parents, which eventually sets the stage for several conflicts. A cinematographer-turned-director, Jibu mentions that although his successful first movie, Vellimoonga (2014), also handled politics, Ellam Sheriyakum falls into a different genre. “ Vellimoonga was about a street-smart politician named Mamachan. The characters in Ellam Sheriyakum would remind viewers of certain real-life politicians and political developments in the State. Siddique’s character is actually a mix of two of our leading politicians. But I have not taken sides. I strongly believe that all parties have their own virtues and vices and we have not hesitated in telling that,” he adds. The film, written and scripted by Sharis Mohammed, is based in central Travancore and parts of Kannur. On the Asif-Rajisha combo, he opines that they make the best pair in Malayalam cinema today. “They nailed it as a couple in their first movie [ Anuraga Karikkin Vellam ]. I had great fun working with them. It was easy working with two fabulous actors who appeared to be competing against each other with their talent,” Jibu asserts. Also part of the cast are Johny Antony, Sudheer Karamana, Sreejith Ravi, Kottayam Ramesh, Suresh Kumar, Tulasi Mani (who acted in Sankarabharanam ) and Neeraja Rajendran among others. “It is the 200th project of the film’s composer Ouseppachan, who is also playing a significant character. I consider it as an honour to have him on board. He is the senior most member of our crew but no one can match up to his energy,” Jibu says of the film, which has been produced by Thomas Thiruvalla and Dr Paul Varghese.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/polls-apart/article37572065.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Spotlight on conflict and cinema||The eighth edition of the Urban Lens Film Festival is set to go virtual for the second consecutive year. To be held this weekend, the event is organised by the Indian Institute for Human Settlements (IIHS) in collaboration with Goethe-Institut/Max Mueller Bhavan and Institut Francais, to create a space for interested viewers to watch films and talk about cinema. Filmmaker Subasri Krishnan, an organiser, says that Urban Lens is aimed to get the community to engage not just with actors and filmmakers, but also the technicians behind the projects. “This year, our masterclass is with an animator; we try to bring in people from different professional backgrounds,” she adds. The festival will feature 27 films from over 10 countries. The themes include The City and Beyond , COVID-19 and Conflict and Cinema . For details log onto https://urbanlens.iihs.co.in/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/spotlight-on-conflict-and-cinema/article37572067.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Wall of fame||Durga Santhanam, D Rajakumari and S Venmathi, from Mayiladuthurai had a memorable Ayudha Pooja and Deepavali this year. As members of a group of seven homemakers who are certified wall painters, they were felicitated by local organisations alongside male professionals during the festivals. Wall painting, which used to once be a male-dominated field in the construction sector, has emerged as an employment opportunity for women in rural areas. Under its Nshakti training programme, Japanese company Nippon Paints has trained over 500 women in Tamil Nadu, in places such as Mayiladuthurai, Ocheri, Ramasamypatti and Anaimalai. This has led to small clusters of female painting contractors equipped with the skills to bring a new look to schools, homes and temples in their vicinity with a swipe of their brushes. “We never had a job before this,” says Venmathi, who brought her three-month daughter for the orientation. “Our family discouraged us, because they feared for our safety, and also doubted our ability to take up such a strenuous profession.” After a lull caused by the lockdown, they are back at work, and are among the most active painting contractors in their area, earning up to Rs. 650 per day. The women have also travelled outside Mayiladuthurai for painting contracts. They are enjoying their new financial independence. “I was able to buy a two-wheeler. It helps me get to my assignment faster,” says Rajakumari, adding “and I can repay the vehicle loan with my earnings.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/wall-of-fame/article37572080.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Something sweet||Baklava can be traced back to Topkapi Palace in Istanbul, as far back as 3,000 years ago. But I am relishing this delicious treat closer home: at Sweet Smith cafe in Coimbatore. Made from 40 layers of crisp phyllo sheets, filled with pistachios and cashew nuts, with a drizzle of honey on top, the baklava is indulgently sweet, yet light and crunchy. The Sweet Smith chain was launched in Kochi by two sisters, Sanam Safid and Sonam Safid, both from Elamakkara in Kerala. They specialise in Turkish desserts from the popular baklava and kunafa, as well as the Egyptian umm ali. After catering across Kozhikode, Malappuram and Perinthalmanna in Kerala, they have just launched their first outlet in Coimbatore. “They largely operated as home bakers from 2017, sourced ingredients like the kunafa dough and phyllo sheets from the UAE and Egypt and sent out the goodies to friends and family,” says Hani Hassan, co-founder, who helped his wife Sanam grow the Sweet Smith chain into a successful business in Kerala. In Coimbatore, the team has partnered with Reswin Nazeer KR from the Hotel City Tower group. “Coimbatore is opening up to new cuisines and people are trying out new experiences and desserts like any cosmopolitan city. So, we thought, why not?” As for Reswin, he was convinced after a spoonful of umm ali. Stating that this was an opportunity to bring his wife’s favourite desserts to Coimbatore, he adds that he was especially charmed by the Egyptian pudding. Named after the wife of the ruler of the Ayyubid dynasty in Egypt, who asked her cooks to come up with the most delicious dessert they could create, umm ali is a blend of cream and nuts. Hani calls it soul food, like kheer or payasam, and I have to agree. In Sweet Smith’s version, phyllo sheets are baked with cream (made in-house) and milk, then garnished with crushed pistachios. It is crusty, mildly sweet and earthy, and makes me happy instantly. “Though traditionally it is made with croissants and bread, we used phyllo sheets and everyone loved it,” says Hani, adding “These desserts are completely vegetarian. Even eggs are not used. They use butter and dry fruits generously, so we cut down on sugar.” Sweet Smith also offers over 10 varieties of kunafa from the classics to versions with Ferrero Rocher chocolates and sizzling ice cream. As the central kitchen is in Kozhikode, the team adopts a double baking system so customers in Coimbatore can enjoy desserts straight out of the oven. For example, for kunafa that requires 45 minutes of baking, the first 30 minutes is done at the Calicut central kitchen and the second bake of 15 minutes at the cafe in Coimbatore. Baklava is baked partially and then frozen, as are the phyllo sheets that go into umm ali. What’s next on the menu? Hassan says they will never run out of variety to experiment with. “Baklava is like our halwa, there are 300 to 400 types,” he says, adding “We finalised eight varieties only after trying out over 40.”   HOW TO GET THERE Sweet Smith is located at 46, ATT Colony, Kerala Club Road, Gopalapuram   Open from 11 am to 11pm   9944172872||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/something-sweet/article37572095.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Climb every tower||You must have, by now, watched the trailer for Spider-Man: No Way Home . If you want to emulate the climbs and falls of the friendly neighbourhood superhero and experience the thrill of height, there is now a place to do it in Coimbatore. Just outside the parking lot of Prozone Mall, a 40-feet tall ladder climbing tower has been erected. On a gloomy Wednesday evening, Vikashini S wore the safety harness to climb the ladder for the first time. Five years ago, to get rid of acrophobia, she took up climbing. She soon got hooked on it — so much so that she wanted to be a professional mountaineer instead of the engineering course she had planned to take up. Vikashini S ultimately stuck to engineering and is in the first year of her course. Climbing, despite not being her primary occupation, continues to be a passion. She heads to K’sirs International School in Chinnavedampatti almost every week for a wall-climbing session at the wall set up by NALS. With the fear of heights conquered, Vikashini clambered up the climbing tower at the mall in just over 20 seconds. Then, from the summit, she jumped, experiencing a near free-fall. Harnessed to the safety ropes, she swayed a bit towards the 2.5-tonne steel structure as she fell. But, perhaps due to her prior experience in wall climbing, she did not have any awkward bumps. Vikashini is not the only one who has tried out the climbing tower. The hundreds of others who have, since the structure was set up in October, include housewives, children, a 70-year-old painter among others, says Seshadri Venkatesan, who heads NALS Outdoors India, the company that put up the wall. NALS offers adventure activities, experiential learning programmes, adventure infrastructure development and operations in Coonoor, Udhagamandalam, Manali and Ladakh apart from Coimbatore. The tower is part of their Super Climber Offshoot, which exclusively promotes climbing. Like most other tourism-related companies, they were out of business when the pandemic began last March. “So, we were idle for a long time. That is when we thought ‘why not bring health into the city?’ Trekking and mountaineering (the team’s primary offering) are far away from the city. So we thought of something everyone can access,” Seshadri, a former Naval officer, explains the idea behind setting up the climbing tower. His team developed the tower with a structural engineer. Seshadri reckons they are the first in the world to use a ladder climbing structure for an adventure sport with an electronic timer and ranking system (which are likely to be operational from this Friday). He is patenting it. Eight people can be on the tower at once. Once the participant presses the pedal at the start, the electronic timer starts; it stops upon pressing a board at the summit. The times are recorded on the computer. “The safety is top-notch. So, ages eight to 60 or even 70 can try it out,” he assures, before adding in caution, “But since it’s a steel structure a few bumps are unavoidable.” Apart from the Prozone Mall visitors, NALS targets corporates and educational institutions. “We already have corporate bookings throughout January and February,” he says. To encourage more people in the city to take it up, Seshadri plans to give away daily, weekly, and monthly cash prizes. He also intends to invite journalists, medical staff, cab drivers, and the police department to try out the structure. The charges are Rs. 250 (excluding GST) for two climbs. To know more, call 9442275533/ 9442275502.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/climb-every-tower/article37572100.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Parker||This two-year-old has a puppy-like nature and is very friendly. Vaccinated and sterilised, could he bounce his way into your heart and home?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/parker/article37572082.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Tintin||This energetic and delightfully cheerful soul is between 2 and 3 years of age. Vaccinated and sterilized, could he be your new running partner?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/tintin/article37572084.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Seenu||Despite being deaf, this lovable young girl is highly alert, and gets along fantastically well with both pets and kids. At around 1 year of age, she is vaccinated and sterilised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/seenu/article37572086.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Morgan||Born with a congenital defect, this three-legged pup was the victim of a vicious attack from a dog that left her with a painful wound and a hernia. Thankfully, 4-month-old Morgan was rescued in the nick of time, and with surgical correction and medication, this adorable little lady made an outstanding recovery. And as if that wasn't good news enough, she went on to find a forever home with the very human who had rescued her!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/morgan/article37572088.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Noah||Found tied to a tree with a horrifically broken jaw, this innocent boy was rescued and immediately underwent mandibular reconstruction surgery. Now under post-operative care and on a liquid but highly nutritious diet, we hope this darling boy will make a full recovery and forget all about his horrendous ordeal. To support Noah as he heals and help restore his spirit, please consider donating a small amount towards his care costs. To donate, click on the linkhttps://www.hasindia.org/donate.html.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/noah/article37572090.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The last supper||A murder at the centre accentuates the drama in Nishanth Kalidindi’s Kadaseela Biriyani , releasing in theatres on Friday. It has the masculine energy you would find in Lijo Jose Pellissery’s work; Nishanth, of course, is a fan of the Malayalam filmmaker. The influence does not end there. Set against a forest backdrop in Kerala, Kadaseela Biriyani is a metaphor for the jungle and the animalistic traits its characters possess, a hat-tip to Tamil filmmaker Thiagarajan Kumararaja’s seminal debut, Aaranya Kaandam . “The post-production and editing stage is when we derived some of the stylistic elements from filmmakers like Lijo Jose and Kumararaja’s Aaranya Kaandam . I loved that process,” admits Nishanth, right after a press screening. “ Kadaseela Biriyani is an amalgamation of everything I have seen from filmmakers,” he says. Nishanth and his friends worked to achieve a common purpose: to make a film that has a certain style and treatment. They were bouncing off plot ideas and narrowed on one which eventually became the film. “The writing did not take much time; it was written in a month’s time. But we were concerned more about fitting the style and flavour,” he says. The style came from not doing certain things we have come to associate with regular commercial films, he says. “For example, the use of high speed shots in our films. We have used very little artificial light and were clear about how to colour the film.” Starring actors Vasanth Selvam, Hakkim Shah and Vijay Ram among others, the film has a technical crew in Azeem Mohammed and Hestin Jose Joseph (cinematography), Vinoth Thanigasalam (background score and sound design) and Ignaitious Aswin (editor). Despite being made on a limited budget, Kadaseela Biriyani boasts a rich visual grammar that you would not normally find in a debutant’s work. That, Nishanth says, comes from his documentary days and being inspired by ‘70 and ‘80s Hollywood films. “I am fascinated by cinema of that era; my all-time favourite is The French Connection . We, in fact, used lenses from the ‘70s... we ensured the camera only observes and doesn’t intrude.” A student of Rajiv Menon’s Mindscreen Film Institute, Nishanth says he studied cinematography primarily to understand the craft of cinema. He has worked on short films and made documentaries for a special school. Nishanth had to raise funds from friends and families to make his debut work, now presented by Y NOT Studios. He says, “We are not connected to the film industry. By making Kadaseela Biriyani , I was trying to understand the process of filmmaking and that is what you see on screen.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-last-supper/article37572520.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Polls apart||In Malayalam, ‘ ellam sheriyakum ’ translates to ‘everything will be fine’. Director Jibu Jacob is pleased at how apt the title of his new film is in a post-pandemic world. Starring Asif Ali and Rajisha Vijayan, the film hits the big screens on Friday. “I was waiting for theatres to reopen. But I was worried if the decision would cause financial loss to my producers. Now, I hope ellam sheriyakum ,” says Jibu, referring to the positive mood in the industry after the reopening of theatres. He is pleased that Dulquer Salmaan-starrer Kurup has brought the audience back to cinemas. “Ours is not a star-driven movie. But there is confidence in the whole team with Kurup getting such an overwhelming response. We hope that the mood continues when our movie releases,” he says. Even though the trailer of his film hints at a political drama, Jibu stresses that “it is a family entertainer, with politics happening to be at its backdrop.” “The story is about the personal lives of politicians, the incidents that happen in their families and how that affects their political career and image. Both the right and left-wing party cadres in the State have been featured,” says Jibu, director of Vellimoonga, Munthirivallikal Thalirkkumbol and Aadyarathri . Asif plays comrade Vineeth, leader of the youth wing of a party. He marries Ancy (Rajisha), daughter of K.V. Chacko (Siddique), prominent leader of the rival party, against his wishes. “Vineeth and Ancy are like chalk and cheese. Ancy, who is outspoken and headstrong, has an upper-hand over Vineeth, who is always low on confidence. His nature eventually causes problems in their relationship,” Jibu says. He adds that all characters have their own political outlook, be it Ancy or Asif’s parents, which eventually sets the stage for several conflicts. A cinematographer-turned-director, Jibu mentions that although his successful first movie, Vellimoonga (2014), also handled politics, Ellam Sheriyakum falls into a different genre. “ Vellimoonga was about a street-smart politician named Mamachan. The characters in Ellam Sheriyakum would remind viewers of certain real-life politicians and political developments in the State. Siddique’s character is actually a mix of two of our leading politicians. But I have not taken sides. I strongly believe that all parties have their own virtues and vices and we have not hesitated in telling that,” he adds. The film, written and scripted by Sharis Mohammed, is based in central Travancore and parts of Kannur. On the Asif-Rajisha combo, he opines that they make the best pair in Malayalam cinema today. “They nailed it as a couple in their first movie [ Anuraga Karikkin Vellam ]. I had great fun working with them. It was easy working with two fabulous actors who appeared to be competing against each other with their talent,” Jibu asserts. Also part of the cast are Johny Antony, Sudheer Karamana, Sreejith Ravi, Kottayam Ramesh, Suresh Kumar, Tulasi Mani (who acted in Sankarabharanam ) and Neeraja Rajendran among others. “It is the 200th project of the film’s composer Ouseppachan, who is also playing a significant character. I consider it as an honour to have him on board. He is the seniormost member of our crew but no one can match up to his energy,” Jibu says of the film, which has been produced by Thomas Thiruvalla and Dr. Paul Varghese.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/polls-apart/article37572523.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Alien Paratha and Vampire Curry||Ten-year-old Chikki fainted during the school assembly, one day. Her mother rushed to school. When she reached, she saw Chikki in the medical room sipping an orange-coloured soft drink. Her worried mother drove her to the hospital. Chikki seemed fine — after all, she had just had her favourite soft drink just then! Yes, you guessed it right. Chikki loved samosas and soft drinks but hated vegetables. The doctor peered at Chikki while checking her pulse. “Too pale. Definitely anaemic,” he declared after examining her eyes and nails. “You need to eat vegetables, lots of them,” he said while prescribing an iron tonic. World of words On their way home, mother felt desperate. As much as Chikki hated vegetables, she loved books — especially those with monsters and ghouls, vampires and zombies, magic and myth. So, every time when a tired mother returned from office, Veni, their maid, would complain. “Chikki didn’t eat her tiffin,” she would say assuming a serious tone. And before mother could say something, Chikki would shout from her bedroom, “Your bhindi was too slimy. I couldn’t eat it,” before returning to the imaginary world in her current novel. After the fainting incident, her mother was determined to get her to eat vegetables. “The drumsticks are dumbsticks. So bland!” Chikki remarked, before mother could ask her why she didn’t touch the drumstick sambar. Undaunted , mother made a curry out of carrots on another day. “Your carrot curry was too sweet,” said Chikki making a yucky face. Unfazed, mother tried out cabbage. “Sorry, mom. I hate cabbage and so it went into the garbage,” Chikki said with a slight regret. Though a bit disappointed, mother bought beans and cauliflower. “The bean is mean and the cauli, its so silly, it calls itself a flower when it is another tasteless veggie. If only my tiffin was as interesting as this book, ” Chikki remarked casually while looking at the novel she held in her hand. The next evening, Veni felt bad as she had nothing to complain about. Chikki’s tiffin box was empty. But there was a small note which she handed to Chikki’s mother. “Mom,” it read. “Thanks for the alien paratha and vampire curry. I loved the eerie stuff!” Mother smiled — that morning, she had blanched some leaves of spinach and grinded them into a paste before adding it to the flour to make green parathas . Then, she made a tasty beetroot curry. She just stuck a note on top of the tiffin: “Chikki, try the new alien paratha and vampire curry. It took me a lot of effort!” And that is how mother learnt to give new names to curries and Chikki started eating vegetables. After all, the way to a child’s stomach is through her mind!  After the fainting incident, her mother was determined to get her to eat vegetables.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/alien-paratha-and-vampire-curry/article37572736.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Vineet’s Magic Mantra Trying it on dad||The story so far: Vineet finds a slip of paper with a magic mantra and he uses it to make people do his bidding.  Vineet grabbed the bowl and devoured the two scoops in a few minutes. After thanking the cook, he raced to his room. His luck was definitely changing for the better. Removing the crushed paper from his pocket, he smoothed out the creases. “This paper is worth its weight in gold,” he thought to himself. He folded it neatly and tucked it into his pocket. Then rolled onto his stomach, and drifted into sleep. At tea time, Vineet entered the dining room and was surprised to see his favourite dishes laid out. Winds of change “I asked the cook to make all your favourite snacks,” dadi smiled. “Eat, child.” The magic mantra had worked wonders on his grandmother and the cook’s attitude towards him. As he ate, Vineet wondered if it would work on his father. Closing his eyes and conjuring up an image of his father in his mind’s eye, Vineet repeated the mantra. When Vineet opened his eyes, he saw his father buttering toast. There was a frown on Mr. Malhotra’s forehead. It was as though he was thinking hard about something, trying to make a decision. Vineet continued to chant the mantra as Mr. Malhotra chewed absent-mindedly. Vineet was disappointed. There was no reaction from his father. Mr. Malhotra studied the toast in his hand as though it was a strange object. “Nothing will work on my father. There is no mantra powerful enough to change dad’s mind once it’s made up. I better give up,” he grumbled. “Why are you talking to yourself, Vineet?” Mr. Malhotra smiled. “I’ve watched you work hard. You have been sufficiently punished for an error that wasn’t even your fault to begin with. I lift the ban. You will get your crackers.” Mr. Malhotra returned to his task of buttering the toast, leaving family members speechless. “Dad, I hope you are not joking?” Vineet asked. “Do I joke about serious matters?” his father munched his toast. “If you want the punishment to continue, it’s fine by me.” “Thank you!” Vineet said. “I’ll try not to let you down.” “Go with the driver and buy your crackers,” said Mr. Malhotra, giving him Rs. 7000. Leaning across the table, Vineet grabbed the notes. “Thanks, Dad,” he grinned.  To be continued   While eating, a thought struck him; he realised that he could try the mantra on his father.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/vineets-magic-mantra-trying-it-on-dad/article37572714.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||HOW TO PARTICIPATE||Choose a topic in your category and paint on a blank A3 sized (11.7 x 16.5 inches) sheet  Log on to www.ywc.thehindu.com/ clubmahindra Completeyour registration, upload a clear scanned copy of your painting and generate your Unique Registration Number On the front of the sheet, write your Unique Registration Number and Topic. On the back, write your Name, Age, Gender, Class, School Name (with branch), City, State, Category of Participation, Parent’s name, and Registered email ID and mobile number. Entries without these details will not qualify for the next round Your physical drawing should be sent to the nearest office of The Hindu, as chosen during the online registration process On the top left of the envelope, mention, “Club Mahindra National Painting Competition 2021” Online registration closes on November 23, 2021. The physical painting must reach The Hindu Office before November 25, 2021. Those who qualify for the finale will receive the details through the registered email ID Paintings received without the Unique Registration Number or after the deadline will not be considered For help, call our toll-free number 1800 102 1878 from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (Monday to Saturday).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/how-to-participate/article37572737.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||What’s the time in space?||Meghnath finds the city of Tripura, on planet Sukra (Venus), very exciting. He meets many scholars who live in diverse and rough climatic conditions. They’re also known by the name ‘Asuras’.  Sukracharya: What is eating your head, Meghnath?  Meghnath: Guru, I recently met my Uncle Kubendra. He was telling me about the all the rishis (sages) and ethereal beings he has met.  Sukracharya: What about them?  Meghnath: He told me that they live for hundreds and even thousands of years. And that they never age! How is that possible? Don’t they ever get old?  Sukracharya: They do get old but at a much much slower rate than normal beings.  Meghnath: How??  Sukracharya: Let me explain the phenomenon with an anecdote that took place a really long time ago during the Satya Yuga .  Meghnath: We live in the Treta Yuga , the second of the four Yugas (Ages or eras). The Satya Yuga lasted for 17,28,000 years. Currently, we live in the end of Treta Yuga which is around 12,96,000 years long. So this story took place over 30 lakh years ago?!  Sukracharya: Even before that! The four Ages keep occurring in a cycle. They call it the Pulsating theory in modern science. According to this theory, the universe keeps expanding up to certain point then contracts, and then expands. This process keeps repeating in a cycle.  Meghnath: Woah! But this sounds different from the Big Bang theory in which I learnt that the universe as we know it started with a single dense point that inflated and stretched. In fact, experts say that the universe still continues to expand.  Sukracharya: Both theories are different, but there is a connection too. I will tell you about it another time, but now let’s come back to our story... In one of the Satya Yuga cycles, there lived a king called Kakudumi, who ruled a kingdom called Kusasthali. It is considered to be one of the seven sacred countries that have secret gates to access Lord Brahma.  Meghanath: Why is it hard to access the Gods in this Yuga?  Sukracharya: The answer to this question and your first question about the ethereal being not ageing are quite close. At present, it takes time to access them because they are too far and too fast.  Meghnath: But I asked you how they live for so long without ageing and you are telling me that they are too far and too fast. This all very confusing! Can you please explain?  Sukracharya: It’s called time dilation . Let me give you a simple example: Run 100 steps, and then come back and tell me how much time it took you to do that. Meghnath runs as told and comes back.  Meghnath: It took me two minutes, guru.  Sukracharya: Now take this horse and cover the same distance. Meghanth rides the horse and returns.  Meghnath: It took me 30 seconds.  Sukracharya: From a layman’s perspective, the faster you move, the more time you can save. From the perspective of quantum physics, it means the rate at which time passes actually slows down the more you’re moving. Many experiments have been done to prove that; for example, light from a moving source has lower frequency.  Meghnath: So time slows down for those who travel fast. So these ethereal being keeps travelling at very high speeds such that time is almost frozen for them. Am I right?  Sukracharya: Exactly. In the future, a scientist named Albert Einstein will come up with these concepts explaining whatever I have just told you.  Meghnath: Can anything travel faster than light?  Sukracharya: Till now nothing has been discovered, but I believe it’s possible and probably known to the higher beings.  Meghnath: Wow! There is so much to discover and learn! But you are yet to tell me the story of King Kakudumi.  Sukracharya: Go have a little break and come back. I will tell you the story and also about the shortcuts to reach the Gods from whom you can learn more.  Meghnath: That is awesome! Meghanth runs. Sukracharya smiles, knowing that whatever he is going to teach Meghnath will help him to learn the secret being the most powerful technologies.  The author is the founder and CEO of Vaayusastra Aerospace, an IIT-Madras incubated ed-tech startup that offers Air Science workshops for children between five and 14 years.   The four Ages keep occurring in a cycle. They call it the Pulsating theory in modern science.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/whats-the-time-in-space/article37572749.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Come rain or shine||The day one decides not to carry an umbrella is when you can be sure of getting caught in heavy rains! While we associate umbrellas with rains, the word actually comes from the Latin ‘umbra’, which means shadow. This is no coincidence, as the umbrella actually originated as a way of providing shade from the sun! Historians say that umbrellas came into use over 4000 years ago in hot and dry Egypt. Made using palm leaves, papyrus and peacock feathers, they were heavy and required an attendant to carry them. Moreover, they were exclusively reserved for the royals! One variety that originated in China was made primarily of bamboo sticks and covered with leaves and feathers. This was much lighter but, as in Egypt, was meant for protection from the sun! Royal and special It seems like the umbrella soon became a sign of special status. It was reserved for the royalty and held over people of prestige even while indoors. In India, we have records dating back roughly 1500 years in the form of a stunning painting in one of the Ajantha Caves that show female attendants holding elaborate umbrellas over women from the royal family. Despite being super exclusive, these umbrellas continued to leak. So, when did the change from sunshade to protection from the rain happen? Just around 400 years ago! Oil and wax were applied to the umbrellas to waterproof them. Umbrellas became a hit especially in Italy, France and England but exclusively as an accessory for women. The men preferred to get wet, as they thought the umbrella was delicate and meant for women. But Jonas Hanway, a scholar of Persian Studies, found umbrellas practical in wet and grey London. He began using one and, after his death, so did other men. Very soon, umbrellas became a common item and England was, for long, the umbrella capital of the world. With climate change making our summers hotter, don’t be surprised if the umbrella begins to be used as it first was: to protect from the sun.   Today, Shangyu in China is the umbrella manufacturing hub with over 1000 factories located there.  The U.S. patent office has over 3000 patents related to umbrellas.  The foldable umbrella was invented only in 1969.  The largest is the Golf umbrella that can be up to 6ft in diametre.  The men preferred to get wet, as they thought the umbrella was meant for women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/come-rain-or-shine/article37572754.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Sweet treats||Pinkoo Shergill has a dream. He wants to be a pastry chef! But it’s the world’s biggest secret because his Papaji believes that boys shouldn’t step into the kitchen or cook or bake. In fact, Papaji wants Pinkoo to become a shooting champ. Ack! But when the world-famous baking competition for kids, Pinkoo has to come up with a WOWMAZING plan. In a faraway village in India, girls are forbidden to read. But when Munni finds an old and dusty book in Mamaji’s shop, she can’t help opening it. She teaches herself to read and discovers a world of amazing stories — tall tales and short ones, outrageous and courageous ones, happy ones and snappy ones. She and her friends have an adventure all of their own which ends, like all good stories should — happily ever after!  Can you drink a caterpillar’s susu? Are flowers food? Do vegetables have bones? And, if stripes are slimming, are checks getting fatter?     Kids do say the darndest things and ask the most bizarre questions! Reva and Prisha is the story of two mothers and their kids — twins Reva and Prisha — as they discover the world and all its quirks together. The book is a collection of short stories about their everyday adventures .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sweet-treats/article37572742.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||What is the difference between   a moth and a butterfly?  Both butterflies and moths belong to the Lepidoptera order of insects, have wings, an exoskeleton, a body with three segments and three pairs of legs and one pair of antenna. Now let’s look at the differences. First, the antenna. In a butterfly, it is long and thin with a bulb-like shaped at the end. A moth’s is feathery with sawed edges. While resting, butterflies fold the wings over the back whereas moths spread it over their tummies. A butterfly’s chrysalis is hard and smooth whereas a moth’s cocoon has a silky covering.  Why do insectivorous   plants need insects to survive?   Insectivorous plants are carnivorous or meat eaters. The reason they need to trap and eat insects is because they usually grow in poor soil that has very few nutrients. So these plants evolved to be insectivorous. They use a combination of photosynthesis and energy derived from the insects they consume to survive. There are many kinds of insectivorous plants: pitfall traps, flypaper traps, lobster-pot traps, bladder traps and snap traps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article37572709.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article37572702.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article37572732.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The cultural traveller||Music of the Whole Earth. Who would be audacious enough to come up with such a title for a book? David Reck was. On September 30, I suddenly decided to flip through this huge volume and pulled it out from my bookshelf. It was the umpteenth time I was going through the book to get information about music practised in some remote part of the world. I discussed it with students in my English class, playing a video of Vivaldi’s Four Seasons and stressing on the need to build their vocabulary to express musical ideas and feelings. I had no idea that David Reck had breathed his last that very day in Amherst, Massachusetts, US. A great lover of music, he loved Chennai and its culture. A veena artiste extraordinaire, he was laid to rest to the sounds of this instrument, said his wife Carol Reck. Musical journey David began a journey into the world of Indian music in 1967. He was then a struggling young musician in New York. Someone suggested that he should apply for the Rockefeller scholarship to learn the music of another culture. Soon, he got a call for an interview at a coffee shop. The interviewer was waiting for him, having already ordered a tall glass of lime juice, which toppled and spilled on his clothes when David extended his hand to greet him. After this, David was sure he would not get the scholarship. But a couple of days later, he was called to the Rockefeller Centre in New York City. The same man, who David met at the coffee shop, was sitting behind a large desk in a huge room. It was none other than David Rockefeller. He asked David which country he would want to go to. Without a second thought David said, “India”. “India it will be,” said David Rockefeller. But David and Carol had no idea where to go in India to learn music. And when novelist Raja Rao, whom David had met in a residency programme, was asked, he suggested Rishi Valley School in Madanapalle, as the principal’s wife there knew music. So the couple headed straight to Madanapalle from New York. “The veena chose me,” David Reck had once said in jest, since the principal’s wife in Rishi Valley played the veena. Someone suggested that they must visit Madras during the Christmas holidays. Heavy rains lashed the city when Carol and David arrived in the December of 1968. They decided to attend a music concert at Perambur Sangeetha Sabha. After the concert, as they waited for the rain to stop, a gentleman came up and offered to drop them at their hotel in Royapettah. When the small van pulled up, they saw the musician who had performed that evening seated in front. It was M.S. Subbulakshmi and the gentleman was her husband, Sadasivam. Finding out the purpose of their visit, Sadasivam suggested that David and Carol relocate to Madras and made arrangements for David to learn from Tirugokarnam Ramachandra Iyer in the Karaikudi style at the Carnatic Music College. He also helped them rent an apartment. Sleeping on straw mats, cooking on a kerosene stove, walking or cycling to music classes, and meeting musicians brought much joy to David. Carol, a photographer, was interested in folk arts and would often go to Karnataka to watch Yakshagana performances or to Andhra Pradesh to meet the puppeteers there. Coming back often After three years, the couple went back to the U.S. but applied for a Guggenheim Foundation grant to return to the city. They kept coming every year, till David fell so ill a few years ago that doctors forbade him from travelling. The veena was so dear to him that lying on the hospital bed he played ‘Shree Satyanarayanam’, a composition by Muthuswami Dikshitar, with the instrument placed on his chest. In the U.S., David went to Wesleyan University to study ethnomusicology and wrote the book Music of the Whole Earth . The book is actually a survey of all sorts of world music. It became a bestseller and Amherst College offered to set up a department for world music for him, from where he retired as Professor Emeritus. An Italian edition, Mondi Della Musica, Le Musiche del Mondo, co-authored by Reck, was released recently. “Carnatic music and living in India transformed my life,” David told me when we walked into the campus of Amherst College, when I was there to give a talk on Mahatma Gandhi. Occasionally, he did give concerts. Every year, when in Madras, he and mridangam artiste Umayalapuram Mali would go to Ramana ashram at Tiruvannamalai and perform. David was drawn to both Ramana Maharshi’s philosophy and the ashram. Brhaddvani, the Chennai-based research centre for music, honoured him with the ‘Sangita Sethu’ (bridging musical traditions) title. The writer is a cultural activist and Gandhian scholar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-cultural-traveller/article37572053.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Still images of rousing performances||Electric, spirited and earnest are some of the adjectives we readily associate with a qawwali performance. Can these emotions be captured through static images? Well, an ongoing photo exhibition at Delhi’s India International Centre showcases the moments when qawwals become the voice of the hundreds of devotees who throng the shrine, seeking grace. Capturing the artistes at traditional performance sites reminds one of how deep and profound are also the words that we relate with this art form. Conceptualised by Kathak exponent Manjari Chaturvedi, who has done extensive research on Sufi music as part of her decade-old Qawwali Project, the images capture practitioners with their families, in their everyday lives, and in their interactions with audiences. Manjari describes the project as the first-ever photo documentation of the dwindling art form. “The qawwals of the subcontinent have largely remained faceless. Of course, people associate with their names and the music, but not the faces of the artistes. This is what led to the launch of this project, to show the real faces behind this music,” says Manjari. Talents like Sonu Qadri and Niyaz Warsi share the wall with stalwarts like Sabri, the Warsi Brothers, and Chanchal Bharti. Manjari has roped in three top photographers — Dinesh Khanna, Leena Kejriwal and Mustafa Quraishi — who bring an outsider’s perspective to the art form that migrated to India from Central Asia but, as Manjari says, was soaked in the colours of Indian diversity in more ways than one. The images reflect how, over the years, musical instruments became an integral part of qawwali, drawing audiences from a cross-section of society. Qawwali appeals to not just the well-heeled who throng the Nizamuddin dargah, it reaches out to those living on the margins in shrines across the country. As a result, the deep thoughts in the songs are expressed in the common man’s language, whether Lakhnavi or Dakkhani Urdu, Punjabi or Awadhi. Manjari points out that the images of the qawwali practitioners have been shot amidst people, in an organic, non-commercial milieu. While doing the project, Dinesh says he discovered there is much more to qawwali than what he had seen in cinema and popular culture. “It took me to my roots in Punjab, where most mazaars are patronised by Sikhs and Bulleh Shah’s kalam in Punjabi seamlessly finds its way into qawwali.” In fact, one of his most abiding images is that of Ustad Ranjhan Ali performing at Baba Hussain Shah Qadri’s shrine in Raja Sansi town of Amritsar, where temple bells could be seen in the background. Leena recounts the first qawwali she covered at the Nizamuddin Dargah and how “the beautiful mahaul (ambience) and energy” inspired her as a photographer. “I realised that I didn’t want to make my images too static. The air is charged, especially during the Urs (death anniversary of a Sufi saint),” says Leena, known for her seminal work, ‘Calcutta: Repossessing the City’. Dinesh, who is the co-founder of Delhi Photo Festival, says he has still not found an answer to how such an energetic art form can be turned into a static image, but notes that instead of one photo, one should observe it as a series of images forming a photo story. Women performers have been traditionally kept out of qawwali, and Manjari cites the legend of Dhai (two-and-a-half) Qalandar involving three Sufi saints — Hazrat Lal Shahbaz, Hazrat Bu Ali Sharfuddin and Hazrat Rabia Basri. “The male saints constitute two Qalandars, while Rabia constitutes only half because of her gender. So it is important to document the work of women artistes, who are breaking barriers to perform qawwali.” Leena brings this aspect out through her vibrant images. She followed Chanchal Bharti to Muzaffarpur in Bihar. “It took me to a part of the world that I would not have otherwise visited. When I reached there, her qawwali started late in the night. It gave me enough time to hang around and get a feel of the atmosphere. It was a shrine visited by people belonging to different religions. The devotion with which the qawwal and listeners immersed themselves in the music was mesmerising.” In another instance, one morning, Leena photographed young girls, with scarves around their necks and wearing lipstick, performing at Hazrat Inayat Khan Dargah in New Delhi. “Excited, I captured them on my camera both before and after the performance. It was a beautiful experience.” Technology, as Manjari says, at times dehumanises the music, makes us forget the artiste and remember only the sound. This exhibition removed some of that anonymity that surrounds the qawwali singers. (The Qawwali Photo Project is on view at India International Centre, New Delhi, until November 28.)  The project is conceptualised by Kathak exponent Manjari Chaturvedi, who has done extensive research on Sufi music as part of her decade-old Qawwali Project||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/still-images-of-rousing-performances/article37572038.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||A belated honour||Soon after the 41-day annual Koothu festival at Sree Vadakkunnathan Temple, Thrissur, concluded last month, Ammannur Parameswara (Kuttan) Chakyar, who led the event was selected by Kerala Kalamandalam for its highest honour — a fellowship. The Koodiyattam fraternity had reason to rejoice, as the Kalamandalam fellowship has come to a Koodiyattam artiste after more than a decade. But the Ammannur School had much more to celebrate since a member of the family had been selected for the coveted honour 33 years after the doyen Ammannur Madhava Chakyar. Carrying on the tradition Since Madhava Chakyar’s demise in 2008, Kuttan Chakyar has been heading the school, carrying on the tradition with single-minded devotion. As for his artistry, he owes much to the legends in his family — grand-uncle Chachu Chakyar and uncles Madhava Chakyar and Parameswara Chakyar. Fortunately for him, he was the only student in the Ammannur Kalari during his training. “To be a lone student had its own advantages and disadvantages. True, there was ample personal attention, but it was too much to bear sometimes,” says Kuttan Chakyar. “I dedicate this honour to them.” Unlike his forebears, Kuttan Chakyar joined the kalari after completing his SSLC. The training was rigorous, especially under the three veterans. Those were the days when Madhava Chakyar was at the zenith of his career. The nephew who had to accompany him everywhere was exposed to his inimitable artistry and gained much from this. Plays like Toranayudham , Balivadham , Soorpankhangam , Jatayuvadham and Asokavanikhangam widened his horizons. And roles like Bali, Sugriva, Rama, Soorpanakha and Ravana helped him hone his skills. Always vidushaka In later years, his enactment of these characters received much appreciation. Interestingly he had the privilege of playing vidushaka in almost all these plays. His contribution to this role acquired significance when he choreographed the vidushaka in the epoch-making production Shakuntalam by G. Venu, and played it as well. Among his choreographies, Mayasirassu , the fifth Act of ‘Abhisheka Nataka’ deserves special mention. One of the most sought-after Koothu (vachika) artistes, Kuttan Chakyar is a staunch critic of those who look down upon purushardhas in Koothu, dubbing it platitudinous or irrelevant to contemporary times. He says, “Appreciation of this art demands a minimum culture from the audience and that is on the wane these days. The only consolation for performers is that the foreigners sit through the entire show.” The presentation of Koodiyattam at Vadakkunnathan and Koodalmanikkam temple, Irinjalakuda is the exclusive preserve of the Ammannur family. And under the leadership of Kuttan Chakyar, the family has been commendably executing it. Towards this end, the role of his daughter, Aparna Nangiar, the Nangiarkooth exponent and nephew, Rajaneesh Chakyar, an accomplished performer, has been praiseworthy.  The writer and culture critic is a trained musician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-belated-honour/article37572056.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||When dance mirrors life||Natyarangam presented Bharatanatyam dancer and teacher Radhika Vairavelavan in ‘Suchinthai Malai’, an endowment programme in memory of the illustrious musician, Dr. S. Ramanathan. The recital was based on Desika Vinayakam Pillai’s Tamizh poetry and translations. That the repertoire was varied — from devotion to Shiva and Sufi philosophy to social issues, including a translation of Omar Khayyam’s Sufi quatrains and the story of Gautama Buddha — showcased the poet’s versatility. It was conceptualised and visualised by Radhika with a team of experts: Dr. S. Raghuraman (resource person), Nandini Sharma Anand (music composition, vocal), Dr. Guru Bharadwaaj (jathi composition, mridangam), Sri Sudarshini (nattuvangam) and R. Kalaiarasan (violin). The opening invocation on Shiva was taken from Vinayakam Pillai’s children’s anthology, Malarum Maalayum , set in Shivashakti raga. The talamalika, abstract sollus, which accompanied the crisp retelling of the dancing god’s attributes and leelas grabbed attention. A varnam, based on the Sufi quatrain, ‘The pots criticise the potter,’ drew a similarity between god and potter and the atma as the mud re-cast as different pots. Crisp narration Timeless questions about life were dealt with neatly in ‘Mannai oru naal oru kuyavan’ (ragamalika, Adi). The treatment was sensitive. The melody was left undisturbed as the melakarta ragas used for the verses were followed by swaras in the same raga for nritta. The music was hauntingly beautiful, as the ragas slowly unfurled the questions and answers to the meaning of life. The music of ‘Anna mella mella ena, amaintha azhugai kural kaetten...’ (pot pleading not to be recast) set in Ganamurthi, blended well with the lyrics. There were more such delectable moments during the next half hour. The mud rues the fact that fate cannot be changed, and ‘Ezhudhi chellum vidhiyin kai...’ set to Subhapantuvarali, was another poetic extension of the mood. Vinayakam Pillai's translations were not literal but, as Radhika, a disciple of Ambika Buch, admits, tweaked to suit the context. There was precision in every department, and fine visualisation took her beyond mere accuracy to touch the soul. The dancer presented a piece on Buddha’s teachings to a young mother who has just lost her son to a snake bite, and another, ‘Koyil Darisanam’, on the futility of searching for god in temples when god is within one’s self. The thillana (Kalyani, Dharmavathi, Adi tala) was the scene stealer, a commentary on social inequalities, mirrored expertly by the dancer. Radhika alternated everyday scenes in the homes of a wealthy woman and her less fortunate counterpart. The performance pointed to the excellent teamwork required to pull off such a demanding show. The Chennai-based reviewer writes on classical dance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/when-dance-mirrors-life/article37572049.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||All in the family||Mahati Subramaniam, a 10-year-old musician, has released her first music video, How We Feel . A third generation artiste from a musical family, she is the granddaughter of maestro Dr. L. Subramaniam and Kavita Krishnamurti and the daughter of singer-songwriter Bindu Subramaniam. Besides writing, composing and singing the song, Mahati has also played the violin and performed gymnastics in the music video. Mahati has been working on her dream of becoming a professional artiste since the age of 2. “My song is about tween life and its struggles. It depicts the emotions of youngsters like me, who at times find it difficult to share their feelings with their loved ones. As I have sung in my song, ‘sometimes we have to be the leaders and other times the teachers’. Through this song, I want to share that we have our friends to support us and deal with our problems, but we need to be our own best friend first,” says Mahati. Mahati has performed live with her grandparents at events such as the Lakshminarayana Global Music Festival and has been a part of various ensembles and worked with some well-known artistes.  The song is available on Spotify, JioSaavn, and YouTube Music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/all-in-the-family/article37572034.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||The unstoppable performer||Donning the pivotal role of Narakasura, Sadanam Krishnankutty ridicules Indra, the lord of heaven, who is cursed to have a thousand eyes all over his body for his lecherous ways. . Narakasura defeats his enemy, Indra, and goes on to loot swarga . The mudra-driven narrative, devoid of background vocals, has the loud chenda-maddalam sound building up the mood of vengeance. The two-hour episode that begins at an extremely slow pace, picks up energy and momentum through the course of the hilarious story. At no point of the strenuous performance would Krishnankutty appear tired. For the artiste, who just turned 80, Narakasura continues to be a masterpiece role, as if symbolising a career built in the spirit of conquest. Age has not diminished his enthusiasm or stamina, making him an inspiration for young actors. Krishnankutty is among the best all-rounders in the history of the 400-year-old dance-theatre of Kerala. Be it the virtuous protagonist in the paccha make-up, the ruffian katthi with stylised moustache, the red-hued villain wearing a massive headgear, the witty Hanuman in white beard, a dark-painted demoness or a pretty woman, the master performs each character with consummate ease. For over 60 years, his signature movements have added sparkle to the Kalluvazhi school style, which has come to define mainstream Kathakali today. His relatively free-spirited approach has contemporarised the artform’s conventional concepts about the measured use of space and method acting. Formative years Recently conferred with an honorary doctorate, Krishnankutty was born in 1941 into a family that had some familiarity with the arts. Cherpulassery, known for its rich heritage in the Valluvanad region of Palakkad district, exposed the boy to classical arts. “My parents used to take us to nearby temple festivals that hosted night-long Kathakali performances,” he recalls. “The green room enchanted me more than the stage.” When he completed his seventh grade , the family faced a financial setback. Krishnankutty proposed that he would learn Kathakali, and the elders at home agreed. “I was eventually enrolled in 1956 in Sadanam in Peroor, 25 km east of Cherpulassery. Two young masters from PSV Natyasangham — Kottakkal Krishnankutty Nair and Sankaranarayanan Embranthiri — were Krishnankutty’s gurus initially. At the end of the monsoons the following year, the teenager debuted on stage. “As Krishna in Kalyanasougandhikam ,” he recalls. “It went off largely well.” Shortly after, Krishnankutty got a new master, Thekkinkattil Ramunni Nair, who tutored him along with six others. A disciple of the legendary Pattikamthodi Ravunni Menon (1880-1948), he trained the boys for five years and helped them develop a refreshing approach to the classical form. Old age forced Ramunni Nair to stop teaching. Then came Keezhpadam Kumaran Nair, another frontline Pattikamthodi pupil, with a distinct pedagogy. Perfect coordination Keezhpadam Nair had a profound influence on Krishnankutty. Not only did the disciple learnt to improvise the presentation of traditional Kathakali characters, but the guru-sishya duo started gaining popularity for the reciprocity of their roles on stage. In Kiratham , for instance, Keezhpadam as the hunter (Shiva in disguise) testing the tenacity of Arjuna (doing penance) played by Krishnankutty made the performance a novel experience in the 1990s. Krishnankutty would play Ravana to Keezhpadam’s Hanuman in Thoranayudham. . Pairing with the celebrated Kalamandalam Gopi, too, won Krishnankutty immense appreciation. His Pushkara and Hamsam alongside Gopi’s Nala have gifted audiences with memorable shows. Krishnankutty’s eclecticism also stemmed from his stay in Kollam during the 1980s. Kathakali in the Travancore belt emphasises on dramatics with a streak of realism — something that he co-opted and made part of his artistry. He had brief stints as a teacher at different institutions, including his almamater, besides Kalamandalam, Kala Mandir in Patna, and Kalanilayam in Irinjalakuda. For the past three decades, Krishnankutty has been living at Irinjalakuda. He is still a busy performer, travelling across the globe. Among the awards he has received, the Sangeet Natak Akademi recognition (2007) tops the list.  The writer is a keen follower of Kerala’s performing arts.   For over 60 years, his signature movements have added sparkle to the Kalluvazhi school style, which has come to define mainstream Kathakali today||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-unstoppable-performer/article37572041.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Ancient structure in ruins||Baburayan Pettai temple, located 8 km from Acharapakkam and 100 km south of Chennai on NH 32, awaits a new lease of life. Called the ‘Hampi of Tamil Nadu’, the temple, which is administered by the HR & CE Department, was built by Baburayan, a Vijayanagara nobleman. Baburayan, who lived near Acharapakkam around the 14th century, decided to construct a temple for the Varadaraja deity in his village, similar to the one at Kanchipuram. This replica of the Kanchi Varadar temple was named after him. Baburayan named the presiding deity Vijayavaradaraja and the consort Vijayavalli, in honour of the Vijayanagara empire. The temple houses two temple tanks (pushkaranis), two gopurams, and separate niches for Thayar and Andal, built of bricks. But the entire structure including the pillars and roofs of the artha mandapam and maha mandapam, the granite stones in the inner praharam and around the moolasthanam, and the separate niches for the presiding deity, azhwars and acharyas lie in a state of disrepair. The idols of Thayar and Andal have been moved to a makeshift shrine near the sanctum and all the moolavar idols have been housed together at a safe place while the utsavar idols of Vijayavaradaraja and other deities have been temporarily shifted to a nearby Shiva temple. The Bhattar visits the temple once a day from a nearby village. With support from the Kanchi math, pujas are performed once a day. To restore the lost glory of the ancient structure, devotees have requested the officials of the HR & CE Department to initiate efforts for the renovation of the temple.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/ancient-structure-in-ruins/article37572044.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Celebrating Kabir||The Mahindra Kabira Festival is back, celebrating the essence of Kabir’s philosophy and vision of life through concerts, literary sessions, theatre and talks.  To be held along the Ganges in Benaras from November 26 to 28, it will have a limited guest list of fully vaccinated delegates, crew and artistes. Along with performances, the festival, in its efforts to give a total experience of the ancient city, has organised live art demonstrations, boat rides, food walks, and will also provide the Ganga arati experience. Presented by the cultural wing of the Mahindra group along with Teamwork Arts, the annual event features eminent Carnatic and Hindustani classical and folk musicians as well as collaborative projects such as Aahvaan, Chinmayi, and the Joell and Anirudh Varma Collective. The artistes include Malini Awasthi, Kalapini Komkali, Ranjani-Gayatri, Purbayan Chatterjee and Gayatri Asokan, Jumma Khan, Dastango artist Askari Naqvi, Prateek Narsimha, Nirali Kartik and Anoop Misra. The festival will also stage a modern interpretation of well-known theatre personality and activist M. K. Raina’s play Kabira Khada Bazaar Mein.  The literary sessions will have musician, author and filmmaker Raman Iyer, and educator and spiritual mentor Umesh Kabir.  For details, visit mahindrakabira.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/celebrating-kabir/article37572032.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Talent hunt||HCL Concerts and Rhapsody Music Foundation will conduct ‘Carnatic Quest Junior’ a music contest for young Carnatic musicians in the age group of 12 to 18. The contestants, divided into five categories - Carnatic vocal, veena, violin, flute and percussion instruments (mridangam, ghatam and kanjira) - can submit their entries at https://www.hclconcerts.com/the-carnatic-quest/ on or before November 30. After three rounds of evaluation, three from vocal, and one each from veena, violin, flute and percussion categories, will be selected as winners. For more details visit HCL Concerts’ website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/talent-hunt/article37572042.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Three-day annual dance festival||The ninth edition of Indisha’s ‘Sadhana Sadhitam’ will be held on November 19 and 20 at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, and on November 21 at Rasika Ranjani Sabha. It will feature six solo Bharatanatyam performances and two group presentations, and they will also be streamed live. Tickets are available at the venue. The following artistes will perform at the festival: Today, Shobana Bhalchandra (6 p.m.) and J. Suryanarayana Murthy (7.30 p.m.) and tomorrow: Divya Shiva Sundar (5 p.m.); Nidheesh Kumar (6 p.m.) and K. Mahalakshmi (7.30 p.m.) At R.R. Sabha:Kayalvizhi Kabilan (5 p.m.); Nritya Aradhana by the students of Bharatanjali (6 p.m.) and thematic presentation ‘Param - The Ultimate’, by the students of Sridevi Nrityalaya (7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/three-day-annual-dance-festival/article37572046.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Anniversary concert series||Arkay Convention Center celebrates its 11th anniversary from November 20 to 30, with a series of music concerts by both senior and up-and-coming artistes, at 4 p.m. and 6.15 p.m. daily. The inaugural concert on November 20 will be by G.K. Raghuraman and R. Devaraj (nagaswaram) at 3.30 p.m. followed by Palghat Ramprasad’s vocal concert at 6.15 p.m. Following is the list of concerts to be featured this week at 4 p.m. and 6.15 p.m. respectively. Nov. 21: J.B. Keerthana Shriram and Jugalbandi by Sriram Parasuram (violin) and Ramana Balachandharan (veena). Nov. 22:Akshay Padmanabhan; Nisha Rajagopalan. Nov. 23:Spoorthi Rao; Sruti Sagar (flute). Nov. 24:Archana-Aarathi; Sikkil Gurucharan. Nov. 25:Prarthana Sai Narasimhan (4 p.m.) and Shertalai K.N. Renganatha Sarma (6.15 p.m.) The concerts, to be held at the Arkay Convention Centre, will also be streamed live on the Center’s YouTube and Facebook pages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/anniversary-concert-series/article37572047.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||And now, legumes hatch eggs||Pea protein mince, soy meat patties, legume-based eggs, plant derived fish fingers... the meat analogue platter is growing. “There is a huge tailwind for plant-based meats in India,” says Abhishek Sinha, CEO, GoodDot, a plant-based meat company from Udaipur that introduced UnMutton Keema on World Vegan Day, November 1. It took his company nearly three-and-a-half years to develop the product and the R&D team is in the final stages of launching plant-based scrambled eggs, omelette, fish fingers and shrimp cutlets. Similarly, to commemorate the day dedicated to veganism, Chirag Kenia, founder, Urban Platter, a platform for all gourmet and culinary requirements, in Bengaluru, too introduced meatless plant-based burger patties. He says, “The plant-based market in India is hungry for diverse options, especially in protein alternatives and we’re just getting started.” Last month, Imagine Meats founded by Bollywood actors Riteish and Genelia Deshmukh, launched a range of nine plant-based products, which include keema, seekh kebabs, nuggets and sausages, as well as full meals like Afghan and Chettinad biryani. A year old in this space, Mumbai-based Blue Tribe Foods too introduced a range of “look like, feel like, smell like, and taste like” plant-derived chicken nuggets and sausages. The market is getting innovative with products such as legume-based liquid egg, by Kartik Dixit and Shraddha Bhansali’s Evo Foods in Mumbai. Kartik stresses on the fact that the egg similitude is made completely from Indian legumes like chickpea, moong and peas, adding that nutrition is their focus. He says a plant-based egg has 11 grams of protein and is at a par with an organic egg that has protein, anywhere, between 10 to 12 grams. A 500 millilitre bottle of liquid egg is equivalent to 10 or 11 eggs. “Trials are on to make the product more baking friendly,” he adds.  New developments  Chirag estimates a 15% increase in “Flexitarians” — people who are vegetarian, non-vegetarian and vegan — to experiment with and opt for more plant-based alternatives. After he turned vegan four years ago, he added more plant-based options to his diet. According to him the pandemic gave people the time to consciously think about their diet and e-commerce made it possible to deliver these curated foods to homes. Abhishek agrees, pointing to a massive jump in awareness in the last one year: “It has skyrocketed, almost a 500 to 800 % increase.” A non-vegetarian, Abhishek’s interest in the field arose from his love for animals. While he was doing his engineering in 2003, he came across a study titled ‘In Vitro Meat’, by three Dutch inventors — Willem Van Eelen, Willem Van Kooten and Wiete Westerhof — on cultured meat created from tissue. “It fascinated me and set me thinking, we could make meat using plant tissue; this was the perfect solution for a person like me, who enjoys eating meat but does not want to hurt or kill an animal,” says Abhishek. He founded the company in 2016 with his friend Deepak Parihar. Sohil Wazir, CCO, Blue Tribe, believes that this trend is driven by two factors: anti-cruelty movement towards animals and the growing awareness of the high carbon footprint of the meat industry. “About 2%-3% of the population is aware of the implications of the meat industry on the environment,” he says. Animal agriculture contributes to the second largest carbon emissions after fossil fuels. Genelia discloses a defining moment in her family’s turn towards a plant-based diet, recalling a remark that was casually made by her son: ‘We can’t have a pet dog and eat chicken at the same time.’ “It hit me so hard,” she says, adding that Riteish, a meat lover, too wanted to have guilt-free meat.  Overcoming hurdles  Development of plant-based meats is the biggest challenge for the industry that works closely with food and material scientists, chefs, and investors. Abhishek adds that the second biggest challenge is creating awareness of the product but the pandemic has helped in this. Protein extracted from plants is converted into meat analogue by a process of denaturation where protein linkages are altered using heat and pressure. It is then realigned to match the structure of meat. It took nine months for Chirag and his brother Dhaval, who set up Urban Platter as an e-commerce platform in 2015, to develop the burger from “textured soy proteins.” Currently working on developing vegan mayonnaise and butter, the company sources almost 90% of the ingredients locally.  What’s cooking?  Working in the labs of Blue Tribe, chef Nirvaan Thacker who partners QSR, Zaatar and Mozza in Mumbai speaks of the challenges of cooking with mock meats. “Pea and soy are fundamentally different; the meat tends to react differently when used in a Bolognaise sauce or in a lighter preparation like broth. We are working towards addressing these factors,” says Nirvaan. He adds that the speed of development of the ingredients has increased in the last six months and that with every trial, he is able to better the product. By Christmas, he says, they could easily move from working with mince to larger chunks of meats, a chicken roast perhaps. About 40 people who attended the tasting of legume-based eggs at Candy & Green at Breach Candy in Mumbai were floored by the experience and Nirula’s in New Delhi has begun serving burgers made from plant-based mince. With much buzz in this new field of food innovation, 2021 may go down as a year that launched the maximum number of plant-derived meat products.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/and-now-legumes-hatch-eggs/article37572530.ece
19 November 2021||Mumbai,||Wankhede’s school certificate submitted before court: Malik||As the Bombay High Court is set to pass an order on November 22 in a suit filed against Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra Minister Nawab Malik by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officer Sameer Wankhede’s father, Mr. Malik said he had submitted before court Mr. Wankhede’s school-leaving certificate, where his religion is mentioned as Muslim and not as Hindu Dalit as he (Mr. Wankhede) has been claiming. Mr. Malik alleged that Mr. Wankhede planted drugs at the house of a cousin of his first wife and arrested him. “He [Wankhede] knew that his wife might come out against him and expose him. To stop her and her family from doing that, he fooled her cousin through a drug peddler and arrested him, threatening the entire family to put them behind bars,” Mr. Malik stated, adding that the said person was still in jail. He also alleged that a son of an IPS officer too was wrongfully arrested by Mr. Wankhede after the officer had some disagreement with Mr. Wankhede. Mr. Malik said he would hold a press conference on Friday to make more ‘revelations’. Commenting on the documents that were submitted before the court, he observed that he had checked all the records of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). ‘Scanned copy’ “Mr. Wankhede thought he had destroyed the original record, but forgot that scanned copy of originals is preserved. We have submitted the documents while he joined the school and also the school-leaving certificate, where his religion is mentioned as Muslim,” the NCP leader remarked. Mr. Malik has been claiming that Mr. Wankhede, who is an 2008 batch IRS officer, has submitted a fake caste certificate to secure job, but in reality he is a Muslim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/wankhedes-school-certificate-submitted-before-court-malik/article37572541.ece
19 November 2021||Kolkata,||This dancer’s performances are invariably tied to issues||Earlier this month, at the Adelaide Place Baptist Church in Glasgow, Lord Shiva performed the Tandava, enraged by the abuse of Mother Earth — the angry god played by the Kolkata-based Bharatanatyam dancer Sohini Roychowdhury, who said she was the only Indian to perform at COP26. Her performance at the medieval church on November 11 lasted 20 minutes, during which she was accompanied by her son Rishi Dasgupta, 22, on the acoustic guitar. “I performed Nature and Us, one of my key productions that I have been performing all over world stages. It’s about our umbilical connection with nature. I spoke of Shiva as Pashupatinath, the protector of the forests and flora and fauna, and as Neelkanth, who drank up the poison to save our oceans from toxic abuse, and performed the Tandava to depict Shiva destroying evil to refresh and recreate the purity that befits Mother Earth,” Ms. Roychowdhury told The Hindu from London, where she has more shows lined up. “Rishi played acoustic guitar to bring in the global fusion angle and played to a crescendo to express the Tandava aspect, followed by a softer tune to show harmony between man and nature,” said Ms. Roychowdhury, who has performed ‘Nature and Us’ in 14 countries across the world, with the audience as varied as students to prisoners and places as varied as the Kala Ghoda festival in Mumbai to an anthropological museum in Spain to the Los Andes University at Bogota. “We have to safeguard our planet, it’s the only home we have for the next generations to come. Being from Kolkata, I can already see the havoc happening in the Sundarbans. I am a part of an NGO, Little Big Help, and we have been helping people there, especially after the Cyclone Amphan. So, climate is the most relevant issue ever and this conference created a huge noise and awareness about it at all levels,” the dancer said. Her performances are invariably tied to issues: women’s empowerment, support for the LGBT community, welfare of poor children, and, of course, nature. “All my dance productions end with Vedic, Sufi, and Gregorian chants, playing together with the sitar, as our essence is a world without frontiers. I have worked with the humanism of Tagore, connecting it with nature poetry of Robert Burns and that of Rumi, basically connecting civilisations. As the poet Chandidas said, ‘The highest truth is that we are all human, there is no greater truth’,” Ms. Roychowdhury said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/this-dancers-performances-are-invariably-tied-to-issues/article37572545.ece
19 November 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||HC panels will check doctors’ attendance at govt. hospitals||Taking strong exception to allegations of doctors skipping their duties in government hospitals, the Orissa High Court has appointed committees under every District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) to undertake surprise inspections. Chittaranjan Mohanty had submitted before the court that the doctors attached to government health facilities such as district health centres (DHC), community health centres (CHC) and the primary health centres (PHC) were carrying on private practice without attending to their duties at the government institutions. Stating that the Odisha Government by an order dated November 1, 2003, had permitted government doctors to continue private practice after completing their official duties, he had pointed out that it had a detrimental effect on the quality of healthcare throughout the State. A Division Bench comprising Dr. S. Muralidhar and Justice A. K. Mohapatra concurred with Mr. Mohanty, stating that it was a serious issue. “The secretary of every DLSA will forthwith constitute a team which will undertake a visit in the next week to one DHH, one CHC and two PHCs in the district at different hours unannounced,” ordered the Bench.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-panels-will-check-doctors-attendance-at-govt-hospitals/article37572546.ece
19 November 2021||Mumbai,||Lawyer held for ‘producing’ mephedrone||The Anti-Narcotics Cell (ANC) of the Mumbai police’s crime branch on Thursday arrested a lawyer, who was said to be operating a mephedrone manufacturing unit at his farmhouse in Kolhapur district of Maharashtra, an official said. Advocate Rajkumar Rajhuns was arrested by ANC officers from the western suburb of Malad in the morning, the official said. Rajhuns had been on the run after the police on Monday busted the mephedrone manufacturing unit at his farmhouse in Chandgad taluka of Kolhapur, located 375 km away from Mumbai, he said. According to the police, the accused lawyer used to manufacture mephedrone at his farmhouse with the help of his aides and transport it to Mumbai, where he would distribute the contraband to drug peddlers. The police have already arrested Nikhil Ramchandra Lohar, the caretaker of the farmhouse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lawyer-held-for-producing-mephedrone/article37572538.ece
19 November 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Suspended Odisha Govt. official retired||Suspended Deputy Manager of the Odisha Police Housing & Welfare Corporation (OPH&WC) Pratap Kumar Samal was sent on compulsory retirement on Thursday following his arrest in a disproportionate assets case.  Zero-tolerance policy A senior official at the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said the action was taken based on Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik’s zero-tolerance policy towards immorality, inefficiency, or lack of integrity. The official had been suspended from service following his arrest by the Vigilance last week for allegedly possessing assets which were over 1022 per cent of his known sources of income, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/suspended-odisha-govt-official-retired/article37572539.ece
19 November 2021||November 19 2021 00:00 IST,||Lighting the night||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lighting-the-night/article37572550.ece
